Marwencol (also known as Village of the Dolls in the UK   ) is a 2010 American documentary film that explores the life and work of artist and photographer Mark Hogancamp. It is the debut feature of director-editor Jeff Malmberg. It was the inspiration for Welcome to Marwen, a 2018 drama directed by Robert Zemeckis.   On April 8, 2000, Mark Hogancamp was attacked outside of a bar by five men who beat him nearly to death after he told them he was a cross-dresser.   After nine days in a coma and forty days in the hospital, Hogancamp was discharged with brain damage that left him little memory of his previous life. Unable to afford therapy, he creates his own by building a 1/6-scale World War II-era Belgian town in his yard and populating it with dolls representing himself, his friends, and even his attackers.  He calls that town "Marwencol," blending the names "Mark," "Wendy" and "Colleen." Hogancamp was initially discovered by photographer David Naugle, who documented and shared his story with Esopus magazine  and then his work was shown in a New York art gallery. The film was shot in New York State in the United States between 2006 and 2010, using a combination of DVCAM video and Super-8 film formats.  The film received widespread critical acclaim, holding a 98% approval rating out of a total of 59 reviews on review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes.  The site awarded the film their "Golden Tomato" Award for the best-reviewed documentary of the year.  The Los Angeles Times called the film "an exhilarating, utterly unique experience" while the Village Voice said that it's "exactly the sort of mysterious and almost holy experience you hope to get from documentaries and rarely do." The film was in the year-end top ten lists of the Boston Globe,  The Globe and Mail,  Slate,  New York magazine,  The Oregonian,  National Public Radio,  and many others. The film was included in Entertainment Weekly's July 6, 2012 article "50 Best Movies You've Never Seen".  In the 2012 Slate article and online poll, "The Golden Age of Documentaries: What's the Best Doc of the Last 5 Years?", Marwencol was ranked #1 in the poll.  In the 2012 PBS/POV online poll, "The 100 Greatest Documentaries of All Time", Marwencol was ranked #91 in the poll.  In the April 22, 2013 New York article, "How Documentary Became the Most Exciting Kind of Filmmaking", Marwencol was among the films in the accompanying list, "The 20 Essential Documentaries of the Century".  In September 2016, Cinema Eye Honors  named Marwencol as one of the 20 top non-fiction films of the past decade, based on a poll of 110 key figures in the documentary community.  In 2013, Robert Zemeckis began work on a dramatization of the story for Universal Studios based on a script by Caroline Thompson.  Welcome to Marwen is set to be released in November 2018, starring Steve Carell as Hogancamp.  The ninth episode of the second season of Fox sitcom Raising Hope ("The Men of New Natesville") is an homage to the film.  The Spike Jonze-directed music video for the Beastie Boys song "Don't Play No Game That I Can't Win" was inspired by the film and Hogancamp's world.  The Russian musical group The Saint Petersburg Disco Spin Club released a track in 2011, "Marwencol".  The American punk rock group Tough Broad released the 2012 song, "Marwencol".  