Unknown White Male is a 2005 documentary film directed by Rupert Murray, covering the life of his childhood friend Doug Bruce, a British resident of New York who appeared to suffer from sudden amnesia, who woke up on a subway train in Coney Island in 2003, not knowing who or where he was. The film premiered at the Sundance Film Festival 2005.  It was nominated for a British Independent Film Award, a Grierson and a Directors Guild of America award.  It was also shortlisted for a Grierson and an Academy Award.  It was theatrically released in the US by Wellspring and shown on Court TV.  In the UK it was released by Shooting People, the filmmakers community whose members made the film and shown on Channel 4 TV who had commissioned the film originally. During the film, medical experts opine that Bruce is suffering from a syndrome called retrograde amnesia, a form of amnesia where the sufferer cannot recall events from before the onset of the amnesia, although it remains unclear how or whether Bruce suffered a trauma which caused the amnesia. The authenticity of the film has been questioned by some critics, who allege that it is an elaborate fraud.  The filmmakers have consistently denied this allegation. Roger Ebert, film critic for the Chicago Sun-Times, initially said he found the documentary "faintly fishy", but after meeting the filmmakers subsequently wrote that he was "convinced of its truthfulness". Objections to Bruce's claims include: The film makers address the hoax theory with a six-minute-long DVD feature titled, "Questions With The Director & Producer."    It opens with a written message responding to the allegations of a hoax with: "We, the film makers, Douglas, his friends and family categorically deny this claim."  Director Rupert Murray states that he finds it shocking when people believe the film to be fake, because it raises the question "Is my life a fake?"  Of Bruce, he admits, "He coincidentally happened to film himself [thus providing footage used in the documentary], which people find strange."  Producer Beadie Finzi explains her belief in Bruce's amnesia with, "The bottom line is that anyone and everyone who has ever known Douglas, [his] friends and family, is completely convinced that this traumatic event did indeed happen to him.  And indeed, every physician that has treated him is also convinced that this has happened to him." 