JoJolion (Japanese: ジョジョリオン, Hepburn: Jojorion) is a seinen manga series written and illustrated by Hirohiko Araki, and is the eighth part of the larger JoJo's Bizarre Adventure series. It has been serialized by Shueisha in the magazine Ultra Jump since May 19, 2011, and has been collected in 18 volumes totaling 74 chapters, with 9 additional chapters not yet volumized. Set in the same continuity as Steel Ball Run, S-City, M-PrefectureS-City, M-Prefecture (M県S市, Emu-ken, Esu-shi) was devastated by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. In the aftermath, strange structures are known colloquially as the Wall Eyes (壁の目 Kabe no Me) appear all over the town of Morioh (杜王町 Moriō-chō), with the ground beneath them having the strange property of swapping traits of whatever two objects are buried there. When a local college student named Yasuho Hirose finds a mysterious youth buried under one of the Wall Eyes, they set off on an adventure together to try to recover his identity.  The mystery deepens when the corpse of a man called Yoshikage Kira is found buried next to where he was discovered, whose body is missing several parts. Yashuo leaves the youth under the care of her suitor's father, Norisuke Higashikata IV, who takes him in and gives him the name Josuke while she attempts to figure things out from police reports. They also discover that the Higashikata family is related by marriage to the late Yoshikage Kira. Yasuho finds Yoshikage's mother, Holy Joestar-Kira, who stays in a Morioh hospital due to memory loss caused by an incurable disease. Meanwhile Kyo Nijimura, Holy's daughter who works as a maid for the Higashikata household, reveals to Josuke that he is a composite of Yoshikage's missing body parts with that of another person, having undergone an equivament exchange from being buried under the Wall Eyes.  When Josuke later confronts Norisuke about the patriarch's intentions in taking him in, he learns that the Higashikata bloodline is cursed and they need Yoshikage's memories for a cure to prevent them from slowly turning to stone. The core component of this cure is the Rokakaka fruit, which cures people of various ailments when eaten, removes another aspect of themselves in exchange. Jobin Higashikata, the eldest of the family, has been using the family fruit parlour to smuggle these fruits into the country in cooperation with mysterious stone-based beings called Rock Humans. As they research the origin of the fruit further, they meet with several Rock Humans who try to hinder their investigation, while Josuke also discovers the truth of his own existence by meeting Karera Sakunami and later Damo Tamaki, both of whom have ties to his past. In a series of flashbacks, Josuke is revealed to be a man called Josefumi Kujo, fused with the parts of Yoshikage Kira that were not present when his corpse was found. Josefumi first met Yoshikage in 1997 when his mother Holy saved the boy's life after he was left to drown. Twelve years later, Yoshikage requests Josefumi's help in stealing a Rokakaka branch from the Rock Humans, and grafting it onto another tree so they can use the fruit to cure Holy of her mysterious disease. The Rock Humans finally enact revenge for for this in 2011, with Yoshikage fatally wounded as Josefumi attempts to save his life. But as Josefumi feeds Kira their last Rokakaka Fruit, they are buried alive during the Tōhoku earthquake under the ground on which Wall Eyes emerged: the same area of land where Yasuho later found Josuke. Josuke resolves to use the Rokakaka fruit to cure Holy's illness, while the Higashikata family wants to harvest it for their own goals. As Josuke starts searching for the grafted branches Josefumi and Yoshikage left behind, he meets Rai Mamezuku, a plant appraiser, while also encountering more Rock Humans who wish to stop him, working on behalf of Jobin. Josuke intentions clash with Jobin's when the Rock Humans' superior Poor Tom gets involved, culminating in the entire Higashikata orchard being set on fire. In the confusion of the fight, Poor Tom is killed by assassins disguised as ambulance drivers, and Rai and Josuke mistakenly believe them to have taken the Rokakaka branch. In reality, Jobin used his son's Stand to mislead them.  By chance, Yasuho and Jobin's wife Mitsuba happen to be in the hospital where the ambulance went for unrelated illnesses. Yasuho notices Mitsuba in a wheelchair, with her feet turned to stone. She spots the doctor's name on an office sign and uses her Stand to research him, revealing that he is one of the two assailants that killed Poor Tom. Yasuho decides to interrogate Mitsuba about her doctor, Wu Tomoki. However, Mitsuba acts entirely ignorant, revealing that nothing's wrong with her; she doesn't even remember the wheelchair she was on. They suddenly spot two unknown shards on one the empty stools, only for Yasuho to notice that the wheelchair, dismembered and crushed, is hidden in a drawer. As she tries to call Josuke, the two shards appear rubbing against each other on her phone, emit a sound that stuns her as the shards enter her ear. Mitsuba, seemingly under Wu's control, drags her into the office and takes away her phone. In the first volume, Araki described the story of JoJolion as being the solving of a "curse" (呪い, noroi). Curses, he goes on, are the sins of the ancestors and this makes people "unclean" (穢れ, kegare), and if this curse continues it will only turn into "resentment" (恨み, urami). Another theme is that from birth we see things as black and white, but this produces a "friction" (摩擦, masatsu) from what humanity really experiences. From these, the "curse" is lifted, this being the goal of the story. On the inside cover of volume 2, Araki explained that the "...lion" in the title comes from both the Christian concept of blessing and the gospels ("evangelion" in Greek), the Ancient Greek myth of Pygmalion, and lions. The first volume of JoJolion was the second best-selling manga for its debut week of December 19–25, 2011 with 237,374 copies sold.  The second volume ranked third, with 204,791 copies, for the week of April 16–22, 2012.  Its third volume debuted at number two for the week of September 17–23, selling 260,080 copies.  All three were some of the best-selling manga of 2012; volume one was 46th with 534,996 copies, volume two was 53rd with 516,040, and volume 3 sold 457,791 copies for 69th.   Volume four was number two for the week of May 12–18, 2013, selling 224,551 copies in its first week.  The 2013 edition of Kono Manga ga Sugoi!, which surveys people in the manga and publishing industry, named JoJolion the 12th best manga series for male readers.  It won the Grand Prize for manga at the 2013 Japan Media Arts Festival.  The first chapter title of each pair is the title that is used in the volumization of JoJolion. The second title is the title used in the original serialization in Ultra Jump. These chapters have yet to be published in a tankōbon volume. They were serialized in Ultra Jump in the May 2018 through September 2018 issues.  