Tokyo Magnitude 8.0 (Japanese: 東京マグニチュード8.0, Hepburn: Tōkyō Magunichūdo 8.0) is a Japanese anime television series that premiered on Fuji TV's noitamina timeslot on July 9, 2009, where it ended its original run on September 17. Directed by Masaki Tachibana and written by Natsuko Takahashi, it is an original series co-produced by Bones and Kinema Citrus. The 11-episode series centres on two young siblings, Mirai and Yūki, and single mother Mari who the two meet in the aftermath of a major earthquake hitting the Japanese capital, placed in the near future (2012).   It won the Excellence Prize in the Animation category at Japan's Media Arts Festival in 2009. It was announced that the series has been licensed for a release in North America by Maiden Japan released on April 2013.  After a massive earthquake in Tokyo 25 km under the sea at a magnitude of 8.0, two young siblings Mirai and Yūki, who were visiting a robot exhibition in Odaiba at the beginning of their summer vacation, struggle to reach their parents in their house in Setagaya, assisted by a female motorcycle courier named Mari, who is striving to reach her own daughter and mother in Sangenjaya. Together, the three of them brave the partly ruined city and try their best to make it home safely. The series was first announced at the 2009 Tokyo Anime Fair, denoting that it would replace Eden of the East in Fuji TV's noitamina well-rated anime timeblock and would be co-produced by Bones and Kinema Citrus.   The series' setting is based upon the prediction that there is 70% or higher chance of an earthquake measuring 7.0 magnitude on the Richter scale hitting Tokyo in the next 30 years, with the series illustrating the consequences of a magnitude 8.0 earthquake affecting the city.   Bones stated that it would try to realistically depict the after-effects of such a situation and that it would collect and tabulate research on previous earthquakes and interview individuals who were affected by them.   The series features the efforts of the Japan Ground Self-Defense Force, Japan Coast Guard, Tokyo Fire Department and Tokyo Disaster Medical Assistance Team in assisting recovery efforts after the initial earthquake and its recurring aftershocks. FNN newscaster Christel Takigawa also features as a guest, reporting on the earthquake and assuming the role of a "navigator" during the series.  The series uses two pieces of theme music. "Your Song" (キミノウタ, Kimi no Uta) by abingdon boys school is used for the opening theme, while "M/elody" by Shion Tsuji is used for the ending. This series was broadcast only in Italy on Italian television channel Rai 4 on August 22, 2011 and ended September 5, 2011 for a time ranging from 10.45am and 11.00am. 