Bellevue Literary Review is a literary journal that publishes fiction, nonfiction and poetry about the human body, illness, health and healing. The Bellevue Literary Review is based in Bellevue Hospital, the oldest public hospital in the United States, and has been published by the Department of Medicine at New York University since 2001.  Selections from the Bellevue Literary Review have been reprinted in the Pushcart Prize anthology, and have appeared on the notable lists of The Best American Essays, Best American Travel Writing, and The Best American Nonrequired Reading. The Bellevue Literary Review has published the works of Charles Bukowski, Philip Levine, Sharon Olds, David Lehman, Eamon Grennan, Julia Alvarez, Rick Moody, Hal Sirowitz, Charles Barber, Peter Selgin, Amy Hempel, Stephen Dixon, Virgil Suarez, Sheila Kohler, and Jacob M. Appel.  Danielle Ofri is the Editor-in-Chief and co-founder of the Bellevue Literary Review. The Managing Editor is Stacy Bodziak. Editorial staff includes Senior Fiction Editor Ronna Wineberg, Senior Nonfiction Editor Jerome Lowenstein, Fiction Editor Suzanne McConnell, Poetry Editor Jason Schneiderman, and Publisher and co-founder Martin J. Blaser.  The Bellevue Literary Review hosts an annual writing competition. The judges for the 2013 competition are: Mark Doty, Jane Smiley, and Mary Roach. Past judges of the BLR competitions have included Marie Howe, Rick Moody, Richard Selzer, Rafael Campo, Amy Hempel, Sherwin Nuland, Edward Hirsch, Ray Gonzalez, Abraham Verghese, Naomi Shihab Nye, Rosellen Brown, Natalie Angier, Gail Godwin, Phillip Lopate and Tony Hoagland. The Bellevue Literary Review holds biannual public readings at Bellevue Hospital, which feature authors reading from selected works.  The Bellevue Literary Review offers free study guides and reading group guides on topics of Aging, Multiculturalism, Disability, Infectious Disease, as well as a general discussion guide for its anthology, "The Best of The Bellevue Literary Review."  Selections of poetry, fiction, and nonfiction are available free to the reading public on the BLR website. Bellevue Literary Press is a sister organization of Bellevue Literary Review, founded in 2007 and also located at Bellevue Hospital. Despite being a small press that publishes only a handful of titles per year, "BLP" garnered a Pulitzer Prize in 2010 for Tinkers by Paul Harding. The New York Times abashedly admitted that it failed to review the novel when it was first published, noting that Tinkers was the first novel from a small press to win a Pulitzer since A Confederacy of Dunces in 1981.  