 "Loss", sometimes referred to as "Loss.jpg", is a webcomic strip created in 2008 by Tim Buckley for his gaming-related webcomic Ctrl+Alt+Del. During a storyline where the main character Ethan and his fiancée Lilah are expecting their first child, the strip — presented as a four-panel comic with no dialogue — has Ethan entering a hospital, asking a receptionist for directions, talking to a doctor, and finding Lilah crying on her side in a hospital bed, implying that she had suffered a miscarriage. Buckley cited personal events in his life as inspiration for the comic.  Since the publication of the strip, it has garnered negative reception from critics and webcomic creators, noting the shift in tone in the webcomic as an example of "fridging". It later garnered a legacy as an internet meme, with edits to the strip being made by other creators. Ctrl+Alt+Del, abbreviated to "CAD", is a webcomic series by Tim Buckley. Created in October 2002, the comic focuses on characters Ethan and Lucas, and later Ethan's love interest Lilah.  In 2008, during a storyline where Ethan and Lilah were expecting their first child, Buckley posted the strip "Loss", presented as a four-panel comic strip with no dialogue. The strip showed Ethan entering a hospital in the first panel, asking a receptionist for directions in the second, talking to a doctor in the third, and finding Lilah crying on her side in a hospital bed in the last panel, implying that she had suffered a miscarriage.  Before releasing the strip, Buckley wrote up a blog post, explaining that he had planned the story line years in advance. He also mentioned personal experience in his life inspired the strip, mentioning  an unplanned pregnancy and miscarriage with an ex-girlfriend in college.  "Loss" was received negatively by webcomic creators and critics. During the 2008 Penny Arcade Expo, creators of the event and webcomic series Penny Arcade Mike Krahulik and Jerry Holkins were asked about the strip during an interview with Joystiq. Both men criticized it, with Holkins describing Buckley as the "Antichrist", humorously citing "Loss" and its storyline as the first horseman of the Apocalypse.  Ben "Yahtzee" Croshaw, creator of the video game review series Zero Punctuation, satirically referenced Ctrl+Alt+Del in his episode on video game webcomics, where he brings up that having a story line where a character miscarries in a webcomic known for humor would be considered "an awkward tonal shift" and "hugely disrespectful" of the subject of miscarriages.  Kotaku's Mike Fahey, formerly a self-declared fan of the webcomic, agreed with Croshaw's complaints, mentioning being unable to read the series like he used to.  The strip has also faced criticism for being an example of "fridging", a term coined by the website Women in Refrigerators where an author uses the trauma of a female character as a plot device. Buckley later stated, in the event the situation was brought up again in the webcomic, he would do more research on the effects miscarriages have on mothers.  Since the strip was first published in 2008, it has become an internet meme, with users from sites such as 4chan and Tumblr creating edits of the strip, such as recreating it using scenes from other works such as Futurama and Pokémon. 4chan's video game board /v/ would later ban users who created new threads about these edits.  A minimalist version of the meme involves the sequence in the same four-panel style; panel one with a single straight line, second panel with two straight lines, with the second line slightly shorter, third panel two standing lines, and the fourth panel a standing line and a horizontal line. Seeing this sequence would usually cause the reader to ask, "Is this Loss?"   New York Magazine's Brian Feldman declared it as "the Internet’s Longest-Running Miscarriage ‘Joke’".  Aryehi Bhushan from student newspaper Varsity wrote about "Loss" as a meme, praising its longevity compared to other memes that have short lifespans.  In 2016, the podcast Reply All discussed the strip during their eightieth episode, where a variant of "Loss" was used as a joke about the results in the 2016 United States presidential election.  On June 2, 2018, the tenth anniversary of "Loss", the original strip was replaced by an edit of the comic titled "Found".  The difference between the two comic strips has Ethan in the last panel with a smirk on his face. A day later, the original strip was restored with no explanation for the replacement.  Julia Alexander from Polygon considered "Found" to be an acknowledgement of the status "Loss"' had achieved as a meme, comparing the evolution of the strip to Pepe the Frog.  