Lucas GrabeelChris Hardwick "Once Bitten" is the fifteenth episode of the thirteenth season of the animated sitcom Family Guy, and the 246th episode overall. It aired on Fox in the United States on April 19, 2015, and is written by Anthony Blasucci and directed by Joseph Lee.  Brian becomes ill and is taken to the vet. His problem is determined to be due to his drinking and he is given medicine. When Peter tries to give Brian his medicine, which must be administered via a suppository, Brian draws the line and refuses. Peter tries to at first outsmart him and then uses force, causing Brian to bite him. Peter's fear of Brian causes him to become insufferable, until his cowering forces Lois to have Brian sent to obedience school as punishment. When Brian disrespects the instructor, he is severely psychologically tortured and abused, breaking him. Brian returns home completely submissive, to everyone's surprise. When Brian brings home a drunken Peter, his proposed stunt of peeing in Meg's bed horrifies Brian with the thought of being a bad dog, leaving Peter to drunkenly realize that he misses his old friend. The next day, Peter takes his observations to Lois who dismisses his concerns since he was bitten. This gives Peter the idea to stick his finger in Brian's rectum which causes him to bite, returning him to his normal self. They agree to let things return to normal as they agree to go pee in Meg's bed together. Meanwhile, school nerd Neil Goldman cozies up to Chris, and he later comes over to visit and gets invited to help Meg with her homework. The next day, Chris finds that Neil is still hanging out with Meg instead of him and confronts him, where he admits that it was his plan all along, leaving Chris feeling heartbroken. Later that night, Neil and Meg go to see a movie. When they start to kiss, Meg's face transforms into an angry Chris, leaving Neil feeling guilty. He runs to Chris' bedroom where he uses a boombox to wake him, and he pleads to be friends with him again as Meg chews him out for dropping her when she gave him a chance. Chris agrees to be his friend again. The title references to the Jim Carrey film of the same name. The character of the obedience school drill instructor is a reference to Louis Gossett Jr.'s character in the 1982 film An Officer and a Gentleman. The scene of Brian in the chair is a parody of a similar scene in A Clockwork Orange, complete with the "Ode to Joy" from Beethoven's 9th symphony. The "Don't Get Shot by a Bullet" ad is a parody of the "Let's All Go to the Lobby" movie ad from the 1950s. The song references such shootings such as one in Aurora, CO in 2012 that killed 12 people and left 20 injured.  Neil holding a boombox out Chris' window is a parody of a scene from Say Anything… The episode received an audience of 3.30 million, making it the second most watched show on Fox that night after The Last Man on Earth.  Narsimha Chintaluri of TV Fanatic gave the episode 3.8/5 stars.  Tommy North of Bubbleblabber gave the episode a 7/10.   