 References to Wikipedia in culture have increased as more people learn about and use the online encyclopedia project. Many parody Wikipedia's openness, with individuals vandalising or modifying articles unconstructively. Still, others feature individuals using Wikipedia as a reference work, or positively comparing  their intelligence to Wikipedia.  In some cases, Wikipedia is not used as an encyclopedia at all, but instead serves more as a character trait or even as a game. Wikipedia has also become culturally significant with many individuals seeing the presence of their own Wikipedia entry as a status symbol.  Shortly after the episode aired, a fan-created Wikipedia parody site opened at Wikiality.com, inspired by the term. On October 19, 2006, the term was mentioned again on the show, this time with Wikiality.com given as the URL for Wikipedia. The character who is implied to be the nerd says that editing Wikipedia is one of his nerdy activities.  In the video, Al is shown editing the article Atlantic Records by typing in large letters "YOU SUCK!". Thus Al takes revenge on the record company for refusing to let him include "You're Pitiful", a parody of James Blunt's song "You're Beautiful", on his new album. This has prompted copycat vandalism of the Atlantic Records page, which resulted in the page's being semi-protected.  Yankovic has said "I don't officially approve of [the vandalism], but on a certain level it does amuse me."  In a July 2006 episode of the satirical comedy The Colbert Report, Stephen Colbert announced the neologism "wikiality", a portmanteau of the words Wiki and reality, for his segment "The Wørd". Colbert defined wikiality as "truth by consensus" (rather than fact), modeled after the approval-by-consensus format of Wikipedia. He ironically praised Wikipedia for following his philosophy of truthiness, in which intuition and consensus is a better reflection of reality than fact: You see, any user can change any entry, and if enough other users agree with them, it becomes true. ... If only the entire body of human knowledge worked this way.  And it can, thanks to tonight's word: Wikiality. Now, folks, I'm no fan of reality, and I'm no fan of encyclopedias.  I've said it before.  Who is Britannica to tell me that George Washington had slaves?  If I want to say he didn't, that's my right.  And now, thanks to Wikipedia, it's also a fact. We should apply these principles to all information.  All we need to do is convince a majority of people that some factoid is true. ... What we're doing is bringing democracy to knowledge. According to Stephen Colbert, together "we can all create a reality that we all can agree on; the reality that we just agreed on".  During the segment, he joked: "I love Wikipedia... any site that's got a longer entry on truthiness than on Lutherans has its priorities straight." Colbert also used the segment to satirize the more general issue of whether the repetition of statements in the media leads people to believe they are true.  The piece was introduced with the tagline "The Revolution Will Not Be Verified", referencing the lack of objective verification seen in some articles. Colbert suggested that viewers change the elephant page to state that the number of African elephants has tripled in the last six months.  The suggestion resulted in numerous incorrect changes to Wikipedia articles related to elephants and Africa.  Wikipedia administrators subsequently restricted edits to the pages by anonymous and newly created user accounts. Colbert went on to type on a laptop facing away from the camera, claiming to be making the edits to the pages himself. Because initial edits to Wikipedia corresponding to these claimed "facts" were made by a user named Stephencolbert, many believe Colbert himself vandalized several Wikipedia pages at the time he was encouraging other users to do the same. The account, whether it was Stephen Colbert himself or someone posing as him, has been blocked from Wikipedia indefinitely.  Wikipedia blocked the account not for the vandalism (as believed), but for violating Wikipedia's username policies, which state that using the names of celebrities as login names without permission is inappropriate. Skeletor is vandalizing the Wikipedia article of his arch-enemy He-Man under the title of "I have the power".  Bucky Katt looks at a vanity article about himself and his fictitious album, and shows the "evidence" to Satchel Pooch. Missing Links and Secret Histories: A Selection of Wikipedia Entries from Across the Known Multiverse (2013), edited by L. Timmel Duchamp, is a collection of speculative fiction short stories in the form of fictitious Wikipedia entries.  Ukrainian composer Andriy Bondarenko wrote a musical piece "Anthem of Wikipedia". It was performed in a concert devoted to 15th anniversary of Wikipedia in Kyiv.   Israeli singer-songwriter Hanan Ben-Ari released a 2017 single named "Wikipedia".  On January 14, 2011, Israel Postal Company chose to commemorate Wikipedia's 10th anniversary by issuing a special postmark and a souvenir leaf. These were the world's first Wikipedia-related postal items. As is customary on Wikipedia, the souvenir leaf, the postmark, and the text on the back of the souvenir leaf were created by a collaboration of volunteers. The design of the postmark was based on the work of "MT0", a Wikipedia editor. Wikipedia is not always referenced in the same way. The ways described below are some of the ways it has been mentioned. Wikipedia, [...] to an academic, might represent peer review on steroids. Andrew George, JD candidate at University of Virginia School of LawAndrew Keen's 2007 book The Cult of the Amateur: How Today's Internet Is Killing Our Culture asserted the proliferation of user-generated content on Wikipedia obscured and devalued traditional, higher-quality information outlets.   