Uni.T (Hangul: 유니티; stylized as UNI.T) is a South Korean girl group formed by The Unit Culture Industry Company through the KBS survival show The Unit. The group consists of nine members: Yang Ji-won, Woohee, Yoonjo, ZN (on hiatus), NC.A, Euijin, Yebin, Lee Hyun-joo and Lee Su-ji. They are currently promoting as 8 people without ZN.  Their debut mini album, Line, was released on May 18, 2018.  Prior to The Unit, all the members were actively involved in the entertainment industry: In July 2017, KBS announced their new survival show that would create male and female unit groups, with nine members each, among idols who had already debuted.  The program aimed to give them a fair chance to demonstrate their talents that they might not have been able to showcase before. The final nine female contestants were chosen by public voting and announced via live television broadcast.   It premiered on October 28, 2017 and concluded on February 10, 2018. On February 21, 2018, it was revealed that the female group, Uni+ G, would hold their first fan-meeting on March 3 at Blue Square iMarket Hall.  The tickets sold out within two hours of being on sale.  On February 24's broadcast of The Unit's Special Show, the final nine female contestants that formed “Uni+ G” became UNI.T following the announcement.  On April 28, 2018, it was revealed that UNI.T would make their debut on May 17, 2018.   However, on May 11, their debut was pushed back to May 18, a day after their initial debut date.  UNI.T  debuted with their first extended play, Line, on May 18, 2018,  with the lead single "No More", composed by Shinsadong Tiger.  The lead single is characterized by its reggae elements.  The group performed "No More" for the first time at the 2018 Dream Concert on May 12, six days before their debut.  They made their debut stage on KBS' Music Bank on the same day as the album's release, where they performed "A Memory Clock" and "No More".  Uni.T released its second and last album on September 18, 2018 with the lead single "A Beginning With a Known End" being composed by Brave Brothers.  On September 12, 2018, it was announced that ZN will not be a part of the farewell album due to Laboum's overlapped schedule.  Adapted from The Unit official website:  