The Patient-Centered Primary Care Collaborative (PCPCC) is a coalition of more than 1,000 organizations and individuals — employers, consumer and patient/family advocacy groups, patient quality organizations, health plans, labor unions, hospitals, physicians and other health professionals — that works to develop and advance an effective and efficient health system built on a strong foundation of primary care and the patient-centered medical home (PCMH) model, an approach to providing comprehensive care for children, youth, and adults.     The Collaborative is dedicated to advancing team-based, comprehensive primary care in parternship with patients and their families and serves as a broad-based national advocacy organization for the primary care patient centered medical home, providing information and networking opportunities to facilitate support for the PCMH.    They are headquartered in downtown Washington, D.C. The Patient-Centered Primary Care Collaborative  was created in late 2006, when several large national employers came together with the four major U.S. primary care physician associations in order to: To achieve these goals, the PCPCC has created an open forum where healthcare stakeholders freely communicate and work together to improve the future of the American medical system. The Collaborative has developed model language for inclusion in health reform proposals to include the PCMH concept. It also acts as a key source for the continued education of congressional representatives, the federal and state governments, and individual practices on the PCHM model as a superior form of healthcare delivery. Having achieved significant success in getting the PCMH included as a foundational model of care in national and state-level health care reform efforts as well as in the commercial health insurance market, the Collaborative is now working with partners to obtain full-scale implementation so all patients and families can receive care in a PCMH.  In order to realize this vision for modern, robust primary care services, the Collaborative is working to: In addition to the work of the PCPCC, the Patient-Centered Primary Care Foundation (PCPCF) currently engages in education of the PCMH model through public conferences, webinars, policy papers, guides, and toolkits. Today, PCPCC’s membership represents more than 1,200 stakeholder organizations and 50 million health care consumers throughout the U.S. split into two different tiers of membership. Executive Committee Members The PCPCC’s Executive Committee is a valuable group of members that provide leadership and work in partnership with PCPCC's Board of Directors and staff.  Members represent a range of health care stakeholders, including health professional associations, employers, purchasers, health plans, health systems, pharmaceutical firms, professional associations and quality improvement organizations. Member benefits include access to exclusive leadership roles, events and organizational initiatives. Each member contributes annual dues that support the development of educational tools, publications and conferences.  General Members The Collaborative’s general public membership is free of charge and includes many benefits. General members are invited to join the Collaborative’s national weekly call and receive monthly updates on the work of the five Centers. Members also have free access to many Collaborative resources. Patient-Centered Medical Home 