Paul Grundy MD, MPH, FACOEM, FACPM, known as the "Godfather" of the Patient Centered Medical Home,  member of the Institute of Medicine   and recipient of the prestigious Barbara Starfield Primary Care Leadership Award in 2016   and the 2012 National Committee for Quality Assurance(NCQA) Quality Award,  is IBM's  Global Director of Healthcare Transformation.   In this role, Dr. Grundy develops and executes strategies that support IBM’s healthcare-industry transformation initiatives. Part of his work is directed towards shifting healthcare delivery around the world towards consumer-focused, primary-care based systems through the adoption of new philosophies,  primary-care pilot programs,  new incentives systems,  and the information technology required to implement such change. He is one of only 38 IBMers and the only physician selected into IBM’s senior  industry leadership forum known as the IBM Industry Academy.  Dr. Grundy is also the Founding President  of the Patient Centered Primary Care Collaborative and is an Adjunct Professor, University of Utah School of Medicine, Department of Family and Preventive Medicine. An active social entrepreneur and speaker   on global healthcare transformation, Dr. Grundy is driving comprehensive, linked, and integrated healthcare and the concept of the Patient Centered Medical Home. His work has been reported widely in the New York Times, BusinessWeek, Forbes,  the Economist,   the Huffington Post,  New England Journal of Medicine and newspapers, radio and television around the country. Dr. Grundy is also invited frequently as a thought leader to conferences such as TED conference, Smarter healthcare by smarter use of data,  or NHS Confederation conference, Foundation for Healthcare Transformation.  Dr. Grundy is also a Co-Author of the book "Lost and Found: A Consumer's Guide to Healthcare" ,  written together with Dr. Peter B. Anderson. Paul Grundy spent his early life in West Africa, the son of Quaker missionaries.  He attended medical school at the University of California San Francisco and earned his Master's Degree in Public Health at the University of California Berkeley. Dr. Grundy performed his Residency training at Johns Hopkins in Preventive Medicine. He also completed a post doctoral fellowship at Johns Hopkins in Occupational Health in the International Environment. From 1997 to 2000, he was the Corporate Occupational Medical Director for International SOS, the largest medical service company in the world, providing and coordinating care and medical assistance for multinational corporations. From 1994 to 1997, he was the Medical Director of  Adventist Health Systems, Pennsylvania, the second largest not-for-profit medical system operating in the state of Pennsylvania, and the Medical Director for the largest occupational medicine program in Berks County, Pennsylvania. From 1985 to 1994 he was a Regional Medical Officer and Counselor of Embassy for Medical Affairs, U.S. Department of State. In this role, Dr. Grundy was responsible for leading the interactions between health and diplomacy, successfully organizing such activities as the Clinton/Yeltsin health initiative, a $157 million bilateral initiative in Russia. In his role with the Department of State, he was responsible for advising United States Ambassadors on health-care programs for diplomatic posts. He set up the first U.S. policy and program addressing the HIV/AIDS  epidemic in Africa. He worked to organize a Congressional fact-finding mission on the extent of the HIV/AIDS problem and drafted the first bill in congress dealing with the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Africa. Dr. Grundy finished his career in the Department of State as a Minister Counselor, the highest rank for a doctor and the equivalent of a three-star flag rank in the military. From 1979 to 1985 Dr. Grundy was a medical officer in the U.S. Air Force, where he taught at the School of Aerospace Medicine. He also served as a flight surgeon and Chief of Hospital Services in Korea. Prior to joining IBM, Dr Grundy worked as a senior diplomat in the US State Department supporting the intersection of health and diplomacy. He was also a Medical Director for the International SOS, the world's largest medical assistance company and for Adventist Health Systems, the second-largest not-for-profit medical system in the world. Dr. Grundy attended medical school at the University of California San Francisco and trained at Johns Hopkins University. He has worked extensively in International AIDS Pandemic, including writing the United States' first piece of legislation addressing AIDS Education in Africa. Dr Grundy serves as a Director of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME),  the body responsible for accrediting graduate medical training programs, Member National Advisory Board of the National Center for Interprofessional Education and the Medical Education Futures Study. Paul is the President of the Patient Centered Primary Care Collaborative (PCPCC), a coalition he led IBM in creating in early 2006. The PCPCC is dedicated to advancing a new primary-care model called the Patient Centered Medical Home as a means of fundamentally reforming healthcare delivery, which in turn is essential to maintaining US international competitiveness.Today, the PCPCC represents employers of some 50 million people across the United States as well as physician groups representing more than 330,000 medical doctors, leading consumer groups and the top seven US health-benefits companies. Dr. Paul Grundy is regarded as the "godfather" of the Patient Centered Medical Home (PCMH) concept because of his advocacy for PCMH-level care and in creation of the PCPCC. More information about his amazing advocacy for medical home can be found in the book "The Familiar Physician: Saving Your Doctor In the Era of Obamacare" Doctor Grundy has won numerous awards including the 2016 Barbara Starfield Primary Care Leadership Award   for his life's work and dedication to the medical home model of care, Department of State Superior Honor Award for handling the crisis surrounding the two attempted coups in Russia, Department of State Superior Honor Award for work done in opening up all the new embassies after the fall of the Soviet Union, and Department of State Superior Honor Award for work on the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Africa. He also won four Department of State Meritorious Service awards for outstanding performance in the Middle East and Africa, and the Tim Ferriss Globetrotter Award 2010 from VT.  He received the Defense Superior Service Award for outstanding service addressing HIV/AIDS and The Defense Meritorious Service Medal.  Dr. Paul Grundy retired with the rank of Minister-Counselor from the Foreign Services, U.S. State Department. Dr. Paul Grundy has been named an Ambassador for Healthcare DENMARK in October 2014,  a role in which he will share best practices from the Danish Healthcare system with doctors in the United States and in other parts of the world. 