 Intersectionality is the interconnection of race, class, and gender among an individual or group. This is often related to an experience of discrimination or a disadvantage. This definition came from Kimberle Crenshaw. Kimberle Crenshaw, a feminist scholar, is widely known for coining the term intersection in her 1989 essay, which sheds light on the oppression black women have been exposed to, especially during the slavery period. Crenshaw's analogy of intersection to traffic flow explains, "Discrimination, like traffic through an intersection, may flow in one direction, and it may flow in another. If an accident happens in an intersection, it can be caused by cars traveling from any number of directions and, sometimes, from all of them. Similarly, if a Black woman is harmed because she is in the intersection, her injury could result from sex discrimination or race discrimination."  Black women have been victims of violence and abuse since 1619 during the time of slavery. The intersection of gender among slaves is an imperative factor of the different treatment they have experienced compared to male slaves. In the 1960s, the beginning of the Second-wave Feminism finally addressed the voice of black women and women of color in contrast to the first wave, where it initially focused on the struggles of white middle class women. The stereotype as a justification for violence does not help this issue, either, as their bodies are viewed as sexual objects. For instance, their bodies are often objectified in an offensive sexual manner and degraded through song lyrics or television shows. This reinforces the ideology that the violence and abuse of colored women is justified. Finally, the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) was introduced in 1922. Unfortunately, it was not ratified into the Constitution, as it did not receive enough votes. However, black women highly endorsed this because they would be protected under the law, as well as have the opportunity to report their crime, if violence and discrimination were to occur. Ongoing statistics from the Institute on Domestic Violence in the African American Community (IDVAAC) reports reflect the widespread issue of violence African American women experienced. Race and gender has consistently played a role in how black women have historically experienced violence, and how they still continue to experience violence today. One of the earliest events in history in which this violence began was during slavery in 1619.  During slavery, black women, along with black men, were kidnapped from African countries and brought to the United States for the purpose of producing lucrative products for the newly forming American economy. Some of these products included the production of tobacco and the production of cotton.  As slaves, black men and women had no rights. By law, they were considered property and their white slave masters treated them as such. An example of their treatment was how white slave masters bought and sold slaves as commodity items, ripping families apart in the process.  Another example of the treatment of slaves in America was the abuse and violence that they experienced. In order for slave masters to maintain power and control of their slaves, they repeatedly beat and abused them. This violence was used as a form of social control and also served to maintain white supremacy. The violence that female slave experienced differed from male slaves. Black women were the targets of abuse by their white slave masters. African women were depicted as "oversexed by comparison with white women or as possessing excessively sexual bodies", a stereotype drawn on to justify the enslavement and abuse of Black women.  Black women's abuse during slavery also brought about the social and political relationship between the slave, the slave master and the slave master's wife. An example of this relationship can be accounted from the well known narrative of Harriet Ann Jacobs and her experience as black woman during slavery. Jacobs was not only the subject of abuse by her abusive and abhorrent slave master, she was also the subject of abuse by her slave master's wife due to jealousy and blame that her slave master's wife attributed to her.  Jacobs' account of her abuse offers one of the earliest instances of a black woman's epistemology; it also indicates early histories of how black women's lives revealed the makings of today's theories called intersectionality. In the 1960s and 1970s, during the second wave feminist movement, Black women and women of color were beginning to organize and discuss the ways in which they would be able to bring their concerns into the forefront of feminism because their issues were not being addressed in the main discourse of feminism. Previously, a lot of the concerns that white women in the nineteenth century addressed were issues that only white middle class women faced. This placed white women in the feminist movement as privileged individuals in comparison to other women who were poor, working class women of color. This was one of the foundations of the feminist movement, which began to trickle down into the second wave feminist movement.  In the twentieth century, feminist scholars such as Anna Julia Cooper and Ida B. Wells-Barnett began to engage in a discussion how white people and white feminists excluded the plight of African-Americans in this country. They began to integrate race, class, and gender into the main discourse of feminism.  Their analyses included pointing out the differences between race, class, and gender and a calling to other feminists to take up the plight of marginalized groups of people. As such, intersectional theories have been created with the intention of interrogating these oppressions and working towards expanding the feminist movement to include everyone. Intersectional theories looks at how race, class, sexuality and gender inform discourses of feminism and feminist thought. "Rather than viewing separate oppressions as distinct categories, 'intersectionality describes a more fluid, mutually constrictive process' whereby every social act is imbricated by gender, race, class, and sexuality."  Feminist scholars such as Kimberlé Crenshaw, Audre Lorde, and Claudia Rankine, and many others have looked at violence done to African American women from a theoretical stand point in order to understand why Black women are more likely to be abused. The purpose of this is to find solutions as to how Black women can be better protected when instances of violence and abuse take place. Feminist theorists also introduce new theoretical frameworks in order to continue the dialogue about the violence done to Black women. Kimberlé Williams Crenshaw is a civil rights activist and a scholar in race theory. Crenshaw coined the term intersectionality in 1989, in oder to interrogate the ways in which black women and women of color are often excluded from the main narrative of feminist thought and ideology.  Through her writings, Crenshaw analyzes the ways in which Black women and women of color experience violence and abuse and interrogates that by employing intersectionality and the effects it has on black female experience. Crenshaw argues that race, class and gender need to be an essential part of the feminist discourse, especially when talking about violence experienced by Black women. Crenshaw argues that failure to do this will continue to reinforce systems of oppression and violence that black women face.  She writes,  "The failure of feminism to interrogate race means that the resistance strategies of feminism will often replicate and reinforce the subordination of people of color, and the failure of antiracism interrogate patriarchy means that antiracism will frequently reproduce the subordination of women.These mutual elisions present a particularly difficult political dilemma for women of color. Adopting either analysis constitutes a denial of a fundamental dimension of our subordination and precluded the development of a political discourse that more fully empowers women of color". Audre Lorde is an African American writer, feminist, lesbian, and activist, who speaks and writes about inequalities and injustice that women of color face, which are expressed through her works. In one of her most notable works, entitled The Master's Tools Will Never Dismantle the Mater's House, Lorde addresses the importance of intersectionality in feminism. She argues that the exclusion of other stories that intersect with race, class, and gender, will continue to oppress and silence, especially when instances of violence occur. Lorde suggests that the "Master's tools", which refers to the systemic oppression of colored people and white supremacy in America, has been created for the benefit of white people. Lorde suggests that this is one of the main reasons for the need of intersectionality in feminist theory. In an example, she describes how white women cannot understand the full implications of racism that black women experience. She asks, "What is the theory behind racist feminism?"  Lorde argues for the importance of Black women to have the space necessary for them to participate in a feminist movement that does not further marginalize them. To simply ignore this issue would be to perpetuate racist social ideologies that have been ingrained into American society. Claudia Rankine is a Jamaican poet, writer and essayist who is the author of many important works pertinent to racism and feminism. In one of her most recent books entitled, "Citizen", Rankine uses the lyric essay as a way to describe an example of the black female experience in America.  In one of her pieces she writes,     "Because of your elite status from a year's worth of travel, you have already settled into your window seat on United Airlines, when the girl and her mother arrive at your row. The girl, looking over at you, tell her mother, these are our seats, but this is not what I expected. The mother's response is barely audible – I see, she says. I'll sit in the middle". Rankine's account of this specific encounter is an example of how the black female experience can be used to inform how we look at feminist discourse. The described interaction above is an example of how Black women are looked at and treated by other people. Since Kimberlé Crenshaw introduced the term intersectionality in 1989, violence against black women has been used as a way to look at how race, class and gender all impact the experience of the black woman. This was one of the ways in which intersectionality has been used by theorists and activists to engage in the anti-violence movement against women. Women such as Crenshaw and Angela Davis critique how the anti-violence movement against women of focused on "the kind of gendered violence that white, middle class women predominately face, the experience of 'otherwise -privileged members of the group'. This critique was formed in three ways: 1. Violence that women of color experience becomes significantly worse due to race and class difference.  This is because of the lack of resources that poor black women have limited access to that may help remove them from these dangerous situations. These resources include, lack of financial means, responsibility of children, employment discrimination, and many others. These are intrinsic with the racism that black women experience, which further marginalizes them. 2. Women of color also disproportionally experience violence reinforced by government officials which are supposed to serve and protect the public. Black women face higher forms of physical violence in institutions such as the American prison system, and within law enforcement. In the prison system, Black women are incarcerated at a much higher rate than women of any other ethnic group, and therefore policed more often.  As such, they are more likely to experience violence and abuse within the prison system. Some examples of abuse include, strip body searches, sexual abuse from guards and or managers, and abuse from inmates.  3. Black women have been placed outside the protection of the law, when it comes to instances of violence and abuse that black women experience.  Within the last twenty years, domestic violence has remained a prevalent issue that many women of African American women faced with in their communities. The Institute on Domestic Violence in the African American community reports:    The Women of Color Facts and Stats also reports:    Black women are also the subjects of prolonged stereotypes that make Black women become victims. This gets played out through different forms of media and institutions. For example, genres of music such as Hip-Hop, Rap, and R&B, which dominate African American culture, constantly talk about women in very harsh and degrading ways. Words such as 'bitch', 'hoe', and 'trick' are used to describe black women.   One of the most important documents that has been brought before legislation is The Equal Rights Amendment, which was originally drafted by Alice Paul in 1923. It reads as follows:"Section 1. Equality under the law shall not be denied or abridged because of sex. Section 2. The congress shall have the power to enforce the provisions of the amendment.Section 3. This amendment shall take effect two years after its ratification."  The ERA was brought to Congress in 1972, where it was passed under condition that within seven years, three-fourths of the states needed to vote in order for it to be ratified into the Constitution. In 1982, after a three-year extension, the ERA was not passed, just falling short of only three votes needed.  