AIT, Creative Technology Educators (also known as the Academy of Information Technology) is a specialist higher education and vocational education institution based in Sydney, Australia,  with a second campus opening in Melbourne, Australia in 2015.  AIT was established in 1999, and specialises in three disciplines: digital media, information technology, and business.  AIT is a member of the RedHill Education group, alongside Greenwich English College, Go Study Australia, and the International School of Colour and Design (ISCD).  AIT was the first in Australia to offer courses in Motion capture technology, and has the latest markerless Motion Capture system installed in its Sydney campus,  in 2013, AIT was still the first Mobile Applications Development course provided. AIT holds and participates in many events, including the AIT Oscar Night, the AIT Games Night, and the Vivid Light Festival. AIT is recognised as a quality tertiary education provider by the Australian Government’s Tertiary Education Quality & Standards Agency (TEQSA) and the Australian Skills Quality Authority (ASQA). 2D & 3D Animation   Design  Film Making   Game Design   Digital Design   IT   The Motion Capture (or Organic Motion) is a markerless motion capture system that was designed and manufactured by Organic Motion of New York. This type of technology was the first of its kind implemented in Australia.  The Motion Capture, aka MoCap, allows users to motion track and animate their 3D characters easily.  The Green Screen Room is a state of the art filming environment located on the Sydney campus. The space was launched on 28 May 2014 and allows students to extend their editing skills in Adobe Premiere and Adobe After Effects for Green Screen compositing.  The Student Representative Council (SRC) is a small group of students selected by the student body. Their job is to help improve the quality of life on the AIT campus, and do so by communicating with teachers and staff members on the student bodies behalf. The current president of the SRC is Mikhaila Katte.  As of 2015 AIT currently has five clubs running: the 3D Club, Film Club, Drawing Club, Table Top Club and Fight Club.  These clubs are overseen and assisted by the SRC. AIT holds regular events throughout the year, held by a mixture of staff members, teachers and the SRC. Smaller events include barbecues, Christmas parties and Trivia Nights. The AIT Oscar Night is an annual event held at AIT. This event allows student works to be recognised and rewarded by their teacher and peers in the fields of Animation and Film. The event is run by Film Coordinator, Patrick Huang.  The AIT Games Night is an annual event held at AIT. This event features student games alongside other activities like cosplay competitions. Prizes are awarded to the best student games. This event is run by both the teachers and SRC, allowing multiple activities to run in one night.  In 2015 AIT participated in the Vivid Light Festival. Their entry, titled "Lightwell", was a collaborative task between teachers and students. The structure itself was created by Helen Goritsas, Patrick Huang, Nik Sutila, Adam Katz, Sharon Sanders, Carlton Zhu, Kwan Chemsripong and Kriss Mahatumaratana. The interactive structure displayed a collection of student artworks onto a wall along Walsh Bay, Sydney.  