Information Communications Technology is usually included in the Home Economics and Livelihood Education program in grade school and taught through the Technology and Home Economics program  in high school. The recent status of ICT education in the Philippines, along with other Southeast Asian countries, was surveyed by the Southeast Asian Ministers of Education Organization (SEAMEO) in 2011. Using the UNESCO model of ICT Development in Education, the countries were ranked as Emerging, Applying, Infusing or Transforming. The Philippines (with Indonesia, Thailand, and Vietnam) were ranked at the Infusing stage of integrating ICT in education, indicating that the country has integrated ICT into existing teaching, learning and administrative practices and policies. This includes components such as a national vision of ICT in education, national ICT plans and policies, complementary national ICT and education policies, professional development for teachers and school leaders, community or partnership and teaching and learning pedagogies.  A 2012 study reported that public high schools in Metro Manila had a computer to student ratio of 1:63. While 88 percent of schools have internet connections, half of the students claimed not to be using it.    In 1996, the Department of Education initialized a 10-year modernization program, which included a computerization project and the School of the Future project. The modernization project aimed to implement information technology in the improvement of teaching and learning processes, as well as in educational management and operations. This project was supported by numerous other government agencies and private sectors.  Three-fourths of its budget of PHP 375 million was used on hardware and software procurement, while the remaining quarter on staff training on ICT. The modernization program also established a Center of Education and Technology (CET) whose main purpose was the development and production of multimedia instruction materials, hardware, software and training of DECS personnel. An additional of PHP 300 million was allocated in 1997 to computerize 97 state universities and colleges and another PHP 210 million was allocated in 1999 to equip 325 schools with computers and train 4000 teachers.  In March 2001, The Senate of Committee on Education launched Project Cares, designed to improve upon the current public elementary and secondary school educational systems through the use and application of ICT. It provided public and district school offices with computer-based management and operation support tools that aimed to make the school more efficient and productive with their work.  To improve upon the number and quality of skill of ICT professionals, both the Senate and the House of Representatives contemplated laws to make public and private institutions incorporate ICT into their curriculum at all levels of education.  Among those plans proposed to improve ICT in the Philippines were tax incentives to encourage private companies to donate computer equipment to schools or research institutions and a bill that would have mandated the installation of computer equipment on all public schools. Other non-government organizations such as Philippine Business for Social Progress (PBSP) have expressed the need for ICT education as well. The group formulated a portfolio of project proposals to build schools that would be focused on ICT personnel training and software development. Companies would review the portfolio and select the projects that they would want to fund. One of the projects, entitled "Computer Laboratories Program for Secondary Schools", sought to provide computer laboratories in at least 50 public and private high schools. This initiative produced numerous ICT experts from various schools and equipped institutions with the proper equipment.  In 2011, the Department of Education implemented the Enhanced Basic Education Information System, an online facility for encoding, storage and report generation of all school information such as enrolment, resource inventories and special programs.  It was to create an online and automated system of gathering data to provide the department with more relevant and accurate information for decision making and planning. With this improved system, it aims to improve budget allocations in the Philippines, providing more schools with more equipment.  In 2012, The Department of Education and the United States Agency for International Development undertook a review on the computer accessibility in public schools as well as the past and ongoing ICT projects being implemented there. They aimed to improve upon those projects with regard to the new educational curriculum. The DepEd Computerization program has been implemented which deployed computer packages to 5409 public elementary and high schools to support the teaching and learning process.  Under the K-12 Program, ICT is a strand subsumed under the Technology and Livelihood Education (TLE) and Technical-Vocational-Livelihood (TVL), which is one of the four tracks under the Senior High School Specialized Subjects.  This track also includes Agri-Fishery Arts, Home Economics, Industrial Arts, and TVL Maritime professional strands. A senior high school student can specialize in ICT or any of these strands and will receive a certificate that could be used for employment or a basis for further college education upon completion. The ICT strand allows students to learn writing computer programs, digital illustration, and website design/development.  Students also take up technical drafting, animation, and Java programming, which are expected to equip students with the skills necessary to succeed in the creative technological field. Other subjects in the strand include medical transcription and telecom installation, which could be useful to students planning to work for the telecommunications industry or further study a bachelor's degree related to it. As of 1989, the New Secondary Education Curriculum (NSEC) was implemented under the 1989 Secondary Education Development Program (SEDP). Though its aim is to make it a technology-oriented curriculum, no basic computer technology courses are part of the general education yet. However, there were already technical schools, college and universities offering vocational and technical courses in computer technology -- ranging from 5 months to 3 years.  Some of the common courses related to ICT include the following (as of 1991):   Designed to train computer programmers and operators, this course concentrates on developing skills in programming and systems development. Open to high school graduates, this course focuses on providing hands-on learning experiences. A post-secondary program, this is designed to train programmers and systems analysts. Graduates are expected to use the languages of the computer; go through hands-on exercises and problem-solving exercises; and develop their own software. The course also includes general education courses trained to broaden the overall education of the graduate. A post-secondary course targeted at developing skills in programming and the use of computer language in payrolls, inventories, and other similar business problems. It also includes planning tools such as PERT, CPM, Gantt charts, simulation and other techniques that are business related. Beyond the specialized computer and business education components, it also includes general education. Completion of this course leads to a Certificate in Business Data Processing. A post-secondary course designed in producing computer-oriented secretaries. The course includes various subjects such as office procedures and techniques, computer application, computer software and other relevant general education courses to meet the needs of a modern office secretary. A post-secondary course with aims to train computer technicians. The course concerns mostly with the hardware, such as the assembly, maintenance and repair of computers: including trouble-shooting, testing, method of prototyping, and instrumentation. To check how the computer functions, the course also includes instruction in computer software. A course for computer technicians, its curriculum discusses technology education in trades and industries. This course is designed to train graduates in the construction and operation of computers, electronic circuits, computer circuit analysis, troubleshooting and servicing of computer hardware, facility in computer language for scientific problem solving, data processing and other application. This course includes two summers of on-the-job training such that the student can be immersed in the computer industry. Completion of the course yields a diploma in Computer Technology. A relatively new program in computer education during its time, this course was designed to produce computer engineering technicians proficient in computer hardware and software technologies, similar to the three-year computer technology course. After completing this course, graduates are awarded a diploma in Computer Engineering Technology. This three-year program gives the graduate two options: to either complete a bachelor’s degree in computer engineering or seek employment as a computer technician. Designed to train computer technologists who are proficient in the assembly, maintenance and servicing of computer hardware, and in computer software; this program expects to help supply the computer industry with proficient upper-level technical and management workers in computer production and maintenance services. Students admitted to this program are graduates of the three-year Industrial Technology/Technician course, major in computer technology and who have at least a minimum of two years work experience in the computer industry. This degree program aims to create highly proficient computer professionals. This curriculum consists of a balance between general education and technical courses in computers designed to provide professional training in the languages of the computers and in designing systems. The graduates are expected to be able to use each of the computer languages and software in solving problems that need to be computerized. Graduates are trained and required to be able to develop their own software. Similar to the BSCS, this program specializes in information systems design and development. This includes general education studies and a series of specialized computer courses in programming and systems development. Similar to BSCS graduates, graduates of the BSCIS are expected to be able to develop software and become proficient in the area of computerized information systems. Intended for teachers, this course aims to train professional teachers in computer software in various levels of the educational system. As of 1991, the sourcing of computer teachers is mainly done by getting existing computer professionals into teaching. Taking from one to six weeks, this course is designed for computer teachers or for computer professionals who are already teaching. This course includes basic computer fundamentals, teaching principles, techniques, and practicum in the design of training materials, machine problems, and exercises.  This program provides teaching competence. Considering the necessity to integrate computer education in all levels of the educational system, a teaching training program in computer education should be considered. The premise of the new curriculum was an attempt to improve upon the existing curriculum (which was NSEC). Like the previous curriculum, it included Filipino, English, math and science; BEC includes the Makabayan. There were numerous rationales behind the revision of the curriculum to include the Makabayan. One of the notable rationales with respect to the addition of computer technology is as follows: “... to increase each individual’s ability to cope in the fast-changing world. Likewise, to increase the time allotted for science, math, engineering, and to connect these subjects to the related areas.”  In the primary level, technology was not yet part of the curriculum. However, BEC includes the technology and livelihood education (TLE) at the secondary level, with 6 hours and 40 minutes devoted to the subject every week.  Similar to BEC’s implementation of the TLE, it is available after primary education (TLE starts at Grade 7). Exploratory Subjects are at 40 hours per quarter during Grades 7-8, while specializations are taken from Grades 9-12. A sample list of courses for specializations in Information and Communications Technology is provided as follows: The Philippine government especially the Department of Education and Department of Science and Technology has forwarded ICT educations through policies and projects. The Restructured Basic Education Curriculum which aimed to implement an interactive curriculum was launched in 2002. It aimed to integrate technology in instruction and in education, with great emphasis on computer literacy. To engage the private sector, The Act of 1998 (R.A. 8525) was passed to generate participation of companies. This was done in order to upgrade and modernize public schools, especially in the provinces. The program led to 110 public high schools receiving computers in 1996 under the DOST Engineering Science Education Project (ESEP). An additional 68 public high schools were recipients under the DOST Computer Literacy Program. Annually, DOST continues to allocate PHP 20,000,000 (US$ 400,000) to support buying computers in school. In 2002 and 2003, 125 public high schools were to be provided with 10 to 15 computers along with the corresponding teacher training programs.  Technology centres in each regions were set up as centres of excellence in information technology, crossing traditional boundaries, were established in order to focus on the needs of a greater number of learners. The centres were provided with computer laboratories fully equipped with printers, peripherals, projectors and air-conditioning units. Teacher training was also a component that was focused on. Funds were provided by the Philippine government for the first year of operation, while local government units were expected to continue the funding and maintenance.  Furthermore, the Department of Education has come up with programs to improve ICT education through streamline data collection. The department has also laid down rules and procedures that schools may follow to enhance ICT Education in the country. Schools are required to go through certain steps to acquire these. The Learners' Information Systems (LIS) and Enhanced Basic Education Information Systems (EBEIS) are programs created by the Department of Education to help in the data gathering for current enrollees and available facilities in schools respectively. The Learning Resources Management and Development System (LRDMS) was implemented in order to support increased distribution and access to learning and teaching resources. The DepEd Computerization Program (DCP) was implemented to help schools participate in ICT-related programs. The LIS is an online facility implemented by DepEd that records all registered students in public schools. This program was able to optimize the collecting data of registered public students and reduced the data collection time from 10 months to 3 months.  For public school personnel, the school principal and ICT coordinator shall be in charge of distributing user accounts to advisers to their appropriate sections. The homeroom adviser shall enrol all their registered students in their section. Incoming students for kindergarten and grade 1 students shall be issued new Learners Registration Number (LRN) by the system. For transferees from private schools, and other pupils enrolled but do not have LRN after checking the database shall be enrolled by the adviser into the LIS and submit their supporting documents to the Division Planning Unit (DPU). The DPU shall approve the issuance of a new LRN to a learner after documents have been checked and the learner does not have an existing LRN. Homeroom advisers shall update all learners’ data at the beginning of every school year.  Private school personnel is to use a separate form and link for submission. The DepEd Central Office shall build up the initial registry of all private school learners in the LIS but all succeeding updates of the master list will be done online through LIS online facility. The DepEd Central Office shall build up the initial registry of all private school learners in the LIS but all succeeding updates of the master list will be done online through the LIS online facility.  EBEIS is the data gathering program implemented by the DepEd that records the school’s profile, and list of official enrollments from LIS. For Government Elementary School Profile and Government Secondary School Profile (GESP/GSSP), they get:  This includes the number of late enrollees, pupils enrolled into the school after the cut-off date of July 31 and the number of continuing pupils and students who were enrolled in the Alternative Delivery Mode (ADM) and who have not yet completed the requirements for the grade/year level. Standard Rooms are rooms deemed to be safe and usable and having the standard dimensions as defined in the instructional rooms. This includes partially incomplete classroom constructions. Non-Standard or Makeshift Rooms are safe and usable rooms which are considered temporary structures to be used in classroom shortages and/or temporary shelter during emergencies.  This indicates the number of nationally-funded teachers by gender. The school principals shall update all required school data for each incoming school years. After ensuring all required data have been accurately updated, they shall submit the profile into the system and the school will be able to download its GESP, GSSP, Private School Profile (PSP), or SUCs Laboratory School Profile which contains its official enrollment from LIS and school data from the EBEIS.  The LRMDS is an online library created by international education partners and teachers. It is a web-based catalogue and online repository of learning, teaching, and professional development resources. It includes the following: information on quantity, quality, and location of textbooks and supplementary materials, and other teaching-learning resources; access to learning, teaching, and professional development resources in digital format; and standards, specifications, and guidelines for four subsystems: (1) Assessment and Evaluation; (2) Development, Acquisition, and Production; (3) Storage and Maintenance; and (4) Publication and Delivery.  The DepEd Computerization Program was implemented to help supply the schools to be ready for training its students in basic ICT programs. This program contains two packages which contain models for a computer lab and an e-classroom. These models will be used in training the students in basic ICT programs in school. For schools with large enrollments, the following criteria will be followed: a minimum of 150 terminals for 9,000 enrollees, 50-100 terminals for 5000-8999 enrollees, and 50 terminals for 2000-4999 enrollees.  To be recipients of the DCP, public schools must have a stable and continuous supply of electricity preferably with telephone facilities; at least one teacher assigned to handle Computer Education classes, to manage the computer laboratory and willing to be trained on lab management; at least one teacher of each English, Science, and Math who are willing to be trained on pedagogy-technology to echo training to their colleagues; capacity to mobilize counterpart support from other stakeholders in the community for needed structures or facilities; never been recipient of computer from other similar government programs unless the equipment is due for replacement and augmentation; and strong partnership with other stakeholders to ensure sustainability of the program.  The Computer Lab Model shall include the following: 11 desktop PCs, 1 wireless broadband router,11 uninterruptible power supply (UPS), 1 3-in-1 inkjet printer, and a set of face to face lecture and hands-on training basic software and hardware installation. The E-Classroom Model shall include the following: 1 host PC, 6 - 17 inch LCD monitor, 6 keyboards and mouse, 2 desktop virtualization kit using shared computing technology, 1 UPS, 1 interactive whiteboard, 1 3-in-1 inkjet printer, 1 LCD projector, and a set of face to face lecture and hands-on training for all equipment mentioned. Some notable external efforts also supported by DepEd are the PCs for Public Schools Project, Partners in Learning (PIL) IT Academy Laboratories, and Discounted PCs for Public School Teachers.  The PCs for Public Schools Project is a PHP 600 million yearly grant from the Japanese Government through DTI consisting of a package of 20 stand-alone computers per recipient school. The computer package shall be used solely for instructional purposes. The funds for maintenance, operating needs and other budgetary costs shall be ensured by recipient schools with local government units (LGUs), non-government organizations (NGOs), and/or the private sector.  Partners in Learning (PIL) IT Academy Laboratories is a DepEd project in partnership with Microsoft Philippines. It is Microsoft's global initiative for education to improve student performance through the integration of ICT in teaching and learning process. Grants have been provided to teachers in order to support ICT pilot projects. This program focuses on educating the teachers who will be introducing ICT to the current curriculum.  Data and information available show that the Philippines has eagerly embraced ICT in education. With facilitation by the Department of Education and collaboration with the private sector, several initiatives have successfully equipped a number of schools with ICT facilities. Nevertheless, the initiatives have not insured that teachers fully use the facilities for teaching purposes.  Numerous factors contribute to the integration of ICT in Philippine education. Some of whom are policymakers and educators. The government’s role in ICT education is to create a framework and exercise decision making with regards to all aspects of implementing programs. As for educators, their task is to implement the educational policies and programs in ICT education. Teachers have a vital role of effectively and appropriately using technology in educational institutions.  In order to ensure that success factors in the frameworks are all satisfied DepEd implemented systems and programs that would aid in improving competency, provision of equipment and ease of access to online material, the following factors are the e-learning success factors used as frameworks for ICT implementations in developing countries:  Instructors play an important role in teaching the students and must be well trained in order to achieve effectiveness in ICT programs. The use of technology and/or implementation of ICT impacts educational learning outcomes. The general characteristics of the instructor’s teaching methods also fall under this factor. This pertains to the students’ access to online resources, online systems for access to curriculum and communication, tutoring and assessment. A positive e-learning environment encourages students to interact with their instructors to achieve the maximum benefit from e-learning outcomes. Providing support, equipment, and training are the key qualities of this success criteria. Administrative concerns such as management, funding, maintenance, and the delivery of resources also fall under service quality. System quality concerns itself with facilitating interactions, organization and collection of data. Factors that are relevant for infrastructure and system quality include Internet quality, facilitating conditions, reliability, ease of use, system functionality, system interactivity, system response, and equipment accessibility. Course quality focuses on well-designed courses, curriculum, and learning materials facilitate meaningful educational experiences. Information quality is about the data’s accuracy, relevance, consistency and timeliness. 