 The diagnostic category pervasive developmental disorders (PDD), as opposed to specific developmental disorders (SDD), refers to a group of five disorders characterized by delays in the development of multiple basic functions including socialization and communication. The pervasive developmental disorders are: All autism spectrum disorders and Rett syndrome. The first four of these disorders are commonly called the autism spectrum disorders; the last disorder is much rarer, and is sometimes placed in the autism spectrum and sometimes not.  Globally, autism is estimated to affect 24.8 million people as of 2015. In the 2000s, the number of people affected was estimated at 1–2 per 1,000 people worldwide. In the developed countries, about 1.5% of children are diagnosed with ASD as of  2017[update], a more than doubling from 0.7% in 2000 in the United States. It occurs four-to-five times more often in boys than girls. The number of people diagnosed has increased dramatically since the 1960s, partly due to changes in diagnostic practice; the question of whether actual rates have increased is unresolved.   Rett syndrome is due to a genetic mutation of the MECP2 gene. This gene occurs on the X chromosome. Typically it develops as a new mutation, with less than one percent of cases being inherited from a person's parents. It occurs almost exclusively in girls. Boys who have a similar mutation typically die shortly after birth. Diagnosis is based on symptoms and can be confirmed with genetic testing.    The exact cause of Asperger's is unknown. While it is probably partly inherited, the underlying genetics have not been determined conclusively. Environmental factors are also believed to play a role. Brain imaging has not identified a common underlying problem. The diagnosis of Asperger's was removed in the 2013 fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5), and people with these symptoms are now included within the autism spectrum disorder along with autism and pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS). It remains within the tenth edition of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10) as of  2015[update].  CDD was originally described by Austrian educator Theodor Heller (1869–1938) in 1908, 35 years before Leo Kanner and Hans Asperger described autism. Heller had previously used the name dementia infantilis for the syndrome.   ...that an autistic savant (historically described as idiot savant) is a person with both autism and Savant Syndrome?  Savant Syndrome describes a person having both a severe developmental or mental handicap and extraordinary mental abilities not found in most people.  The Savant Syndrome skills involve striking feats of memory and often include arithmetic calculation and sometimes unusual abilities in art or music. Controversies in autism There is considerable disagreement over the exact nature of autism; however, it is generally considered to be a neurodevelopmental condition that manifests in markedly abnormal social interaction, communication ability, patterns of interests, and patterns of behavior. It encompasses a wide range of atypical conditions, none of which is well understood. Although there are common and specific physical conditions comorbid to autism spectrum disorders, not all people diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders experience these.  The diagnostic criteria, as of 2006, are still generally limited to psychiatric and cognitive evaluation methods with IQ score and a particular patterns of abilities (common to those with autism) featuring strongly in the formal diagnosis of autism and distinguishing it from Asperger syndrome at the time of diagnosis.  The following are articles directly related to Pervasive Developmental Disorder related conditions: Alexithymia Asperger syndrome Autism and working memory Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule Autism spectrum disorders Autism-spectrum quotient Autistic enterocolitis Autism spectrum Communication disorder Conditions comorbid to autism spectrum disorders Developmental disability Genetic disorder High-functioning autism Isodicentric 15 Language delay Learning disability Mental illness Mirror neuron Multiple complex developmental disorder Neurotypical Neurodiversity Nonverbal learning disorder Pervasive developmental disorder Picture thinking Pyroluria Regressive autism Sensory defensiveness Sensory processing disorder Sensory overload The following are conditions that often occur together with a diagnosis on the Autistic Spectrum or PDD: Antisocial personality disorder Aphasia Apraxia Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder Ataxia Auditory processing disorder Blindness Clinical depression Conduct disorder Deafness Down syndrome Dyscalculia Dysgraphia Dyslexia Developmental coordination disorder Echolalia  Erotophobia Fragile X syndrome Hyperlexia Intellectual disability Obsessive–compulsive disorder Oppositional defiant disorder In the largest study of its kind, a genetic analysis of 1,168 families with multiple cases of autism has identified genetic links to autism.  A previously overlooked stretch of DNA on chromosome 11 implicates a gene called neurexin 1 and increases the evidence for the involvement of neurexins and genes related to glutamate transmission in the brain. No recent news Tito Rajarshi Mukhopadhyay (born 1989 in India) was diagnosed in early childhood with severe or low functioning non-verbal autism. He first came to the attention of the west through autism researcher Richard Mills, who met Tito in Bangalore, India and arranged for him to travel to the UK to be assessed by his colleagues at the National Autistic Society and Lorna Wing. At the same time the BBC made the documentary 'Tito's Story' and the National Autistic Society published his first book, 'Beyond the Silence' (2000). He provides insights into the nature of his autism, according to Autism Speaks, the former Cure Autism Now, and scientists who studied his case, such as Michael Merzenich. Restricted interests or repetitive behaviors, such as this boy's interest in playing with a toy model of molecules, may be features of Asperger's. Functional magnetic resonance imaging provides some evidence for both underconnectivity and mirror neuron theories. A girl with autism. A 15-year-old female with Rett syndrome and severe scoliosis Repetitively stacking or lining up objects is associated with autism. Reports of autism cases per 1,000 children grew dramatically in the US from 1996 to 2007. It is unknown how much, if any, growth came from changes in rates of autism. Portrait of Victor of Aveyron, a feral child caught in 1798 who displayed possible symptoms of autism Autism affects the amygdala, cerebellum, and many other parts of the brain. Leo Kanner introduced the label early infantile autism in 1943. People with Asperger syndrome often display restricted or specialized interests, such as this boy's interest in stacking cans. Students and families walk to support Autism Awareness Month. A three-year-old with autism points to fish in an aquarium, as part of an experiment on the effect of intensive shared-attention training on language development. Deletion (1), duplication (2) and inversion (3) are all chromosome abnormalities that have been implicated in autism. Autistic individuals tend to use different areas of the brain (yellow) for a movement task compared to a control group (blue). A young boy with autism who has arranged his toys in a row In practice, an autistic spectrum disorder and pervasive developmental disorder are synonymous, but making a distinction is valuable. Pervasive developmental disorder refers to those psychological and behavioural developmental disorders encompassing many areas of functioning: language and communication, self-help skills, motor coordination, executive function, and scholastic achievement. The nosological category of pervasive developmental disorders includes syndromes that may be etiologically unrelated to autism, with autistic-like behaviour being only one part of the disorder: Rett's syndrome and childhood disintegrative disorder. Autism, Asperger syndrome and pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified are generally the disorders associated with the autistic spectrum. The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 