Harvard Medical School Massachusetts General Hospital Stephen V. Faraone is an American psychologist. He has worked mainly on attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and related disorders. Faraone graduated in 1978 from the State University of New York at Stony Brook with a BA in Psychology. He then went to the University of Iowa where he obtained his Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy.  Faraone completed a postdoctoral clinical psychology internship and a research fellowship at Brown University.  After completing his post-doctoral fellowship at Brown, Faraone came to the Harvard Department of Psychiatry where he began a career in psychiatric genetics. He first served as an instructor in 1985, and as an Assistant Professor in 1989. He was promoted to Associate Professor in 1993 and Full Professor in 2002. In 2004 he moved to SUNY Upstate Medical University where he is now Distinguished Professor of Psychiatry and of Neuroscience and Physiology.  He is also Senior Scientific Advisor to the Research Program Pediatric Psychopharmacology at the Massachusetts General Hospital  and a lecturer at Harvard Medical School. Faraone is principal investigator on several National Institutes of Health funded grants studying the nature and causes of mental disorders in childhood. He is one of the world’s leading authorities on the genetics of psychiatric disorders and has also made substantial contributions to research in psychopharmacology and research methodology. Faraone has authored over 700 journal articles,  editorials, chapters, and books and was the eighth highest producer of High Impact Papers in Psychiatry from 1990 to 1999 as determined by the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI).  In 2005, ISI determined him to be the second highest cited author in the area of ADHD  and in 2007, he was the third most highly cited researcher in psychiatry  for the preceding decade.  In 2011, he was the seventh most highly cited researcher in psychiatry and psychology for the preceding decade.   in 2014 he became the third most highly cited researcher in psychiatry and psychology.   with a lifetime h-index of 157  . In 2002, Faraone was inducted into the CHADD Hall of Fame in recognition of outstanding achievement in medicine and education research on attention disorders. [not in citation given] In 2004 and 2008, Faraone was elected to the Vice Presidency of the International Society of Psychiatric Genetics. [not in citation given] In 2008, he received the SUNY Upstate President’s Award for Excellence and Leadership in Research.  In 2009, he was awarded Alumni Fellow status at the University of Iowa.  In 2010, he received the Chancellor's Award for Excellence in Scholarship and Creative Activities from the State University of New York.  In 2014 Thompson Reuters placed him on their list of The World’s Most Influential Scientific Minds for the fields of psychiatry and psychology. 