 The following is a list of earthquake lists, and of top earthquakes by magnitude and fatalities. These are the largest or most notable earthquakes per year since the start of the 21st century.  Listed below are all the 36 known earthquakes with an estimated magnitude of 8.5 or higher since the year 1500. Limited to a timeframe with enough data, this gives a rough estimate of its frequency per century. (The timeframe does not include outlying events like the earlier 1361 Shōhei earthquake and 869 Sanriku earthquake, both estimated to have magnitude ≥ 8.5.) Prior to the development and deployment of seismographs – starting around 1900 – magnitudes can only be estimated, based on historical reports of the extent and severity of damage.  Statistics are, Note that historical records are known to be incomplete. Earthquakes that occurred in remote areas prior to the advent of modern instrumentation in the early to mid 1900's were not well-reported, and exact locations and magnitudes of such events are often unknown. Therefore, the apparent increase in large earthquake frequency over the last few centuries is unlikely to be real. This is a list of major earthquakes by the dollar value of property (public and private) losses directly attributable to the earthquake. Rank values are assigned based on inflation-adjusted comparison of property damage in US dollars. Wherever possible, indirect and socioeconomic losses are excluded. Please note that damage estimates for particular earthquakes may vary through time as more data becomes available. The following is a summary list of earthquakes with over approximately 100,000 deaths: The 50 most studied earthquakes according to the International Seismological Centre (ISC), based on a count of scientific papers (mostly in English) that discuss that earthquake; subsequent additions are not included in the counts. The "Event #" is linked to the ISC Event Bibliography for that event. Transcribed from figure 2, "The most studied events", at the ISC's Overview of the ISC Event Bibliography. International Seismological Centre. Event Bibliography. Thatcham, United Kingdom, http://www.isc.ac.uk/ . 2018. 