Earth Anthem is a poem-song by Indian poet and diplomat Abhay Kumar, recorded in eight languages including all official languages of the United Nations, namely Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish,  as well as Hindi and Nepali. It is intended to be an anthem for the planet Earth. Renowned violinist L. Subramaniam has composed music for it and renowned Bollywood playback singer Kavita Krishnamurthy has sung it.   It has been lauded by Nobel Laureate Kailash Satyarthi.  It was performed by the Symphony Orchestra of Cláudio Santoro National Theater, Brasilia in February 2018.  Our cosmic oasis, cosmic blue pearl the most beautiful planet in the universe all the continents and oceans united we stand as flora and fauna united we stand as species of one earth diverse cultures, beliefs and ways we are humans, Earth is our home all the people and nations  all for one and one for all united we unfurl the blue marble flag. "Earth Anthem" by Abhay Kumar  It was launched in June 2013 on the occasion of the World Environment Day by Kapil Sibal and Shashi Tharoor, then Union Ministers of India, at a function organized by the Indian Council of Cultural Relations in New Delhi.  It is supported by the global organization Habitat For Humanity.  India's Central Board of Secondary Education or CBSE has used it for educational purposes.    Earth Anthem has also been used by partner schools of British Council Schools Online,  Regent School, Abuja,  Assam Valley School,  Euro School, Kathmandu  and Loreto Day School, Kolkata  among others. The 3rd Nepal-Africa Film Festival opened in Kathmandu, Nepal with the screening of the song.   Hollywood actor Robert Lin has called the song a “great concept and certainly a forever theme to be written and sung about.”  Indian film-maker Shyam Benegal has called multi-language lyrics extremely inspiring.  The US Consul General Jennifer McIntyre has called Kumar's Earth Anthem a significant contribution to Earth Day and truly an anthem for the Earth.  Academy Award winner Hollywood director Jeffrey D. Brown called it a joyous celebration of common humanity.   "UNESCO"  "Habitat for Humanity"  "Kailash Satyarthi"  "Dr. L. Subramaniam"  "Jeffrey D. Brown"  Anthem 