 "Inspired" is a song recorded by American singer Miley Cyrus. It was released on June 9, 2017, as a promotional single from her sixth studio album Younger Now (2017). Cyrus wrote and produced the song with Oren Yoel. "Inspired" is a country ballad about the environment and making a difference. Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign inspired Cyrus to write the track, which references Cyrus' father Billy Ray and her childhood in Tennessee. RCA released "Inspired" for digital download and streaming on June 9, 2017. Cyrus donated the song's profits to her Happy Hippie Foundation. Her fans created a lyric video, which she shared on her Instagram account. Critical response to "Inspired" was mixed; some praised its message and Cyrus' vocals, while others felt it was disingenuous. The song charted in Australia, Russia, and Spain. Cyrus promoted the track with live performances, including at the One Love Manchester benefit concert. Miley Cyrus and Oren Yoel wrote and produced "Inspired". Cyrus recorded "Inspired" in the House of Blues Studios at Nashville, Tennessee.   Paul David Hager recorded and mixed the song, assisted by Mark Ralston. Doran Dina was the track's audio engineer. It was mastered by Dave Kutch.   Backing musicians included: Nicole Row, bass guitar; Matt Walker, cello; Antoine Silverman, fiddle; Jaco Caraco and James Arentzen, guitar; and Paul Franklin, pedal steel guitar. As well as playing drums, Stacy Jones was the song's music director.  RCA released "Inspired" on June 9, 2017, as a promotional single from her sixth studio album Younger Now (2017).   It was the second song released from the album, following its lead single "Malibu".   It was made available for digital download and streaming on June 9, 2017.   Cyrus donated the song's profits to her Happy Hippie Foundation.  Her fiancé Liam Hemsworth took the cover photograph, which shows the singer sitting in the grass wearing a rainbow-colored shirt, jeans, with flowers in her hair.  Released during Pride Month, Cyrus referred to "Inspired" as a "desperate cry for more love in this world."  On July 1, 2017, she shared a fan-made lyric video through her Instagram account. In the video, the singer's fans hold handwritten lyrics while lip syncing to the track; Cyrus said she "shed a few tears" on seeing it.  "Inspired" is a country ballad that lasts three minutes and 21 seconds.    It is composed in the key of G major using common time and an tempo of 104 beats per minute.  Maeve McDermott of USA Today wrote that it is given "the full string-quartet treatment".  Cyrus' vocal range is between the low note of G3 to the high note of C5.  Zachariah Porter of Billboard described her voice as "raspy".  John Norris, writing for Billboard, described the final version of "Inspired" as having a "fuller, more layered arrangement" than the  "spare" demo he heard when visiting Cyrus in April 2017.  Music critics called "Inspired" Cyrus' return to her country music roots,    after recording hip hop music.  Some commentators felt she adopted a flower child persona for the track.   Entertainment Weekly's Eric King viewed the song as a "backroad, fiddle-prone ballad",  while Norris wrote that it has a similar sentimentality to "Malibu".  Cyrus based "Inspired" on Hillary Clinton and her 2016 presidential campaign.  Inspired by her experience being caught in the traffic of a funeral procession,  she wrote it a week prior to campaigning for Clinton.  John Norris felt that the lyrics ("We are meant for more/ With a handle on the door/ That opens up for change") were intended to celebrate Clinton winning the 2016 United States presidential election.  Cyrus also dedicated "Inspired" to her father Billy Ray Cyrus,  singing about growing up in Tennessee.  She said she wrote the track for her father and Clinton, explaining: "I wrote this song for you, and the reason I thought you would like it is because I always imagined you with your dad, when I wrote about me and my dad playing in the creek."  "Inspired" begins with Cyrus' concerns for the environment.   She also sings about love, death, and making a difference in the world.  The opening lyrics are: "I'm writing down my dreams, all I'd like to see, starting with the bees, or else they're gonna die."  She talks about the past and future: "Death is life, it's not a curse / Reminds us of time and what it's worth."  For the chorus, Cyrus encourages the listener to be open to change.  The song ends with the line: "Is anyone watching us down here?"  "Inspired" received positive critical responses for its composition.    Comparing the song to music by Loretta Lynn and Emmylou Harris, Alex Young of Consequence of Sound highlighted its instrumental and Cyrus' vocals.  NME's Leonie Cooper praised it as "delicate [and] fiddle-laced".  The song's inspirational message was positively received by critics.    Bustle's Dana Getz referred to "Inspired" as "simple but potent" and appropriate for the divisive political climate in the United States.  Referring to it as a gay anthem, Zachariah Porter commended Cyrus for releasing a song about LGBT equality and self-confidence.  Cillea Houghton of Taste Of Country described "Inspired" as a cute dedication to her father.  Some critics questioned whether "Inspired" is sincere.    Even though he praised her voice, Tom Breihan of Stereogum panned the song as a "total wet noodle". He found the singer's career change to be "absolutely forced and cynical".  Despite highlighting Cyrus' "soaring harmonies", Maeve McDermott felt the lyrics were a vague word salad.  Anna Gaca of Spin wrote that the song veers dangerously close to being "a sappy daddy-daughter duet". She panned it as sounding like a filler track for a Christian pop album, and classified Halsey's duet with Lauren Jauregui for the 2017 single "Strangers" as the superior LGBT anthem.  Commercially, "Inspired" reached number 152 on the French SNEP singles chart for one week.  It debuted and peaked at number 97 on the Australian ARIA chart.  The single reached number 450 on the Russian Tophit chart.  Cyrus promoted the track with several live performances. She first performed "Inspired" on May 26, 2017, during an episode of Today.  She also sang it as part of the One Love Manchester concert dedicating it to Manchester.   Her performance received positive reviews from media outlets.    On June 11, 2017, she sang it during the Washington, D.C. pride festival, where she was the headliner for the event.  On June 16, 2017, she performed "Inspired" and "Malibu" as the closing for an episode of The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon.  She also sang it as part of the iHeartSummer '17 concert, sponsored by iHeartMedia,   and dedicated the performance to the LGBT community.  Credits adapted from the liner notes of Younger Now:  