   "Saltwater" is a 1991 song performed by English singer, songwriter, and musician Julian Lennon. It was written by Mark Spiro, Leslie Spiro and Julian Lennon. Originally released on the album Help Yourself, the single peaked at #6 in the UK in October 1991,  and topped the Australian ARIA singles chart for four weeks in March 1992.   "Saltwater" was the 14th highest-selling single of 1992 in Australia,  where it was certified platinum.  Unlike most of Lennon's previous songs, "Saltwater" combines subtle melodies with gentle vocals to bring forward the issues of environmental conservation and world poverty. The lyrics juxtapose the many marvels and feats of human civilization with the death of the natural world, constantly emphasising the passing of time - 'Time is not a friend, 'cos friends we're out of time' The recording features a lead guitar solo in the style of George Harrison. Julian Lennon originally wrote a guitar solo for the song. At the suggestion of his producer Bob Ezrin, he then contacted George Harrison to play the solo instead. George was busy at the time consoling Eric Clapton whose son had recently died. He recorded a couple of riffs and sent them back to Julian. Guitar player Steve Hunter then played the actual solo on the song, combining elements of both Lennon's and Harrison's solos. In the liner notes for the Help Yourself album George Harrison is given special thanks. An instrumental version (Guitar Duet) of this song was recorded by Chet Atkins and Tommy Emmanuel on their album The Day Finger Pickers Took Over the World. The song can be heard in its entirety during the 1991 Christmas Day special of Only Fools and Horses, Miami Twice. Anni-Frid Lyngstad from ABBA performed the song at the open-air gala concert "Artister för Miljö",  and included her cover as a B-side on her single "Änglamark". In 2016 Julian  rerecorded Saltwater releasing it as "Saltwater 25" on 14th December 2016 saying that a proportion of the proceeds would go to The White Feather Foundation.  