 "Seminole Wind" is a song written and recorded by American country music artist John Anderson.  It was released in August 1992 as the fourth single and title track from the album of the same name.  It peaked at number 2 on the United States Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart, and reached number-one on the Canadian RPM Country Tracks chart. Before its release as a single, it was included on the B-side of the album's second single release, "Straight Tequila Night."  Seminole Wind was covered by Donna the Buffalo in 1998, as well as well-known folk artist James Taylor. Deborah Evans Price, of Billboard magazine reviewed the song favorably, calling it a "vividly imagistic song." She goes on to say that it "conveys feelings of urgency and great loss without being self-righteous or preachy."  The song appears to take on naturalist overtones, lamenting the destruction of the environment by humans for economic gain. This is illustrated in the first verse, Anderson sings: "Ever since the days of old, Men would search for wealth untold. They'd dig for silver and for gold, And leave the empty holes." The second verse discusses the draining of the Florida Everglades due to flooding, and Seminole war chief Osceola, who led the Seminole who lived there during the Second Seminole War. The song begins with a slow piano and fiddle solo, before leading into an up-tempo country rock beat of approximately 126 beats per minute. It is in E Dorian with a main chord pattern of Em-G-D-A. During the song's instrumental outro that follows the repeat of the chorus a second time, the song goes back to  slow fiddle and piano chords about halfway through.   The music video features views of Indian lands, people, and traditions, and it was directed by Jim Shea. It features a large group of Seminole Indian tribes performing with Anderson beside a campfire. Anderson is also seen riding an airboat through the swamp in some scenes. Anderson had to get permission from the tribes' masters before they and their land could be filmed. It was featured in the show CMT's 100 Greatest Videos in 2004 and 2008. It was filmed in the Florida Everglades. "Seminole Wind" debuted at number 71 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks for the week of August 15, 1992. 