Ecstatic dance is a style of free form dance in which the music is the teacher. In this form of dance, there is no structure or steps to follow or any particular way to dance.  Ecstatic dance events are differentiated by being a talk free space.  Some events feature a live DJ while other events feature curated music playlists, crafted by DJs. The music that is offered ranges from  electronic dance music (EDM) to World Music with a wide variety of musical genres, often with little to no direction from facilitators to what ways community members should dance.  The events are inclusive of all ages and are drug and alcohol free. Ecstatic Dance is used to describe intentional dance events all over the world.  There is no single format or guidelines that all events called Ecstatic Dance adhere to. Ecstatic dancing is a collective practice has been cultivated throughout human history. There are many different formats of Ecstatic Dance that have developed today. Gabrielle Roth brought the awareness of term "Ecstatic Dance" back into existence in the 1970s with her dance called 5Rhythms and her first book Maps to Ecstasy.   Roth never referred to 5Rhythms as Ecstatic Dance, rather Conscious Dance. Some of the first Ecstatic Dances were in Austin, Texas known as:"Body Choir" which was a non-for-profit organization developed in 1990s by Carola Marashi and friends. Max Fathom was a dancer who attended Austin's "Body Choir" and took its concept to Hawaii in the early 2000s. He became a volunteer at Kalani Honua, in Puna on the Big Island of Hawaii. He formed an Ecstatic Dance at Kalani that was a Community hosted event until 2009.  Originally, his dance was spelled Ex-Static Dance and eventually was known by either spelling as the same event. Around the same time Ecstatic Dance Seattle also arose on the west coast. Another dancer who was inspired by "Body Choir", Sydney 'Samadhi' Strahan, founded an Ecstatic Dance in Houston, Texas  in 2003 which is known Ecstatic Dance Evolution for-profit business and branding. Strahan's format of Ecstatic Dance focuses on community unity, personal, and group transformation. It adheres to the musical structures of the Wave, 9 Vedic chakras, and the 8 Vedic Rasa (aesthetics) in every dance. Strahan has been training facilitators and ecstatic music curators since 2005. Since 2014 she has been offering training sessions to open other locations around the globe. Her training includes: one-on-one sessions and groups for facilitation, business, and Samadhi's style of music curation. In 2006, Julia Ray started Tribal Dance Community (an Ecstatic Dance event in Toronto, Canada which emerged from years of teaching yoga and the desire to access our human potential in a more expanded way. For 5 years free-form movement, sounding, theatre, art installations and live and recorded music were all ways of exploring what is alive and wanting to be expressed organically. This format was simplified with the intention of creating a space that is more accessible with free-form movement and recorded and live music as central elements and with that Ecstatic Dance Toronto was born in 2012. In 2008, Tyler Blank and Donna Carroll co-founded an Ecstatic Dance event in Oakland, California.  Due to the central location and popularity of the Oakland Ecstatic Dance events, Oakland's Ecstatic Dance format has spread around the world. Blank founded an Ecstatic Dance non-for-profit organization with the mission of connecting communities and teaching how to start Ecstatic Dance events around the world, free of charge. Carroll started an Ecstatic Dance for-profit business and branding for Ecstatic Dance, focused on gaining income from training sessions, workshops, and merchandise. In 2012, Blank and Craig Kohland aka Sahuna of Shaman's Dream Music and Liquid Bloom held the 1st Annual Ecstatic Dance Retreat, at Kalani.  The event has continued to be held every year since 2012. Many Ecstatic Dance events have a format composed of 5 parts. Ecstatic Dance is described as a free form dance event, guided by a DJ'ed, crafted musical journey. The music selections and timeline of the journey should compose a bell curve or wave.  The bell curve starts out calm, increases intensity until it comes to a peak, then returns to calmness.   The Closing Circle is composed of 3 parts:  Share-Back, occurring in The Closing Circle, is a significant part of the Ecstatic Dance experience. Share Back is voluntary.  In Share-Back, Community Members are encouraged to share their thoughts and feelings about what they experienced at the event. Before the Share-Back section of the Closing Circle, the Voice of the Circle will explain the Guidelines of Share-Back.  Community Members are encouraged to listen actively and to only respond with quiet, affirmative gestures.  Share-Back from Community Members should only be about their experience at that particular Ecstatic Dance event. Ecstatic Dance is collectively created by Community Members adhering to several Guidelines.  By creating limitations, a container for transformation is created. Signing in and committing to be being self liable, as well at taking care of the space are typically the only hard requirements;  Hosts and Facilitators attempt to be as inclusive as possible.  Those who don’t follow the guidelines are treated with patience and respect, gently reminded of the guidelines/requirements. The guidelines are: In order to assure the event coordinators and the building owners that they are free of liability in circumstances of personal injury or death while participants are at Ecstatic Dance, signing a liability waiver is typically mandatory. Ecstatic Dance was originally supported  by donation and volunteers and may still be done this way at some events.  It was created and supported by the Hosts, Community, Founders, and Facilitators.  Community Members are encouraged to give money or offer to contribute in other ways, in order to make the event financially and physically sustainable.  A minimum financial contribution or time contribution may be requested.  No one should be turned away due to lack of funds or ability.  The Guideline to keep the space talk free is possibly the most memorable of the guidelines, and the one on which some Ecstatic Dance events hold as their primary or sole requirement.  Keeping the space free of conversation is paramount to the experience of Ecstatic Dance; It allows Community Members to move into a meditative state, and to be in the moment.  The prohibition of cameras and cellphones (unless with consensus permission) is included for the same purpose.  It should be clarified that noises and vocalizations such as hoots, laughter, crying and other non-talk noises are okay. There are some exceptions, including clear use of the word, “No.”  It may be necessary to speak, in order to be assertive with personal boundaries. Community Members are encouraged to embrace the journey they might encounter while at the event.  Ecstatic Dance events can induce strong emotions.  The event is meant to be a judgement free space for Community Members to embrace parts of themselves they may not normally feel safe to experience, and to support each other in their experiences. Community Members are encouraged to make nonverbal gestures in order to gain agreement before initiating partner or interactive dance.  Community Members are also encouraged to maintain consciousness of their own movement in relationship to others, so as to avoid collisions. This guideline is intended to encourage Community Members to respect the rules of the venue.  Depending on the venue, drinks or food, as well as glass bottles and other items may not be allowed.  Certain shoes meant for dancing may or may not be allowed.  Sweat is often a normal occurrence, and bringing towels to clean up after one’s self may be a requirement. 