 Guajira (Flamenco) is a palo based on the Cuban Punto Guajira Cubana.  It is in 12 beats and feels like it starts on 12. Guajíras is a prime example of so-called Cantes de Ida y Vuelta.   The flamenco guajira is the adaptation to Melos flamenco of the Cuban point, the peasant point, a genre that brings together a series of songs called Guajiros that are grown in the rural areas of the island of Cuba.  Guajíras is simply a song for voice and guitar with a series of similar letras. The Guajíras is traditionally a woman's dance. The dancer will often use a large Spanish fan.  The fan is twirled and otherwise manipulated throughout the dance, adding an elegant and flirtatious air.   Like all flamenco Palos, the Guajíras has a clear structure and consists of beginning, middle and end. The Guajiras usually begin with an introductory section (falseta) by the guitar which is based on the basic Guajiras harmony. The guitar resolves into the characteristic Guajíras chord pattern, over which the singer will sing the instantly recognizable salida. The dancer enters during the guitarist's falseta or during the salida. The fluid nature of the choreography also allows for improvisation within the structure, including danced falsetas, and escobillas performed a palo seco.  The Compás, is a twelve-count pattern starting on beat 12 with accents on beats:    1 2 3     4 5 6     7 8     9 10     11 12 The standard palmas for Soleá por bulerías are the same as the palmas for the Alegrías:  12 + 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 + 7 + 8 + 9 + 10 + 11 + Here is a Traditional Letra por Guajiras.    “Contigo me caso indiana si se entera tu papa y se lo dice a tu mama hermosísima cubana tengo una casa en la Habana destinada para tí. Ay! con el techo de marfil y el piso de plataforma para tí blanca paloma llevo yo la flor de lis. Me gusta por la mañana después del café bebio pasearme por la Habana con mi cigarro encendío y sentarme muy tranquilo en mi silla o mi sillón y comprarme un papelón de esos que llaman diario y parezco un millonario rico de la población”. 