Bormioli Rocco (Italian pronunciation: [borˌmjɔːli ˈrɔkko]) is a formerly all-Italian manufacturer of household goods now operating under Bormioli Luigi spa. The company has been Italy's largest glass manufacturer and one of the world's leading suppliers of tableware and glassware. Founded in 1825 in Fidenza (Province of Parma, Italy), Bormioli Rocco produces glassware and plastic containers as well as containers focused on pharmaceutical use. Bormioli Rocco operates nine plants, two decorative ateliers, nine stores and one flagship store, with a presence in over 100 countries and with over 2,500 employees.    The Bormioli family was originally from Altare, in the hinterland of Savona, where the family name was already known in the art of glass-making since the Middle-Age. The family name "Bormioli di Altare" can be tracked back to AD 1300, in the archives of Savona, for the purchase of soda (sodium carbonate). In 1825, Luigi Bormioli left Altare (Province of Savona) and moved to Borgo San Donnino (renamed Fidenza in 1927) in the province of Parma. With the money inherited from his father, Luigi started a glassware company. In 1832, after his death, the business was continued by his wife Petronilla, a mother of six children and a seventh coming. Together with her sons Dominic, Rocco and Charles, she led the company for 22 years.  In 1854 they purchase the Royal Factory of Ceramics and Glasses Strada Farnese in Parma immediately changing its name to Brothers Bormioli Glassware. Soon the brothers split: Dominic remained in Fidenza, Carlo and Rocco in the capital. In the following years the company from Parma began to mechanize the production and moved into a larger facility near San Leonardo. In 1880 the company name changed to Bormioli Rocco Glass and Son.  At the death Rocco, in 1893, succeeded his son Louis. Joined in the period of the First World War by two sons, Alberto and Rocco.  At the time the company was one of the major industrial company of the region. A position also confirmed in the next two decades. In the first post-war period and with more than 1,600 employees, the company was able to rely on a sales network worldwide. Bormioli Rocco worked with his son Pier Luigi, destined to lead the company after having become general manager in 1966. During the '80s, with the acquisition of other companies in Italy and abroad, was born the Bormioli Group in its now active core business (glass products for the household sector and industrial packaging for the pharmaceutical, perfumery / cosmetics and food). In the 90s, after the death of Pier Luigi Bormioli Rocco's son was forced by a strong financial crisis to cede a majority stake to Banca Popolare di Lodi. In the following years the company became part of Gruppo Banca Popolare (through its subsidiaries and participations Spa Efibanca Italian) that in 2011 was sold to the private equity firm Vision Capital.  A factory located in Rive-de-Gier, France, was closed in 2004  Brands within Bormioli Group: 