IMG Artists LLC is a leading universal performing arts management corporation that was acquired by International Management Group (IMG) in 1984. Chairman and CEO of IMG, Mark McCormack, bought out Hamlen/Landau, a small, New York based artist-management music agency, founded by Charles Hamlen and Edna Landau in 1979. In September 2003, Barrett Wissman, an entrepreneur, purchased IMG Artists from IMG parent Co. and turned it into one of the leading international arts management group with the most diverse lines of business. IMG Artists capabilities include the management and touring of the world-renowned musicians, dance companies, orchestras, and attractions, as well as consulting and advisory work for independent clients, arts institutions, concert halls, and culturally engaged corporations. Corporate offices for IMG Artists LLC are located in New York, Los Angeles, London, Paris, Hannover (Germany), Lucca (Italy) and Singapore. IMG Artists’ list of more than 200 international clients include Itzhak Perlman, Hilary Hahn, Joshua Bell, Julia Fischer, Vadym Kholodenko, Renée Fleming, Simon Trpčeski, Audra McDonald, Thomas Hampson, James Galway, KODO, Evgeny Kissin, Murray Perahia, Antonio Pappano, Vladimir Jurowski, Franz Welser-Möst, Alan Gilbert, the St. Petersburg Philharmonic with Yuri Temirkanov, the Oslo Philharmonic with André Previn, the Emerson String Quartet, Bill T. Jones and Pilobolus, and Alonzo King LINES Ballet. IMG Artists has become recognized as an initiator and creator of a major range of arts projects which range from the creation of the new Malaysian Philharmonic Orchestra in Kuala Lumpur, to the making of television documentaries such as the “Art of Conducting”, to the presentation of the world-famous Spanish Riding School of Vienna. IMG Artists also owns and manages the Sun Festival - a global life-style festival brand. The Sun Festival is celebrated annually in Cortona, Tuscany (Italy) and the Napa Valley, California (USA). The Singapore Sun Festival is the third and only Asian chapter of the festival. Further IMG owned and managed festivals are Divino Tuscany (Italy), Abu Dhabi Festival (UAE) and Festival of the Arts, Boca, Florida (USA). 