NoonTalk Media (Chinese: 午言媒体; pinyin: Wǔyán Méitǐ) is a Singapore-based media company co-founded by actor, television host and radio DJ, Dasmond Koh.  NoonTalk represents the casualness in coffeeshop banter that usually takes place during noon.Founded in 2011, NoonTalk Media was started because Dasmond Koh "wanted to help" Aloysius Pang, Xu Bin and Kimberly Chia achieve their acting dreams. Seeing the passion in them while filming his directorial debut Timeless Love (2012) and having been in the entertainment industry for 20 years, Dasmond Koh  wanted to pass on his experience or connections he had. Shortly after , Malaysian Musician, Gavin Teo, China Actor, Zong Zijie and Singaporean Child Actor , Damien Teo joined in Noontalk during different respective years.  In September 2016, NoonTalk signed on 21-year-old Olympic sprinter Timothee Yap to help raise the profile of local athletes and to gain corporate as well as public support.   Noontalk Media was previously located at Leong Huat Building till 2016 and now moved to a new premise at Mapletree Building, 60 Anson Road. In 2018 , the company shifted to 10 Central Exchange Green.  As of May 2018, Noontalk Media regret to announce that they will no longer be representing Damien Teo as his artiste management and they wish him all the best in his future endeavors. In 2014, NoonTalk hosted a Christmas gathering at Orchard at 3pm with fans and artistes,  Aloysius Pang, Xu Bin, Kimberly Chia, Gavin Teo, Damien Teo, Dasmond Koh and Zong Zijie.  In 2015 , NoonTalk hosted a Christmas gathering in SCAPE at 3pm with fans and artistes,  Aloysius Pang, Xu Bin, Kimberly Chia, Gavin Teo, Damien Teo, Dasmond Koh and Zong Zijie.  In 2017 , Noontalk hosted a 2018 calendar giveaway and a autograph session. Artistes were Damien Teo, Aloysius Pang, Xu Bin, Kimberly Chia, Zong Zijie , Dasmond Koh, Timothee Yap, Joshua Chia, Angel Lim and others In 2018 , Noontalk host a lunar new year dinner on 15 February with artistes,  Damien Teo, Aloysius Pang,  Kimberly Chia, Dasmond Koh & Zong Zijie.  