  The National Theatre of Scotland, established in 2006, is the national theatre company of Scotland. The company has no theatre building of its own; instead it tours work to theatres, village halls, schools and site-specific locations, both at home and internationally. The company has created over 200 productions and collaborates with other theatre companies, local authorities, and individual artists to create a variety of performances, from large-scale productions through to theatre specifically made for the smallest venues. Many different spaces have been used for productions, as well as conventional theatres: airports and tower blocks, community halls and drill halls, ferries and forests. The creation of a national theatre was one of the commitments of the Scottish Executive's National Cultural Strategy. Vicky Featherstone was the founding Artistic Director and held the post from before the theatre's launch in 2006, to 2013.  Laurie Sansom took up the post in March 2013.   His resignation was announced in April 2016. Jackie Wylie, former Artistic Director of The Arches in Glasgow, will take up the appointment of the National Theatre of Scotland's Artistic Director in Spring 2017.   Black Watch (2006) by Gregory Burke which won four Laurence Olivier Awards and multiple international awards.  Macbeth (2012) starring Alan Cumming, presented in Glasgow and at the Lincoln Center Festival and subsequently, Broadway, New York.  Let The Right One In (2013), adapted by Jack Thorne from John Ajvide Lindqvist's novel and screenplay, which won the 2014 South Bank Sky Arts Award for theatre.  The James Plays (2014), a historical trilogy by Rona Munro, which won the Evening Standard Theatre Award 2014 for Best Play.  Our Ladies of Perpetual Succour (2015), adapted by Lee Hall, based on the 1998 novel The Sopranos by Alan Warner. The production won a Scotsman Fringe First Award, a Herald Angel Award and a Stage Award for Acting Excellence during its opening run at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe.  