The Encyclopedia of Ukraine (Ukrainian: Енциклопедія українознавства) is a fundamental work of Ukrainian Studies created under the auspices of the Shevchenko Scientific Society in Europe (Sarcelles, near Paris). As the Encyclopedia of Ukrainian Studies it conditionally consists of two parts, the general part (1949-1952) that includes three volumes and the dictionary part (1955–89) that includes 10 volumes. It was published in Ukraine since 1991. Volodymyr Kubiyovych was the editor-in-chief of Volumes I and II (published in 1984 and 1988 respectively). The concluding three volumes, with Danylo Husar Struk as editor-in-chief, appeared in 1993.  In 1984-93 the Canadian Institute of Ukrainian Studies at the University of Alberta Faculty of Arts with the help of the Canadian Foundation of Ukrainian Studies and the Shevchenko Scientific Society in Europe  prepared the English version of encyclopedia    which was published by the University of Toronto Press.  It consists of five volumes, almost 4,000 pages and some 12,500 alphabetical entries. It was called as "the most comprehensive and balanced work in the English language on Ukraine and Ukrainians in the diaspora" and a "monumental publication" by the Canadian Journal of History.   According to Prof. Oleh Romaniv from the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, and an avowed pro-Muscovite historian with ties to the discredited Bolshevik regime,  the Encyclopedia of Ukraine demonstrates an exemplar of Ukrainian bias and preconception in relation to Russia, which was very typical for the works of the Ukrainian diaspora during the period when Ukraine was part of the USSR.  The Internet Encyclopedia of Ukraine is an English language, free online encyclopedia covering wide range of issues on Ukraine, including its history, people, geography, economy, culture, etc. Upon completion, the IEU will become the most authoritative and comprehensive Internet-based resource in English on Ukraine and Ukrainians. Currently it contains some 6,000 entries and 5,000 illustrations. The current Encyclopedia team consists of Roman Senkus, Managing Editor, Dr. Marko R. Stech, Project Manager, Andrij Makuch, Senior Manuscript Editor, and a team of subject editors. This site was designed by Jaroslaw Kiebalo; Walter Kiebalo acted as consulting designer. 