Ancient history as a term refers to the aggregate of past events from the beginning of writing and recorded human history and extending as far as the post-classical history. The phrase may be used either to refer to the period of time or the academic discipline.   The span of recorded history is roughly 5,000 years, beginning with Sumerian Cuneiform script, the oldest discovered form of coherent writing from the protoliterate period around the 30th century BC.. Ancient History covers all continents inhabited by humans in the 3,000 BC - 500 AD period.  Do you have a question about Ancient history that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. China - Shang Dynasty 400x400px Pharaohs of Nubia Roman Aqueduct  in Pont Du Gard, France 500x500px The process of Chinese Paper making. Chinese commoner Cai Lun invented paper. Ancient Figurine, National Museum, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia Geographical extent of Iranian influence in the 1st century BC. The Parthian Empire (mostly Western Iranian) is shown in red, other areas, dominated by Scythia (mostly Eastern Iranian), in orange. The Age of Migrations in Europe was deeply detrimental to the late Roman Empire. India - Indus Valley Civilization Mesopotamia - Sumer Khafre's Pyramid (4th dynasty) and Great Sphinx of Giza (c. 2500 BC or perhaps earlier) Andean - Norte Chico Technical drawing of Roman Ballista mechanism. A double shot repeating crossbow from the Chinese Chu State. Nok sculpture of a sitted person Standing Greek-Buddha, Gandhara, 1st century AD. Measoamerica - Olmec Ancient Iranians attached great importance to music and poetry. 7th-century silver plate. The British Museum. An oracle bone The Iron Age kingdom of Israel (blue) and kingdom of Judah (yellow) Egyptian soldiers from Hatshepsut's expedition to the Land of Punt as depicted from her temple at Deir el-Bahri. The Chinese Han Dynasty dominated the East Asia region at the beginning of the first millennium AD A possible representation of a "yogi" or "proto-Shiva", 2600–1900 BCE The Ezana Stone records negus Ezana's conversion to Christianity and his subjugation of various neighboring peoples, including Meroë, Nubia. The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 