Marielle Franco (Portuguese pronunciation: [maɾiˈɛli ˈfɾɐ̃ku], born Marielle Francisco da Silva; 27 July 1979  – 14 March 2018) was a Brazilian politician, feminist, and human rights activist.   After earning a master's degree in public administration from the Fluminense Federal University, she served as a city councillor of the Municipal Chamber of Rio de Janeiro for the Socialism and Liberty Party (PSOL) from January 2017 until her death. On 14 March 2018, while in a car after delivering a speech, Franco and her driver were shot multiple times  and killed by two  murderers in another vehicle, North in Rio de Janeiro . Franco had been an outspoken critic of police brutality and extrajudicial killings,  as well as the February 2018 federal intervention by Brazilian president Michel Temer in the state of Rio de Janeiro which resulted in the deployment of the army in police operations.    Franco was raised in Maré, a slum in northern Rio de Janeiro, where she also resided for most of her life, and started to work to contribute to the household income in 1990 when she was 11 years  old.  Marielle gave birth to her first and only child when she was 19 years old (in 1998).   Franco raised her daughter without the father's help and worked as a pre-school teacher making minimum wage.   In 2000, she began her pre-university studies.  Following the death of a friend from a stray bullet in 2000, Franco began working in human rights activism.    In 2002, she entered the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro on a scholarship and continued working and raising her daughter as she earned a degree in social sciences.   She went on to earn a master's degree in public administration from the Fluminense Federal University.  She wrote her master's thesis (titled "UPP: The Reduction of the Favela to Three Letters") on the law enforcement program to retake control of the city's favelas from gangs.  Beginning in 2007, Franco worked for state representative Marcelo Freixo as a consultant, and she coordinated the state legislature's Committee for the Defense of Human Rights and Citizenship.   She also worked for civil society organizations, including the Brazil Foundation and the Maré Center for Solidarity Studies and Action.  In 2016, Franco ran for a seat on the Rio de Janeiro city council in the municipal elections.  As a black woman and single mother from the favelas, Franco positioned herself as a representative and defender of poor black women and people from the favelas.  With over 46,500 votes, Franco was one of 51 people elected, receiving the fifth highest vote total out of more than 1,500 candidates.   As a city council member, Franco fought against gender violence, for reproductive rights, and for the rights of favela residents.  She chaired the Women's Defense Commission and formed part of a four-person committee that monitored the federal intervention in Rio de Janeiro.   Working with the Rio de Janeiro Lesbian Front, Franco presented a bill to create a day of lesbian visibility in Rio de Janeiro in August 2017, but the bill was defeated by a vote of 19-17.  On 13 March 2018, Franco spoke out on Twitter against the police violence in Rio de Janeiro: “Another homicide of a young man that could be credited to the police. Matheus Melo was leaving church when he was killed. How many others will have to die for this war to end?”  (Portuguese: Mais um homicídio de um jovem que pode estar entrando para a conta da PM. Matheus Melo estava saindo da igreja. Quantos mais vão precisar morrer para que essa guerra acabe? ) The next day, Franco attended a round-table discussion titled "Young Black Women Moving [Power] Structures" (Portuguese: Jovens Negras Movendo Estruturas).  Less than two hours after leaving the round-table, she and her driver, Anderson Pedro Gomes, were fatally shot by two men who were driving another car. The men fired nine shots at them, four of which struck Franco – three in the head and one in the neck.  Franco's press officer was next to her in the back seat and survived with injuries.    Marcelo Freixo, a Rio de Janeiro legislative assembly member from PSOL who came to the scene shortly after hearing of her killing, determined that the bullets had been directed at her in a clear execution. According to the Rio de Janeiro police, the direction of the nine shots supports the hypothesis that Franco was assassinated.  The bullets that killed Franco are from a batch bought by the federal police in Brasília in 2006;   Minister of Public Security Raul Jungmann later said that they were stolen from a post office storage facility in Paraíba,  but the ministry subsequently retracted this explanation after the Post Office publicly denied it.  Thousands took to the streets in coordinated protests across Brazil, and both Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch condemned her killing.   Journalist Glenn Greenwald, whose husband David Miranda was a fellow City Council member and close personal friend of Franco's,   listed what he referred to as the "most important subjects to cover" regarding Franco's assassination stating:  Her relentless and brave activism against the most lawless police battalions, her opposition to military intervention, and, most threateningly of all, her growing power as a black, gay woman from the favela seeking not to join Brazil’s power structure, but to subvert it. Franco identified as bisexual.   In 2017, she moved to the Rio de Janeiro neighbourhood of Tijuca with her partner, Mônica Tereza Benício, and her 18-year-old daughter, Luyara Santos.   Marielle and Mônica had met at a trip with friends when they were 18 and 24 years old, respectively. They had been dating for 13 years, although the relationship had often been interrupted due to the non-acceptance of their families and friends. In these times, Mônica had relationships with other women and men and Marielle with other men.  Franco and Benício had been planning to marry in September 2019.  