Natias Neutert (spoken: "noytərt") (born February 24, 1947) is a German artist, author, poet, orator,  and translator  resident in Hamburg and Berlin. Neutert was born in, Neusalz, Poland and grew up in Hamburg-Eppendorf, attending the Rudolf Steiner School. After doing an apprenticeship as graphic illustrator, he studied philosophy, literary studies, and history of art at the University of Hamburg, and completed a fellowship at the Franz Mehring-institute, part of the University of Leipzig. From the outset of his career, he is active in different media. Since the middle of the 60s he writes poems,  and makes collages and drawings,  About the latter the critic wrote:"He delicately draws human figures" (and) "he has his own distinctive verve and expressiveness".  Inspired by America's new journalism, he writes articles for different newspapers,   In 1965 he featured his short film Noch und Nöcher (with Iris Berben) at the Berlinale.  But his actual artist’s departure was in 1968. Instead of a normal academic final degree, he founded the first Internationale Walter Benjamin Gesellschaft in Hamburg. Its purpose: to promote Benjamin into a global prototype of theory of revolutionary change beside Marx, and to connect Benjamin's insights with the mass phenomenon of Pop music.  From his first docentship at the Hamburg University of Applied Sciences  in 1971 through to his latest book Wo sind wir, wenn wir im Bilde sind? (Where Are We When We Are In The Picture?)  he is concerned with the freedom, power, and variety of imagination. Between the 1970s and 1980s almost every child knew him as „Zaubertramp“  because of his conjuring performances all over the country, his appearances in TV-shows like Sesamstrasse and others, and since his children's book, illustrated by himself, became a bestseller,.  In the meantime he developed a performance art, about which Die Zeit No. 32, 04. August 1978 wrote: "In his person are blend jugglery, poetry, standup theater, and self-expression into a kind of entertainment that is really based on a colloquy with the audience".  As solo artist with almost twohours performances on the scene of thousands upon thousands cabarets, street and folk festivals, he also entered best theatres, opera houses and art museums in Germany as well, and got the nickname „Totalkünstler“ (total artist).  Since the turn of the century, he concentrated himself more and more on freely spoken lectures in which distinctive performance art elements were installed.   In the 70s Neutert started translations from English into German  and since his abidance in New York in 1980 the way vice versa from German into  English,  In 2013, at the Leipzig Book Fair,  at a public reading at "Leipzig liest"   he provides insights into his greateast private passion project translating Benn’s poetry adequately and to save his linguistic innovations as well as his poetical sound.  