 Still Processing is a New York Times culture podcast hosted by Times writers Jenna Wortham and Wesley Morris.  Morris joined The New York Times from The Boston Globe in 2015 with a podcast as part of his new contract and approached Wortham about serving as co-host.  Developed under the working title Feelings,  the show launched as Still Processing on September 8, 2016,  part of a collaboration between The New York Times and Pineapple Street Media to expand Times podcasts offerings.   The first season ran from September 26, 2016, to March 2, 2017. Morris and Wortham host the podcast, often joined for discussion by Times colleagues or outside guests. The production team includes Pineapple Street's Jenna Weiss-Berman  and members of the Times audio department, Lisa Tobin and Samantha Henig.  The format typically includes discussion between Morris and Wortham as well as one or more interviews, sometimes in studio but often in outside locations: the first episode ("First Date") followed Wortham and Morris on a walk through Central Park, and they have also visited the National Museum of African American History and Culture (NMAAHC), interviewing curator Joanne Hyppolite,  and Columbia University to speak with Margo Jefferson, among other places. Laura Jane Standley and Eric McQuade of The Atlantic described the show as "at base, a set of discussions about the big cultural events of the day. But Still Processing is sharp and intellectual, goofy and raw: The two hosts talk to each other and to guests (including RuPaul and Margo Jefferson) about anyone from Colin Kaepernick to Kerry James Marshall; about society and art; about dating and work."  Episodes are usually between half an hour and an hour in length, and released weekly on Thursdays.  Reviewing the podcast's launch, Tim Barnes at The A.V. Club said the "inaugural episode of The New York Times’ Still Processing podcast is an incredible mix of personality, pop culture, and education. Writers Jenna Wortham and Wesley Morris bring a jolt of energy to the show, which feels like old media finally embracing the new."  Of the first episode, Taylor Bryant said at Nylon that Wortham and Morris's "natural banter and strong viewpoints will leave you wanting so, so much more."  The Atlantic named Still Processing among the 50 best podcasts of 2016, citing the November 10, 2016 post-election episode "The Reckoning" as a "banner episode".  The Huffington Post likewise cited the post-election episode in naming Still Processing to its list of 15 notable podcasts of 2016.  IndieWire named the "Journey to the 'Blacksonian'" episode, on Wortham and Morris's trip to the NMAAHC, to its list of 2016 50 best podcast episodes.  