A permaculture project is a deployment of permaculture practices on an ongoing basis. International Permaculture Network in Africa, Mediterranean and the Middle East ,   The Biofarming approach applied in Ethiopia has very similar features and can be considered permaculture. It is mainly promoted by the non-governmental organisation BEA, based in Addis Ababa.  The UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has produced a report on using permaculture in refugee situations after successful use in camps in Southern Africa and Republic of Macedonia. There are 60 schools designed using permaculture, with a national team working within the schools' curriculum development unit.  The development of permaculture co-founder David Holmgren's home plot at Melliodora, Central Victoria, has been well documented. Geoff Lawton's Zaytuna Farm next to The Channon in northern NSW, Australia, is a 66-acre medium-farm scale example of permaculture implementation. It is the home base for the Permaculture Research Institute. Begun in 2001, the site is off-grid, and has multiple food forest systems, animal systems, kitchen garden and main crop areas, a large network of water-harvesting earthworks for passive hydration of the site, composting toilets, rocket stove powered showers, straw bale natural buildings, etc.  City Farm Perth is an example of community permaculture in an inner suburb of Perth, Western Australia. The farm was constructed on a brownfield site in 1994, and is a focal point for permaculture education, as well as community music and art.  Permaculture Institute Asia   (PIA) lists most all major permaculture projects and sites in the Asia region. Including Cambodia, China, India, Indonesia, Israel, Palestine, Japan, Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Lao, Malaysia, Micronesia, Nepal, Mongolia, Pakistan, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Vietnam, Brunei, Indonesia, Myanmar, Bhutan. Many of these sites show examples of Permaculture structures as food forests, integrated animal systems, kitchen gardens, bio intensive and other high yield food gardens, organic main crop areas, large networks of water-harvesting, earthworks designed for drought proofing and passive hydration of the land, many have composting toilets, rocket stoves, compost and/or solar hot water systems, and natural buildings made from local materials such as bamboo, adobe brick, rammed earth, wattle and daub, compressed earth block, super adobe, cord wood, straw bale, Earthship reclaimed materials, Hybrid structures many with Earthen floors, Green roofs and Natural Plasters and finishes. Living Ecology and Permaculture Patashala provide higher education to permaculture professionals through practical permaculture projects in small villages. The drylands projects help poor rural farmers with sustainable agriculture and permaculture design implementation.   Permaculture Institute Thailand (PIT) is (pined on Google maps) and is an institute representing Permaculture projects in Thailand. PIT an Internationally accredited with certificates for courses and internships in - Permaculture, Natural building and Bamboo, Aquaculture, Food forestry, Vermiculture, Urban Permaculture, Sustainable living skills, Energy and alternative technology, Permaculture as Aid, Drought and Climate proofing your home and farm. Practical skills in self-sufficiency.  The Phayao Permaculture Center, Phayao, Northern Thailand, is a permaculture project demonstrating permaculture design including education open to all interested in permaculture.  The Permaculture Research Institute Asia (PIA), located in Buri Ram Province, Thailand, is pined on Google maps, lists many of the Permaculture Projects in Asia. It is a permaculture demonstration and education site. Courses, internships and demonstration of permaculture design techniques, bio intensive gardening and farming methods and regenerative ecosystem designing. Integrated aquaculture and ducks with rice paddy, they show how higher diversity leads to higher yields and food security which can be obtained from rice fields/paddy in the Mekong Bio region.  WWOOF Thailand is a volunteer hosting organization in Thailand with many Permaculture projects hosting volunteers. Host sites teach and practice Permaculture and agro-ecological and integrated farming techniques. In Thailand traditional family farming methods are called "Natural Farming". These methods often overlap with Permaculture methods, but with Permaculture adding recent technological and research findings and new methods of sustainable farming.  Bumi Langit Institute is an initiative representing Permaculture projects in Indonesia, resided in Yogyakarta. The Institute founded by Iskandar Waworuntu Alhajj an environmentalist veteran in 2006. International and national courses and residencies as well as natural building, aquaculture, food forestry, vermiculture, bamboo culture, coconut culture and many more courses and skills in self-sufficiency, regenerative design and leadership. A consortium of NGOs including Lom Orng  and Ockenden  is doing a post-flood livelihood and infrastructure regeneration project, in the country's northwest, which includes permaculture principles, and the establishment of a permaculture demonstration farm in Battambang Province which serves as a community farm and education site and includes a native tree nursery and biogas system providing clean cooking fuel and lighting.  A Facebook Permaculture Cambodia page list various Permaculutre projects in the Cambodia region and the proprietors. The Himalayan Permaculture Centre (HPC) is a grass roots non-government organisation (NGO) set up by trained and motivated farmers from Surkhet district (Mid-Western Nepal) in 2010 to implement sustainable rural development programs in Nepal.  The Al Baydha Project, a land restoration and rural community development program in Western Saudi Arabia. GROL Garden - Girne: An Urban Permaculture Project that accepts Volunteers who come under a work-exchange agreement. GROL Garden provides food, accommodation, yoga classes, and hands-on learning in exchange for assistance on their Projects.    Red de Permacultura Ibérica (Iberic Permaculture Network)  In Portugal there are several Permaculture projects. There's a bottom-up initiative that is mapping most of them called Rede CONVERGIR.  There are a number of example permaculture projects in the UK, including: Other projects tend to be more community oriented, particularly in urban areas. These include Naturewise, a north London based group that tends a number of forest gardens and allotments as well as running regular permaculture introductory and design courses;  and Organiclea, a workers cooperative that is involved in developing local food-growing and distribution initiatives around the Walthamstow area of east London.  The Transition Towns movement initiated in Totnes and Kinsale by Rob Hopkins is underpinned by permaculture design principles in its attempts to visualise sustainable communities beyond peak oil.  The UK Permaculture Association publishes an extensive directory of other projects and example sites throughout the country. The Permaculture Association of Teachers and Organizers on WiserEarth maintains a US listing.  Maya Mountain Research Farm in San Pedro Columbia, Toledo, Belize, is a permaculture project founded in 1988 by Christopher Nesbitt on a 70-acre abandoned citrus and cattle land. The land is up the Columbia Branch of Rio Grande from the Kekchi maya community. Presently the farm manages over 500 species of plants. The farm works on agroecology, permaculture, stacked polycultures and installs photovoltaic systems in schools in indigenous communities as well as protected areas. The farm works closely with farmers organizations and holds one Permaculture Design Course per year. Saint Michaels Sustainable Community started building their Permaculture Ranch in 2001 in the mountains of Esterillos, Costa Rica 3.5 Kilometers from the beach. By 2015 they have become internationally recognized model of regenerative agriculture. The building of the community was accomplished by interns, volunteers, woofers, ecological experts, a NASA scientist,agriculture students, permaculturists, local farmers, and environmentalists (some that formerly worked for oil companies)and a regenerative rancher, Justin Dolan. Under Dolans' leadership five living roof homes have been designed and built using permaculture principals and two other homes have been built with rainwater harvesting roofs.  A natural salt water swimming pools was installed in a food forest containing over hundreds of types of fruits, medicinal herbs, a free energy aquaponics system, 12 rotational pastures, chickens, lambs, a herd of cattle, reforestation, an equestrian center, organic orchards, and a disc golf course. The Community is home to the Permaculture Country Club of Costa Rica (PCC). The club teaches a Journeyman Apprentice Program.  The Candidates need to demonstrate expert knowledge and experience of satisfactory performing the duties involved from start to finish of each area of Permaculute Namely: Aquaponics design, feeding, harvesting of the fish, inputs and outputs Hugleculture BioChar Swales:  building design, planting Edible Landscaping Terrace gardening Rotation of crops and gardens Cover crops Keyline design Basic Organic animal care Rotational Grazing Organic orchard management Introduction to medicinal plants and holistic animal care Driving cattle Agroforestery  Food forests Energy  efficiency Check dams Plant propagation Planting seedlings, transplanting seedlings, planting trees in square holes,  Pruning closer together and pruned in for less water and higher yield Harvesting Building garden beds Gilds Zones Making compost tea; Higher recipe for fruit trees Weed identification, weeding Rain water harvesting  Composting methods  Natural Building Soil regeneration and ecology Patterns and edge planting Holistic management Bio Dynamics Sustainably intrigued with living Living roof design and construction Twelve design principles of Permaculture Zero Waste / Upcycling/ recycling - Producing no waste And Disc golf   The Instituto Mesoamericano de Permacultura (IMAP)  was founded in 2000 by a group of Mayan farmers and professionals in San Lucas Toliman, Guatemala. It is a not-for-profit community organization focused on the development of self-sufficient communities through the responsible management of natural resources, using permaculture techniques and ancestral and traditional knowledge. Areas of focus include: the cultural and biological diversity of Mesoamerica; food security and food sovereignty; organic production systems at the community and familial level; and permaculture education and environmental stewardship. Since 1993, Cuba has transformed its food production using low-input, or organic agriculture and, to some degree, permaculture. Havana produces up to 50% of its food requirements within the city limits, much of it organic and produced by people in their homes, gardens and in municipal spaces  The transformation in agriculture originated as a response to a crisis which is known as the Special Period. Starting in 1993 Australian permaculturists traveled to Cuba to educate Cuban gardeners in permaculture practices.   The movement of sustainable communities in Ecuador reflects a bit the fact that it sits on the halfway mark of the Earth: it is neither invisible nor well defined, though small, it has many projects, although they are not necessarily part of a functional network.  