Royal Brinkman is a supplier, installer and consultant for the professional horticultural industry. The company has more than 20 offices with several Dutch offices in: ’s-Gravenzande, Bleiswijk, Roosendaal, Venlo and Gameren. Other offices are based in England, France, Germany, Hungary, Spain, Poland, Turkey, Australia and Mexico.  The managing board consists of Ton van Mil (CEO), Gert-Jan van Peer (CFO), Henry Janssen (CPO), Coert Rasenberg (Commercial Director) and Jan Schuttrups (Director International).    Royal Brinkman was founded in 1885 by Cor Brinkman. He started his business at ‘De Pepersteeg’ and visited growers to sell ‘’sparrietouw’’ ( a type of rope used for crates and tarpaulins on Westland barges but also for bundling asparagus ). Later he added ‘’kinnetjesnetten and bollenkinnetjes’’ to his assortment. These ropes were knit to nets in Scheveningen, where Cor Brinkman himself brought them.  In 1926 Brinkman won 1st prize on the great ‘Fruit and Vegetable exhibition in Utrecht’ with an electric sorting machine for tomatoes, ‘’de doppenmachine’’. This improved version of the ‘’Brinkman Puncher’’ became a huge success.   The founders’ son, Henk Brinkman, began hiring personnel. Cor Brinkman started at ‘de Pepersteeg’ (currently Havenstraat) in ’s-Gravenzande. The business grew really fast and moved in 1917 to the Market Place, known as the ‘’Kousenhoek’’. Due to the great success the company had achieved, a new branch was opened in 1931.  During the 2nd World War Brinkman experienced some serious problems. The 30’s were a difficult period for the horticultural industry. On top of that the building in the Market Place was hit by a fierce fire. The car fleet (3 trucks), wood stock and machinery were lost. Founder Cor Brinkman’s grandson, Henk Brinkman (3rd generation), started as Managing Director in this difficult period. The nazi’s claimed Brinkman’s property in ’s-Gravenzande, therefore they were forced to move to the wood factory ‘’In ’t Veld en de Jong’’. This new location in De Lier was used as headquarters. After a while the seizure ended.   During this difficult period Brinkman managed to rebuild everything. The horticultural industry revived after the war because of new growing methods, new crops, automation, irrigation pipes and heating systems. These were glory days for Brinkman. Important developments were the introduction of the Micom 85 horticulture computer ( advanced computer which controlled the climate in the greenhouse) and the switch from soil to substrate (nl) cultivation. Brinkman initiated the cultivation of tomatoes, carnations and geberas in peat substrate. After that Grodan introduced cultivation on stone wool. Growers experienced a lot of benefits growing above ground, including the prevention of soil diseases, higher revenues, energy savings and surface optimalization. Brinkman developed the Vocom, a computer that is able to dose water and fertilizers properly for the cultivation on substrate. These computers were a big hit in the 70’s and 80’s.  Brinkman moved in 1972 from ‘’Kousenhoek’’ to the former Auction Hall at the Woutersweg in ’s-Gravenzande. The grand opening of the new 45,000 m² property was a huge milestone for Brinkman and for Westland. Within five days more than 11,000 guests visited the new property. The headquarters are still located at the Woutersweg. Increasing demands from abroad led to the first branch in Burstwick, near Hull (UK) in  1972. Brinkman began exporting in 1930, to the UK.  On April the 1st 1985, Brinkman received the ‘’Royal’’ predicate. In the name of the Dutch Queen Beatrix, Brinkman received this predicate for it’s 100th anniversary. Mies Bouwman awarded this Royal predicate to Cor Brinkman and Henk Brinkman. Elco Brinkman, at the time minister of the Dutch Government, congratulated Henk and Cor Brinkman personally (no family connection).    