The Anugerah Musik Indonesia (English translation: Indonesian Music Awards), also known as AMI or colloquially AMI Awards is an annual Indonesian major music awards, to recognize outstanding achievement for improving the quality and quantity of artist in the mainly-Indonesian language music industry. They have been compared to the American Grammy Awards, and British Brit Awards. It shares recognition of the music industry as that of the other performance awards, such as the Panasonic Gobel Awards (television) and Festival Film Indonesia (motion pictures). The awards were formalized as the Indonesian Music Awards in 1997 as a joint project between ASIRI (Recording Industry Association of Indonesia), PAPPRI (Singers, Songwriters, and Music Record Producers Association of Indonesia), and KCI (Copyright Office of Indonesia).  Each of the three founding organizations originally contributed one board member, under the direction of Indonesian country singer, Tantowi Yahya. Under this board was another, less powerful board. There are afterwards further divisions based on specialty, including Marketing, Communication, and Membership.  In 2016, jazz musician Dwiki Dharmawan replacing to Yahya for Leader of Chairman.  The Anugerah Musik Indonesia are awarded in several categories, each of which isolate a specific contribution to music. Anugerah Musik Indonesia (AMI) categories have been added and removed over time.  The 2010 awards had 35 categories,  while the 2011 awards had 46.  The categories increased to 49 in 2017.  The general awards include several awards not restricted by musical genre: Other awards are given to performances and production in different musical genres, as well as for other contributions such as artwork. The Anugerah Musik Indonesia also presents special awards given for longer-lasting contributions to the Indonesian music industry such as AMI Legend Award and Lifetime Achievement Award (which is not every year presented).  As of 2017  The Beat describes the AMIs as "The Grammys a la Indonesia".  