 The International Media Awards are annual awards, presented in London, to celebrate high standards of Middle East journalism. The awards are presented at a ceremony held each year by the International Council for Press and Broadcasting, a subsidiary body of the Next Century Foundation. The awards honour editors and journalists, in recognition of the vital role that the media can play in fostering understanding,  the essential pre-requisite of any peace process. William Morris, Secretary-General of the Next Century Foundation explains: "By publicly recognising the efforts of these editors and journalists, some of whom have put their careers and even their lives at risk through their commitment to reporting truthfully and responsibly, we hope to help raise the standards of journalism in reporting on the Arab Israeli conflict"  The awards are divided into several categories:  The tenth International Media Awards ceremony was held at One Whitehall Place on Wednesday 28 June 2017. The Peace Through Media Award Lifetime Achievement Award  The Cutting Edge Award  The Breakaway Award  The New Ground Award  Outstanding Contribution to Broadcasting  The Peace Through Media Award Photography and Visual Media Award Lifetime Achievement Award The Cutting Edge Award The New Media Award The Breakaway Award Award for Outstanding Achievement The eighth International Media Awards ceremony was held at a gala night in central London on Saturday 5 May 2012.  The Peace through Media Award Cutting Edge Award Lifetime Achievement Award Breakaway Award Outstanding Contribution to New Media Outstanding Contribution to Journalism Award Outstanding Contribution to Peace Award Photos and videos from the awards can be viewed at http://internationalmediaawards.org/ The seventh International Media Awards ceremony was held at a gala night in central London on Saturday 9 April 2011.  Outstanding Contribution to Peace Award The Peace through Media Award Outstanding Contribution to Broadcasting Award The Cutting Edge Award The Breakaway Award The Press Freedom Award Photos from the event can be viewed at http://internationalmediaawards2011.blogspot.com/ The sixth International Media Awards ceremony was held at a gala night in central London on Saturday 8 May 2010.  Outstanding Contribution to Peace Award The Peace through Media Award Outstanding Contribution to Broadcasting Award The Cutting Edge Award The Breakaway Award Outstanding Contribution to New Media (The Bloggers’ Award) MBI Lifetime Achievement Award The 5th International Media Awards ceremony was held at the London Athenaeum on May 11, 2009 and hosted by Lord Stone of Blackheath.  The Peace Through Media Awards Lifetime Achievement Award (Honorary) Cutting Edge Award Breakaway Award Two Breakaway Awards for most promising new talent. The 4th International Media Councils Awards ceremony was held in The Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall on Wednesday 7 May 2008. The night was hosted by Lord Stone of Blackheath and Ms Dalia Salaam Risani of Hood Hood books. The Peace Through Media Awards Lifetime Achievement Award Cutting Edge Award Mina Al-Oraibi, Sharq al Awsat. Prize presented Mrs Ibtisam Auchi. Breakaway Award Two Awards were not presented this year but postponed until next year. The winners were prevented from leaving the war zones on which they report: The 3rd International Media Awards was held in March 2007 at the British House of Lords and hosted by Lord Stone of Blackheath. The International Media Council Prize: The Cutting Edge Prize for an outstanding Newcomer to Journalism: The Patrons Award: - a special honorary award for lifetime achievement nominated and chosen by the Patrons In 2006 the International Media Council Awards of the Next Century Foundation were presented at a ceremony on Thursday, 9 March 2006. The awards ceremony in 2006 was the first awards were divided into different categories and marked the introduction of the Cutting Edge prize. The Main International Media Council Prize: Cutting Edge Awards: The 2005 awards were held on 19 April 2005 at the British House of Lords. For the first ceremony, only three awards were handed out and not divided into separate categories. The winners were: 