 The MIA's, in full Music Industry Awards, are Flemish music prizes that are awarded by the VRT in collaboration with Music Centre Flanders. The prizes replace the ZAMU Awards, last awarded in 2006. The abbreviation MIA is a wink to Mia, a song by Gorki. The first MIA's were the 2007 MIA's, from which the winners were revealed on 30 January 2008; the show was broadcast by Eén two days later. The music awards counted twelve categories; in nine of them the winner was assigned by public votes, in three others by the music sector itself. In 2007 the zanger Milow from Leuven was the great winner with three prizes.  At the second edition, on 6 February 2009 Milow was again the great winner. This time he took home five prizes, among others the ones for best song and best male solo artist.  The third show (MIA's 2009) took place on 8 January 2010. Absynthe Minded and Daan (Stuyven) were the big winners. Absynthe Minded won the MIA's for Hit of the Year, best album, best rock/alternative and best band. Daan won the prizes for best solo man, best author/composer, best videoclip and best artwork.  In early December 2010 the VRT announced the nominees for the 2010 MIA's. The most nominated artists with four or more nominations were Stromae, Tom Dice, Bart Peeters and Admiral Freebee. The distribution happened live at Eén on 7 January 2011. Stromae won the most important MIA, "Hit van het Jaar", as well as "Best Breaktrough". There was no clear-cut winner of the event. The most successful artists, all with two winners were Stromae, The Black Box Revelation, Goose and Triggerfinger.  Only at the 2010 show a MIA for "Kidspop" was awarded, with Kapitein Winokio as winner. The 2011 Music Industry Awards were distributed on 10 December 2011. Milow and Selah Sue each took home three MIA's, and Gotye and dEUS each two.  The 2012 MIA's show took place on 8 December 2012. Also in this sixth edition the prizes were awarded during a live emission on Eén, at that occasion presented by Peter Van de Veire and Cath Luyten. The great winner of 2012 was Triggerfinger. This band around Ruben Block made all of its four nominations true. Triggerfinger won the most important MIA, the one of "Hit of the year" with the cover I follow rivers. They were also highest ranked in best group, best alternative music and best live-act. The prize for best album went to the group Balthazar for the album Rats.  Before the yearly show, the nominees are assigned by a broad media jury. (Music) journalists from both popular and specialized magazines, newspapers, radio and television participate at a preceding voting procedure in which each journalist kan indicate his/her favourite candidates per category. For each category the four candidates with the highest number of annotations receive a definitive nomination. After the publication of the nominees, the broad public can bring out their votes for the majority of the categories. The winners of a limited number of categories are elected by professionals from the Flemish music sector. The Lifetime Achievement Award is chosen by the organizers of the MIA's. 