Medical education in Panama is principally offered and developed by accredited and government recognized medical schools in the country.  There are 5 medical schools in Panama, typically offering the Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery degrees. In Panama medical programs are divided into two types: undergraduate entry and graduate entry. Undergraduate entry degrees are typically 6 years in duration and commonly tend to draw students entering directly from high school; while graduate entry degrees are typically 4 years in length, and draw a university graduate with a current 4 years Bachelor's degree required for entry.  These entries provide the medical programs with a variety in the age range and academic backgrounds of the participants. It is important to note, however, that the graduate entry program still confers a Bachelor’s degree in Medicine; that although it is a graduate entry program, it does not confer a postgraduate degree in itself. In order to practice medicine in the Republic, or enter a residency program in Panama it is required to be Panamenian citizen. Other requirements include: Qualified medical practitioners must successfully undertake and complete one year of supervised practice, generally known as an internship. Internship is undertaken in hospital positions accredited for this purpose. Upon successful conclusion of the first intern year, doctors are required to undertake and complete a second year of internship at an assigned government health institution.  Once this requirement is fulfilled the medical practitioners qualify for a full registration in the Medical Board and are licensed to engage in independent medical practice in Panama Universities with undergraduate entry medical programs only: Universities with graduate entry medical programs only: All the graduate entry programs share a similar application process at this time and comparable to the requirements in the United States. Candidates are first required to have a Premedical Degree in an approved University. A 4 year Bachelor’s degree is required. 