Elgaland-Vargaland is a conceptual art project  and micronation conceived and developed by Swedish artists Carl Michael von Hausswolff and Leif Elggren in 1992. It is also known by its acronym "KREV"  (KonungaRikena Elgaland-Vargaland). — elgaland-vargaland.org Von Hausswolff and Elggren formed the name out of their own names and define the country as being the borders of other countries. The decision to found the country and name themselves kings was in reaction to Sweden still having a monarchy.  The country was announced in an advert in Dagens Nyheter newspaper. It was announced on May 27, 1992.  Other Scandinavian artists have had micronations, such as Lars Vilks' Ladonia.  —Gallery 400  Elgaland-Vargaland has a flag  and national anthem, issues passports and stamps on request, and has had a number of "embassies" (art exhibitions).  Elggren often invokes "the image of a street-corner lunatic with a paper crown who declares himself King".  In March 1994, they opened a "general consulate" at Thomas Nordanstad Gallery in New York and applied for membership of the United Nations.  In 2002, on the tenth anniversary, a group of 10 travelled from Sweden to Estonia carrying only Elgaland-Vargaland passports - they were detained and their passports confiscated, and they were returned to Sweden the next day. They had planned to be turned away from each country in turn, indefinitely.  The same year, they released a musical album titled "The kingdoms of Elgaland-Vargaland, 1992-2002", published by Ash International.  In 2003, Elgaland-Vargaland attended a conference of micronations in Finland.  As of 2007, the country had around 850 citizens  and by 2014 they claimed 980 citizens.  In 2007 they had 20 ambassadors;  the embassy in Reykjavik opened in 1994 at the Nýlistasafninu (Museum of Fine Arts)  the embassy in Berlin was opened in 2006 at the Haus der Kulturen der Welt,  and the Moroccan embassy opened in 2014 before the Marrakech Biennale.  A "Consulate General" was held at Gallery 400 in Chicago for two months in 2007-8 as part of the city's Festival of Maps.  They have a number of Ministers, mainly artists, including trumpeter Greg Kelley who is Minister of Fanfares.  The claims extend to other "interstitial territories" such as the transition from being asleep to wakefulness (the hypnogogic state),  and limbo  and they also regard all dead people as being citizens. In 2007, they declared at the Venice Biennale that they had annexed the Isola di San Michele, an island cemetery.  This annexation project appeared at the Gallery Niklas Belenius in 2008.  KREV has been described as an art project that criticises the principles of the nation state and von Hausswolff and Elggren has, with the projects hierarchical diagram, clearly stated their disgust towards any kind of racism, fascism and oligarchy. 