Shalva (The Israel Association for Care and Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities) (Hebrew: שַׁלְוָה) is a registered non-profit organization  that supports and empowers individuals with disabilities and their families in Israel. The organization works with a wide range of individuals with disabilities: mental retardation, developmental delays, learning disabilities, attention deficit disorders, the Autism spectrum, special needs with recognized handicaps (children with minor to severe retardation, Down syndrome, Fragile X syndrome), and more. Founded by Kalman Samuels in 1990, the organization offers a range of programs to approximately 2000 individuals with disabilities including infants, children, and youth and their families. Non-denominational and free of charge, Shalva offers a range of therapies, inclusive educational frameworks, recreational programs, vocational training, respite and family support.  Shalva advocates for the inclusion of persons with disabilities through employment programs, community initiatives, and  disability research.  Shalva collaborates with communities worldwide as well as government, academic, and cultural institutions to pioneer innovative therapy solutions around the common goal of improving the lives of people with disabilities and promoting their inclusion in society.  The organization is supported by a wide network of volunteers from the broader community as well as National Service volunteers.  Shalva's programs have been distinguished by several awards, among them: the President of Israel Prize for Excellence (1994); the Mayor of Jerusalem Award for Exceptional Service (1999); the Shalem Fund Award for “Israel’s most unique program for the mentally challenged” (2004); the Knesset Speaker’s Quality of Life Prize for Leadership and Public Excellence (2005); the Ruderman Foundation Prize for the integration of children with special needs (2012); and Consultant Status for the United Nations Economic and Social Council (2018).  The organization’s management standards are recognized by the ISO 9001/2001 certification and Midot’s Seal for Outstanding Eﬀectiveness.  As parents of a child with disabilities,  Kalman and Malki Samuels understood the need for the founding of an organization that would ease the burdens of families of children with disabilities. Their son, Yossi Samuels, was born a healthy child in 1977 however, after receiving a faulty DPT vaccination, he was rendered blind, deaf, and hyperactive. He was isolated in his own world without a method of communication. Based on their personal experience with the day-to-day challenges of raising a family and the constant need to care for a child with special needs, they decided to establish Shalva in 1990. The first center was established in a private apartment in the Har Nof neighborhood in Jerusalem and catered to a few dozen local children. As a greater need emerged, the organization bought an additional facility on an adjacent street and began expanding its programs; the building was later called ”Beit Nachshon” in memory of Nachshon Wachsman who was kidnapped and murdered by terrorists in 1994.  Over the years, programs with innovative therapies were developed for infants, and the organization began to support research in various subjects in its field.  Today, Shalva's programs are housed in the Shalva National Center in the Bayit Vegan near the Shaare Zedek Medical Center.  Adorned with beautiful artwork by Menashe Kadishman and David Gerstein, the Shalva National Center's state-of-the-art therapy facilities and comprehensive programs make it a leader in the field of disability care services in Israel. 2.1 Me and My Mommy 2.2 Rehabilitative Day Care and Inclusive Preschool 2.3 After School Activity Center 2.4 Respite Program 2.5 Summer Camps 2.6 Employment Training Programs 2.7 Cafe Shalva “Me and My Mommy is a one-on-one early intervention program for infants with disabilities from birth to 18 months that provides a range of therapies to advance their physical and social development. Therapies include physio, hydro, occupational, speech, and sensory awareness.  The program also operates parallel support programs for parents and families to provide them with tools for coping with their new situation. In recent years, several studies have been conducted in the context of the “Me and My Mommy” program under the guidance of Professor Malka Margalit, winner of the Israel Prize in Education and Research in 2017 (of the School of Education at Tel-Aviv university),  for the purpose of better understanding the needs of infants with special needs and their families, improving related therapies, and the desire to incorporate these findings in Israel’s social services systems. Rehabilitative Day Care and Preschool The program was established in 2003 as an extension of the "Me and My Mommy" program to prepare children with and without disabilities for integration into the mainstream education system by first grade.  Recognizing the importance of early intervention as a foundation for future development, the program integrates experiential learning and recreation, inclusive social engagement and an array of rehabilitative therapies.   The After School Activity Center offers recreational skill-building programs to approximately 850 children and youth with a range of disabilities between the ages of 6-21.  The program includes a wide variety of therapeutically oriented recreational activities such as sports, computers, drama, dance and art, and serves a daily dinner that participants help prepare and serve. ===Respite Program===  The Respite Program operates daily and offers children a weekly "sleep-over" at Shalva's residential quarters, as well as a monthly weekend retreat. The program helps children independent living skills and offers families relief from the challenges of raising a child with disabilities.   ===Summer Camp===  During summer vacation, when educational frameworks are not in session, there is a significant lack of structured activities appropriate for children receiving special education. Camp Shalva offers eight weeks of "day camp" to over 300 children with disabilities between the ages of 6-21 every summer.  The organization also operates an eight-day "sleep-away camp", at an off-site resort.  Each child is partnered 1:1 with a teen volunteer from the broader community. ===Employment Training Program=== 	 Shalva's Employment Training Program prepares highly functioning adults with disabilities for inclusion into the mainstream workforce through formal study and supervised employment. Operated in partnership with the Ministry of Economy, the program provides personalized study tracks, official course certification and assistance with job placement.   ===Cafe Shalva===  Located inside the Shalva National Center, Café Shalva is a boutique café restaurant that serves as a model of inclusion to the broader community.  The café offers equal opportunities for individuals with and without disabilities to work together as managers, waiters, and hosts. Construction of the Shalva National Center began in 2008,  neighboring the Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem. The 220,000 sq.ft center opened its doors on September 2016 and has disability accessible facilities such as an auditorium, sports center, therapeutic and recreational swimming pools, fitness rooms, inclusive playgrounds and more. 