Under the Gunn (also known as Project Runway: Under the Gunn) is an American reality competition series that premiered January 16, 2014, on Lifetime.   Production of the series began in November 2013,  with the finale filmed on December 17, 2013.  The series was filmed at the Fashion Institute of Design and Merchandising in Los Angeles.  Guest judges included: Heidi Klum, Neil Patrick Harris,  Macklemore, Jaimie Alexander, Zoey Deutch, Zendaya, Georgina Chapman, Sarah Hyland, Trina Turk, and Wendy Partridge.  Hosted by Tim Gunn, Under the Gunn follows Project Runway alumni Mondo Guerra, Anya Ayoung-Chee, and Nick Verreos as they are handed the task of managing, coaching, and directing 15 designers.   Designer Rachel Roy, celebrity stylist Jen Rade, and Marie Claire senior fashion editor Zanna Roberts Rassi serve as the judges.   Within the first two episodes, Tim Gunn presents a challenge to the designers while Guerra, Chee, and Verreos analyze the skill level of the contestants and determine which four designers will be a part of their teams.  In the following episodes, Gunn presents new challenges that test the mentors' ability to bring out the best in their designers as they guide them through the competition.  Each team then competes in a series of challenges until one alumnus and one designer remains.  The winning contestant received a cash prize of $100,000, a sewing and embroidery studio from Brother Industries, an all-expense paid trip to Paris, Blowpro styling products, a 2014 Lexus CT 200h, the opportunity to design a collection sold exclusively at francesca's, and a fashion spread in Marie Claire magazine  The winner also worked closely with Benefit Cosmetics creative team to design a new uniform for the Benefit Cosmetics field team members.  The winning mentor also received a 2014 Lexus CT 200h, a fashion spread in Marie Claire magazine plus a spot as guest editor for one year.  Winner's Prizes: Winning Mentor's Prizes: Source:  ^1 : Age at the time of filming. ^2 : The designer was not chosen by any of the mentors and eliminated simultaneously.  Team Nick    Team Anya    Team Mondo  In the premiere of the show, Tim Gunn introduces the three mentors to a group of 15 designers. He separates the designers into 2 groups- group one with 8 and the group two with 7. He announces that 3 designers will be eliminates, and that the second group will not be participating in the first challenge. The first group is led into the workroom and given a bag of 6 3-yard pieces of fabric that they have 6 hours to make an outfit that shows their design aesthetics. After the runway, the mentors take turns to pick out their team. Designers who are chosen by more than one mentor are given the opportunity to choose their mentor. Nick becomes disheartened when it appears that he is unpopular with the designers. First selection: Michelle  Selecting Mentors: Mondo, Anya, Nick Selected Mentor: Mondo Second Selection: Shan Selecting Mentors: Anya, Nick Selected Mentor: Anya Third selection: Blake  Selecting Mentors: Nick, Anya, Mondo Selected Mentor: Anya Fourth selection: Camila Selecting Mentors: Mondo, Nick Selected Mentor: Mondo Fifth Selection: Brady Selecting Mentors: Anya, Nick Selected Mentor: Anya Sixth Selection: Oscar Selection Mentor: Nick Selected Mentor: Nick (uncontested) The second group is given 30 seconds to pick out as much fabric as they want from drums scattered around the FIDM courtyard and given 6 hours to create a look that represents their aesthetic. Cognizant of the fact that there are fewer open positions for their group, several of the designers "up their game," creating a more competitive playing field for the mentors. First selection: Sam  Selecting Mentors: Mondo, Anya, Nick Selected Mentor: Mondo Second Selection: Nicholas Selecting Mentors: Anya, Mondo, Nick Selected Mentor: Anya Third selection: Isabelle  Selecting Mentors: Nick Selected Mentor: Nick (uncontested) Fourth selection: Asha Selecting Mentors: Mondo Selected Mentor: Mondo (uncontested) The designers are placed in pairs across mentor groups to create a 3 look mini collection to be manufactured and sold at Francesca's. Shan and Oscar, Blake and Sam, and Natalia and Asha are paired up for this challenge. Asha is noticeably unhappy about the proposition of working with the unpredictable Natalia, and the two butt heads when Natalia seems to be wasting time. The mentors collaborate on their critiques, with Nick and Mondo seemingly disagreeing over the direction of the Asha/Natalia pairing. Several of the designers provide interviews saying that Natalia is faking her incessant emotional outbursts. The designers are paired with clients who have specific fashion needs, and are tasked with giving them makeovers. Oscar: Dani has to shop in the children's sections of stores due to her petite stature, and is in need of a more age appropriate wardrobe. Shan: Brittany is a single mom looking for exciting date look to break up the monotony of her day wear. Blake: Ruzena is looking to have her tomboyish image more feminized. Sam: Norah is looking for something that she can wear from the office to the bar. Asha: Erin is looking for a birthday outfit that celebrate her recent 50lb weight loss. The designers must create their collections in three days. The winning designer and mentor are chosen. Sam's Collection: Inspired by the armor people build up to protect themselves, and how his armor crumbled during the competition. Asha's Collection: Inspired by "Coming to America" and the idea of Queen Nefertiti in Harlem. Oscar's Collection:" Inspiration unclear; seems to be inspired by Cuba and women giving life. Recycles past designs. Shan's Collection: Inspired by the dichotomy of hard and soft, using leather and lace. In the workroom, Nick is surprised at how directional Sam's collection is turning out, while Sam declares Asha his biggest competition. During critique, Mondo challenges both Asha and Sam to make their designs less costumey. Shan struggles to come up with a cohesive statement, and Oscar is reprimanded for repeating past looks. On the runway, Sam is lauded for his ability to create a cohesive, salable collection out of highly disparate fabric choices but criticized for not creating more of a show. Asha is told her collection is "next level" by the sitting judges, who appreciate her growth in the competition; however Neil and Heidi find it to be too costumey. Oscar is praised by the guest judges for a gorgeously made collection, but the main judges are disappointed at how many of his looks are disappointing remakes. The judges' disappointment in Shan's collection is palpable, with Jen Rade looking nearly in tears. 