The Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans, published by the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), provides physical activity recommendations for people aged 6 and older and for all physical conditions.  The science-based Guidelines recommend a total amount of physical activity per week to achieve a range of health benefits. These Guidelines can be tailored to meet individual interests, lifestyles, and goals. Recommendations in the Guidelines can be incorporated within daily routines and allow activities—like walking, biking, or dancing—to be integrated. The main message is that regular physical activity over months and years can produce long-term health benefits and reduce the risk of many diseases.  The messages from the Physical Activity Guidelines are also found in the Dietary Guidelines for Americans which provide recommendations for healthy food choices and regular physical activity. Health professionals and policymakers are the primary audiences for the Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans. However, the information is useful for anyone interested in improving the health of his/her community members and other individuals. The Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans were released on October 7, 2008 and are based on a comprehensive review of scientific research about physical activity and health. The National Association for the Education of Young Children suggests that children who get appropriate unstructured physical activity will reduce their stress; also studies show that stress plays a major role in learning and in health (“Recess Rocks”). Many children benefit from physical activities which help with bullying and better eating habits. Physical activities are important in children because it helps them stay focused in the classroom, improve brain function and overall behavior. <http://www.coloradoinitiative.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/Recess-Rocks.pdf> Related to the U.S. Department of Health and Senior Service's Guidelines for Americans are Fundamental Movement Skills. As defined by the Department of Education: “fundamental movement skills are movement patterns that involve different body parts such as the legs, arms, trunk and head, and include such skills as running, hopping,catching, throwing, striking, and balancing. They are the foundation movements or precursor patterns to the more specialized, complex skills used in play,games, sports, dance, gymnastics, outdoor education and physical recreation activities ” Fundamental movement skills are broken up into three categories, including body management skills, loco motor skills, and object control skills.  These skill sets are dubbed fundamental because they are crucial to many aspects of development. Physical development is a more obvious positive outcome from learning these skills, but perhaps less considered outcomes are social and mental development.  This article incorporates text from the websites of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, a United States government agency, with content in the public domain. 