The Society of Health and Physical Educators, working under the name SHAPE America, is an American organization providing support to professionals specializing in health, physical education, recreation and dance.  It has had six previous names, most recently the American Alliance for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance (AAHPERD), and previously the Association for Health, Physical Education and recreation.  AAHPERD’s mission is to promote and support leadership, research, education, and best practices in the professions that support creative, healthy, and active lifestyles. AAHPERD's national associations have the following purposes: AAHPERD envisions a society in which all individuals enjoy an optimal quality of life through appreciation of and participation in an active and creative, health-promoting lifestyle. Members of AAHPERD and its national, district, and state associations are recognized as dynamic role models in the realization of this desired future. Members and staff are fully committed to accepting responsibility for continued determination of this future. The alliance at the September 2009 Board of Governor's meeting voted to move forward on motions for the exit of the American Association for Health Education and the restructuring of the National Association for Girls and Women in Sport. The associations of AAHPERD are developing and promoting national standards. AAHPERD is broken into districts encompassing various states. Each state has a separate association to promote healthy lifestyles. Let's Move in School The goal of Let's Move in School is to ensure that every school provides a comprehensive school physical activity program with quality physical education as the foundation so that youth will develop the knowledge, skills, and confidence to be physically active for a lifetime. Let's Move in School is urging physical educators, parents, school administrators and policymakers to get involved in bringing quality physical education and physical activity to schools through a comprehensive school physical activity program. ( )Baskirinc., E.R.et al. chmcoloy research lecture.body composition analysis: the past, present and future. Research quarterly. (1988)-58:1,pp 1–10 