The following is a non-exhaustive list of K-pop videos that have been banned by South Korean broadcasting stations, focusing on videos that were banned due to the imagery, dance moves, or lyrics that are present in the video. K-pop is a genre of modern pop music that originates from South Korea. It is characterized by a wide variety of audiovisual elements, and K-pop singles will typically include a music video and a dance routine. There is a history of media censorship and conservatism in South Korea, and as a result, many risque or explicit K-pop songs or videos have been banned by South Korean broadcasting stations. Other reasons for banning include: having Japanese lyrics, negatively influencing youth, or use of brand names. KBS, MBC, and SBS are the three largest broadcasting and television networks, and they account for the vast majority of banned K-pop videos. In September 2012, it was revealed that these networks had banned over 1,300 K-pop songs in the past three years alone.   This list only includes titular k-pop songs that have an accompanying music video, but many K-pop songs that were not title tracks have been banned as well. Often, the entertainment company that owns the banned song will try to revise the song and have its reevaluated by the broadcasting company. They may edit the music video and delete the controversial scenes and re-release the new video. Other times, they may alter the explicit dance moves or change a song's lyrics so that the song may still be performed on music shows, such as Music Bank. In the case of EXO's "Lotto," which as banned due to the title being a brand name, the group sang the word "louder" instead of "lotto" while performing the song live. This revision allowed the song to be performed on KBS and MBC music shows.  Although K-pop songs and videos are often banned by KBS, is it less often for MBC or SBS to place a ban. Some groups are content to promote themselves on networks other than KBS and do not make any changes to their original material. In regards to PSY's "Gentlemen," a spokesperson for YG Entertainment said they had no plans to submit a difference version of their video, and they followed the decision made by KBS.  When 12 out of 18 songs of Cheetah's album were deemed unfit for broadcast by KBS and five by SBS, the agency stated that they did not plan on making any changes to the lyrics in order to "keep the original intentions and meanings of the song."  Of all the broadcasting networks, KBS has banned the most songs and videos, earning it the nickname "Korean Banning System." When a more explicit video is released, fans have come to expect the video to be deemed inappropriate for broadcast by KBS. There have been cases of fans arguing against a banning decision. When KBS deemed several of Block B's new songs as being unfit for broadcast, an online petition appeared, requesting that KBS reconsider their decision. It gained 2,400 signatures within a day.  