The Forgery Act 1830 (11 Geo 4 & 1 Will 4 c 66) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It consolidated into one Act all legislation imposing the death penalty for forgery (except for counterfeiting coins). (It did not apply to Scotland or Ireland. ) Two years later the death penalty was abolished for most of these offences,  and for the remaining offences in 1837.  The whole Act, except for section 21, was repealed on 1 November 1861 by section 1 of, and the Schedule to, the 24 & 25 Vict c 95. This Act was repealed for the Republic of Ireland by sections 2 and 3 and Part 4 of Schedule 2 to the Statute Law Revision Act 2007. This section replaced the corresponding provisions in the Treason Act 1351 and the 1 Mary Stat 2 c 6. (This form of treason was reduced to felony when section 2 was replaced by the Forgery Act 1861.) This section read: Provided always, and be it enacted, That no Rector, Vicar, Curate, or officiating Minister of any Parish, District-Parish, or Chapelry, who shall discover any Error in the Form or Substance of the Entry in the Register of any Baptism, Marriage, or Burial respectively by him solemnized, shall be liable to any of the Penalties herein mentioned if he shall within One Calendar Month after the Discovery of such Error, in the Presence of the Parent or Parents of the Child baptized, or of the Parties married, or in the Presence of Two Persons who shall have attended at any Burial, or in the Case of the Death or Absence of the respective Parties aforesaid, then in the Presence of the Churchwardens or the Chapelwardens, correct the Entry which shall have been found erroneous, according to the Truth of the Case, by Entry in the Margin of the Register wherein such erroneous Entry shall have been made, without any Alteration or Obliteration of the original Entry, and shall sign such Entry in the Margin, and add to such Signature the Day of the Month and Year when such Correction shall be made; and such Correction and Signature shall be attested by the Parties in whose Presence the same are directed to be made as aforesaid: Provided also, that in the Copy of the Register which shall be transmitted to the Registrar of the Diocese, the said Rector, Vicar, Curate or officiating Minister shall certify the Corrections so made by him as aforesaid. Nothing contained in the Act 24 & 25 Vict c 95 in any manner altered or affected any power or authority given by this section to alter or amend any register of births, baptisms, marriages, deaths or burials.  This section was repealed by section 26(2) of, and Schedule 4 to, the Parochial Registers and Records Measure 1978 (No 2). It is replaced by section 4 of that Measure.  