A bidet shower (bum gun,  bidet spray, bidet sprayer, or health faucet), is a hand-held triggered nozzle, similar to that on a kitchen sink sprayer, that delivers a spray of water in anal cleansing and cleaning the genitals after defecation and urination. The health faucet is a source of water for people who prefer using water rather than other methods of cleansing after defecation or urination. The shower is a relatively modern replacement for the traditional sources of water for this action, such as the bidet, copper pot or bucket and mug, being more hygienic and compact. There is no contact between the spray of water and the used water drainage. Typical faucet installation Faucet close up A Finnish model, manufactured by Oras A bidet shower at the Waldorf Astoria New York The user typically grasps the faucet in the right hand and uses the thumb or forefinger (depending on the trigger location) to aim a spray of water at the anus or genitals to assist cleansing after using the toilet. The bidet shower is common in all predominantly Islamic countries and in most parts of Asia where water is considered essential for anal cleansing. This includes Egypt, Nepal, Pakistan (called 'Muslim shower'), China, Iran, India, Maldives, Bangladesh, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Indonesia, Malaysia,  Philippines, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Singapore,  Vietnam and Cambodia. In those countries it is commonly installed in Western-style (sitting) toilet installations. In Thailand, it is common in both Western-style toilets and squat toilet installations. The bidet shower is similar in intent, if not method of use, to the Japanese washlet-style toilet seats, or so-called "electronic bidets". Bidet showers are used by Muslims in Muslim countries and all parts of the Arab world as well as in Asia in order to cleanse themselves with water after using the toilet.   Here, water is commonly used instead of, or together with, toilet paper for cleaning after defecation. In Europe, the bidet shower is used for example in Finland and Estonia.  Bidets are more common bathroom fixtures in many southern European countries. 