Human decontamination is the process of removing hazardous materials from the human body, including chemicals, radioactive substances, and infectious material. Persons suspected of being contaminated are usually separated by sex, and led into a decontamination tent, trailer, or pod, where they shed their potentially contaminated clothes in a strip-down room. Then they enter a wash-down room where they are showered. Finally they enter a drying and re-robing room to be issued clean clothing, or a jumpsuit or the like. Some more structured facilities include six rooms (strip-down, wash-down and examination rooms, for each of men's and women's side as per attached drawing). Some facilities, such as Modecs, and many others, are remotely operable, and function like "human car washes". Mass decontamination is the decontamination of large numbers of people. The ACI World Aviation Security Standing Committee describes a decontamination process thus, specifically referring to plans for Los Angeles authorities: The disinfection/decontamination process is akin to putting humans through a car wash after first destroying their garments. Los Angeles World Airports have put in place a contingency plan to disinfect up to 10,000 persons who might have been exposed to biological or chemical substances. Most hospitals in the United States are prepared for handling a large influx of patients from a terrorist attack.  Volunteer hospital decontamination teams are common.  These teams are specially trained to set up showers or washing equipment, to wear personal protective equipment, and to ensure safety of both the victims and the community during the response.  From a planning perspective it must be remembered that first responders in Level A or B personal protective equipment (PPE) will have limited working duration, typically 20 minutes to 2 hours.  Typically these teams use decontamination showers built into the hospital or tents which are set up outside in order to decontaminate individuals.  Beyond terrorism incidents, common exposures may be related to factory spills, agricultural incidents, and vehicle accidents.  Incidents are common in both urban and rural communities.  Hospital decontamination is a component of the Hospital Incident Command System and required in the standards set forth by the Joint Commission. Decontamination Exercises are frequently used to test the preparedness of emergency plans and personnel.  Exercises are of three types: Collaboration among various levels of authority, and among various countries, is required to address bioterror threats, because contamination knows no boundaries.  Disease and contamination do not stop at the border from one country to another.  Thus organizations such as NATO, bring together member countries to practice how to contain an outbreak, setup quarantine facilities, and care for displaced persons. Dofficers (Decontamination officers in the "doffing" or disrobing area) are often police or military personnel, ready to handle potentially unruly persons who refuse to cooperate with first responders. For example, the U.S. ARMY SOLDIER AND BIOLOGICAL CHEMICAL COMMAND suggests that: Paul Rega, M.D., FACEP, and Kelly Burkholder-Allen also note, in "The ABCs of Bioterrorism" an additional advantage in decontaminating everyone found at the scene of an incident, because this will help the authorities in searching through everyone's clothes to find suspicious items: Chris Seiple, in "Another Perspective on the Domestic Role of the Military in Consequence Management" suggests that the evidence gathering process of identifying contaminated people and their belongings should also include the process of video surveillance: Although there are the obvious privacy concerns in surveillance, one can also argue that due to the high risk nature of terrorism, such surveillance is warranted, as it is in other high risk areas like bathing complexes where surveillance is often used because of the risk of drowning.  In these cases the importance of safety may often be thought to outweigh privacy concerns. One of the elements that separates a drill from a real-life situation is dealing with panicked or uncooperative victims. Security personnel should be assigned to the area for crowd control and to ensure appropriate flow of individuals in and out of the decontamination area. In a real attack, the perpetrators may be among the victims, or some of the victims may be in possession of contraband, or of evidence that might help law enforcement in solving the crime. Another consideration is that some of the perpetrator victims might refuse to go through decon because this would result in discovery of the contraband they may be hiding. For example, a person with explosives strapped to his or her body, under their clothing, would likely not be so willing to take it off. Such a victim might try to escape, and need to be restrained for decon. Separate male and female dofficers (decon officers) deal with potentially unruly patients, by restraining the hands using flex cuffs, and cutting off the shirt, then removing shoes and pants normally.  This usually requires a couple of officers. The Belfast Telegraph describes such a situation: See also   Battalion Chief Michael Farri: Radioactive contamination can enter the body through ingestion, inhalation, absorption, or injection. This will result in a committed dose of radiation. For this reason, it is important to use personal protective equipment when working with radioactive materials. Radioactive contamination may also be ingested as the result of eating contaminated plants and animals or drinking contaminated water or milk from exposed animals. Following a major contamination incident, all potential pathways of internal exposure should be considered. Successfully used on Harold McCluskey, chelation therapy and other treatments exist for internal radionuclide contamination.  