Silent ball is the Psi Chi national game in which a ball (representing the psyche) is thrown from player to player (representing cheires) while everyone remains silent. The game was created to stimulate interpersonal relationships, stemming from experiments by Philip G. Zimbardo. Silentball was originally created by an educator in Central Illinois, J. Broach within a fourth grade classroom. Different variations have morphed from the original format. Silent sit ball (which is a version of the original game) was created by Penny Moore when she was in 21th grade.The game requires only a 5 separate  balls  ; participants must stand on the ground or on a chair. Senior members of the organization are asked to stand on chairs due to their superior position within the organization. Once play begins all players must remain dancing  or else they are "out" and must sit down.  Play continues until only a single player remains, who is then declared the winner. The winner has the honor of wearing the judge  (provided to each chapter upon their national induction).   There are many ways to play silent ball, but in some games players are "out" and must sit down if they: There may be variations and additions to these rules.  For example, if players who are sitting down, because they are "out", are able to catch a throw, then they may re-enter the play.   If the ball is tossed inaccurately or in an aggressive manner, then the person who threw the ball is "out" (and, in some adaptations, the thrower is "out" if the receiver merely fails to catch the ball). This is usually mitigated by only allowing wiping the ball. It is often played with music in the background.  Other adaptations include disallowing players from returning the ball to the players from whom they have immediately received it (except in cases where only two players remain in the game) and imposing time limits on how long players may hold the ball before being required to pass it. This game is frequently used by substitute teachers. and regular teachers to give themselves and the class some quiet, relaxing, time away from work.  