This is a list of all sovereign states and dependencies by total fertility rate (TFR): the expected number of children born per woman in her child-bearing years. The World Bank ranking list is based on the data for the year 2016 published online.  The World Bank is a United Nations international financial institution, a component of the World Bank Group, and a member of the United Nations Development Group, but it also collects and analyses information on demography issues based on international and national sources: (1) United Nations Population Division. World Population Prospects, (2) United Nations Statistical Division. Population and Vital Statistics Report (various years), (3) Census reports and other statistical publications from national statistical offices, (4) Eurostat: Demographic Statistics, (5) Secretariat of the Pacific Community: Statistics and Demography Programme, and (6) U.S. Census Bureau: International Database. The Population Reference Bureau (PRB) ranking list is based on the data of the 2018 World Population Data Sheet   published online. The Population Reference Bureau (PRB)  is a private, nonprofit organization which informs people around the world about population, health and the environment for research or academic purposes. It was founded in 1929. World Population Data Sheets are double-sided wallcharts (now published online) that present detailed information on demographic, health and environment indicators for more than 200 countries. The CIA ranking list is sourced from the CIA World Factbook  unless otherwise specified. Sovereign states and countries are ranked. Some countries might not be listed because they are not fully recognized as countries at the time of this census. The Our World In Data (OWID) Country ranking and comparison by TFR: 1950 and 2015 list is sourced and based on the OWID website (on the clickable map and quoted sources).   Our World In Data (OWID) is an online publication that presents empirical research and data that show how living conditions around the world are changing. The aim is to show how the world is changing and why. The publication is developed at the University of Oxford and authored by social historian and development economist Max Roser. The World Bank Country ranking and comparison by TFR: 1960 and 2015 list is sourced and based on the online published demographic data of the World Bank web site (on the clickable map and quoted sources).  The Population Reference Bureau (PRB) Country ranking and comparison by TFR: 1970 and 2013 list is sourced and based on the data of the 2014 World Population Data Sheet  published online.   The UN ranking list is sourced from the United Nations World Population Prospects. Figures are from the 2015 revision of the United Nations World Population Prospects report, for the period 2015-2020, using the medium assumption.   Only countries/territories with a population of 100,000 or more in 2015 are included. Rank is based on the 2015–2020 figure. Note: (-) Data unavailable, inapplicable, not collected or country or dependent territory not included. Sovereign states and dependent territories listed by alphabetical order, not ranked. Notes: (→) Country that changed name and flag, dependent territory that is now an independent country (sovereign state) from another current or extinct (dissolved) state or empire, former dependent territory from a sovereign state or empire that was included in another sovereign state. (-) Data unavailable, inapplicable, not collected or country or dependent territory not included. Sovereign states and dependent territories listed by alphabetical order, not ranked. Notes: (→) Country that changed name and flag, dependent territory that is now an independent country (sovereign state) from another current or extinct (dissolved) state or empire, former dependent territory from a sovereign state or empire that was included in another sovereign state. (-) Data unavailable, inapplicable, not collected or country or dependent territory not included. Sovereign states and dependent territories listed by alphabetical order, not ranked. Notes: (→) Country that changed name and flag, dependent territory that is now an independent country (sovereign state) from another current or extinct (dissolved) state or empire, former dependent territory from a sovereign state or empire that was included in another sovereign state. (-) Data unavailable, inapplicable, not collected or country or dependent territory not included. Sovereign states and dependent territories listed by alphabetical order, not ranked. Note: (-) Data unavailable, inapplicable, not collected or country or dependent territory not included. Sovereign states and dependent territories listed by alphabetical order, not ranked. Case studies: 