  Metro Broadcast Ltd. is a UK-based corporate event supplier with its Head Office in London and a satellite operation in Scotland with offices in Edinburgh, Glasgow and Aberdeen.  The company is a wholly owned subsidiary of WPP plc.  Metro Broadcast is also the resident technical production supplier at several London event venues such as 30 Euston Square, a conference venue based at The Royal College of General Practitioners, and one of Europe’s largest conference hotels, Hilton London Metropole.  Metro’s production team also manages the https://www.youtube.com/yt/space/london/.   Additionally, the company is a preferred event supplier at some of London’s most precious and historic buildings including Somerset House, the Natural History Museum, Spencer House, Barber-Surgeons’ Hall and Middle Temple Hall. In 1980, in a flat in Welling, South East London, David Pacy,  Managing Director and Brian Rottger, Technical Director founded Metrovideo. Its principal activity was tape sales to advertising agencies such as JWT (formerly J. Walter Thompson Co.), Saatchi & Saatchi and Y&R (formerly Young & Rubicam). The company soon relocated to Landsdown Road in Stockwell and then, in April 1984, to the Old Bacon Factory in Great Suffolk Street,  London SE1. In early 1986, the business was sold to WPP plc, a British, multinational advertising and public relations company founded by Martin Sorrell. Metrovideo was the third company to be acquired by the Group. Metrovideo later acquired a number of regional video businesses for itself including Horizon Video and Still Frame Video in the South of England and Teletape Anglia in Cambridge. This expanded the sales, installation, service, AV hire and technical event production | areas of the company. A broadcast division of the company was located in offices in London’s Soho.    All of these businesses traded under the Metro Group banner. In 1990, Metro launched a full-service production business called G Force which later changed its name to Clever Media.  Clever Media was then merged into another WPP operating company. In 1997, the company extended its operation into Scotland by establishing an office and equipment warehouse in Edinburgh. In 2007 the Company was renamed as Metro Broadcast Ltd.   In 2012 Metro Broadcast relocated its head office and main business premises to its current location in Oval, South London.  In 2014 it acquired additional workshop space to house its set and staging department.  Today, the London business is led by Managing Director Mary Metcalfe  and the Scottish business is led by Managing Director Oscar Askin.  Audio visual hire | Technical Event Production Services | Stage design and build  Lighting   Film crews Video production   Webcast  and Satellite broadcast infrastructure and support Managed audio visual services Audio visual installations www.metrobroadcast.com www.wpp.com 