Shm-reduplication is a form of reduplication in which the original word or its first syllable (the base) is repeated with the copy (the reduplicant) beginning with shm- (sometimes schm-), pronounced /ʃm/. The construction is generally used to indicate irony, sarcasm, derision, skepticism, or lack of interest with respect to comments about the discussed object: The speaker is being skeptical. They do not think their kid is a baby or babyish. The speaker is showing lack of interest. They do not care about the sale. The original word can be a noun, but also an adjective: In this case, it is being used to intensify the meaning of "fancy," implying that it's really fancy.   In general, the new combination is used as an interjection. In the case of adjectives, the reduplicated combination can belong to the same syntactical category as the original. Bert Vaux and Andrew Nevins' online survey of shm-reduplication revealed further phonological details.  The construction originated in Yiddish and was subsequently transferred to English, especially urban northeastern American English, by Yiddish-speaking Jewish immigrations from Central and Eastern Europe. It is now known and used by many non-Jewish English speakers, particularly American English.  The construction was also adopted in Modern Hebrew usage as a prefix resulting in a derogatory echoic expressive.  For example, March 29, 1955 David Ben-Gurion dismissed a United Nations resolution as "Um-Shmum," (U.M. being its Hebrew acronym, pronounced oom-schmoom). Zuckerman wrote, "When an Israeli speaker would like to express his impatience with or disdain for philosophy, s/he can say filosófya-shmilosófya".  In German-Yiddish the same construction is possible, too, for example: Visum-Schmisum (i.e.: visa permits which have been somehow obtained, possibly below the level of legality). Zuckermann (2009) mentions in this context the Turkic initial m-segment conveying a sense of "and so on" as in the Turkish sentence dergi mergi okumuyor, literally "magazine 'shmagazine' read:NEGATIVE:PRESENT:3rd person singular", i.e. "(He) doesn’t read magazines, journals or anything like that".  A similar phenomenon is present in most of the languages of the Balkan sprachbund, especially in colloquial Bulgarian where not only 'sh(m)-' and 'm-' but also other consonants and consonant clusters are used in this way, and its usage has its particularities that differ from what the English 'shm' indicates. [clarification needed] Shm-reduplication has been advanced as an example of a natural language phenomenon that cannot be captured by a context-free grammar.  The essential argument was that the reduplication can be repeated indefinitely, producing a sequence of phrases of geometrically increasing length, which cannot occur in a context-free language.  