Soramimi (空耳, "mishearing; (feigned) deafness", literally "air ear") or soramimi kashi (空耳歌詞, misheard lyrics);[notes 1] is a Japanese term for homophonic translation of song lyrics, that is, interpreting lyrics in one language as similar-sounding lyrics in another language. A bilingual soramimi word play contrasts with a monolingual mondegreen or homophonic transformation, and is usually caused by pareidolia. Soramimi transcription is also commonly used in animutations for comic effect. An example is the Moldovan band O-Zone's song "Dragostea Din Tei", known on the web as the Numa Numa song. The refrain of the original song (in Romanian) is: A soramimi version, from the Japanese Flash animation Maiyahi, translates these words as:  [notes 2]  Japanese comedian Tamori has had a long-running "Soramimi Hour" segment on his TV program Tamori Club, where he and his co-host watch mini-skits based on soramimi kashi submitted by the audience. Mike Sutton, a mondegreen director on YouTube with the screen name "Buffalax", has uploaded several non-English music videos edited to include subtitles of the written English approximation of the video's original language's sound. "Benny Lava", Sutton's subtitling of the video for Prabhu Deva's song "Kalluri Vaanil" from the Tamil movie Pennin Manathai Thottu, received considerable praise.  Both the terms "Buffalaxed" and "Benny Lava" are now synonymous with mondegreens, "words or phrases misheard in ways that yield new meanings".   Buffalax's account was closed in early 2011 for copyright violation complaints, and the videos (including those that were not copyright violations) were all deleted. However, his videos have been remade and cleaned up—often replacing the sound and/or video with better copies—and re-uploaded by other users.  The Dutch song "Opblaaskrokodil" by Ome Henk has been turned into an animutation called "The French Erotic Film", where the word "Opblaaskrokodil" becomes "Old blue Scot called Dil".  The Palestinian patriotic song "Blādi, blādi" ("Motherland, Motherland") was intentionally "misheard" into Russian (as blyadi, blyadi = "whores, whores") and uploaded to YouTube with Russian subtitles. The resulting video became an instant hit on Russian-language websites and blogs with more than 2 million views, and a number of phrases from the Russian version (especially "No money, long bumblebee") became instant catchphrases. Below is the example of the chorus: ("blādi" in the original is dialect for standard Arabic bilādī بِلَادِي = "my country".) In another instance, a Russian-language cover of Tic Tic Tac, a popular soca/disco hit by Carrapicho, phonetically rendered the first phrase of the chorus, Bate forte o tambor (Portuguese for "beat the drum hard"), as Мальчик хочет в Тамбов (Malchik Khochet v Tambov = "A boy wants to go to Tambov"). In the 1976 Boney M hit Daddy Cool, the chorus "What about it Daddy Cool?" was heard by many Russians as Varvara zharit kur (Варвара жарит кур) = "Barbara is frying chicken". The song What Can I Do by Smokie from their 1976 Midnight Café album became an instant hit in the USSR because many Russians heard the song's title line as Vodku naidu (Водку найду) = "I shall find some vodka". In German popular culture, Mondegreens are often called 'Agathe Bauer Songs'. This comes from the Snap! song The Power, the refrain of which ("I've got the power") sounds like the German name Agathe Bauer. German radio station RTL 104.6 runs a segment where listeners call in with their own Agathe Bauer songs, which are played on-air.  Another German term for soramimi is Verhörer. In Dutch, the act of finding misheard lyrics in songs is sometimes referred to as "Mama Appelsap" (literally "momma applejuice"). The name "Mama Appelsap" refers to the song "Wanna Be Startin' Somethin'" by Michael Jackson. The chant "Mama-se mama-sa ma-ma-coo-sa" (Jackson's imitation of Soul Makossa by Manu Dibango) can appear by Dutch speakers as if it sounds like "Mama say mama sa mama appelsap". The item became a running joke on national radio station 3FM, when DJ Timur Perlin hosted a program titled "Mama Appelsap", whereby listeners suggest various Dutch phrases and sentences purported to have been heard in songs. In Danish, where the word "translation" is oversættelse (literally "over-setting"), such a lyrical mistake is called an under-setting (undersættelse). Danish artist Benny Vigan Madsen has made a number of illustrated soramimi clips of national anthems, the most popular of which is the Red Army Choir's version of the USSR anthem, where the final line Nas k torzhestvu kommunizma vedyot ("It leads us to the triumph of Communism") becomes Pasta med sprut. Nå, kunne vi sparke en røv? ("Pasta with booze. So could we kick an ass?") In Hebrew, the act of finding misheard lyrics in songs is known as "Timlul" (lit.: "Transcript"). Soramimi clips in Israel were almost exclusively the work of amateurs publishing their work on the internet, and were popular mainly during the mid-2000s, with the most transcribed musical group being Era. For instance, in one such transcript of the song Hymne, the opening line "In tu pate del cat" becomes Timtum Al Emet Ratz ("Stupidity for real runs"); "I manitores solitudi me" becomes Ima, Likro Le Soli-Dolittle? ("Mom, should I go call Soli-Dolittle?", with Soli ostensibly being a relative of Dr. Dolittle); and the repeated "Senzo" is misheard as Samsung, which led to the piece being dubbed The Samsung Cantata (הקנטטה של סמסונג). Another soramimi flash clip of an Era piece was based on Ameno, where "Dorime" became Dori Met (דורי מת, Dori is dead). In addition to the Era videos, there were a few others that became well-known. These included a transcript of Dragostea Din Tei that interpreted the song's repeated "Maya"s as a reference to Maya Buskila (with accompanying visuals), and a transcript of Adiemus where "a-ya doo a-ye" became Hayagur Ra'ev ("The Yagur is Hungry"; "Yagur" is not actually a word, but phonetic and linguistic cues heavily suggest that it is supposed to be some kind of bird). The popular 1978 Eurovision song of "A-Ba-Ni-Bi", with the first line of the chorus as "a-ba-ni-bi-o-bo-he-bev", has also been dubbed into English as "I want to be a Polar Bear" on YouTube. In Italy, the art of taking an Indian (or any other non-Italian) music video and giving it subtitles for what it sounds like in Italian, became popular between YouTube users. One of the songs that have been most successful is the soramimi version of Pariya by Shahram Shabpareh, called in Italy Esce ma non mi rosica ("She goes out, but it doesn't bothers me"). The comedians Trio Medusa regularly perform radio sketches regarding "Canzoni Travisate" (misinterpreted songs) using mostly English-language songs. The Disco-Hit "Funkytown" by Lipps Inc. generated some urban legends regarding its lyrics: "Gotta make a move to a town that's right for me" misinterpreted in Italian as "Caro amico mio, culattone, aspettami" ("Dear friend of mine, homo, wait for me"). In Swedish, Soramimi are colloquially known as "Turkhits" ("Turkish Hits"). The name became popular mainly because of a series of flash videos in the early 2000s which featured Eastern European and Turkish songs with the phonetic Swedish lyrics superimposed on top. Though mondegreens have some previous history in Sweden this name has persisted, likely as a consequence of the most popular turkhits commonly being derived from Pop or Rock songs in Turkic languages and close relatives within the same language family. This is likely because the language group shares some vowel sounds and stress characteristics with the modern Scandinavian, and while Turkish, unlike Swedish, is not a tonal language, its vowel harmonic qualities sometimes contribute to creating remarkable similarities in pronunciation, thus facilitating the aural pareidolia.  Popular turkhits[notes 3] include Hatten är din ("The hat is yours", from Arabic “Habbeetek”, "I Fell In Love With You"),  Ansiktsburk (sv) ("Face can", from Arabic “Am tekbar el farha”, "joy grows"),  Fiskpinnar (sv) ("Fish sticks"), and  a version of the Soviet National Anthem whose "translation" of the refrain “Nas k torzhestvu Kommunizma vedyot” (Russian, "We see the triumph of Communism") is rendered into "Hasch fanns I spruta; polis sprang i lag" ("[there was] hashish in a syringe; police ran in teams").  More recent iterations include  Dålig Mat (sv) ("Bad Food"), a Swedish interpretation of the previously spoofed song "Golimar" (Telugu, "Shoot the Bullet"), the main musical number from the movie Donga (itself arguably a parody on Michael Jackson's "Thriller");  a rendition of Tarkan Tevetoğlu's 1997 hit "Şımarık" from the album Ölürüm Sana titled "Jesper é Neger" ("Jesper is a Nigger" );  and forays into death and black metal songs that include such titles as  "Rostburk" (Rust can) and "SM i Pistol och Valross" (National Championships in Pistol and Walrus). There have been various parodies done by Chinese netizens for foreign language songs. These are usually referred to as "音译" (transliteration) or "空耳" (soramimi, a direct Japanese loanword). There is a joke based on Michael Jackson's "Beat It" which goes: A number of soramimi videos were made for Carmina Burana, juxtaposing the music with images appropriate to the misheard lyrics, for example showing four cans of tuna for "O Fortuna".  In Romania, the children's song "Pula Pula" ("Jump Jump"), by Brazilian gospel singer Aline Barros became a sensation, getting airplay on major radio stations and spawning several YouTube parody videos  with Romanian soramimi lyrics, as "pula" means "penis" in Romanian and it is heavily repeated in the chorus. In Poland, "Decade of Therion", a 1999 song by death metal band Behemoth, became a popular Internet meme when given soramimi lyrics. The English phrase "We transgress the context of commonplaceness" has been interpreted in Polish as "Łyżwiarz wie, że kotek odkopał prezent" ('The ice-skater knows that the pussycat has dug up the present'). In Serbo-Croatian, the title of Queen's song "Another One Bites the Dust" is often deliberately misinterpreted as "a Radovan baca daske", meaning "and Radovan (a male name) is throwing the planks". Similarly, The Police song "Message in a Bottle" is interpreted as "mesečina, bato" ('moonlight, o brother'). Spanish-language song Sopa de Caracol can be entirely reinterpreted as erotic poetry.  In Brazil there are loads of soramimi involving Indian film music, mainly with Prabhu Deva acting, including Kalluri Vaanil from Benny Lava fame (known on Brazil as "Vai Rivaldo", referring the famous soccer player, captain of 2002 Brazil national football team on Japan and Korea). Also a very popular one is Tunak Tunak Tun, called in Brazil Tônico com Guaraná (Tonic with Soda) The chorus of the Las Ketchup song "Aserejé" is an Andalusian Spanish phonetic rendering of the English-language song "Rapper's Delight" by The Sugarhill Gang. In 80s Hungary, the chorus of the Opus song Live is Life (La ba dab dab dab life) was often misheard for "Levelet kaptam, Life" (literally meaning "I have received a letter, Life"). In France, a popular occurrence of misheard lyrics is found in the Metallica song The Unforgiven. The original lyrics go: "New blood joins this earth // And quickly he's subdued" which is misheard in French as: "Nous battons des œufs // Et pouic ! pouic ! ils se tournent" (we whisk eggs, and kwik! kwik! they turn). Les Bidochons is a band that sings in French songs by English-language bands with similar-sounding lyrics. They started with songs from the Sex Pistols but also covered the Rolling Stones and the Beatles. Many of these have been gathered by Serge Llado in the so-called "Hallucinations auditives".  In Hong Kong, a frequently broadcast Vietnamese radio public service announcement on Radio Television Hong Kong during the late 1980s and early 1990s included a Vietnamese phrase starting with "Bắt đầu từ nay", which was deliberately misinterpreted as "不漏洞拉" or "北漏洞拉" (Cantonese, “Bat lau dung laai” or “Bak lau dung laai”, "beginning from now") and became famous in popular culture. After North Korea successfully launched Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3 Unit 2 setellite in 2012, the KCTV news report have been dubbed by Chinese netizens, where "평안북도 철산군 서해위성발사장에서" (lit. In Sohae Satellite Launching Ground, Cholsan County, North Pyongan Province) is transliterated as "穷也不能穷山东, 初音一葱拍死了张根硕" (lit. Cannot allow Shandong to be poor, Hatsune killed Jang Keun-suk under one strike with bunching onion).   