André Fau (Paris November 13, 1896, January 31, 1982) was a French post-Cubist artist, architect, ceramist, song-writer, poet born in Paris. Fau studied decorative arts at the École des Beaux-Arts and under Gabriel Ferrier. Since 1919 dedicated himself to literature. In 1920 he founded a book association Young Songs, at Gozlin street, Saint Germain des Prés. Since 1921 till 1932 he started to dive deep into ceramic art.  André Fau had patents on inventions in decorative art that got widely popular, were published and especially appreciated in Japan. He also became the youngest juror of the decorative art exposition. He created crystal objects models for a Czech factory. And the same years famous composers of the time wrote songs based on his lyrics. In 1930s during an economic crisis he came up with his friends how to help artists in a rather unusual for that time manner — opening an exposition sale on the walls of the bar “Bar efte” (Le Rond-Point des Artistes, 5. r. du Metz).  In 1944 he published a significant work “Montmartre village de Paris”. This book contains 25 watercolors where Fau expressed his tender love to Montmartre. The book was a great success and it completed collections of bibliophiles. In France, Sweden, America, Japan and in the whole world André Fau exhibited his works along with famous artists such as Pablo Picasso, André Dunoyer de Segonzac, Raoul Dufy, Yves Brayer and many others. In 1982 André Fau’s works were presented on the exhibition “Les Peintres indépendants de Montmartre 1920-1940” along with works of Maurice Utrillo, Suzanne Valadon, Gen Paul, Marcel Leprin, Edmond Heuze, Max Jacob, Élisée Maclet, Jules Pascin, Louis Marcoussis, Charles Camoin, Gus Bofa, Chas Laborde and others. Today his works are repeatedly being sold on different auctions around the world. Including such prestigious as Sotheby’s and Christie’s. Wife Suzanne-Marie-Thérèse Denglos-Fau (1922-2002), а writer and a poet.  Difference in age of this married couple was almost 26 years. Despite that their relationships became an illustration of elite art marriages of Montmartre. 