Völkerabfälle is a term used by Frederick Engels to describe small nations which he considered residual fragments of former peoples who had succumbed to more powerful neighbours in the historic process of social development and which Engels considered prone to become "fanatical standard-bearers of counter-revolution".  He offers as examples:  Engels was referring also specifically to the Serb uprising of 1848–49, in which Serbs from Vojvodina fought against the previously victorious Hungarian revolution. Engels finished the article with the folwing prediction: Engels views were criticised by leading socialists such as Karl Kautsky who in 1915 argued that subsequent to 1848/9 the Czech and Austrian South Slavs had transformed themselves in a manner which in practice refuted the views of Marx and Engels. Referring to Heinrich Cunow he wrote: Roman Rozdolsky analyses Engels position in his book Engels and the `Nonhistoric' Peoples: the National Question in the Revolution of 1848. Rosdolsky examines Engels’ viewpoint at length. Both Marx and Engels had supported the 1848 revolution which had spread throughout Europe. They saw this as a necessary first step towards the Socialist revolution, which was hoped to be imminent. However, the forces of reaction rallied in Klemens von Metternich’s Austria in October 1848 with the brutal suppression of the Vienna Uprising. Engels was prompted to write his article thanks to the Austrian Slavs’ rejection of the opportunity to liberate themselves from the oppressive rule of the Habsburgs, as well their enthusiastic embrace of Metternich’s counter-revolution.  This last passage, the final paragraph of Engels article in 1849, has fuelled accusations that this constitutes a call for genocide. The British Liberal historian, George G. Watson, for example, cited this text by Engels as evidence for his view that Hitler was a Marxist.  He also participated in the conservative documentary The Soviet Story, where he uses the translation of Völkerabfälle as "racial trash".  The film attracted criticism from a range of people including Latvian MEP Tatjana Ždanoka, Finnish political activist Johan Bäckman and Latvian MP Boriss Cilevičs. Alexander Dyukov has provided evidence that the film relies on falsified images to give an historically inaccurate account of the Soviet Union.  