Emma L. Shaw (June 1840 - February 1924) was an American tailor and magazine editor. Remembered as a nonconformist, Shaw was a tailor and a farmer before she became associate editor of Good Health in Battle Creek, Michigan.  About the year 1870, Shaw became identified with literary work in Michigan. With her friend, Ella Farman, also a writer, Shaw purchased a small farm near Battle Creek and here, for several years, a number of juvenile books and other volumes were written, D. Lothrop & Co. being the publisher. In 1874, the initial number of Wide Awake, for twenty years the friendly rival of St. Nicholas Magazine, was edited in the sitting-room of Shaw and Farman. For two years, every number of the magazine was planned for and arranged, and the copy sent to the Boston publishers. It was the growing needs of this periodical which finally drew its founders to Boston. After Wide Awake was merged into St. Nicholas, Shaw returned to Michigan. She was a charter member of the Michigan Women's Press Association. She worked on several journals put forth by the Good Health Publishing Company of Battle Creek, where for many years she filled a responsible editorial position.  Emma L. Shaw was born in Junius, New York, June 1840.   She lived until she was six years old, when her parents then moving to Clyde, New York. At thirteen, with her mother, she removed to Chautauqua County, new Jamestown, New York. Here were spent seven years. She lived alone with her mother, spending her time in studying and teaching, and in association with a few congenial girl friends. Though not her home, it was here she first made the acquaintance Ella Farman. [a] Upon her mother's second marriage, Shaw accompanied her mother and stepfather to their home in Michigan, a farm in the vicinity of Battle Creek. Here, she spent a few years, during which a close correspondence was carried on between Shaw and Farman, and resulted in a proposal from Shaw that they two should found a home together.  Drawn together as they had been when mere school girls by warm affection, the life of the Cary Sisters had fascinated them, and the picture given of the lovely Cary home, with its two gentle, united lives, its refined, sympathetic atmosphere, where each soul could grow to its own intellectual height under the sunny influence of the other's loving interest, had filled them both with a great longing for just such a life. Shaw and Farman resolved that they, too, would found a home. After about a year and a half of planning and preparation, they ventured, in the autumn of 1863, to leave their homes and enter upon a new, romantic life in Battle Creek, Michigan.  It was harder than they expected. Both wholly impractical, they had not known just what to expect, but supposed, in a vague sort of way, that somehow they were to have the same leisure for reading and improvement to which they had been accustomed. When they found that merely to support themselves and keep together they would be obliged to sew steadily from morning till night, with little or no time for even their housework, it was a bitter disappointment. But they determined to work harder than ever, and be more economical, thus to save for a home, and to have leisure time to write as they both had literary aspirations. Shaw suggested that they should buy a cottage with a few acres of land a short distance from town with a cow, pig and poultry. Neither then nor afterward, during all their life together, did Shaw ever think or plan in any way for herself. She was so fond and proud of Farman's talent that Shaw's sole thought was to have it recognized by the world. A few years later, the moved into their own house. A gift to Shaw from a relative had helped to purchase the few acres of land, and a legacy left her by another had paid for the lumber that built the house, and bought a horse and wagon, to which they added a cow, chickens, and some garden tools. They found success using then-current agricultural methods to farm their land. Their clothing style included Turkish trousers with knee-length dresses.  They lived in this farm house about eight years.   The first book written, Anna Maylie (c. 1873), was prepared for a prize offered by D. Lothrop & Co., Boston. It was in the preparation of this book that they both discovered how great a help Shaw could be in literary work, possessing a literary taste and judgment of which even she herself had scarcely been aware. She looked with dismay over the first few pages of Anna Maylie, as they came from Farman's hand, burst out, "it cannot go like this," and gave them a copyedit.  Shaw now acquired a new value in the eyes of her friend, and her aid was eagerly sought in regard to both plot and detail. The succeeding books were written in this manner, A Little Woman, A Girl's Money, A Noble Life of the "Allie-bird Series;" Mrs. Hurd's Niece, and A White Hand, the last two not needing, perhaps, so much of Shaw's attention, because of Farman's experience. This gave Shaw the opportunity of doing more of the outside labor, allowing Farman time to remain in the house and write. Friends murmured, relatives grumbled and neighbors wondered why Shaw constantly did the hardest and most disagreeable work, but this was to be the time when all the literary aid and fifteen unselfish years of Shaw's life were ignored. In those days, the word collaborator was little used, and no recognition of any kind was ever given Shaw's work after the manuscripts were completed. While Farman's writing was in progress, Shaw was a "darling little critic," and that was thought to pay for all.  The six books had all been written for D. Lothrop & Co., and it was somewhere in the latter part of 1874 that Daniel Lothrop began to speak of a magazine for children, free from fairy tales, sensationalism, and everything artificial. The subject was discussed for a few months, the name decided upon, all arrangements sorted out, and in February, 1875, Wide Awake was founded in Shaw and Farman's sitting room. When Farman had been named as the editor of the new magazine, Shaw was joyful. It was hard work, the making up of this magazine so far from the center of supplies. This was felt to be so great an obstacle that in the summer of 1876, the subject of transfer to Boston, Massachusetts, began to be agitated. Though something that she felt must come some time, this news was no less a blow to Shaw. Not that there was no prospect before her also, for her friend had promised faithfully that, when Wide Awake had grown to such proportions that it would need more editorial assistance, Shaw, and no one else, should be assistant editor. Rut it was difficult to leave their home, and sell off or give away the things they had worked so hard to obtain. Yet feeling as she did, that this was the opportunity for Farman, Shaw herself urged the matter.  Shaw and Farman, and Wide Awake removed to Boston in September, 1876. [b] But Shaw's happiness in Boston life was short lived as she could neither enjoy success nor share it. The old days of comraderie and confidence were gone. With Farman's prosperity, their relationship changed, till nothing was left for Shaw but to put distance between herself and Farman. So closely had Shaw wrapped herself in Farman's interest, that Shaw's own personality had been obscured.  Deciding to return to Battle Creek, Lothrop, who had been like a brother, tried every persuasion to induce Shaw to stay, but it was to no avail.  After Farman married in Boston, Emma returned to Battle Creek in 1880.  At first, she avoided all literary aspirations. But the new life opened new vistas. New friends gathered around her and with them came new opportunities, and she returned to writing.  Shaw became associated with S. Isadore Miner upon the editorial staff of Good Health, published by John Harvey Kellogg, Battle Creek, a leading hygienic and sanitary journal in the U.S. and Europe. They became good friends,  but a couple of years later, Miner accepted a position with the Grand Rapids Telegram-Herald, while Shaw remained with Good Health.  In 1892, Shaw suffered a long and tedious illness. During this illness, she was nursed by her companion, Mrs. J. A. Holmes.  Shaw became blind in 1922 and died in February 1924.  