 Mika'ela Fisher (born in Bavaria, Germany), also known as Mika'Ela Fisher or Mikaela Fisher (the correct spelling of the first name is with an apostrophe ), is a German actress, film director, writer, producer,   model,  and master tailor.       She gained recognition as an actor for her role in the movie Tell No One (Ne le dis à personne).  In 2013 she produced and directed her first short film, Die Tapferen Haende im Chaos der Zeit.  Mika'Ela Fisher has worked for the bespoke tailoring house   Max Dietl   in Munich, having obtained her master's degree as a bespoke tailor. She showcased her work at the world master tailors' convention in Paris (Congrès Mondial des Maitres Tailleurs).  She posed as a model  for French painters Boussignac and Hubert de Lartigue; and modeled for many years for the fashion houses Martin Margiela, Hermès, John Galliano,  Gilles Rosier, Undercover, Eley Kishimoto, among others. After years in the fashion world, she tried her hand in acting, following the acting courses of Jack Waltzer and John Strasberg. Fisher's portrayal of Zak, a ruthless killer in Guillaume Canet's Tell No One, was critically acclaimed, especially in the U.S. media.  She started directing in 2013 by the biographical short film Die Tapferen Haende im Chaos der Zeit (Valiant Hands in the Chaos of Time), for which she is both director,  producer and costume designer. This film has been selected at several festivals (Columbus International Film and Video Festival    Maverick Movie Awards ,  Indie Fest, Revelation Perth International Film Festival,...)   and was honored with awards in categories such as best director, Best Short Film, best soundtrack, Best of Art, Best Costume Design .   Victory's Short, her second short film as a director and producer, has been nominated at the Milan International Film Festival (MIFF Awards 2015).  In her third film Männin, inspired by Martin Luther's Bible, she plays the dual role of Adam and Eve.    Her short movies started a theatrical run on 7 January 2015 and a second time on 16 December 2015 in France.  In the feature documentary L'architecte textile (2017)   about sartorial art, she filmed herself while she was making a three-piece suit.  As an official selection at the Newport Beach Film Festival 2018 the film was presented at Art Architecture Design program  .    In Poland at On Art Film Festival 2018 l'architecte textile was honored with the On Art Award (First place - Long Independent)  . The film will be part of the XIIth Florence Biennale. . Elevated Perspective - Haute Mesure (2018) is a very short sketch comedy film, which was produced for the InterContinental Hotel, Los Angeles Downtown.  .  The follow up will be a feature musical drama now in development, Die Höhenluft - für Alle und Keinen (Pure Air of the Mountain - for All and None).  Fisher is a member of Women in Film and Television. French Title: Les Mains courageuses dans le chaos du temps English Title: Valiant Hands in the Chaos of Timealso Writer/ ProducerNominated –Best Director Maverick Movie Awards 2013  Won – The Silver Chris Award (Best of Art) Columbus International Film & Video Festival 2014 Won – Award of Merit (Film Short) Accolade Global Film Competition 2015 Won – Award of Recognition (Experimental)  Indie Fest 2015 Won – Award of Merit (Costume Designl) Indie Fest 2015 French Title: L'air de la Montagne - pour tous et pour personne English Title: Pure Air of the Mountain - for All and None also Writer/ Producerin development 