Oxytocin, sold under the brand name Pitocin among others, is a medication made from the peptide oxytocin.   As a medication, it is used to cause contraction of the uterus to start labor, increase the speed of labor, and to stop bleeding following delivery.  For this purpose, it is given by injection either into a muscle or into a vein.  The use of oxytocin as a medication can result in excessive contraction of the uterus that can risk the health of the baby.  Common side effects in the mother include nausea and a slow heart rate.  Serious side effects include rupture of the uterus and with excessive dose, water intoxication.  Allergic reactions including anaphylaxis may also occur.  Oxytocin was discovered in 1952.  It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most effective and safe medicines needed in a health system.  As of  2014[update], the wholesale cost in the developing world is US$0.10 to 0.56 per dose.  Oxytocin injection (synthetic) is contraindicated in any of these conditions:  Oxytocin is relatively safe when used at recommended doses, and side effects are uncommon.  These maternal events have been reported:  Excessive dosage or long-term administration (over a period of 24 hours or longer) has been known to result in tetanic uterine contractions, uterine rupture, postpartum hemorrhage, and water intoxication, sometimes fatal. During pregnancy, increased uterine motility has led to decreased heart rate, cardiac arrhythmia, seizures, brain damage, and death in the fetus or neonate.  Certain learning and memory functions are impaired by centrally administered oxytocin.  Also, systemic oxytocin administration can impair memory retrieval in certain aversive memory tasks.  However, oxytocin does seem to facilitate learning and memory specifically for social information. Healthy males administered intranasal oxytocin show improved memory for human faces, in particular happy faces.   One IU of oxytocin is the equivalent of about 2 μg or mcg of pure peptide. Its uterine-contracting properties were discovered by British pharmacologist Sir Henry Hallett Dale in 1906.  And its milk ejection property was described by Ott and Scott in 1910  and by Schafer and Mackenzie in 1911.  Oxytocin became the first polypeptide hormone to be sequenced  or synthesized.   Du Vigneaud was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1955 for his work.  The word "oxytocin" was coined from the term oxytocic. Greek ὀξύς, oxys, and τόκος, tokos, meaning "quick birth"). Oxytocin is marketed as a pheromone. Oxytocin in spray form is sold under the brands Attrakt and Connekt. It is not absorbed into the skin when used topically,  but it may be inhaled in a manner similar to perfume applied to skin. Oxytocin sprays for insufflation are also sold, but often with little or no oxytocin at all.  In African countries, some oxytocin products were found to be counterfeit medications.   The trust-inducing property of oxytocin might help those with social anxiety and depression,  anxiety, fear, and social dysfunctions, such as generalized anxiety disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, and social anxiety disorder, as well as autism and schizophrenia, among others.   However, in one meta-analysis only autism spectrum disorder showed a significant combined effect size.  People using oxytocin show improved recognition for positive social cues over threatening social cues    and improved recognition of fear.  However, oxytocin has also the potential for being abused in confidence tricks.  