The Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantifications System (POP-Q), is a system of assessing the degree of prolapse of pelvic organs to help standardize diagnosing, comparing, documenting, and sharing of clinical findings.   This assessment is used the most frequently.   More research publications related to pelvic organ prolapse use the POP-Q as the measure of pelvic organ prolapse.  Pelvic organ prolapse, when assessed using the POP-Q, identifies the prevalence of pelvic organ prolapse to be up to 50% while diagnosis by symptoms has a prevalence of 3–6%.  Some advocate that the system of assessment be modified.  The POP-Q was developed in 1996 and it quantifies the descent of pelvic organs into the vagina.    The POP-Q provides reliable description of the support of the anterior, posterior and apical vaginal wall. It uses objective and precise distance measurements to the reference point, the hymen. Cystocele and prolapse of the vagina from other causes is staged using POP-Q criteria can range from good support (no descent into the vagina) reported as a POP-Q stage 0 or I to a POP-Q score of IV; which includes prolapse beyond the hymen. It also used to quantifies the movement of other structures into the vaginal lumen and their descent.   The POP-Q assessment tool measures nine points in the vagina. The hymen is the reference point to which the other points are compared. The prolapsed organs are measured in centimeters to the hymen. The measurements are taken when the Valsalva maneuver is performed by the woman while in the dorsal lithotomy position.   The anatomical landmarks used are anterior vaginal wall, cervix, hymen, perineal body, total vaginal length, posterior vaginal wall and posterior fornix.  A three by three centimeter grid is used to record the proximal and distal numbers. The information on the grid is translated to the appropriate stage of prolapse.  This system of assessing pelvic organ prolapse is currently used widely in China and the US.  Other assessment tools are also used to determine the impact of pelvic floor prolapse. These are Pelvic Floor Impact Questionnaire (PFIQ),The Pelvic Floor Distress Inventory (PFDI) and the shorter forms PFIQ-7 and PFDI-20.   The evaluation of pelvic organ prolapse includes other diagnostic tests in addition to the POP-Q. These can be:  In the US, greater than 200,000 surgeries are performed each year for pelvic organ prolapse. Examples of pelvic organ prolapse are cystocele, rectocele, urethrocele, enterocele and sigmoidocele. Cystocele is the most common.   In the UK, urologists can specialize in female urology and treat prolapse.   Other assessments have been developed. The Porges or Severity prolapse assessment system was proposed in 1963.   In 1972, the Baden–Walker Halfway Scoring System was developed and is the second most used system.   In 1980, the Beecham system was developed. The POP was developed in 1996.   