A Silky Cup is a type of feminine hygiene product which is made of thermoplastic elastomer (TPE), shaped like a bell and is flexible. It is worn inside the vagina during menstruation to catch menstrual fluid (blood).  About every 4–12 hours (depending on the amount of flow), the menstruating woman removes the Silky cup from her vagina, empties the collected menstrual blood into a toilet or sink, washes the cup under running water and inserts it again. At the end of the monthly period, the cup can be sterilized, usually by boiling in water. Unlike tampons and pads, the cup collects menstrual fluid rather than absorbing it. Silky Cup is the Indian market leader in the reusable menstrual cup market and largest menstrual cup manufacturer in India. Silky Cup has biggest manufacturing production line of the menstrual cup in India.  The Silky Cup is tested within International standards. ISO 10993 is a Quality Standard governed by the International Organization of Standardization in Geneva, Switzerland, and is recognized and practiced in over 160 countries around the world. ISO 10993 is the quality standard for medical devices. Silky Cup is safe; Silky Cup is developed especially for menstrual hygiene management. Silky Cup has been tested as per United States pharmacopeia (USP) and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) International standards. Silky Cup has passed the all necessary ISO 10993 tests with great success. “Silky Cup is tested according to ISO 10993-5 (Cytotoxicity), ISO 10993-10 (Mucosal Irritation), ISO 10993-10 (Sensitization), Directive 2011/65/EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (ROHS), USP <88> “CLASS VI” Tests Acute Systemic Injection, Intracutaneous Injection and Implantation. In many countries across the world, menstruation can be a problem, as women and girls may have no access to hygiene products, or simply cannot afford them. These women often experience exclusion from society, and school, college or work can be disrupted or restricted due to lack of available solutions. Investigative studies identify one of the main causes of early school leaving as the lack of hygiene products available for menstruating women and girls. As a result, menstruation has a direct economic and educational impact. Silky cups are a solution that can help girls and women to be integrated back into their social lives. Silky Cup is a product and a social strategy that offers women in developing countries a lifelong solution and support. 