The official court uniform and dress of the Ottoman Empire were required to be worn by those in attendance at the imperial court in the nineteenth century, with the aim of being on the same line as most European nations. It consisted of European-inspired clothing in the Empire style. It was introduced during the early stages of the Tanzimat modernization period until the end of the First World War. The Tanzimat reforms emerged from the minds of reformist sultans like Mahmud II, his son Abdulmejid I and prominent, often European-educated bureaucrats, who recognised that the old religious and military institutions no longer met the needs of the empire. Most of the symbolic changes, such as uniforms, were aimed at changing the mindset of imperial administrators. Many of the officials affiliated with the government were encouraged to wear a more western style of dress. Many of the reforms were attempts to adopt successful European practices. The reforms were heavily influenced by the Napoleonic Code and French law under the Second French Empire as a direct result of the increasing number of Ottoman students being educated in France. After the French military mission in 1796, French practices became very popular within Ottoman society. After the creation of the first cabinet, Mahmud II ordered several bureaucrats to the courts of France and other nations around the globe to observe not only clothing but also innovated institutions, which were acceptable for that era. The first new court uniforms were worn around 1839, the time of the sultan's death.  His son Abdulmejid I succeeded him and French-style court uniform and dress were officially set. European-style clothing was also popular among the upper class, as redingotes, jackets, waistcoats, frock coats, ties, sharp-pointed and high-heeled shoes were not unusual during the Tanzimat modernization period. After the abolition of the Ottoman monarchy, the white tie was introduced for all government officials including the president. French-inspired court dresses (Note the white gloves, epaulettes, trousers and collars) Another example of French-inspired court dresses, mainly based on uniforms which were being used in the Second French Empire A painting of Mahmud II appearing in European clothes along with a cloak Sultan Abdulmejid I in clothes based on the French model Sadık Rıfat Pasha, marshal and statesman Mustafa Reshid Pasha, the chief architect behind the Tanzimat reforms Giuseppe Donizetti Pasha Salih Münir Bey Mehmed Emin Âli Pasha (on the far right) wearing the diplomatic uniform Yusuf Ziya Pasha, Ottoman ambassador to the United States wearing the diplomatic uniform Ibrahim Hakki Pasha Damat Ferid Pasha Ahmed Cevdet Pasha Kâmil Pasha Halil Rifat Pasha Abdurrahman Nurettin Pasha Sadullah Pasha Abdurrahman Şeref Bey Said Halim Pasha Talaat Pasha Djemal Pasha Ahmet Tevfik Pasha Hasan Fehmi Pasha Mehmed Fuad Pasha Mehmed Kadri Pasha Agah Efendi Mustafa Zihni Pasha Nuri Pasha Mehmed Raif Pasha Selim Melhame Pasha (left), Ahmed Izzet Pasha  (upper right), and Mehmed Said Pasha Alexander Karatheodori Pasha 