A skirt is the lower part of a dress or gown, covering the person from the waist downwards, or a separate outer garment serving this purpose.  The hemline of skirts can vary from micro to floor-length and can vary according to cultural conceptions of modesty and aesthetics as well as the wearer's personal taste, which can be influenced by such factors as fashion and social context. Most skirts are self-standing garments, but some skirt-looking panels may be part of another garment such as leggings, shorts, and swimsuits. In the western world, skirts are more commonly worn by women; with some exceptions such as the izaar which is worn by Muslim cultures and the kilt which is a traditional men's garment in Scotland and Ireland and sometimes England. Many fashion designers, such as Jean Paul Gaultier, Vivienne Westwood, Kenzo and Marc Jacobs have shown men's skirts. Transgressing social codes, Gaultier frequently introduces the skirt into his men's wear collections as a means of injecting novelty into male attire, most famously the sarong seen on David Beckham.  Other cultures traditionally wear skirts. At its simplest, a skirt can be a draped garment made out of a single piece of fabric (such as pareos), but most skirts are fitted to the body at the waist or hips and fuller below, with the fullness introduced by means of darts, gores, pleats, or panels. Modern skirts are usually made of light to mid-weight fabrics, such as denim, jersey, worsted, or poplin. Skirts of thin or clingy fabrics are often worn with slips to make the material of the skirt drape better and for modesty. Skirts were worn since prehistoric times. They were the simplest way to cover the lower body. Pants were not at hand for a very long time. A straw-woven skirt dating to 3.900 BC was discovered in Armenia at the Areni-1 cave complex.  Skirts were the standard attire for men and women in all ancient cultures in the Near East and Egypt. The Sumerians in Mesopotamia wore kaunakes, a type of fur skirt tied to a belt. The term "kaunakes" originally referred to a sheep's fleece, but eventually came to be applied to the garment itself. Eventually, the animal pelts were replaced by kaunakes cloth, a textile that imitated fleecy sheep skin.  Kaunakes cloth also served as a symbol in religious iconography, such as in the fleecy cloak of St. John the Baptist.   Ancient Egyptian garments were mainly made of linen. For the upper classes, they were beautifully woven and intricately pleated.  Around 2,130 BC, during the Old Kingdom of Egypt, men wore wraparound skirts (kilts) known as the shendyt, They were made of a rectangular piece of cloth wrapped around the lower body and tied in front. By the Middle Kingdom of Egypt, longer skirts, reaching from the waist to ankles and sometimes hanging from the armpits, became fashionable. During the New Kingdom of Egypt, kilts with a pleated triangular section became fashionable for men.  Beneath these, a shente, or triangular loincloth whose ends were fastened with cord ties, were worn.  During the Bronze Age, in the Southern parts of Western and Central Europe, wraparound dress-like garments were preferred. However, in Northern Europe, people also wore skirts and blouses.  In the Middle Ages, men and women preferred dress-like garments. The lower part of men′s dresses were much shorter in length compared to those for women. They were wide cut and often pleated or gored so that horse riding became more comfortable. Even a knight's armor had a short metal skirt below the breastplate. It covered the straps attaching the upper legs iron cuisse to the breastplate. Technological advances in weaving in the 13-15th century, like foot-treadle floor looms and scissors with pivoted blades and handles, improved tailoring trousers and tights. They became fashionable for men and henceforth became standard male attire whilst becoming taboo for women.   Skirts are still worn by men and women from many cultures, such as the lungi, lehnga, kanga and sarong worn in South Asia and Southeast Asia, and the kilt worn in Scotland and Ireland. The earliest known culture to have females wear clothing resembling miniskirts were the Duan Qun Miao (短裙苗), which literally meant "short skirt Miao" in Chinese. This was in reference to the short miniskirts "that barely cover the buttocks" worn by women of the tribe, and which were "probably shocking" to observers in medieval and early modern times.  In the Middle Ages, some upper-class women wore skirts over three metres in diameter at the bottom.   At the other extreme, the miniskirts of the 1960s were minimal garments that may have barely covered the underwear when seated. Costume historians[who?] typically use the word "petticoat" to describe skirt-like garments of the 18th century or earlier. During the 19th century, the cut of women's dresses in western culture varied more widely than in any other century. Waistlines started just below the bust (the Empire silhouette) and gradually sank to the natural waist. Skirts started fairly narrow and increased dramatically to the hoopskirt and crinoline-supported styles of the 1860s; then fullness was draped and drawn to the back by means of bustles. In the 1890s the rainy daisy skirt was introduced for walking or sportswear. It had a significantly shorter hemline measuring as much as six inches off the ground and would eventually influence the wider introduction of shorter hemlines in the early 20th century.  Beginning around 1915, hemlines for daytime dresses left the floor for good. For the next fifty years  fashionable skirts became short (1920s), then long (1930s), then shorter (the War Years with their restrictions on fabric), then long (the "New Look"), then shortest of all from 1967 to 1970, when skirts became as short as possible while avoiding exposure of underwear, which was considered taboo. However, a long skirt provided privacy when women needed to relieve themselves in the open.  Since the 1970s and the rise of pants/trousers for women as an option for all but the most formal of occasions, no one skirt length has dominated fashion for long, with short and ankle-length styles often appearing side-by-side in fashion magazines and catalogs. Skirt is a part of uniform for girls in many schools across the world, with length of skirt varying as per local culture. The pleated tartan skirt has been a component of girls' school uniforms since the early twentieth century in UK.  In 21st century, skirt has become part of Western dress code for women and is worn as business casual and office wear, and also as sportswear (ex. in tennis). Skirt may also be mandatory as formal wear, such as for airhostesses, waitresses, nurses and military women. Long skirt, floor or near-floor length. Ankle-length skirt or 'maxi,' a term introduced in the late 1960s Mid-calf length or 'midi,' a term introduced in the 1970s. Miniskirt, a skirt ending between knee and upper thigh. (1960s onwards) Microskirt, an extremely short miniskirt. High-low/hi-lo skirt, a skirt with an asymmetrical hemline. There are a number of garments marketed to men which fall under the category of "skirt" or "dress". These go by a variety of names and form part of the traditional dress for men from various cultures.  Usage varies – the dhoti is part of everyday dress on the Indian subcontinent while the kilt is more usually restricted to occasional wear and the fustanella is used almost exclusively as costume. Robes, which are a type of dress for men, have existed in many cultures, including the Japanese kimono, the Chinese cheongsam, the Arabic thobe, and the African Senegalese kaftan. Robes are also used in some religious orders, such as the cassock in Christianity and various robes and cloaks that may be used in pagan rituals.  Examples of men's skirts and skirt-like garments from various cultures include: Aside from the wearing of kilts, in the Western world skirts, dresses, and similar garments are commonly considered primarily women's clothing – which, historically, was not always the case.  A-line Circle Culottes Full (in motion) Pleated Pencil Denim Hobble Poodle Rah-rah T-skirt Wrap Dirndl Fustanella Kilt Lehenga Sampot Sarong Sulu 