Everyday Health Group is a digital media company which owns websites and produces content relating to health and wellness. As of December 8, 2016, it  became a subsidiary of j2 Global  The company was founded in 2002 by entrepreneurs Benjamin Wolin and Michael Keriakos to invest in the creation of online health content for major "offline" health brands. By 2011, their network of sites had over 28 million unique viewers per month, garnering over $100 million in yearly revenue, including major partnerships with brands and personalities such as Denise Austin and the South Beach Diet.  In 2010, Everyday Health acquired professional website MedPage Today.  The company attempted an IPO in November 2010, which ultimately failed due to changes in “circumstances regarding the securities markets.”  Throughout 2011, the company began to diversify into digital media: in July 2011 it announced that it would be co-producing a self-titled TV series with Litton Entertainment for Litton's Weekend Adventure, a new Saturday morning syndication package of E/I programming aired by affiliates of ABC. It also hired Paul Slavin, a veteran producer from ABC News, to help operate a new studio for the company.  In October 2011, YouTube announced that Everyday Health would become part of its Original Channel Initiative, which aimed to fund the production of professionally produced original web content. Everyday Health would launch Everyday Health TV through the program, featuring original health and lifestyle-related series.  On September 25, 2012 Everyday Health announced it would acquire EQAL, most notable for the lonelygirl15 web series and fellow YouTube channel u look haute, for an undisclosed amount. EQAL will remain as a separate division of the company. Additionally, Everyday Health also announced that it was co-producing a television version of Recipe Rehab, one of the series featured on its YouTube channel, to premiere during Litton's Weekend Adventure on October 6, 2012.  The company’s initial public offering was on March 28, 2014 on the New York Stock Exchange, with the symbol EVDY representing the company.  It opened at $14 per share, closing the day at $13.50.  On October 21, 2016, Ziff Davis a subsidiary of j2 Global announce that it will be acquiring the company for a value worth $465 million  It became finalised on December 8, 2016, thus becoming a subsidiary of J2 Global  