Verywell is a website providing health and wellness information by health professionals. It was launched on 26 April 2016 as a media property of About.com (now Dotdash) and its first standalone brand. The content is created by 120 health experts and reviewed by board-certified physicians.  Verywell is a vertical site focused on health.  As of March 2017, it reached 17 million US unique users each month.  About.com launched Verywell as its first standalone media property on 26 April 2016.  The site took about half the health content  already present at About.com, but the content was updated and made easier to read and navigate.   The website hired Dr. David L. Katz as its first senior medical advisor.  Verywell launched a partnership with the Cleveland Clinic in August 2016, helping promote content from the clinic's consumer health information portal. The second phase of the partnership, launched in January 2017, focused on providing resources to physicians and doctors.  By May 2017, About.com had transformed into Dotdash, an umbrella media brand of six distinct and specialized vertical sites ("content destinations"). While Verywell was about health, the others were about travel, learning, money management, home decorating, and technology.    The website is maintained by 120 health experts, including doctors, dietitians, specialists, and other professionals, with the content being reviewed and approved by board-certified physicians.  Verywell has been recognized for its "fun, energetic tone," diverging from the starkly clinical feel of most health portals.    Verywell was followed by similar websites made by major news portals such as NBC News, Huffpost, Time Inc., and The New York Times.  On February 5, 2018, Verywell split into four separate domains: Verywell Health (the main domain), Verywell Fit, Verywell Family, and Verywell Mind.  As of March 2017, Verywell ranked in the top 10 health information sites, reaching 17 million US unique users each month.   The site has a multi-platform audience, which also includes traffic from DailyBurn and Cleveland Clinic. It is mostly search-dependent, as 70 percent of its monthly desktop traffic comes from search results. Verywell claims that 15 percent of its traffic is direct, an increase compared to the period when its content was part of About.com (8 percent).  Verywell was a finalist in the Brand Redesign category of the 9th Shorty Awards in 2017.  It won the EPPY Award for Best Redesign/Relaunch with 1 million unique monthly visitors and over in 2016.  