Functional medicine is a form of alternative medicine  which proponents say focuses on interactions between the environment and the gastrointestinal, endocrine, and immune systems , but opponents have described it as "pseudoscientific silliness"  and quackery.  Practitioners develop individual treatment plans for people they treat.  Functional medicine encompasses a number of unproven and disproven methods and treatments.   The discipline of functional medicine is vaguely defined by its proponents.  Oncologist David Gorski has written that the vagueness is a deliberate tactic which facilitates the discipline's promotion, but that in general it centers on unnecessary and expensive testing procedures performed in the name of "holistic" health care.  Proponents of functional medicine oppose established medical knowledge and reject its models, instead adopting a model of disease based on the notion of "antecedents", "triggers", and "mediators".  These are meant to correspond to the underlying causes, the immediate causes, and the particular characteristics of a person's illness respectively.  A functional medicine practitioner will devise a "matrix" from these things which acts as a basis for treatment.  Treatments, practices, and concepts will generally be those not supported by medical evidence.  These include: Functional medicine was invented by nutritionist Jeffrey Bland.  He and Susan Bland founded the Institute for Functional Medicine in 1991 as a division of HealthComm.   That year, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission said that Jeffrey Bland's corporations HealthComm and Nu-Day Enterprises had falsely advanced claims that their products could alter metabolism and induce weight loss.  The FTC found that Bland and his companies violated that consent order in 1995 by making more exaggerated claims. The UltraClear dietary program was said to provide relief from gastrointestinal problems, inflammatory and immunologic problems, fatigue, food allergies, mercury exposure, kidney disorders, and rheumatoid arthritis. The companies were forced to pay a $45,000 civil penalty.  The opening of centers for functional medicine at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation and at George Washington University has been described by Gorski as an "unfortunate" example of pseudoscientific quackery infiltrating medical academia.  