“This is not a Wikipedia article: It is an individual user’s work in progress page, and may be incomplete and or unreliable.”   Clinica 0-19 Dr Siller and Dr Garcia use a mix of chemotherapy drugs to target brain stem tumours directly, as opposed to regular chemotherapy which attacks the whole body. The treatments cost about $30,000 each and while their program varies for each patient, the usual regime is one every three weeks. If the treatment is effective — meaning a combination of MRI and PET-CT scans show a reduction in tumour size — they spread them out to several months apart.   "It is not possible for us to recommend that clinic's approach given that Doctors Siller and Garcia have not yet published any data for critical review about their treatments," Ms Stewart said. "As a mother, it breaks my heart to hear the stories of these children and their families heading to Mexico for experimental treatment, which comes at such a high financial and emotional cost.  Some children with brain cancer are finding new hope as their tumours shrink and, in several cases, disappear. Neither the clinic nor families of children with Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma (DIPG) say they are cured, just that their symptoms have improved.   “If we had not gone to Monterrey and started the treatment last year, then I would not have my daughter today,” he says, matter-of-factly. His seven-year-old daughter Riaa’s tumour reduced 40 per cent after one treatment. They say they have four patients showing “no evidence of disease (NED)”, including someone they treated several years ago. The clinic said it was trying to put us in touch with this patient, who they said is still alive and lives overseas, but this had not happened before we went to press. v an exorbitant cost of more than $400,000."  Sandy and Henry Nguyen have spent $300,000 on treatment so far for their daughter, Annabelle, money which they raised by selling their home and borrowing from Henry’s parents. They don’t consider it a high price to pay for the 10 treatments they have received over the past nine months. Included in that cost are their living expenses in Mexico as well as scans and time in hospital.  The treatments cost about $30,000 each and while their program varies for each patient, the usual regime is one every three weeks. If the treatment is effective — meaning a combination of MRI and PET-CT scans show a reduction in tumour size — they spread them out to several months apart.   The Cure Brain Cancer Foundation said it had been working to establish a relationship with doctors at the Mexican clinic. It wants to fund a [Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma] specialist to travel to Monterrey and gain information about the treatment, but so far the foundation's efforts to find out more about the research taking place at Clinica 0-19 have proved fruitless.    Pediatric oncologist Alberto Siller and interventional neuroradiologist-Alberto Garcia say they don’t advertise their treatment, but have been overwhelmed with desperate families from Australia, Europe, America and Asia since they regularly began offering it in January last year. The pair is scorned by the international medical community, some of whom label them as cowboys preying on vulnerable parents of dying children. They question the science, the drugs they use and the scans with which they judge tumour size. Leading Australian paediatric oncologist David Ziegler has been highly critical of the doctors over the fact they have never released their research and findings to be peer reviewed. “I have not seen any results that show this treatment is effective,” Professor Ziegler said. “On occasion the team in Mexico has released limited scans which do not accurately depict the tumour and are not able to be used to tell if the treatment is doing anything at all. “If they have found an effective treatment for DIPG as they claim, then they have a moral obligation to publish their results to benefit children around the world who are dying of this disease.”   BAILEY In a last ditch effort, Bailey's family has even considered a highly controversial experimental trial at a clinic in Monterrey, Mexico. But it would mean abandoning Baily's current Australian immunotherapy trial and travelling to Mexico with no guarantee of success, the risk of serious side effects, and an exorbitant cost of more than $400,000. The ABC also states that participation in the trial would require Baily to "abandoning his current Australian immunotherapy trial and travelling to Mexico with no guarantee of success, the risk of serious side effects, and an exorbitant cost of more than $400,000."   ANNABELLE Sandy and Henry Nguyen, their daughter, Annabelle. Annabelle Nguyen was diagnosed in 2015, has been living in Mexico with her parents since May and was this month declared NED after her ninth treatment. “The doctors have always been very clear with us,” her mum Sandy Nguyen said this week. “They have never promised us any cure, but they said at least we can try to maybe prolong her life. We knew that from the very beginning. But there is always (the possibility of) a miracle, right, and any day is a miracle for us. We never expected NED.”      RIAA Melbourne dad Vivek Kulkarni tells a similar tale. “If we had not gone to Monterrey and started the treatment last year, then I would not have my daughter today,” he says, matter-of-factly. His seven-year-old daughter Riaa’s tumour reduced 40 per cent after one treatment.     The practice is in a modest concrete building next to a construction site on a hill in a middle-class neighbourhood housing dozens of private hospitals and clinics. The doctors denied claims they were being secretive with their research and results, saying they were simply “overrun with demand” and in a “race” to save their patients, for whom they were working 18-hour days. “We are starting to do some basic numbers,” Dr Siller said. “Our thoughts are to start publishing the results in the next coming months.” They said their drugs were approved by the US Food and Drug Administration, but their effectiveness was helped because they were using new combinations, adapted as they treated each patient.   A five-year-old Australian girl seeking experimental treatment for an incurable brain tumour in Mexico died overnight after three months in a coma. The Perth-based family took Annabelle Nguyen to Mexico for treatment for the deadly DIPG after they were told three years ago that their daughter only had nine months to live. There were treatment options in Australia at the time and the family was told to 'go home and make memories'. In February, the Sunday Telegraph reported scans from her Mexican doctors showed Annabelle had no evidence of the brain tumor that is inoperable and always fatal. The Nguyen family turned to Mexico to undergo experimental intra-arterial chemotherapy and ­immunotherapy at a clinic in Monterrey run by doctors Alberto Siller and Alberto Garcia. The Mexican clinic has been heavily criticised by the world cancer community for their secrecy. Treatments costs families around $30,000 per round and are required every month to six weeks. Several Australian families have taken their children to Mexico in the hope to extend their lives. Sandy and Trung Nguyen have sold their home and spent in excess of $500,000. In late April, scans showed Annabelle's tumours had returned. She underwent her 15th interatrial chemotherapy treatment but rapidly declined the following day. Doctors inserted a shunt into her brain to relieve the pressure on May 3, but Annabelle fell into a coma where she remained. The Nguyen family begged the Australia embassy to help bring their daughter home but their requests fell on deaf ears. The family is now faced with a bill for the intensive care which cost $2,000 a day while Annabelle was in a coma. The Sunday Telegraph has campaigned for more research funds for brain cancer to offer parents hope. A new trial of immunotherapy is now on offer in Australia for newly diagnosed children of DIPG.   An Australian brain cancer expert will travel to Mexico to investigate the controversial clinic reported to have successfully treated Australian children who have terminal brain cancer. The Cure Brain Cancer Foundation (CBCF), the peak organisation for brain cancer research, has responded to The Sunday Telegraph’s call for Australian authorities to investigate the anecdotal success of the Monterrey-based Clinica 0-19’s treatment of children with diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma, or DIPG. DIPG is fatal and life expectancy is six to nine months. The clinic uses a combination of immunotherapy and inter-arterial chemotherapy which feeds a cocktail of approved chemotherapy drugs through the artery directly into the brain tumour region. The doctors have received criticism from Australian experts because they have not published any data on their techniques or their success rate, but the doctors say they are too busy treating 70 plus patients from around the world. Two of the Australian girls, Annabelle Nguyen, five, and Annabelle Potts, four, have tumours that have shrunk to the point scans can no longer pick them up. There is no evidence of disease and both children appear well. CBCF has decided to investigate. “We’re willing to sponsor a DIPG expert to visit the lab and verify Clinica 0-19’s claim,” Michelle Stewart, CEO of CBCF said. “We want to send a DIPG expert who can report back on the drugs used so if any learning can be found, we can use that to treat patients locally. “ The CBCF has sent a letter requesting permission for the expert to attend and research the procedure and drugs used. “We want to make the information available so that if researchers wanted to do a trial here, we could provide funding,” Ms Stewart said. Annabelle Potts had her ninth treatment last week in Mexico and has arrived back home in Canberra. Now 14 months post diagnosis, she is well enough to attend pre-school and ballet classes. Her parents, Adam and Kathie Potts have lobbied both doctors and government to trial intra-arterial chemotherapy in Australia for brain cancer. “Something is working there, the scans show Annabelle’s cancer is gone. She said that keeping her child alive has left the family homeless, in debt and reliant on fundraising to keep up maintenance treatments. The CBCF is also supporting an upcoming Australian trial for children newly diagnosed with DIPG. In collaboration with European doctors, the Biomede trial, expected to start in three months, will use DNA sequencing of biopsied DIPG tumours, found in the brain stem, to tailor specific drugs for a child’s individual tumour. Dr Geoffrey McCowage, paediatric oncologist and head of the Australasian Children’s Cancer Trials, said the trial “will use such results in an effort to choose drugs for each patient according to their individual tumour characteristics”. Violeta Montes de Oca, a public relations consulted hired by the clinic, said they needed time to “be able to develop a program that allows receiving invited doctors”. “Today, the clinic’s only priority is to devote all its attention and energy to trying to restore health and improve the quality of life of patients under treatment,” she said. “As you will understand, it is very difficult at this time to offer a date to receive them.” It’S the last chance hospital for dying children — a Mexican treatment centre that ­refuses to publish results or co-operate with the medical community. Stella Lu and Didy Sun from Parklea are following the path of four other Australian parents who have turned to experimental intra-arterial chemotherapy and immunotherapy in Monterrey, Mexico after daughter Doris was diagnosed with DIPG, which kills children in less than a year. Mr Sun, a truck driver, said he was prepared to sell the family home to pay for the treatment for the four-year-old “sunshine in his life”. DIPG tumours are inoperable as they grow in the brain stem and standard chemotherapy cannot cross from the bloodstream into the brain. In Monterrey, doctors feed a mix of chemotherapy drugs through a catheter inserted in an artery, sending it to the brain tumour’s vicinity. It is not offered in Australia because there are no studies proving it works. Mexican doctors Alberto Siller and Alberto Garcia refuse to co-operate with the international medical community and have never published their results. They have not responded to our requests for an interview. At the time, she was four months into her treatments. Now, 13 months post-diagnosis, her mother Kathy said she is “hopping, jumping and skipping and perfectly normal”, while her Sydney doctors say she is well enough to start preschool next month. But leading Sydney paediatric oncologist Professor David Ziegler is highly critical of the Mexican doctors. “They have been doing this for 20 years, so if it works, why don’t they publish their findings? I don’t know why they don’t, but you’d be concerned that it is not working and that’s why they don’t want to release the information,” Prof Ziegler said. Neurologist Dr Brian Owler, from Cure Brain Cancer, said the regulatory system in Australia required “proof of principle” that a trial may work based on peer-reviewed studies, which the Mexican doctors have not published. Until that exists, no Australian trial can take place. Annabelle Nguyen, 5, from Perth, is also in Mexico receiving treatment. Two years post-diagnosis, her mother Sandy said her daughter’s scans reveal her tumour has shrunk to a point where her brain stem looks normal. Her parents can only afford one more treatment, which she will have on ­January 25. “I can’t blame them, they are desperate parents but I think there are people out there who are ready to take advantage of desperate people,” Prof Ziegler said.    Drs. Alberto Siller and Alberto Garcia run Clínica 0-19 in Monterrey, Mexico, which has become a magnet for patients with diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG), a deadly brain cancer. Unfortunately, their treatment is an unproven combination of 11 chemotherapy drugs injected into an artery feeding the brainstem, plus an unknown and unproven “immunotherapy.” Of course it all costs $300,000 or more for a complete course of treatment, and the good doctors are “too busy to do clinical trials” or even publish their survival and recurrence statistics, despite having used this protocol for 20 years.  In October 2016, Addy Joy Scooter was a healthy, happy two-year-old living with her parents in Arkansas. That’s when, during a trip to the Silver Dollar theme park in Missouri, the parents noticed something very wrong: The family’s ordeal began in October 2016, when the Sooters spent a day at the Silver Dollar City theme park in Missouri. There, Matt’s mother noticed that Adalynn — who the family calls “Addy” — was walking “funny.” Matt, who first shared his story with Love What Matters, says he noticed a “hitch” in Addy’s step as well. “We were confused, but we thought it could be because of the growth spurt she had just gone through,” he tells PEOPLE. “As it got worse, we became more and more concerned.” Throughout the weeks that followed, Matt and Chandra noticed that Addy was having even more trouble walking, often stumbling and falling. He says the little girl even had difficulty holding her eating utensils. Worried, they took the then-2-year-old to the hospital where doctors found a tumor growing on the girl’s brain stem. She was diagnosed with DPIG. Doctors said the little girl would likely live for only a few more months. ...after her therapy began at Arkansas Children’s Hospital in November 2016: Over the next few weeks, Addy endured dozens of radiation treatments and, much to the family’s delight, the tumor shrank to nearly half its size. By July 2017, doctors noticed the tumor had begun to grow again. They told the devastated parents that there was nothing more they could do for the little girl. For nearly a year, they’ve taken the little girl to Monterrey for treatment and Matt says a single trip can last up to 12 days. Travel and medical expenses have cost the family more than $200,000 — but Matt says he and Chandra would do anything for their now 4-year-old daughter. The story thus far comes primarily from a PEOPLE Magazine story from a little over a month ago.  At that point, the “experimental therapy” in Monterrey had clearly failed, but the Sooters nonetheless thought it had done her daughter some good before it “ceased to work”: Now — more than 18 months later — the Rogers, Arkansas, girl has shocked medical officials with her survival. But the girl’s parents, Matt and Chandra Sooter, say they know her days are numbered. “The fact that she’s survived over 18 months now is purely incredible. Her doctors have grown to love her and have been amazed by how well she has done,” Matt tells PEOPLE. “While we’re doing everything we can to change the outcome we don’t expect to win this fight. We haven’t given up, but it seems we are losing the war.” ...what does matter is that such estimates feed into the narrative used to sell unproven treatments that “treatment X kept this patient alive far longer than the doctors thought she would live.” Never mind that in this case (as in many cases) Addy Joy had received the full course of conventional therapy, with a very good response lasting seven months. In a more detailed account of Addy Joy’s story published in Love What Matters, there’s not much more detail about this experimental treatment in Mexico: "In July of 2017 an MRI confirmed that her tumor was once again growing. During those months we searched the globe for a treatment. We spoke with doctors in New York, London, Mexico, and nearly everywhere in-between. The week before Addy’s MRI we received word that she had been accepted into an experimental program in Monterrey, Mexico. After the MRI I sent my wife, Addy, and our son to spend the weekend with family while I made preparations to travel to Mexico. The next week we were all on a plane toward a lot of unknowns. We prepared for a long trip because we didn’t know how long we would be there. Our first meeting with the doctors in Mexico and Addy’s first treatment all went well and we were able to return home after only a few days. Since then we’ve been traveling back and forth every three to six weeks to have treatment. These treatments have been expensive, totaling over $250,000 for treatments and airfare since July 2017." "On Monday, May 7th, Addy and my wife were once again in Monterrey for treatment. We were anxious about this trip because Addy had been presenting some symptoms and we were unsure of what was causing them. After her MRI, the doctors came out and informed us that she had developed hydrocephalus, a fluid build up in her brain, and that she would need a shunt placed immediately to drain the fluid. Treatment was postponed and my wife booked a flight straight to Little Rock. Addy’s shunt was placed and an MRI performed on her spine based on some things the doctors saw on another MRI of her brain. On Wednesday the 9th, we found out that Addy’s cancer had spread to the lower part of her brain and on down her spine as well. Her Mexico treatment that has kept her cancer stabilized is no longer working either because the protocol has changed, or because the tumor has mutated." And so Addy’s story ended tragically, leaving a devastated family having spent a quarter of a million dollars for a treatment whose components we don’t even know.  Addy Joy’s not alone, either. There is a veritable pipeline from Australia to Monterrey for patients with DIPG to be treated in the same clinic where Addy Joy Sooter was treated, as you will see. Some persistent Googling and perusing of the Sooters’ Facebook page revealed the name of the clinic in a story in the Daily Mail. When I read this, I shuddered. Intra-arterial chemotherapy? Into the brainstem? Well, it is an experimental therapy. I found some references to a trial at Johns Hopkins, for instance. It is, however, a phase I trial. It involves the use of intra-arterial Melphalan, two doses. Because it is a phase I trial, it is definitely not an efficacy trial; indeed, the ClinicalTrials.gov entry specifically states that it is a feasibility study to “perform a qualitative evaluation of whether or not we can safely deliver IA chemotherapy to patients with progressive DIPG.” Also, the status of the trial is listed on ClinicalTrials.gov as “Suspended (Study has been placed on hold for an interim review.)” In this context, “suspended” means that the trial was halted early but might start up again. Interestingly, the Johns Hopkins website says the trial is “currently closed for analysis.” To me, a suspension makes me wonder if there were toxicity problems, but there is no way of knowing why the trial was suspended without contacting the PI or when (if ever) the trial will be restarted. It’s also hard not to note that the study start date was in 2013. Five years is a long time to take to accrue to a phase I study, given how small phase I studies usually are, even if the investigators are allowing two years for assessment of progression-free survival. A search of PubMed reveals that the results of the trial haven’t been published yet; hopefully the study will be completed and published soon. This is a technique that’s being done at Hopkins, but that the group there hasn’t published on yet. That makes it not only experimental, but nowhere near proven or even shown to be promising yet. That’s assuming that the doctors at the Mexican clinic are even doing the same or a similar protocol. Then they’re adding some sort of immunotherapy. It’s all unspecified, though. Nowhere is there published a protocol, results, or anything other than testimonials and anecdotes. Making DIPG History in Monterrey, along with the site’s Facebook and Instagram pages. These sites are all run by a naturopath named Kim Beauchamp, who has a relative with DIPG: The cost of one year of treatment in Monterrey amounts to over $300,000—without accounting for unexpected complications and extended hospital stays.  Kim Beauchamp is a naturopathic doctor and writer. In the fall of 2016, her cousin Jeni’s daughter Kira was diagnosed with DIPG.  After spending a week with Jeni and Kira in Mexico and witnessing first hand the effects of DIPG on children, the incredible demands on their caretakers, and the profound changes that the treatment in Monterrey is making for the children receiving it, Kim reached out to photographer and pediatric cancer awareness Project 3.8 founder Robyn Ivy about going to Monterrey to chronicle these children’s journeys with DIPG together. Here, I note that in my original version of this post I mistakenly characterized Ms. Beauchamp’s site as affiliated with Clínica 0-19. It is not. For instance, the website declares that “we are experts in the integrative and alternative management of cancer” and boasts about using the “most advanced techniques of traditional and alternative medicine.”  There is an “orthomolecular therapist.” Orthomolecular medicine, as you might recall, is a quackery that basically uses megadoses of vitamins and nutrients to treat all manner of diseases.  It all boils down to Drs. Alberto Siller and Alberto Garcia of Instituto de Oncología Intervencionista (IDOI), which also has a slick website declaring it to be ” leader of the intra-arterial brain tumors procedure and recognized for its Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma (DIPG) treatment.” There’s also an application to be treated asking for basic information (name, age, etc.), clinical history, plus videos of the child eating, walking, and speaking, along with MRI files. Demonstrating that crowdfunding is basically a part of this “institute’s” business model, there is also a question, “If the patient has a funding campaign, please share it with us so we can promote it with local nonprofit organizations who focus on raising funds for these causes.” Basically, what I gathered from various websites is that IDOI sees its patients in consult and followup at Clínica 0-19 but does the actual invasive radiology procedures at local hospitals in and around Monterrey, primarily at Hospital Angeles, admitting them there for treatment. "The intra-arterial treatment exists since long and is performed continuously in diverse countries. What IDOI does differently is the preparation, mixing, dosage and sequential administration of the different medications that integrates the treatment’s model. It also uses the intrathecal route to administer certain medication. The interventional oncology that IDOI performs consists in a puncture made in the femoral artery through which a micro catheter is inserted and directed by fluoroscopy to the blood supply site of the tumor. The risks related with the procedure are minimal and imply the formation of a hematoma in the puncture site (less than 5%) and a possible vascular event such as a stroke (less than 0.7%). The other part of the procedure consists in making a lumbar puncture after the intra-arterial treatment with the application of medications. The inherent risks of this procedure are pain in the puncture site, the formation of a hematoma and some irritation of the cauda equine(radiculitis) that occurs in less than 1% of the cases. All medication used by IDOI are approved by Cofepris and FDA." A particularly glaring omission here is…oh…you know…the risk of injecting chemotherapy right into the major arteries leading to the brainstem!  "How successful are you in your treatments? The treatment program of the Institute of Interventional Oncology for patients with DIPG began many years ago. We have treated adult and child patients with different types of brain tumors in addition to DIPG. The response rate to our management scheme is very high and treatment-related toxicity is very low. Many of these patients are free of disease years after their treatment has been discontinued and some have died from accidents or situations unrelated to the tumor and / or treatment. Are there any publications in the peer-reviewed medical literature or statistics provided? Of course not!  Even worse, they will not even give examples of which drugs are used: "What agents are being administered? Since the beginning of our program the treatment scheme has maintained a basic structure of medicines used to treat cancer. We are constantly evaluating new drugs and replacing each one with the purpose of improving our results. All the medications we use are FDA approved. What makes this program different is not only the route of administration but the dosage and sequence of administration of the products. With the arrival of a new category of products called molecular targeted therapy, our results have significantly improved." Dr. Siller could provide examples of the drugs (or a subset of the drugs) used if he wished to. He does not, and that is utterly irresponsible.  But what about the “immunotherapy”? This is about all the clinic website says: "Can you explain the immunotherapy done in your program? Our Immunotherapy program consists in the application of patient’s own immunological cells extracted previously and “activated” to recognize and destroy the tumor cells of the patient." This could mean anything from just removing the patient’s white blood cells and treating them with various cytokines to “activate” them to doing a poor man’s CAR-T therapy.  The bottom line, I have to conclude, is that I have no idea what these guys are doing and calling “immunotherapy.” I also have little idea what they are doing except injecting chemotherapy into arteries leading to the brainstem given that they don’t state which drugs they are using or on what basis a chemotherapy regimen is chosen for each patient. Their treatment is a black box. He said the main problem with established medical protocol was that “you cannot move a millimetre outside what is written because you are out of the protocol. We are not using that. We are tailoring our treatment to every patient based on the circumstances.” In other words, we make it up as we go along and can’t tell you how we do it in a sufficiently clear manner to make it possible to write a protocol to do it in a clinical trial. This, of course, also means that they can’t teach their technique for picking chemotherapy drugs to anyone else.  Australian newspapers have published several Daily Mail-like credulous articles about Australian children with DIPG being taken to Monterrey by their parents for “last resort” experimental therapy. For example, in February, there was a headline in the Daily Telegraph “Little Annabelle Potts and her family have found hope with brain tumour treatment in Mexico.”  There’s another girl with DIPG being treated named Annabelle, Annabelle Nguyen. I also learned this: "They combined around 11 cocktail of drugs go in through the groin and then through the back with catheters, and inject a certain sequence of drugs to the brain stem and then they combine with Immunotherapy. We are looking at lifelong treatment till we get NED." I point to similar stories about other children from Australia, such as Doris Sun, Riaa Kulkarni, and several others. Exactly. Siller and Garcia have been at this two decades.  Elsewhere in the story, Dr. Siller is quoted as saying that he and Dr. Garcia aren’t making much money from their treatment. Never mind that the story also reports that their DIPG treatment makes up the bulk of their business now, that they now employ ten physicians, and have struck deals with local hospitals, such as Hospital Angeles, to treat their patients there. They also claim that they’d love to publish their results, but, sorry, they’re too darned busy working 18 hour days to save lives. Drs. Siller and Garcia also claim they have four patients with NED, including Annabelle Potts and Annabelle Nguyen, who were discussed above. Let’s look at updates for Annabelle Potts first. On her GoFundMe page we find an update from last month: "Last week, Annabelle just had her 10th IA treatment. The results from the MRI is not the news is not what we have hoped for. The original tumour is still essentially ‘dead’, but it looks as if there is some small new growth into the cerebellum. While this is absolutely not what we hoped for, we are so grateful that the doctors in Mexico picked this up before treatment and treated the area immediately!" I also can’t help but wonder if some of the progression observed in some of these patients was the same phenomenon that so often fooled Burzynski: Pseudoprogression. Pseudoprogression is a common phenomenon in brain tumors where, after conventional treatment with radiation and/or chemotherapy, the tumor will appear to be progressing because inflammation around the dying tumor appears indistinguishable from tumor on MRI. Any treatment, even ineffective treatment, will appear to “work” if administered while the cancer is in pseudoprogression because eventually the inflammation settles down and the area that lights up as a mass on MRI shrinks.  Annabelle Nguyen has fallen into a coma, and her family is stuck in Monterrey: Unfortunately, the Nguyen family are victims of arrogant and unscrupulous doctors, aided and abetted by social media that lead new victims to their clinic. If Drs. Siller and Garcia truly have made a major advancement in the treatment of DIPG, they have a moral obligation to publish their existing results and to accept help from the international medical oncology community to test their treatment in proper clinical trials. Continuing to charge $30,000 a pop for an unproven treatment for 10+ treatments is immoral given that there is no evidence that their treatment is superior to existing therapies. The longer they fail to do that, the more I suspect that the reason they don’t do it is because they don’t want to endanger their revenue stream.   To be an experimental therapy, the treatment has to be in active testing in the lab and in clinical trials, and the doctors running IDOI are not doing any research. They’re just treating and charging patients, excusing themselves from even the most basic requirement of publishing their own survival and recurrence statistics by saying they’re “too busy saving lives.”  Indeed, on the IDOI website under “medications,” this is all they say: "As part of our protocol we use an array of different drugs. Some of the drugs are helpful for cytotoxic chemotherapy, molecular targeted therapy, and immunotherapy. All these drugs are used in a particular sequence and dosage. All drugs are perceived as an important parameter in a pre-established time of infusion. All these conditions are extremely important to get the results we have. We worked for decades in order to improve these techniques and this is how we differentiate ourselves from others." Notice how they don’t mention even a single example.  An oncologist also contacted me after my post and let me know that there had been reason in the past for her to contact Drs. Siller and Garcia and ask them what they use. The response revealed that they used cisplatin 1 mg, cetuximab 15 mg, doxorubicin 0.25 mg, and Avastin 12.5 mg. Cetuximab interferes with the activity of the epidermal growth factor receptor, and is most commonly used for cancers like colorectal cancer and head-and-neck cancer. It has not been shown to prolong survival in DIPG, at least when combined with irinotecan. Avastin, of course, is an antiangiogenic agent (a drug that inhibits the ingrowth of new blood vessels by the tumor to feed itself). Results of a phase II trial testing it plus irinotecan against recurrent DIPG were disappointing as well, with no responses. I also can’t help but note that these doses are very low. For instance, a typical dose of Avastin is between 5-15 mg/kg every three weeks. For a typical child weighing 10-20 kg, we’re looking at a dose that could be as much as 20 times lower than recommended. (That’s leaving aside the fact that Avastin has not been FDA-approved for use in children, as far as I can tell, thus showing that Drs. Siller and Garcia are not being entirely accurate when they say they only use FDA-approved medication.)  Similarly, it’s been pointed out to me that the doses of doxorubicin and cisplatin are even lower. For instance, a dose of cisplatin in children for brain tumors off-label is around 60 mg/m2. (This is body surface area, or BSA, based dosing.) A typical three year old girl at the 50th percentile would be 95 cm tall and weigh around 14 kg, requiring a dose of 26 mg. Similarly, doxorubicin is normally dosed in children between 35-75 mg/m2. These are very low doses.  Now, an argument can be made that if you’re injecting it intra-arterially into the tumor you can achieve drug levels in the tumor high enough to do the job; that’s kind of the idea. However, does anyone think that Drs. Siller and Garcia actually did the difficult pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies in animals and humans necessary to determine these lower doses? ...If they did do the work and didn’t publish the results, then that’s arguably just as bad because they’re keeping important information secret. Basically, when you sum it up, the results of clinical trials of chemotherapy for DIPG have been very disappointing. So, basically, what we have here are several chemotherapeutic agents with no documented significant demonstrable activity against DIPG. I also note that this oncologist strongly suspected that Dr. Siller was not revealing the entire regimen, noting that either that was the case or they have incredibly expensive suppliers for their medication.  She also noted that even what was revealed was considerably more toxic than palliative radiation therapy, which is undeniably true. (Review articles that I read noted a fairly high incidence of bleeding into the tumor as a complication of some of these chemotherapy agents.)  And then, another person who’s had interaction with Dr. Siller wrote me and gave me a more comprehensive list dating to last year. The list includes trade name, generic name, and the process that the drug inhibits: Zaltrap (ziv-Aflibercept) (VEGF, angiogenesis) Laedemab (Nimotuzumab) (EGFR) Camptoop (Topotecan) (Topoisomerase) Opdivo (Nivolumab) (PD-1) Avastin (VEGF, angiogenesis) Trixilem (Methotrexate) (dihydrofolate reductase) Jevtana (Cabazitaxel) (Microtubule inhibitor) Yervoy (Ipilimumab) (CTLA-4) Adriamycin (Doxorubicin) (topoisomerase, histone eviction) Blastolem (Cisplatin) (DNA replication) Some of those drugs are old and not very expensive (e.g., methotrexate, doxorubicin), but some of them are new and damned expensive (e.g. Opdivo). Some of them are also redundant. Also, the more drugs you add, the more chances there are for adverse reactions, unexpected interactions, and synergistic toxicity. My jaw dropped when I read this full list.  Yes, it is possible that these chemotherapy agents, particularly injected right into the arteries leading to the brainstem, could produce responses in terms of tumor shrinkage, but only at the cost of significant toxicity. Let’s also not forget that these are children, some of whom are toddlers. Every time they undergo intra-arterial chemotherapy, they have to undergo general anesthesia. Let’s also not forget that each time they undergo intra-arterial chemotherapy, a large catheter has to be introduced into the femoral artery and guided to the proper arteries under fluoroscopy. The children also undergo repeated lumbar punctures to introduce the drugs intrathecally (into the cerebrospinal fluid that bathes the brain and central nervous system). So what’s different about this protocol? The answer I find on the IDOI FAQ: "IA treatment has been tried before what is the difference this time round? Certainly the treatment by this route (intra-arterial) has been tried in the past and still they do it in certain places. What makes it different is the preparation, mixing, dosing and sequential administration of the different drugs that make up our treatment model. We also use the intrathecal route to administer certain drugs. It’s entirely possible that infusing toxic chemotherapy and targeted therapy directly into the arteries feeding the tumor and into the cerebrospinal fluid could cause a DIPG to shrink. The problem, however, is the counterintuitive experience over many decades that tell oncologists that initial tumor response/shrinkage does not necessarily mean improved overall survival.  clinics like Clínica 0-19 are subject to survivor bias, in which we hear about the patients who do better than expected but not so much (more like nothing, really) about patients who do average or worse than expected.  the patients he treats, particularly those from Australia and the UK, can all withstand repeated long trips to Mexico, which suggests that they are in better shape physiologically than the average DIPG patient, and they come from families who either can afford the $300,000 in charges or can raise that much money rapidly. One would expect that these patients as a group would be likely to do better than average anyway. this parent, as angry as she might have been at me and as much as she thought she had a “gotcha” moment, filled me in: "Furthermore, their immunotherapy is also not done at the clinic. The blood is sent to a lab at the University of Monterrey, the white and red blood cells are separated and dendritic T Cells are added, which are closely monitored by published Doctor Cristina Rodriguez and her chemists. Once matured, which takes 7 days, they are transported to Hospitale Angeles where they are infused back into the child’s body during their treatment." First, I found out that there is no faculty with that name at the University of Monterrey. However, there is a María Cristina Rodríguez Padilla, PhD at the University of Nuevo Leon who looks as though she fits the description based on her CV and university webpage. this sounds like the right Prof. Cristina Rodríguez, although I can’t be 100% sure. Certainly she appears to have the right qualifications. But dendritic cells? Seriously? This is 1990s technology.  Basically, dendritic cells are antigen-presenting cells. Their main function is to process antigen and then present it on their cell surfaces to T cells. This makes them a crucial component of the mechanism by which vaccines generate specific immune responses. Methods for exploiting dendritic cells to treat cancer generally include either stimulating them to accentuate their anticancer activity or to remove them, stimulate them in a test tube outside of the body, and then reinfuse them. There are a variety of strategies for achieving this stimulation. Without knowing exactly what it is that Rodríguez is doing, it’s hard to figure out how likely she is to be successful. Dendritic cells as a strategy for cancer immunotherapy are still under study, but results have been disappointing, with classic objective tumour response rates rarely exceeding 15%. More importantly, there are very few data on dendritic cells as a potential treatment for DIPG. The most recent study I could find was this one from Spain, which concluded nothing more than that it was possible to use dendritic cells to generate a DIPG-specific immune response. That’s not to say that combining some form of dendritic cell vaccination with other therapies might not end up being effective, but in DIPG at least this strategy is in its infancy, with what can at best be described as potential proof-of-principle studies published. Using dendritic cells along with intra-arterial chemotherapy without a lot more clinical and preclinical data is not justified scientifically. In fact, it’s downright unethical. As for Prof. Rodríguez-Padilla, I was hard-pressed to find anything on PubMed that resembles what she is supposed to be doing with dendritic cells and DIPG. There are no publications by her on DIPG, and there is only one publication by her involving dendritic cells and AIDS. She isn’t even the first author, either. She does have papers on immunotherapy and cancer, though. (Oddly enough, she’s also co-author on an article about the psychological effects of group hypnotherapy on breast cancer patients during chemotherapy.)  "In order to get a list of medications used you will need to set up a call because the treatment is tailored to the child’s tumor and needs, and your child’s medical history. He uses multiple drugs and it’s the delivery method that is important as well, not just the medications used. The medication is based around the tumor. Again, if you are wanting to know more about treatment protocol you will need to call the clinic and set up a conference call." "Below you will find a post with the most recent info on the treatment and pricing by by [sic] a DIPG mom who inquired with the clinic and kindly shared the info in a post for other parents. Generally parents have said to expect each treatment and trip to be around $20,000. Please read:" “Dr Siller and Dr Garcia have been doing IA treatment for 18-20 years on various brain tumors. Different drugs are used for different tumor types and makeup. It is not a one size fits all situation. The newest drugs are producing more advanced results. Over the years he has had children with different brain tumors reach NED. The longest one is at 5 years and they are in observation still. They do regular visits with their local Onc and Dr Siller and Garcia, They [sic] are in school full time and not on steroids. With the current program of drugs for DIPG, and immunotherapy, there is a lot of promise to be able to reach NED. They are currently working with their local hospital to have it accept out of country insurance. As in they will work with your insurance company for payments.This has not gone through yet but they are hoping it will soon. "Pricing: 15-17K USD. Breakdown –  $7500 for professional fees for Dr Siller and his entire team in total.  $3500 negotiated for the drugs with the pharmacy.  Total of $11000 USD to be paid up front prior to appointment confirmation.  After that $5000-6000 for ICU/Procedure/MRI before procedure to be paid to hospital.  Immunotherapy: typically would begin after multiple cycles and off steroids for a few months. This is an IA and cervical lymph node infusion. They require 200 ml of blood to get dendritic and other cells. This varies from IOZK immunotherapy. This is $10,000 USD and is through the local immunotherapy clinic.  "You initially will plan for 4-6 weeks of stay. If you are deemed well you can leave as soon as possible however you must be fully functional. After the initial visit you will return every 3 weeks, for the $15-17K every time until NED is reached. For IA and Immunotherapy together you can expect to spend about $33,000+ (that’s just for treatments) each time (£25,000)." as this post puts it: "Medication is administered to the brain stem Basilar & Femoral arteries. The procedure is performed minimum every 17 days. An MRI will be taken before each IA procedure to allow them to see how the tumor has reacted and tailor the following treatment. 2 insertions are made, one in the groin and one in the back. Children are taken straight to ICU after then moved into a private room. The amount of nights/days in the hospital will depend on how your child recovers. Children also have a pediatric doctor assigned to them while in the hospital. You will need to have access to “I-translate” as most of the nurses and hospital staff don’t speak English. You pay for every little thing you need, everything. You are required to pay a deposit when you arrive at the hospital and then pay the remainder before they discharge you. They accept Credit/debit cards and cash." In that very same Facebook post listing the costs and providing information for families, we learn this: "The treatment is Intra-arterial Chemotherapy Infusion Treatments and immunotherapy. They do immunotherapy but the child has to be totally off any steroids for several months." I listed another reason above why these children with DIPG treated through Clínica 0-19 are likely to be in better shape physiologically than the average DIPG patient. Here’s another. They have to be off steroids, not just briefly but for several months. Any child with DIPG who can be off steroids for several months had a tumor that responded very well to radiation therapy and remained dormant for quite some time and/or is a more indolent, slow-growing variety of DIPG. Speaking of conventional therapy, here’s another disturbing aspect of IDOI’s protocol that I didn’t mention last week: "It is preferred that the child has NOT had radiation before IA treatment, but is not required. They will treat children who have had radiation and have even treated children who have had it twice. After treatment – The child may experience headaches, sickness, fever, backache, groin pain, and loss of appetite immediately after treatment." On the IDOI FAQ: "What are your thoughts on radiation? Usually we do not indicate radiotherapy in our patients, when we come to need it (very occasionally), we indicate it in a particular way in an attempt of being the least aggressive with healthy brain tissues around the tumor. Can we get treatment without doing radiation? Yes, that would be ideal. For us, radiation is the last choice." Most patients who end up at Clínica 0-19 appear to have already had radiation therapy and then shown evidence of recurrence, the recurrence being what drives parents to seek out alternatives. However, telling parents that they should forego radiation therapy in favor of an unproven treatment, saving it for absolutely the last resort while Drs. Siller and Garcia subject their child to their unproven, invasive, and potentially toxic therapy, is the height of irresponsibility. All the red flags are there: a highly secretive clinic whose doctors won’t publish their protocol or even survival statistics; charging families enormous sums of money, cash on the barrelhead; no science to support their claims; and a network of patients and supporters who both sell the clinic’s treatment through their testimonials and attack critics. That is Burzynski’s model. It is also the Hallwang Clinic’s model. It is Clínica 0-19’s model.    This is the conclusion of my series on Clínica 0-19, the cancer clinic where Drs. Alberto Siller and Alberto Garcia see patients with DIPG, a deadly brain tumor, whom they treat at Hospital Angeles in Monterrey Mexico with an unproven combination of intra-arterial chemotherapy with up to 11 drugs and a poorly defined dendritic cell immunotherapy.  What Drs. Alberto Siller and Alberto Garcia are doing through their Instituto de Oncología Intervencionista (IDOI, or the Institute of Interventional Oncology) at Hospital Angeles involves more invasive treatments than Burzynski’s, including multiple cerebral angiographies (with the attendant sedations and anesthesias necessary) and the injection of up to 11 toxic chemotherapy drugs directly into the brain.  Based on what I learned of the protocol, this treatment is highly improbable, with doses of chemotherapy too low to do anything even accounting for being injected directly into the arteries leading to the brainstem and a dendritic cell-based immunotherapy that can’t possibly result in a sufficient number of dendritic cells to do anything.  Addy Joy Sooter,  four year old girl from Arkansas who recently died of DIPG after an 18 month course Annabelle Nguyen,  Here is what happened beginning in August 2015:  Annabelle was diagnosed with DIPG less than a month before her 3rd birthday. Her parents noticed that she was walking differently, wobbling from side-to-side and leaning forward. She also initiated a new bedtime routine of screaming and rubbing her eyes uncontrollably. They were living in Vietnam at the time, and Annabelle’s first MRI was inconclusive, so they flew to Australia for an emergency follow up scan, which showed a tumor in her brainstem. The medical care in Australia was par for the course for DIPG treatment: radiation, and wait for the inevitable. Annabelle completed 30 rounds of radiation, and then the family returned to Vietnam, where Annabelle’s father Trung took a job with the family business. While living in Vietnam, Annabelle was treated using acupuncture, Chinese medicine, and qigong. She’d been faring quite well, until a routine scan in May showed that Annabelle was in progression. . They learned about Mexico the way a lot of other families have—through social media. After selling most of their belongings to afford the first treatments, Sandy brought Annabelle to Monterrey, leaving Trung and Annabelle’s 2-year-old sister Alyssa behind. They arrived in Mexico on May 22nd, and Annabelle had had two IA treatments and one immunotherapy at the time we visited with them. The fundraising happens on Facebook. It happens on GoFundMe. It happens in the media, particularly in tabloids like the Daily Mail, which frequently post glowing stories about children like Nguyen that help their families to raise still more money.  Then, early this year, stories started appearing about Annabelle, stories like “Australian girl, 5, is miraculously HEALED of cancer thanks to revolutionary treatment in Mexico after doctors gave her just weeks to live when she was diagnosed with an ‘incurable’ brain tumour.” (Yes, it’s the Daily Mail.)  I’m not a neuroradiologist, but first of all there are nowhere near enough images to tell whether the tumor has responded to treatment. Second, there’s no way of knowing that what happened with Amelia’s tumor isn’t what’s happening here. Yes, it’s better to have low (or no) PET activity on a PET-CT scan than to have high activity. However, there are a lot of caveats. MRI is the preferred diagnostic imaging test, because, as is explained here, the findings on CT scan can be rather subtle.  Contrast enhancement is seen in the minority of DIPG, and when present is typically mild. There may be some indication of necrosis, and the basilar artery is commonly engulfed by tumor. Hemorrhage and calcification are uncommon. In other words, these tumors typically don’t light up a lot on MRI. So, basically, these images don’t tell us anything one way or the other about whether the treatment worked. Yet Dr. Siller told the family: Here it is: The tumor that was in Annabelle’s pons is no longer visible on any scan, and there is ZERO tumor activity anywhere in her brain. Because of some residual inflammation, they are not able to say for certain that there is no evidence of disease (NED), but they did say that this is the “most perfect report they have seen.” Can you imagine the horrible burden that was laid on Annabelle’s parents in late January? Because of Dr. Siller, they truly believed that their daughter was cured of an incurable brain tumor but that if they stopped the treatment the cancer would come back and she would die.  Even if the CT-PET scan were as Dr. Siller claimed, how do they know how long to continue the treatments? They don’t, because they haven’t done anything even resembling a clinical trial.  Three months later, Annabelle’s symptoms started worsening again and she started becoming hypoxic. Basically, Annabelle’s tumor had recurred—again, I doubt that she was ever rendered NED—and begun to progress, with an additional tumor in her pons, and both tumors extending into her cerebellum. What did Dr. Siller and Garcia want to do? In our discussion with the doctors about our next steps, they said that they want to move her treatments up to every three weeks. They feel confident that they can get the tumors under control by doing this. Based on what evidence did they want to do this? Again, none. Any competent oncologist would at this point recommend switching to palliative care, to spare the child as much suffering as possible, but not Dr. Siller.  poor Annabelle became unresponsive and needed the surgical insertion of a shunt to drain the fluid accumulating in her brain’s ventricles. After the procedure, she was basically unresponsive, in a coma. She underwent an EEG, which showed very low activity. A few days later, Annabelle suffered a collapsed lung, most likely a ventilator-related complication: A week and a half after her treatment, Annabelle underwent another CT scan: According to her mom, this showed widespread inflammation. Meanwhile, the bills kept coming in, $18,000 for the shunt surgery and her time in the ICU up to that point, with, as I mentioned last week, $2,500 per day in hospital charges. Parker Monhollon Parker Monhollon was a girl from Silver Lake, Kansas, who was diagnosed with DIPG at age 8 in January 2016 and, sadly, passed away almost exactly a year ago in Monterrey. I’m presenting her case because she suffered quite a few complications during the course of her treatments, thus illustrating that Dr. Siller’s treatments are not only unproven and very likely ineffective, but also not benign.  About a week before Christmas, 2015 Amanda and Danny started to notice that Parker’s eyes were looking different, the left one would stray toward the nose when it should’t [sic] be. Amanda had the eye appointment made for January 19, 2016. Meanwhile Parker’s school nurse had contacted Amanda about concerns with Parkers vision. The next week the school nurse called again and her and Amanda both agreed that Parker’s eyes looked worse and Parker had complained of headache and some double vision by now. Amanda was able to get her in to see Dr. Hefner on Tuesday January 12, 2016 and he told Amanda his recommendation is an MRI, to just rule out anything and then hopefully start vision therapy and possibly an eye surgery if needed. The MRI was finally done on January 15, 2016.  A Brain Tumor was the diagnosis. The next day, Saturday January 16, 2016 we received the news of the type of brain tumor, a DIPG.  Parker underwent radiation at St. Jude’s Hospital, immunotherapy in Germany, a biopsy of her tumor at UCSF—which ended up disturbing the cells and spreading the cancer to her spine, and re-radiation beginning in October of 2016.  Notice how puffy she’s become, almost certainly from a lot of steroids. Of course, this makes me wonder if at this time Dr. Siller still required patients to have been off steroids for months before he would treat them. It turns out that she was on a steroid taper when this happened: There was leakage from around the stitches of her Ommaya reservoir. An Ommaya reservoir is a catheter system for infusing drugs into the cerebrospinal fluid. It involves a semi-permanent catheter and a reservoir placed beneath the scalp that can be accessed much like a Mediport. the reservoir became infected: Of course, Parker didn’t need an Ommya for the simple reason that there’s no good evidence that the Clínica 0-19 protocol is effective and no good clinical trial evidence that using such a system to infuse chemotherapy prolongs the lives of DIPG patients. Consequently, this was an unnecessary complication. Parker was basically in the hospital for three weeks without having had any treatment for her cancer because of the complications from the Ommaya reservoir that required placement of an external shunt, and she was having problems with her Mediport, which had been placed a year before, to the point where it had to be replaced. Then, she developed pneumonia and had to be placed on a ventilator, and her left eye couldn’t be closed all the way: Unfortunately, it wasn’t long before Parker developed a recurrent pneumonia: By then, the hospital bill had climbed to six figures. While this is much less than the bill would have been for such a stay in a US hospital, health insurance wouldn’t cover this, leaving the family on the hook for the whole bill. Interestingly, the doctors there decided to do a tracheotomy, G-tube, and Nissen fundoplication to address her recurrent pneumonias.  The last two posts are beyond sad. The family was still in Mexico. Their daughter had deteriorated, suffering many complications that had cascaded from the initial insult from the infection of the Ommaya reservoir. On July 5, 2017, Parker’s mother Amanda posted that she basically knew her daughter was going to die.  In this video, Ms. Monholland revealed that Parker no longer had any brain activity (i.e., she was apparently brain dead) but that the hospital wouldn’t disconnect the life support because, according to her, Mexico doesn’t allow advanced directives or Do Not Resuscitate orders. That meant, according to here, that they were just going to wait until Parker’s heart stopped. Doing a little searching, I discovered that it’s not true that Mexico doesn’t have a law permitting advanced directives (it passed one in 2008) but that it is true that the law is not well known. It is also true that palliative care is a big problem in Mexico, with few public healthcare institutions offering it, particularly for children.  Parker died the next day. I also learned from someone who wrote me that Dr. Siller does not like patients’ parents who are a bit too…inquisitive. Basically the story that was related was that a relative had a child with DIPG and went to Clïnica 0-19 for a consultation. Here’s the story as related to me in an email with permission to post it as long as I anonymized everything: Prior to my relative travelling to Mexico I assisted him in preparing a list of approx 20 questions for Drs Siller and Garcia including requesting details of all the drugs that would be administered, specific outcome data on all patients they had treated, why their results weren’t published etc etc. The final question was on the ethics of withholding their treatment protocol from international colleagues and thereby precluding children being treated in their own countries without the costs and social disruption frequent trips to Monterrey entail. The answers to the questions were grossly inadequate and the final question made Dr Siller annoyed. My nephew, a lawyer, decided this treatment was not appropriate for his daughter and they returned to Australia. His daughter died in January this year. All of these questions were entirely appropriate. If Dr. Siller can’t or won’t answer them for potential patients, he cannot be said to be giving them true informed consent, which is also incredibly arrogant, paternalistic, and unethical, so much so that I strongly suspect that Drs. Siller and Garcia know that what they’re doing is ethically unacceptable and quite possibly know that their treatment does no better for DIPG than conventional therapy and possibly even worse.  example below examples below Cite error: A list-defined reference with group name "" is not used in the content (see the help page).  Cite error: A list-defined reference with group name "" is not used in the content (see the help page).  Cite error: A list-defined reference with group name "" is not used in the content (see the help page).  Cite error: A list-defined reference with group name "" is not used in the content (see the help page).  Cite error: A list-defined reference with group name "" is not used in the content (see the help page).  Cite error: A list-defined reference with group name "" is not used in the content (see the help page).  Cite error: A list-defined reference with group name "" is not used in the content (see the help page).  Cite error: A list-defined reference with group name "" is not used in the content (see the help page). 