Project Rastko — Internet Library of Serb Culture (Serbian: Пројекат Растко — Електронска библиотека српске културе, Projekat Rastko — Elektronska biblioteka srpske kulture) is a non-profit and non-governmental publishing, cultural and educational project dedicated to Serb and Serb-related arts and humanities. It is named after Rastko Nemanjić. The project was established in 1997 as a part of a pan-regional Balkans Cultural Network Initiative . Its main activities are: The apex of the project is its electronic library with more than half a gigabyte of material, comprising electronic books and articles, photographs and  comics. Though most texts are in Serbian language there is a body of material in other languages, again mostly in English and Russian, but also in French, German, Spanish and other languages.  The library contains material in both the public domain and copyrighted texts published with the authors' permissions , dating from earliest medieval Serb texts to contemporary science fiction. The site of the project also hosts several sites not directly related to the project. Project Rastko also hosts the European version of Distributed Proofreaders, which intends to supply Project Gutenberg with public domain texts in European languages. Project Rastko is organising a coalition of European e-libraries for the purpose of collecting public domain works, aiming to eventually have a node of Distributed Proofreaders in each European country. Currently (2007) the project has following regional centres: Each of them is autonomous, and develops its projects and activities through local academic, cultural, media NGOs and individuals, including strong co-operation with ethnic minorities centres. Future activities of Belgrade centre will include projects about Slovak, Jewish and  Roma/Gypsy as well as for 29 other ethnocultural minorities in South-Eastern Europe. This article incorporates some copyrighted text from the website of the project that is used with permission. 