The Association for Ocular Pharmacology and Therapeutics (AOPT) is an organization that welcomes members from disciplines related to ocular pharmacology and its therapeutic applications. The mission of AOPT is the sustenance of a scientific network aiming the dissemination of knowledge in the field of ocular disease, pharmacology and therapeutics. AOPT was begun informally in the 1970s by Dr. George Chiou   as special sessions at the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology  conferences. It grew to an official separate Symposium of Ocular Pharmacology meeting of academicians, clinicians, and pharmaceutical industry at Novi, Michigan in August 1993.  The participants voted to charter the organization and this was accomplished the next year with the first AOPT meeting held in New Orleans, Louisiana in January 1995. The founding board comprised Drs. George Chiou (president), David Lee (vice-president), Hitoshi Shichi (treasurer), and Herbert Kaufman (trustee). During the early FASEB years, Chiou also established the Journal of Ocular Pharmacology, now the Journal of Ocular Pharmacology & Therapeutics. The history of AOPT is closely related to the Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology (ARVO).  The mission of AOPT is to help researchers and eye-care professionals in their efforts toward the understanding and the treatment of eye diseases. AOPT scientific dissemination involves preclinical and clinical pharmacologists and researchers. Scientific dissemination is promoted through biennial meetings   and the peer-reviewed journal: Journal of Ocular Pharmacology and Therapeutics (JOPT). JOPT is the official journal of AOPT. It is a multidisciplinary journal that covers the latest findings related to pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of pharmaceuticals used in the treatment of ocular disorders.  AOPT has a diverse leadership and membership which include principal investigators, scientists, medical professionals, technicians, and students with an interest in ocular pharmacology and therapeutics. The directive committee and members come from academic institutions and private companies worldwide. Members of AOPT and societies in the field of eye research, gather every year at the annual ARVO meeting, in which the latest findings in vision and ophthalmology research are disseminated. Societies in the field of eye research span from preclinical to clinical and a few of these societies are hereby listed: 