The European College of Neuropsychopharmacology (ECNP) is a pan-European, non-profit scientific association that serves as a platform to exchange and promote research in the field of neuropsychopharmacology. The ECNP “is committed to ensuring that advances in the understanding of brain function and human behaviour are translated into better treatments and enhanced public health”.  The ECNP organizes a number of activities to achieve this aim, such as a yearly congress, schools, workshops, seminars and supported talks. In 1984 representatives of neuropsychopharmacological societies from across Europe suggested there might be room for a European structure. A meeting to discuss this plan further was held in Copenhagen in May 1985. It was decided that a European College of Neuropsychopharmacology would be founded. A Working Group was formed to plan of the association’s inaugural scientific congress. This congress was held in Brussels in 1987. Around 500 people attended.  The Working Group consisted of:  In 1993 the College established a permanent secretariat in Utrecht, Netherlands.  The ECNP’s executive organ is the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee consists of six officers (the president, vice- president, president-elect, past-president, secretary and treasurer) and a maximum of six councillors. The Executive Committee has a three year term.  The 2013-2016 Executive Committee consists of:  Celso Arango, Spain, president  Guy Goodwin, United Kingdom, Past-President   Gitte Moos Knudsen, Denmark, president-elect  Joseph Zohar, Israel, past-president  Laurence Lanfumey, France, Vice-President  Eduard Vieta, Spain, treasurer Martien Kas, The Netherlands, Secretary  Councillors:  Elisabeth Binder, Germany  Damiaan Denys, The Netherlands  Suzanne Dickson, Sweden Catherine Harmer, Germany  Per Svenningsson, United Kingdom  Stefano Pallanti, Italy Gil Zalsman, Israel Chair Scientific Programme Committee:  Astrid Linthorst, United Kingdom  Editor-in-Chief European Neuropsychopharmacology  Andreas Meyer-Lindenberg, Germany  Executive Director  Alexander Schubert, The Netherlands Past presidents are:  Joseph Zohar, Israel (2010-2013) David Nutt, United Kingdom (2007-2010) Julien Mendlewicz, Belgium (2004-2007) Yves Lecrubier, France (2002-2004) Jan M. van Ree, Netherlands (1998-2002) Manfred Ackenheil, Germany (1995-1998) Stuart A. Montgomery, United Kingdom (1992-1995) Salomon Z. Langer, France (1989-1992) Carl-Gerhard Gottfries, Sweden (1987-1989) The Executive Committee oversees the work of various sub-committees of the Executive Committees. These committees are staffed by scientists working in the field of neuropsychopharmacology.  Committees independent from the Executive committee are: The ECNP publishes European Neuropsychopharmacology, which is a monthly peer-reviewed scientific journal. Michael Davidson is the Editor-in-Chief. Alliance for Biomedical Research in Europe  European Brain Council (EBC) (founder member) Federation of European Neuroscience Societies (FENS) (founder member) International Union of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology (IUPHAR) 