The European Association for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics (EACPT) is a learned society in the field of clinical pharmacology. It is the leading society in Europe serving the European and global Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics community. It has its origins in a working party in the early 1980s under the auspices of the World Health Organisation (WHO-Europe). Subsequently, a committee was created in 1993 chaired by Folke Sjöqvist  with the remit to prepare the first congress of EACPT, held in Paris in 1995.  At that congress the founding EACPT Council elected an Executive Committee with Sjöqvist as chairman, Michael Orme (United Kingdom) as Honorary Secretary, Jochen Kuhlmann (Germany) as Treasurer, and Giampaolo Velo (Italy) as Vice-Chairman, with 26 European countries as members through their home country clinical pharmacology society or section.  The EACPT now includes all national organisations for clinical pharmacology in Europe and provides educational and scientific support for the more than 4000 individual professionals interested in Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics throughout the European region, with its congresses attended by a global audience. The EACPT promotes in Europe professional and ethical excellence and standards for clinical use of medicines and clinical research on drugs. The EACPT also aims to advise policy makers on how the specialty can contribute to human health and wealth.  Activities of the EACPT include advice to policy makers and agencies in Europe, holding European congresses and workshops, and publishing policy papers, meeting reports, proceedings of congresses and constituent symposia, and contents of specific lectures.   The EACPT also holds Focus Meetings.  Congresses  are open to delegates from Europe and anywhere in the world, including health professionals, researchers, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry professionals, regulators, policy makers, ethicists and others interested in drug discovery, and in clinical, cost-effectiveness and safety of medicines and related biomarkers.  The EACPT is led by an Executive Committee  formed from a council of delegates from affiliated national societies  for clinical pharmacology and therapeutics. The EACPT also has key Working Groups for Research, Ethics and Regulatory Matters, Education and Young Pharmacologists.  Clinical Therapeutics  