  CNEC Christian College (Chinese: 中華傳道會安柱中學) is a subsidised English Medium of Instruction school located in Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong. Founded in 1973, it is a Christian school. The school, with a floor area 100,000 square feet (9,300 square metre), comprises three teaching blocks (namely Hoi Tak Complex, Hau Ching Complex and Tak Shing Hall) with lift tower installed, a new teaching purposed wing besides Hoi Tak Complex was also founded few years ago, a covered playground, two basketball courts with nine basketball nets, two volleyball courts, two memorial gardens and a six-lane running track. A gym room is renovated locating in the ground floor of the campus. CNEC Christian College has long been famous for its Quiz Team (quizbowl) which has been joining every major quiz competition in Hong Kong since the 80's.  According to unofficial sources, over 75% of prizes of the college were won by the Quiz Team. The Annual dinner of Quiz Team is often held in August, in which current members and teachers in charge are in the list of invitation, distinguished alumni are also invited to join the high table. The incumbent heads of the team are Mr. Ng Kar-Ho, Mr. Cheng Chi-Shing and Mr. Yip Chik-Wing. Student Council of CNEC ("The Council") was established in the early 90s. The council composes of the Executive Committee and the representatives of all student organizations in the college. The role of student council is to be the bridge between the school and students. The council is obliged to serve both students and school authority by establishing a harmonious and effective learning environment. The election of student council has been changed from the individual system to cabinet since 2014. The first elected cabinet is Stardust with 10 members.  The chairman of the council is also the one who holds and calls general meetings. General meeting is an official occasion that allows student bodies, including four houses, different clubs and society, to initiate and report events planned to be held. The initiations will be questioned in the course by council members and participated teachers. Approval or disapproval for the initiation of events is given after the polling of student body representatives.   Advising teachers will have a regular internal meeting with the student council executive members every month to keep updated with the operations of council and advise the initiated events held by council executives. Some claim that this makes the advisors the authentically supreme leader of the council. They insist that advising teachers often unconstitutionally speak in the council and sometimes stop the hon. Councilors make statements therein as he might deem fit even though he assumes no seat in the council pursuant to the constitution. After all, the council executives committee members are those with the power to make the decisions but not the advisors. The dispute over who takes the lead in council is yet to be discussed. Significant events held by Student Council are Singing Contest and the Variety Show. For the former event, it is an annual big activity for all students to participate. It is a platform for those who are interested in singing and dancing to showcase their talent. Participants in the forms of individuals, groups and class will undergo audition, semi-finals and finals to win the first place. The final is held usually with the variety show. Variety Show is hence an event composes of the final of singing contest and the talent shows of four houses, council members or members of clubs and societies. Besides, student Council is also responsible for Local Student Exchange Programme, Foreign Student Exchange Programme and daily stationary selling etc. CNECCC does exceedingly well in the field of Mathematics and Chemistry. For many years has CNECCC had 100% percentage of credit of Pure Mathematics (AL). Few years ago, 9 out of 20 students got an A in Pure Mathematics (45% percentage of distinction).  The percentage of distinction of Pure Mathematics in 2007 was 22.22% (4/18), while it was 15.38% in Queen's College. The percentage of credit of Pure Mathematics at the same year was 94.4%(17/18), while it was 73.08% in Queen's College.    