  Kiangsu-Chekiang College, International Section (Chinese: 蘇浙公學國際部 pinyin: Sū zhè gōng xué guójì bù; KCCIS) is a private bilingual school, offering courses in English and Mandarin. The campus is on 20 Braemar Hill, North Point, Hong Kong. Students pursue their career through the IGCSE syllabus year 10-11 and the IB Diploma Programme in year 12-13. Students come from diverse backgrounds, with over 40  nationalities represented. Kiangsu-Chekiang College, International Section was established in early 2002 when there was a demand for an extension where primary 6 students would be able to continue on in the school. The school is using part of the school campus at Kiangsu-Chekiang College on Braemar Hill Road, North Point, for its upper Primary classes and the International Secondary section. The number of students in the school can range from 300 to 400, depending on the number of classes in each grade from year 7 to 13. With year 7s to 9s, they take the Key Stage 3 program; in years 10 to 11 they take the IGCSE program; and in years 12 to 13 they take the IB Diploma/IB Certificate.  Students in Kiangsu-Chekiang College, International Section are allocated into one of the four houses and compete in inter-house events, including sports and knowledge based competitions, such as football, basketball and the battle of books and battle of sciences etc. Houses are as following: The school has one music room, one common room, three badminton courts, two table tennis courts and two playgrounds KCCIS opens ECA (Extra Curricular Activities) which has registration at the start of the year. Students can sign up on the online portal. Activities include Badminton, Hockey, Rock Climbing, Ping Pong, and Swimming, UNICEF, Football, Drama, and Photography. KCCIS has a successful MUN. The club has 25 members from different grade levels, all of them being highly skilled in the practices of diplomacy, drafting, debating, public speaking, and research. The members attend conferences hosted by other schools.  The diplomatic year for MUN members starts in November, where the Victoria-Shanghai MUN is held, closely followed by the HARMUN, held at the Harrow International School Hong Kong, after which the smaller and more personal LPCMUN is held at Li Po Chun United World College, The HKMUN is the biggest and most important conference of the year, the conference was held at Hong Kong International School. The newest and most exclusive MUN is ISMUN, which was held at the Open University of Hong Kong.  