  The Y.W.C.A. Hioe Tjo Yoeng College  基督教女青年會丘佐榮中學  思明俊德 Think Critically and be Moral Y.W.C.A. Hioe Tjo Yoeng College (Chinese: 基督教女青年會丘佐榮中學) is a government-aided, English medium instruction (EMI), grammar school in Ho Man Tin, Hong Kong. Established in 1971, the school is run under the sponsorship of the Hong Kong Young Women's Christian Association and was founded with a donation from Mr. Hioe Tjo Yoeng. Thick Critically & be Moral To promote, in the Christian spirit, the all-round development of students, in their moral, intellectual, physical, social, aesthetic and spiritual aspects, so that they may have a sound character and the spirit of fellowship, serving the community and contributing to the betterment of mankind. Precision-oriented, caring and nurturing, towards excellence 嚴中有愛 According to the Hioe Tjo Yoeng College Student Handbook, HTYC not only is an acronym for Hioe Tjo Yoeng College, but also for Healthy, Tenacious, Young, Caring. Healthy: Healthy not only in body but also in mind: physically, mentally, morally and spiritually. Physical and moral strength are both critical to students' development and future success. Students are trained to be tough and resilient physically, and to be morally strong with good values and healthy characters. Tenacious; As of  2007[update], there are more than 800 students enroled at Hioe Tjo Yoeng College. At present, there are 4 classes for each of the secondary forms. The classes are separated as follows: XA  XB  XC  XD  (X is the form the students are in). Following the guidelines and subjects provided by the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (2007 to present), in Secondary 4, there shall be two classes accommodating students who chose 3 elective subjects and two classes for those who chose 2. Those who enrolled in Mathematics Module 2 shall be placed within a 3-elective class and a 2-elective class respectively. The students of each class starting from Secondary 4 shall remain the same upon upgrading to Secondary 5, then 6, unless some of the students fail to upgrade. The HTYC Student Union was established in 2015, the current Student Union, called Sparkles, consists of : Vice-Chairperson: [] Head Secretary: [] Secretary of Finance: [] Secretary of Recreation: [] Secretary of Propaganda: [] Sub-Committee members: [] [] [] [] [] [] [] The exact reason for the establishment of the Student Union is unclear. Each class in Secondary Form 1 shall be assigned to a House. There are four houses currently: Love, Hope, Faith, Grace. The house the students are assigned to shall remain the same until graduation to university. The main purpose for this division of unity is for the annual Athletics Meet to be arranged for entertainment and self-dignifying reasons. The Hioe Tjo Yoeng College Student Handbook Coordinates: 22°19′11″N 114°10′59″E﻿ / ﻿22.3198°N 114.1831°E﻿ / 22.3198; 114.1831  