This is a list of flags used in Sri Lanka. This flag is personal to every President of Sri Lanka as such the design changes when a new president assumes office.  The Golden colour Lion that carries a sword and the four Bo leaves at the four corners in the maroon colour background represents the Kandy District. The white lay out represents Matale District and Nuwaraeiya District that represents the Upcountry is symbolised by the white lotus.  The Sun and Moon are for Eternity.   Furthermore, King Dutugamunu left Magam Kingdom with the lion flag ahead for the battle to unite the country.  The flag is of a picture of a yellow lion on a red blood colour background.  Accordingly, it was decided to use for the Southern Provincial flag the picture of the lion running with a small sword (iluk koolaya) in its fore paw of the Ruhuna flag and the red colour and yellow colour of the flag taken in the war front by King Dutugamunu. It was decided to use the same for the Southern Province flag mixture of colours and the standard to represent all communities in Galle, Matara, and Hambantota and four bo leaves (Metta, Karuna, Muditha, Upeksha) of the national flag. It was agreed that the forms of the sun and moon of the flag of Southern Province flag should be in the same forms of the sun and moon of the flag of Devinuwara Devalaya and that the same form of that of the flag of Hambantota District.  Accordingly, it was expected to keep the integration of Galle, matara and Hambantota.  Therefore, Southern Province flag can be considered as a combination of several traditional flags. The small sword (iluk Koolaya) is the symbol of control, but it doesn't reflect terror or suppression.  Small sword represents Justice and fair.  Running lion represents velocity fearlessness and pride. The sun and moon stands for stability prosperity and augustness.  It expresses the traditional saying "Until the sun and moon exists". The sun and moon of the flag is considered to be symbols of victory. The combination of colours round the flag depict the existence of Southern Sri Lanka, victorious war history, religion and patriotism, mutual co-operation and harmony  The flag that was gifted to Uva Province by the King Sri  Wickrama Rajasinghe who ruled the kingdom of Kandy during the period 1798-1815 can be seen even today at the National Museum ( Courtesy:  Book entitled “Uva Ithihasaya” by Panditha Naulle Dhammananda Thero )  