The following is a list of flags of Malta. It featured the arms of Malta in banner form defaced with the device from her Personal Flag: a blue roundel with a crowned "E" surrounded by a wreath of gold roses.  Ratio 2:3. Some flags had been used prior to the creation of local councils in 1993. The coats of arms of the local councils are officially recognised, however the flags are not and thus a number of variants exist. Since 1993, a new local council, Mtarfa, has been created, and the local councils of Attard, Birżebbuġa, Floriana, Kalkara, Lija, Mellieħa, Mġarr, Mosta, Nadur, Naxxar, Paola, Qrendi, Siġġiewi, Xgħajra and Żebbuġ have changed their flags and coats of arms. Some, such as Mosta, had minor differences, but others, like Xgħajra changed the arms completely. Current flag adopted in 2000, previous flag was similar but with white central square. Current flag adopted in 2000, previous flag was dark blue with a yellow chain in orle and two yellow crossed keys in the centre. Current flag adopted in 2006, previous flag was divided per pale. The dexter side showed a red rampant lion with a golden head in a white field. The sinister side showed a golden winged arm holding upright a sword in natural colour. It was based on the coat of arms of the same Grandmaster. A variant of this flag also existed. Current flag adopted in 2009, previous flag with flame on blue field and no green border. Current flag adopted in 2000, previous flag had an orange tree. Current flag adopted in 2000, previous flag was a blue field with a sinister bendy white line and a white 5-point star upon the sinister chief point. Current flag adopted in 2000, previous flag was blue with a yellow cartwheel. Current flag adopted 2006 or 2007, previous flag had a blue star on a gold circle in the centre. Current flag adopted c.2000, previous flag was similar but cross horizontally counterchanged. Current flag adopted c.2000, previous flag was a golden spiral on a red background. Current flag adopted in 2000, previous flag had no border. Current flag adopted in April 2001, previous flag was similar but with a single red bar in the middle and the cross on the bar.  Current flag adopted in 2000, previous flag showed three ears of wheat on a blue background. Current flag adopted in 2000, previous flag was similar but without olive branch. Current flag adopted in 2000, previous flag showed a sun emerging from the base of the flag. 