  Solaris Pictures is an Indian film production company based in Mumbai. It was created by Sridhar Rangayan, and Saagar Gupta in 2001.  The two have gone on to create several award-winning films under Solaris Pictures' banner, focusing on LGBT issues and HIV/AIDS. Solaris Pictures is perhaps the only Indian film production company that has consistently been making bold and path-breaking films on issues such as homosexuality and gay rights, films that engage the audience and initiate dialogues on issues dealing with health and sexuality, human rights, and the gay and transgender communities. Previous productions include: The Pink Mirror, which has won two Best Film awards, and was screened at over 72 festivals; Yours Emotionally! which was played at several international festivals and 68 Pages, which won the Silver Remi award at the 2008 WorldFest Houston. These films have made visible Indian queer characters and issues to a global audience, through a unique style that combines Bollywood melodrama with international avant-garde film techniques.  Solaris Pictures is the Associate Producer of Project Bolo - an Indian LGBT Oral History Project that interviews 20 Indian LGBT persons in Mumbai, Pune, Lucknow and New Delhi.  Solaris Pictures believes in pushing the envelope - both as producer and as distributor, and in partnering with grassroots NGOs and community-based organizations in India, and international collaborators from around the world. It produces films that go beyond mere entertainment, to emotionally engage the audience and initiate dialogues about underserved issues like health and sexuality, human rights, gay and transgender issues. The company has also collaborated in producing more than 100 hours of television content for serials like Rishtey, Gubbare, Kagaar and has produced advertising for companies like Life Insurance Corporation of India, H & R Johnson, Godrej, Rupa, Zee TV. Thei social awareness films and spots for the National Institute for Hearing Handicapped, Cancer Patients Aid Association and Cama & Albless Hospital have been telecast on both DD National and Mumbai Doordarshan. Solaris Pictures is one of the principal organizers of Kashish Mumbai Queer Film Festival that was first held in April 2010 in Mumbai at PVR Cinemas and Alliance Francaise and then in 2011 and 2012 at Cinemax Versova and Alliance Francaise Solaris Pictures has also organized Flashpoint Human Rights Film Festival in Mumbai and New Delhi in 2010/2011 and 2011/2012.  Drama/ 90 mins / India / 2007 / Hindi with English subtitles Directed and Written by Sridhar Rangayan Producer: The Humsafar Trust  Associate Producer : Solaris Pictures Coming from a country like India that is still in denial, where being HIV+ is still a curse, 68 Pages rips open the underbelly of its society to reveal how it stigmatizes and shuns those who are HIV+ or even those who just want to be what they are. Through 68 Pages of a counselors diary, we see the stories of Paayal, a sex worker; Nishit, an ID user; Kiran, a gay man and Umrao, a transsexual bar dancer - their stories of pain and fear, humiliation and rejection - not only by the society, but even by their loved ones. While these stories expose the shallowness of the system, it also offers hope and healing by trying to bring about a better understanding of their fight to live with dignity. The film is a tribute to the human spirit of optimism and survival. { Source: imdb}   Drama/Gay / HD / 86 mins / UK-India / 2006 Directed and Written by Sridhar Rangayan Producer: Wise Thoughts (UK) Associate Producer: Solaris Pictures (India) Two Brits, Ravi and Paul travel to India where they meet Murthy and Anna an older gay couple that have managed to form a partnership and live together for over 20 years. When Ravi meets and falls for Mani an Indian national who is betrothed to be married. He turns to the older couple for advise and help but traditions die hard in India. {Source: imdb}   Drama/Gay / DV / 40 mins / India / 2003 / Hindi wst English Directed and Written by Sridhar Rangayan Produced by Solaris Pictures (India) The Pink Mirror pits two Indian drag queens against a westernized gay teenager in a battle to woo a handsome hunk. It's a clash of the east and west. The drag queens, who are expert in the art of seduction with their wit, innuendo and cunning or the young teenager who is saucy, slutty and sly? Underneath the campy humorous exterior, the film is an exploration of the Indian gay landscape and understanding of the deep, humanly tender bondings that exist between drag queens in India who form unique, non-patriarchal families. Using the Bollywood soap idiom of song, dance and drama and for the first time in the Indian drag queens' very own language, Hindi, the film also explores other veiled issues related to the Indian gay community: the lurking threat of HIV/AIDS. {Source: imdb}   Solaris Pictures' films and television projects have won several awards, both Indian and international. (for film “Gulabi Aaina) 