The Mariners' Museum and Park is located in Newport News, Virginia, United States. Designated as America’s National Maritime Museum by Congress, it is one of the largest maritime museums in North America. The Mariners' Museum Library, contains the largest maritime history collection in the Western Hemisphere.  The museum was founded in 1930 by Archer Milton Huntington, son of Collis P. Huntington, a railroad builder who brought the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway to Warwick County, Virginia, and who founded the City of Newport News, its coal export facilities, and Newport News Shipbuilding in the late 19th century. Huntington and his wife, the sculptor Anna Hyatt Huntington, acquired 800 acres (320 ha) of land that would come to hold 90,000 square feet (8,400 m2) of exhibition galleries, a research library, a 167-acre (68 ha) lake, a 5-mile (8.0 km) shoreline trail with fourteen bridges, and over 35,000 maritime artifacts from around the globe. After the land acquisition took place, the first two years were devoted to creating and improving a natural park and constructing a dam to create Lake Maury, named after the nineteenth-century Virginia oceanographer, Commodore Matthew Fontaine Maury. The museum’s collection totals approximately 32,000 artifacts, equally divided between works of art and three-dimensional objects. The scope of the collection is international and includes miniature ship models, scrimshaw, maritime paintings, decorative arts, carved figureheads, working steam engines, and the world's only known existing Kratz-built steam calliope.  The museum holds important collections of paintings and drawings by marine artists James Bard and Antonio Jacobsen.   The museum offers educational programs for all ages, a large research library and archives, as well as publications and Internet resources for teachers. The largest boat in its collection is the Oracle Team USA 17, the yacht that won the 2013 America's Cup.  USS Lancaster Eagle, John Haley Bellamy Scrimshaw panbone, 1857, Civil Heroes of the American Revolution and Washington Monument in Richmond, Virginia, created by Nathaniel S. Finney Miniature figure of a tattooed man, ca 1930s, was used in the shop of August "Cap" Coleman Model of the Steamboat Commonwealth crafted by John Dean Benton, ca. 1864 Elgin Cutlass pistol Intricate and lavish model, ca 1804, of HMS Royal Sovereign, Royal Yacht of King George III Ghana dugout canoe, ahima, 2004 Gold coin, ca 1361-1369, commemorating the Battle of Sluys County of Edinburgh on the Beach, ca 1902, by Antonio Jacobsen Gloucester Inner Harbor, 1850, by Fitz Henry Lane Octant made by Joseph Roux ca 1780 silver-plated mariner's astrolabe, 1645, made by Nicolao Ruffo Oracle Team USA's AC72, winner of the 2013 America's Cup The Mariners' Museum is home to the USS Monitor Center. In 1973, the wreck of the ironclad USS Monitor, made famous in the Battle of Hampton Roads in 1862, during the American Civil War, was located on the floor of the Atlantic Ocean about 16 miles southeast of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina.  The wreck site was designated as the United States' first national marine sanctuary. Monitor Sanctuary is the only one of the thirteen national marine sanctuaries created to protect a cultural resource, rather than a natural resource or a mix of natural and cultural resources.  The Monitor National Marine Sanctuary is now under the supervision of the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.   Many artifacts from Monitor, including her innovative turret, propeller, anchor, engine and some personal effects of the crew, have been brought to the museum. For several years, they were conserved in special tanks to stabilize the metal. The new USS Monitor Center officially opened on March 9, 2007, and a full-scale replica of the Monitor, the original recovered turret, and many artifacts and related items are now on display.   Current efforts are focused on restoring the engine.  Propeller from USS Monitor Dahlgren gun The Mariners' Museum Park is 550 acres of privately maintained, naturally wooded property that offers visitors a quiet and serene place to walk, run, or picnic. Within the Park is the 167-acre Lake Maury, named for the famed 19th-century oceanographer and native Virginian, Matthew Fontaine Maury. Following the shoreline of Lake Maury is the five-mile Noland Trail. Dedicated as a gift from the Noland Family in 1991 and with significant ongoing financial support from the Noland Family, the trail has fourteen bridges, picnic areas, benches, handicap access, and mile markers. Each fall The Mariners' Museum hosts a 10K run on the Noland Trail. The Mariners’ Museum Park is open daily to the public. Benches at approximately every half-mile offer places of rest along the trail, and views of Lake Maury can be found around every corner. The famous Lions Bridge, a dam that provides a scenic view of the James River, remains a highlight for visitors—a perfect family gathering place to enjoy the Museum Park. The beauty of the dam is enhanced by several fine pieces of statuary designed by Anna Hyatt Huntington, sculptor and wife of Museum founder Archer Milton Huntington. Four stone lions were mounted on the ends of the parapets of the dam in October 1932. Anna also created and dedicated a monument entitled Conquering the Wild that overlooks the Lions Bridge, the park, and Lake Maury. 