This is a list of presidential trips made by Barack Obama during 2013, the fifth year of his presidency as the 44th President of the United States. This list excludes trips made within Washington, D.C., the U.S. federal capital in which the White House, the official residence and principal workplace of the President, is located. Additionally excluded are trips to Camp David, the country residence of the President, and to the private home of the Obama family in Kenwood, Chicago. On March 21, President Obama and Prime Minister Netanyahu toured the Israel Museum, where he viewed the Dead Sea Scrolls and a technology exhibition.  The President then traveled to Ramallah, where he met with President Mahmoud Abbas to further discuss the Israeli–Palestinian peace process,  followed by a joint press conference and a working lunch. He then met with Prime Minister Salam Fayyad, visited the Al-Bireh Youth Resource Development Center,  and delivered a speech to Israeli students at the International Convention Center, back in Jerusalem.  In the evening, President Peres hosted a state dinner for President Obama, where Obama was honored the President's Medal.  On March 22, President Obama attended a wreath-laying ceremony at the graves of Theodor Herzl and former Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin at Mount Herzl and paid his respects at Yad Vashem.  Before departing Israel, the President visited the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem.   On June 29, President Obama held a bilateral meeting with President Jacob Zuma at the Union Building in Pretoria, where regional issues were discussed, including the Kivu conflict, the political situation in Zimbabwe, and South Africa's efforts in combating HIV/AIDS, followed by a joint press conference. He participated in a town hall meeting with young Africans at the University of Johannesburg's Soweto campus,  met with African Union Chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to discuss the importance of the African Union's efforts for democracy, regional peace, and regional security,  and attended an official dinner hosted by President Zuma. The President also met with the family of former President Nelson Mandela, who was critically ill, at the Nelson Mandela Centre of Memory.  On June 30, President Obama and the First Family traveled to Cape Town, where they visited Robben Island, the former prison of Mandela.  The President then visited the Desmond Tutu HIV Foundation Youth Center, where he met with Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu for a round table discussion,  before delivering a speech at the University of Cape Town, urging young Africans to carry out former President Mandela's legacy.  On July 1, the President and the First Family departed Cape Town.   After arriving in Stockholm on September 4, President Obama met with Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt for a bilateral meeting and a joint press conference at Rosenbad. The two heads of government discussed Sweden's efforts on renewable energy and climate change, as well as strategies on dealing with the Syrian Civil War.  They later visited the Stockholm Synagogue to celebrate the beginning of Rosh Hashanah, where the President paid his respects to Raoul Wallenberg.  After, President Obama and Prime Minister Reinfeldt visited the Royal Institute of Technology, where they visited an exhibit presenting innovative research on renewable energy through solar and fuel cell technology.  In the evening, President Obama and Prime Minister Reinfeldt attended a dinner with the other Nordic leaders, specifically Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt, Finnish President Sauli Niinistö, Icelandic Prime Minister Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg.  Before departing Stockholm the following day, President Obama met with King Carl XVI Gustaf and Queen Silvia at the Stockholm Palace.  The following day, President Obama addressed the sixty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly, where he discussed his foreign policy efforts on the conflicts in the Middle East, particularly the Arab–Israeli conflict, the peace process of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, the comprehensive agreement on Iran's nuclear program, and the Syrian Civil War.  After the address, the President met with the United Nations General Assembly President John William Ashe, before holding a bilateral meeting with Lebanese President Michel Suleiman, where he also announced a donation of $74 million to Lebanon for their assistance in the Syrian refugee crisis.  In the afternoon, the President met with United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, attended the luncheon hosted by Ban, and met with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to further discuss the Israeli–Palestinian peace process.   President Obama also participated in the Clinton Global Initiative Annual Meeting at the Sheraton New York Times Square Hotel, where the importance of a health care reform was discussed with the Clinton family.   Before departing New York, the President and the First Lady attended a Democratic National Committee fundraising event at the Waldorf Astoria New York.           