This is a list of presidential trips made by Barack Obama during 2015, the seventh year of his presidency as the 44th President of the United States. This list excludes trips made within Washington, D.C., the U.S. federal capital in which the White House, the official residence and principal workplace of the President, is located. Additionally excluded are trips to Camp David, the country residence of the President, and to the private home of the Obama family in Kenwood, Chicago, Illinois. In the San Francisco Bay Area, President Obama attended the annual meeting of the United States Conference of Mayors. He also attended fundraising events for the Democratic National Committee and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.   President Obama arrived at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in the Kenyan capital Nairobi on the evening of Friday, July 24, where he was welcomed in the tarmac by Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta and his half-sister Auma.  After arriving, Obama dined with other members of his paternal family at a restaurant in his hotel.   On Saturday, July 25, President Obama delivered remarks at the 2015 Global Entrepreneurship Summit held at the United Nations Office at Nairobi, where he urged African entrepreneurs to promote security and development while working towards economic growth in the African continent.  He also visited an innovation fair organized to promote his "Power Africa" initiative of promoting electric power and renewable energy in the Sub-Saharan Africa.   Later that day, President Obama laid a wreath and paid his respects at a memorial honoring the victims of the 1998 U.S. embassy bombings.  Obama then headed to the State House for an official welcoming ceremony and a bilateral meeting with President Kenyatta, where the two presidents mainly discussed counter-terrorism with regards to dealing with al-Shabaab.  In the evening, the President was hosted a state dinner by President Kenyatta.  On Sunday, July 26, President Obama delivered a speech addressing the Kenyan people at the Safaricom Indoor Arena. In his speech, he urged Kenyans to eradicate corruption, confront terrorism, and combat inequality, saying: "You can choose the path to progress, but it requires making some important choices... it means continuing down the path of a strong, more inclusive, more accountable and transparent democracy" to "help you extend opportunity, and educate youth, and face down threats, and embrace reconciliation."   Before departing Kenya, Obama met with civil society groups at Kenyatta University and toured the Nairobi National Park.     President Obama traveled to Anchorage and attended the GLACIER conference, regarding the effects of climate change in the Arctic.  President Obama also visited the towns of Dillingham, Kotzebue and Seward.  President Obama also traveled to New York City, to attend fundraisers for the Democratic National Committee and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.  While in Manhattan, Obama attended a showing of the Broadway musical Hamilton.  Obama then returned to New Jersey before traveling back to the White House.  On the sidelines of the summit in Manila, he held bilateral meetings with Philippine President Benigno Aquino III, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe and newly elected prime ministers Malcolm Turnbull of Australia and Justin Trudeau of Canada,   as well as meetings with Trans-Pacific Partnership and Pacific Alliance leaders.  President Obama also delivered remarks at a Philippine Navy coastal facility by Manila Bay, where he also toured the BRP Gregorio del Pilar (PF-15), to highlight the United States' commitment to assist in maritime security in the region, amidst the territorial disputes in the South China Sea.   During his speech in front of the Philippine Navy, President Obama announced that the U.S. government will donate the research vessel RV Melville and two Hamilton-class cutters to the Philippine Navy, one of which will be the USCGC Boutwell (WHEC-719).    He later participated at the APEC 2015 CEO Summit, where he met with Alibaba founder and executive chairman Jack Ma and SALt lamp inventor Aisa Mijeno and urged business executives to combat climate change.   