This is a list of international prime ministerial trips made by Theresa May, the current Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. As of September 2018, Theresa May has made 52 trips to 30 countries since her premiership began on 13 July 2016. The number of visits per country:  May met with Congressional Republicans at their biannual joint retreat in Philadelphia, on 26 January. May addressed both the House Republican Conference and the Senate Republican Conference, where she called on U.S. lawmakers not to renounce the Iran nuclear deal and to support international organizations like NATO and the United Nations.  Following this, May travelled to Washington, D.C. to meet with President Donald Trump at the White House. She was the first head of government to meet with Trump since his inauguration.  The two leaders discussed trade relations ahead of the Brexit negotiations, NATO, the Syrian Civil War, relations with Russia, and counter-terrorism.  May also laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknowns at Arlington National Cemetery.  On September 20, May held a bilateral meeting  on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani and Rouhani announced that Iran was ready to expand ties to Britain in all fields,  citing Britain's support of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action.   She also attended a major UN Security Council meeting which saw the passage of a UN resolution on peacekeeping reforms and met with US Vice President Mike Pence.   May would later address the UN General Assembly and warned tech firms to go "further and faster" in removing extremist content promoting terrorism,  as well as other issues.    She also met with US President Donald Trump on the General Assembly sidelines to discuss trade, security, defense and foreign relations between Britain and the United States of America.   May traveled to Brussels for a dinner meeting with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker.  During their meeting, May and Juncker agreed to "accelerate" Brexit talks.   The deal outlines agreements on issues such as: protecting the rights of Union citizens in the UK and UK citizens in the Union; the framework for addressing the unique circumstances of Northern Ireland: and the financial settlements  Theresa May participated in the following summits during her premiership: 