This is a list of presidential trips made by Barack Obama during 2016, the eighth year of his presidency as the 44th President of the United States. This list excludes trips made within Washington, D.C., the U.S. federal capital in which the White House, the official residence and principal workplace of the President, is located. Also excluded are trips to Camp David, the country residence of the President, and to the private home of the Obama family in Kenwood, Chicago. On February 12, Obama flew to Palm Springs, where he designated three National Monuments: Castle Mountains National Monument, Mojave Trails National Monument, and Sand to Snow National Monument. He spent his weekend in Rancho Mirage.  On the evening of February 13, President Obama delivered a statement on the death of Associate Justice Antonin Scalia.  On February 15–16, President Obama hosted the U.S.-ASEAN Summit with the leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations at the Sunnylands estate in Rancho Mirage. According to a statement released by the White House, the summit was aimed at strengthening cooperation on "political, security, and economic issues" between the United States and the ASEAN member states under the U.S.-ASEAN strategic partnership signed in November 2015.    Hours before the President and the First Family's arrival, the weekly demonstration by protesters from more than 50 Ladies in White human rights activists and other opposition groups, hoping for the President's awareness of "women fighting for the liberty of political prisoners," were cleared by Cuban police in the Havana neighborhood of Miramar.   President Obama and the First Family arrived in Havana's José Martí International Airport on the rainy afternoon of Sunday, March 20, where they were greeted by Cuban officials led by Foreign Minister Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla.  The First Family first headed to the Meliá Habana Hotel to meet with the staff of the newly reopened U.S. Embassy in Havana and their families.   The Obamas later completed a walking tour of Old Havana (guided by Havana historian Eusebio Leal), visiting the Plaza de Armas, the Palacio de los Capitanes Generales, and the Havana Cathedral.  At the Havana Cathedral, they met with Cardinal Jaime Ortega, the Archbishop of Havana, who along with Pope Francis and the Holy See helped normalize and restore Cuba–United States relations.   In the evening, the Obamas dined at a local paladar in central Havana.  President Obama began his Monday, March 21, by paying his respects to Cuban national hero José Martí during a brief wreath-laying ceremony at his memorial at Havana's Plaza de la Revolución.  He then headed to the Palace of the Revolution to meet with his Cuban counterpart, President Raúl Castro, where he was given a welcome ceremony before the two heads of state began their official talks. During their meeting, the two presidents pledged to work towards a "new path" in reconciling their two countries' relations amid their differences in human rights and democracy.  U.S. Secretaries John Kerry and Penny Pritzker of State and Commerce, respectively, were in attendance, while Vice President Miguel Díaz-Canel and Foreign Minister Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla were among the several Cuban Council of Ministers who participated in the discussions.  The two leaders later participated in a joint press conference, where President Obama declared a "new day" in Cuba–U.S. relations but acknowledged President Castro's statement regarding the "profound differences" between their two countries regarding human rights and democracy, which Obama criticized. Obama also added that the embargo against Cuba and the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base continue to be obstructions in the normalization and restoration of the two countries' relations, wherein Castro responded saying that it would be "the most important obstacle to our economic development and the well-being of the Cuban people." In addition, Castro criticized the U.S.' demand for a human rights reform in Cuba, saying that "Cuba believes civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights are universal" and later adding that Cuba opposes "political manipulation and double standards in the approach to human rights." When asked by CNN's Jim Acosta about political prisoners in Cuba, Castro denied knowledge of such, insisting that his government only holds spies, terrorists and armed insurrectionists, and demanded for a list to be released.     Later in the afternoon, President Obama attended an event with U.S. and Cuban entrepreneurs that would allow for the exploration of opportunities between the two countries' businesses at an effort to enhance Cuba's private sector and encourage the discontinuation of the trade embargo against Cuba amidst the country's state-owned-dominated economy. During the event, Obama urged the rehabilitation of the country's infrastructure to allow for better transportation of goods, wholesale marketing to help small business owners, and the unification of the country's dual-currency system (the Cuban peso and the Cuban convertible peso), all to improve Cuba's economy.   In the evening, President Castro treated President Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama to a state dinner at the Palace of the Revolution.  Secretary of State John Kerry, Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Senior Advisor Valerie Jarrett, First Lady Chief of Staff Tina Tchen, Senator Patrick Leahy, and Representative Charles Rangel of New York's 13th congressional district were among the American entourage who attended the state dinner.  On the morning of his final day in Cuba, Tuesday, March 22, President Obama addressed the Cuban people on national television from the Gran Teatro de La Habana, along Havana's Paseo del Prado. President Castro was among the Cubans in attendance at the theater. He began his remarks by responding to the Brussels bombings that occurred several hours prior, which he condemned, saying: "We can and we will defeat those who threaten the safety and security of people all around the world," and added that the attacks were a reminder "that the world must unite in fighting against the scourge of terrorism."  Obama then transitioned to his speech regarding "a new chapter" in Cuba's relations with the United States and the Western Hemisphere, saying that he visited the country to "bury the last remnants of the Cold War in the Americas" and to "extend the hand of friendship to the Cuban people." He called on the U.S. Congress to lift the U.S. embargo against Cuba, saying that "it is an outdated burden on the Cuban people" and a "burden on the Americans who want to work and do business or invest here in Cuba." Obama also touched on the importance of Cubans being able to "realize their potential," as they would not "without continued change in Cuba," urging the removal of the country's two-currency system and the access of the Internet all across Cuba. Speaking for democracy to be "embraced" in Cuba, saying that it "allows for the fullest expression of the ideals of any revolution" and "gives individuals the capacity to be catalysts," he appealed for political freedom within Cubans, including the right of freedom of speech, religion and criticism of government.    Obama also referenced several American and Cuban historical figures during his speech, including Cuban national hero José Martí, writer Ernest Hemingway, baseball legend Jackie Robinson, and singer Gloria Estefan.  Before noon, President Obama headed to the U.S. Embassy in Havana that opened in July 2015 to meet with various Cuban dissidents and leaders of civil society organizations, praising them for their "extraordinary courage" in their fight for "democracy, freedom of speech, worship or assembly" in Cuba and expressed hope that their efforts and ideas will help shape U.S. foreign policy.  Among the dissidents and the leaders of the Cuban civil society that attended the round table discussion were Guillermo Fariñas, Dagoberto Valdés Hernández, Ladies in White leader Berta Soler, Antonio Rodiles, and Elizardo Sánchez.   In the afternoon, the First Family and President Castro attended an exhibition baseball game between the Tampa Bay Rays and the Cuba national baseball team at the Estadio Latinoamericano that was also attended by around 55,000 Cuban and American baseball fans. The Obamas were accompanied by Rachel Robinson, the widow of baseball player Jackie Robinson who trained in Cuba with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947.  The Rays won the game 4–1.  After the game, the Obamas headed to Havana's José Martí International Airport to depart Cuba for Buenos Aires, Argentina, where they were sent-off by President Castro, ending their three-day historic visit.  President Obama and the First Family arrived in Buenos Aires' Ministro Pistarini International Airport from Havana, Cuba at around 1:10 a.m. (UTC−3) on Wednesday, March 23, where they were greeted by Argentine Foreign Minister Susana Malcorra.   Later that morning, President Obama headed to the Casa Rosada for a bilateral meeting and a joint press conference with President Macri. Obama and Macri discussed ways to strengthen cooperation in promoting "universal values and interests," such as in the areas of security, energy, health and human rights, where the two presidents have agreed for U.S. federal agencies to assist Argentina's counter-terrorism efforts, to contribute to peacekeeping missions, combat illegal drug trade and organized crime, respond to diseases and outbreaks like the Zika virus, and develop resources and renewable energy strategies.  Obama also praised Macri for his economic reforms that helped create "sustainable and inclusive economic growth" and "reconnected Argentina with the world economy."  Thus, Obama declared a "fresh era" of relations that would help Argentina's credibility in the Latin American region and the world, and announced trade and economic initiatives to reset the countries' relations after years of tension.      Foreign Minister Malcorra announced that Argentina signed agreements with the U.S. to join again on the Visa Waiver Program. Argentina initially joined on the program in 1996, but was removed in 2002.    In the afternoon, President Obama visited the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Cathedral to lay a wreath at the tomb of Argentine general José de San Martín, who was known for his role as a Libertador in the Spanish American wars of independence and is considered the national hero of Argentina. There, he also met with Cardinal Mario Aurelio Poli, the Archbishop of Buenos Aires who replaced Cardinal Jorge Bergoglio when he was elected as Pope Francis. Obama then headed to the Usina del Arte to hold a town hall meeting with young Argentine leaders.  In the evening, President Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama attended a state dinner hosted by President Macri and First Lady Juliana Awada at the Néstor Kirchner Cultural Centre, where both Obamas were treated with a tango dance.   The Obamas began their final day in their Latin American trip with President Obama visiting the Remembrance park in Buenos Aires' Belgrano neighborhood with President Macri to honor the victims of the Dirty War by throwing flowers onto the Río de la Plata river. The Obamas' visit to Argentina coincided with the 40th anniversary of the 1976 Argentine coup d'état that extended the "war" and resulted in the killing and the forced disappearances of around 30,000 people from 1976 to 1983. The two presidents each delivered remarks at the park, where Obama apologized for the U.S.' "slow" policies in responding to the "war" saying: "Each of us have a responsibility each and every day to make sure that wherever we see injustice, wherever we see rule of law flaunted that we take responsibility to make this a better place for our children and grandchildren." Obama also said that the U.S. would help the families of the victims "heal" from the effects of the "war" through transparency by revealing files that prove the violation of human rights during the military dictatorship, upon the request of President Macri.     In the afternoon, the Obama family left Buenos Aires for a trip to the Patagonian town of Bariloche; Obama became the fourth U.S. president to visit the town.  The Obamas left Buenos Aires from the Ezeiza Airport and arrived at Bariloche at the San Carlos de Bariloche Airport.  In Bariloche, the family stayed at the Llao Llao Hotel, sailed on the Nahuel Huapi Lake, and hiked in Nahuel Huapi National Park.  President Macri then bade farewell to the Obama family before the Obamas' departure and return to Washington, D.C., ending their five-day Latin American trip.  Obama's visit to Saudi Arabia coincided with the announcement of a bipartisan bill allowing families of victims of the September 11 attacks to file a lawsuit against Saudi Arabian officials for involvement in the terrorist attacks, which the White House has threatened to veto to avoid tension in Saudi Arabia–United States relations.  On April 22, the President and First Lady Michelle Obama attended a private lunch with Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh at Windsor Castle, a day after the Queen's 90th birthday.  President Obama also met with British Prime Minister David Cameron at 10 Downing Street, participating in a joint press conference.  Later that evening, the Obamas attended a dinner hosted by Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, and Prince Harry at Kensington Palace.  On April 23, President Obama first toured Shakespeare's Globe and viewed a snippet from a production of Hamlet to commemorate the 400th death anniversary of William Shakespeare.  He then participated in a town hall meeting with the British youth at Lindley Hall, where he addressed questions regarding political issues like terrorism, trade, and the Northern Ireland peace process,  as well as social issues and changes involving LGBT rights, racial inequality (touching on the Black Lives Matter movement), and discrimination towards non-binary gender persons.   There at Lindley Hall, Obama also met with Labour Party and Opposition Leader Jeremy Corbyn.  In the afternoon, President Obama and Prime Minister Cameron played golf at The Grove in Watford, Hertfordshire. The two leaders then had dinner at Winfield House, the U.S. ambassador's residence in the United Kingdom.  President Obama departed for Germany the following day. During a news conference with Chancellor Merkel, President Obama announced has planned to increase U.S. military presence in Syria to at least 250 personnel to combat ISIL and assist local Syrian forces in doing so.   Obama and Merkel later joined the United States delegation in their participation at the Hannover Messe, the world's largest industrial fair, with the U.S. being the "partner country" of the fair.   He became the first sitting U.S. president to attend the fair.  President Obama arrived in Hanoi on late Sunday, May 22.  The following day, he met with Vietnamese President Trần Đại Quang at the Presidential Palace of Vietnam and National Assembly Chairwoman Nguyễn Thị Kim Ngân at the former residence of revolutionary Communist leader Ho Chi Minh. President Obama and President Quang discussed the continuing normalization of ties between the two countries following the Vietnam War, the pursuit of the Trans-Pacific Partnership to support trade and reinforce regional cooperation, and defense cooperation in the South China Sea territorial disputes. The two presidents also signed several bilateral agreements, including a $11.3 billion purchase of 100 Boeing aircraft by the Vietnamese low-cost carrier VietJet Air. During a joint press conference with President Quang, Obama announced the full lifting of a 50-year arms embargo on Vietnam, describing the embargo as "a lingering vestige of the Cold War."   He also announced that the Peace Corps would operate in Vietnam for the first time, focused on teaching the English language to Vietnamese students.   In the afternoon, President Obama attended a state luncheon at the Presidential Palace, Hanoi, hosted by President Quang, with Prime Minister Nguyễn Xuân Phúc, Communist Party General Secretary Nguyễn Phú Trọng, and National Assembly chairwoman Nguyễn Thị Kim Ngân in attendance.  In the evening, President Obama dined with American celebrity chef Anthony Bourdain at a local Hanoi restaurant, filming for an episode of Bourdain's show, Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown.  On Tuesday, May 24, President Obama first met with ten activists advocating to solve different social issues facing Vietnam, including human rights issues such as freedom of speech, freedom of the press and Internet freedom.  He later addressed the Vietnamese people from the Vietnam National Convention Center to discuss the progress made by the United States and Vietnam following the Vietnam War while taking into account their differences in human rights, which Obama prompts Vietnam for, saying that "the country should be more open to scrutiny in order to grow stronger and more prosperous" since "human rights is not a threat to stability but reinforces it."    Following his speech, Obama departed Hanoi for Ho Chi Minh City, the country's largest city, arriving there late afternoon. In Ho Chi Minh City, President Obama visited the Jade Emperor Pagoda to pay tribute to the culture of Vietnam, which is one of the oldest in Southeast Asia.   He later met with young entrepreneurs and the local business community at the DreamPlex Coworking Space, where he also promoted the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership, saying that it will boost economic competitiveness and improve labor standards that would prohibit forced and child labor.  On Wednesday, May 25, President Obama met with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe ahead of the 42nd G7 summit, a conference of the leaders of the Group of Seven nations.  On the same day, Obama participated in the Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative (YSAELI) town hall, where he urged some 800 young Southeast Asian leaders to tackle climate change.  Obama ended his three-day visit to Vietnam, departing Ho Chi Minh City for Japan later that afternoon. On Friday, May 27, Obama traveled to Hiroshima to visit the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park with Prime Minister Abe to highlight their continued commitment to pursuing peace and security in a world without nuclear weapons.  In doing so, Obama became the first sitting American president to visit the site of the U.S. atomic bombing of Hiroshima in August 1945.  While in Warsaw, President Obama also addressed American public reaction to the shooting of Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge, Louisiana and the shooting of Philando Castile in Minnesota, cases which have led to protests in the United States and allegations of racial injustice and profiling by police. Obama stated, in part, “When incidents like these occur, there’s a big chunk of our fellow citizens that feels as if because of the color of their skin, they are not being treated the same—and that hurts." The police shootings in Louisiana and Minnesota have led to large, nationwide protests in the United States.  During a joint press conference with Presidents Tusk and Juncker, Obama also commented on the shooting of Dallas police officers in the aftermath of the fatal shootings of Sterling and Castile, the deadliest single incident in the history of U.S. law enforcement since the September 11, 2001 attacks, which he called "a vicious, calculated and despicable attack on law enforcement."  On the sidelines of the summit, he held bilateral meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping, Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. 