There are hot springs on all continents and in many countries around the world. Countries that are renowned for their hot springs include Honduras, Canada, Chile, Hungary, Iceland, Israel, Japan, New Zealand, Romania, Fiji and the United States, but there are interesting and unique hot springs in many other places as well. There lies a hot spring in the city of Uvira. A scholarly paper with a map of over twenty geothermal areas in Uganda. Brandvlei, Worcester area, Western Cape Goudini Spa, Worcester area, Western Cape There are eleven developed and undeveloped hot spring pools in the Swaziland: Mkoba spring, Mvuntshini spring, Ezulwini spring, Lobamba spring, Mawelawela spring, Ngwempisi spring, Mpopoma spring, Mbondela spring, Madubula spring, Fairview spring, and Siphofaneni spring. All are sulphur springs with temperatures ranging from 26 °C to 52 °C.  Termales del Nevado del Ruiz, Manizales Brazil is home of the world's largest hot spring resort in the city of Caldas Novas. There are more than 275 hot springs registered in Chile. There are numerous hot springs in Greenland: A list of 1661 hot springs in the United States can be found on the Thermal Springs List for the United States. The same list with added notes and links can be found on the USA Hotsprings Database.  Indonesia is an island nation located on the point where the Pacific, Eurasian, and Australian tectonic plates meet, making it the site of at least 150 active volcanoes and frequent earthquakes. The islands of Sumatra, Java, Bali, the lesser Sunda Islands, and Celebes – part of the Pacific Ring of Fire – are the site of numerous geothermal-related features, including hot springs. Many hot springs are re-purposed for tourism, especially those that are located in the densely-populated Java island. Some hot springs were imbued with local legends or belief such as those in Bali and Java. Hot springs outside the island of Java, such as those on the Lesser Sunda Islands, are often pristine. Below are lists of notable hot springs in Indonesia that is re-purposed for tourism: Being located in the "Pacific Ring of Fire", Japan is in a volcanic region, and is home to many hot springs. The onsen (a Japanese word for "hot spring") plays a notable role in Japanese culture. In March 2003 it was reported that there were 3,102 spa resorts in 2,292 municipalities in Japan. There were also 15,400 lodging facilities with 6,740 public hot spring baths. About 138 million people a year visit these facilities.  Noted hot springs areas in Japan Various hot springs, all nonvolcanic. They include – There are about 9 recognized hot springs in Sri Lanka.  See Taiwanese hot springs. 123 hot springs with temperature above 25 degrees C (77 degrees F).  Many of the hot springs in Slovakia are currative or healthing springs. There are many geothermal springs in the UK, but the hot springs found in the town of Bath     are the only true hot springs (defined as those hotter than 37 degrees C): There are other thermal or warm springs in the U.K  and include; Hot springs can be found in all six states of Australia as well as the Northern Territory; but apparently not Australian Capital Territory.  Hot springs are in the town of Savusavu where local people use the hot springs to cook their food.  Some of the springs are situated on the beach and steam can be seen rising from the water at low tide. There are numerous hot springs in New Zealand, predominantly in the Taupo Volcanic Zone, and in particular around Rotorua. Well known springs outside the Taupo Volcanic Zone include The Lost Spring in Whitianga, Coromandel Peninsula, Hot Water Beach, Waiwera, Morere Hotsprings in Wairoa District, Hawke's Bay and Hanmer Springs. It is common to create parks around hot springs: 