The Association Medicine / Pharmacy Sciences (AMPS) is an association of French students of medicine and pharmacy. The Association was founded in 2009. It participates in the organization of the congress YR and is mainly composed of students who have the dual curriculum of the ENS, School of the Inserm of Paris V - VII and Paris VI. In January 2012, it had more than 200 members. The Association promotes the development of dual studies in France; interactions between medicine, pharmacy and research and connects students who have completed this course. The association held its first Congress at the University of Paris V on 30 June and 1 July 2012, in partnership with the University, the Faculty of Medicine of Strasbourg and LABCO. It was attended by about 80 participants. Speakers: The General Assembly of the AMPS, with the election of a new officers, took place during the conference. The second European Congress MD-PhD will be held from 5 to 7 July 2013 in Paris.  This event was supported by: - la Fondation Liliane Bettencourt Schueller, - l'Académie Nationale de Médecine, - l'université Paris Descartes, - la faculté de médecine Paris Descartes, - l'université de Strasbourg, - l'université de Montpellier 1, - la fondation Imagine, - le LabEx Transplantex, - le LabEx HEPSYS Speakers were: - Pr Seimak BAHRAM - Pr David GLATZMAN - Pr Patrice CACOUB - Pr Marina Cavazzana-Calvo - Pr Sophie Brouard - Pr Samira Fafi-Kremer - Pr . Nathalie Tessier (MD, PhD, ENT surgeon at the Robert Debré Hospital, Paris, Inserm Unit "Pathophysiology and neuroprotection of the developing brain") - Pr Ziad Mallat ( MD, PhD Director of the Research group "Immunité, inflammation et athérosclérose" at PARCC ) - Pr Denis Le Bihan (MD, PhD, Director of the NeuroSpin Institute) - Pr Serge Picaud - Pr Pierre Ronco (Translational Medicine : Pathophysiology of membranous nephropathy: A paradigm of autoimmune disease "Success stories of a long journey") - Pr Marc-Antoine Custaud (Cardiovascular Physiology in microgravitic conditions) - Pr Jean SIBILIA (Doyen de la faculté de Médecine de Strasbourg) 