  Sai Pallavi Senthamarai (born 9 May 1992), commonly known as Sai Pallavi, is an Indian actress who appears in Malayalam, Tamil, and Telugu films. Sai Pallavi first came into public attention for her role as Malar in the 2015 Malayalam film Premam which was a blockbuster success.  She was then cast alongside Dulquer Salmaan in the film Kali (2016).  She made her Telugu debut playing the role Bhanumati in the 2017 romantic film Fidaa, co-starring with Varun Tej. When Fidaa was shown on television, it got the maximum TRP rating even during the fifth time.   She made her Tamil debut with the film titled "Diya" directed by Vijay. Sai Pallavi is in the health care industry by profession. She completed her medical degree in 2016 from the Tbilisi State Medical University, Georgia.  Sai Pallavi was born in Kotagiri,  Tamil Nadu to Senthamarai Kannan and Radha. She has a younger sister, Pooja, who has also worked as an actor.  Sai Pallavi grew up and was educated in Coimbatore.Her Mother Tongue is Badaga. She completed medical studies at the Tbilisi State Medical University in 2016.  Sai Pallavi said in an interview that though she was not a trained dancer, she always wanted to be like her mother for dance. She participated in several cultural events at school gaining popularity as a dancer.Due to her penchant for dance supported by her mother, she participated in the dance reality show Ungalil Yaar Adutha Prabhu Deva on Vijay TV in 2008, and appeared on Dhee Ultimate Dance Show (D4) on ETV Telugu in 2009. Sai Pallavi appeared in uncredited roles as a child actress in Kasthuri Maan (2005) and Dhaam Dhoom (2008).   In 2014, whilst she was studying in Tbilisi, Georgia, director Alphonse Putharen offered her the role of Malar in his film Premam. She shot the film over the holidays and, after the shooting finished, returned to her studies.   She went on to win several "Best Female Debut" awards that year, including the Filmfare Award for Best Female Debut. In late 2015, she took a month break from her studies to act in her second movie, Kali, which released in March 2016.    She portrayed Anjali, a young wife who must deal with her husband's extreme anger issues, earning a nomination for Filmfare Award for Best Actress – Malayalam.   2017 marked her debut in Telugu with Sekhar Kammula's Fidaa, in the role of Bhanumathi, an independent village girl from Telangana.    Her next project with director A. L. Vijay is Karu,  which is a Telugu-Tamil bilingual film.She has also committed to star in the bilingual movie Maari 2, a sequel to Maari opposite Dhanush directed by Balaji Mohan.   Recently there was speculation about her behaviour. In a recent interview her co-star Nagashourya from Kanam lashed out at her behaviour for her tantrums on sets and coming late, which rose into a big issue and was a big setback to her career.  Pallavi responded that she respected Naga Shourya's views but wasn't sure where they came from.   Pallavi started shooting in February 2018 for the film Padi Padi Leche Manasu with Sharwanand. 