The Lakshmibai National Institute of Physical Education (LNIPE)  (formerly Lakshmibai National University of Physical Education and Lakshmibai College of Physical Education, Gwalior) is a Government of India sponsored deemed university, under the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, dedicated to promoting excellence in sports and physical education in the country. The campus is on the Agra - Mumbai National Highway at Shaktinagar, Gwalior in the state of Madhya Pradesh, India. The Lakshmibai National University of Physical Education began its life in 1957, in the form of Lakshmibai College of Physical Education (LCPE), in memory of Rani Lakshmibai of Jhansi, as a college of physical education, affiliated to Vikram University, Ujjain. In 1964, the college was shifted to Jiwaji University. In 1973, the college was renamed to Lakshmibai National College of Physical Education (LNCPE) and nine years later, in 1982, was upgraded as an autonomous college. A further name change occurred in 1995, to Lakshmibai National Institute of Physical Education. In 2000, the present name of Lakshmibai National University of Physical Education was accepted when it was declared, by the Government of India, as a deemed university, handing over the affairs to the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, which is funding all its activities. In 2017, it was renamed as Lakshmibai National Institute of Physical Education after a UGC's order to not use "University" word in deemed university's name. The main objectives of the institute are aimed at Is also aims at community services in sports and the propagation of sports through audio-visual and print media. LNIPE is in Shaktinagar, Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, on the Agra - Mumbai Highway, on land measuring 153 acres, which houses a faculty block, auditorium, research block, laboratories and administration building. It is a National Assessment and Accreditation Council accredited and UGC approved institution and has obtained ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and ISO 18001:2007 certifications through United Kingdom Accreditation Service (UKAS).  The original name was the 'Department of Teacher Education' when it was launched in 2003, with the introduction of three-year BPE course, aimed at grooming quality physical education teachers in India. In 2011, it was renamed as the 'Department of Physical Education Pedagogy' and the BPE course was made in line with other professional courses in India with four years duration. The BPE course is now an eight-semester integrated course and is programmed to nurture physical education teachers at the secondary school levels. Apart from the BPE course, the department conducts other courses from certificate to doctoral levels, orientation courses, seminars, and workshops and provides consultancy services. The Exercise Physiology department was formed to impart knowledge at post-graduate level to groom professionals who can work at sports bodies, looking after the fitness levels of the sports persons to enable them to perform at the highest levels. The main areas of focus are exercise-related treatment, rehabilitation, cardiovascular impact, diabetes, aging, obesity, physiological aspects of extreme sports, disuse atrophy, and other related topics. This department attends to Masters students to equip them to put to use the sports psychological knowledge at practical arena. The course covers topics such as history, development and theory of sports and sports psychology. The department encourages advanced research in the subject. The Sports Biomechanics department is entrusted with the responsibility to teach the MPEd students on the specialized field of sports techniques in relation to human movements. The teaching method includes other curricular subjects and is based on research methodology. The department has a two-dimension mandate: to keep the staff and students in optimal fitness levels and to impart knowledge and nurture proficiency in health care and fitness. The department aims to produce health care and fitness professionals who can pursue careers in these fields. The centre is the nodal agency in developing sports coaching professionals, enhancing the standards of sports coaching in India and to create awareness and knowledge on the latest sports coaching techniques, technologies, and theoretical developments around the world. The Centre also focuses on spreading modern sports management techniques amidst the sports coaches and sports management professionals in India. The centre started functioning in 2009 and acts as a nodal agency for higher research in physical education. It also familiarises the students with advanced scientific equipment. The central library of the institute is well stocked and open to students, staff, and researchers. The library is named after the renowned educationist and Padmashri award winner, Dr. P. M. Joseph.  The institute offers courses related to sports and physical education of varying duration.    LNIPE has established three subsidiary centres: the Academic Staff College, the North East Regional Centre and the PYKKA Resource Centre. The Academic Staff College,  fully funded by UGC, started functioning in February 2000 with the aim to organise month-long orientation courses to faculty at Assistant Professor grade and three weeks in service courses to other teaching staff. It conducts regular seminars and workshops for teaching staff, as a part of ongoing education. The North East off campus Centre of LNIPE was established in 2009 at Guwahati in the state of Assam on a campus measuring around 55 acres, housing modern infrastructure at Tepesia Sports complex, Sonapur, Guwahati.  The institute is fully residential with a multipurpose indoor hall for Handball, Badminton, Weight Lifting, Gymnasium, Judo, Table Tennis, Boxing ring and yoga and   other facilities such as Cycling Velodrome, Archery Range, Kayaking and Canoeing facility, Football ground, Cricket ground, Volleyball courts, Lawn Tennis courts, Kabaddi ground and Kho Kho ground. The Panchayat Yuva Krida Aur Khel Abhiyan (PYKKA) centre was formed with the objective of spreading sports culture across the country at the grass roots level, starting from the panchayats. It was formulated under Dr A K Dutta a professor from LNIPE. It organises annual competitions at block, district, state and national levels, provides basic sports infrastructure and equipment to rural areas and assists in training master trainers through periodical refresher courses. It maintains a regularly updated documentation on master trainers in India. The centre is on the LNIPE campus in Gwalior. LNIPE publishes journals and newsletters for the dissemination of knowledge and new developments in the discipline. 