  Worldwide Headquarters:Paston Parkway, Peterborough, Cambridgeshire, England Bread mixing and forming equipment for plant bakeries Complete lines for biscuits, cookies and crackers Cooking and depositing lines for confectionery Traditional and extruded breakfast cereal systems Extruded and co-extruded snack lines Extruders for powder coating manufacture  Baker Perkins Ltd is a British engineering company based in Peterborough offering manufacturing and process services to the food industry throughout the world. The company has its origins with Jacob Perkins (1766-1849), an American inventor who moved to England in 1819 from Massachusetts. His son, Angier March Perkins (1799-1881), founded the firm of A. M. Perkins & Co Ltd to manufacture his inventions.  In 1893, the company merged with Werner & Pfleiderer (London) to form Werner, Pfleiderer & Perkins Ltd. In 1904, WP&P moved their manufacturing from London to Westwood, Peterborough. In 1914, owing to pressure over its German-sounding name, the company became Perkins Engineers Ltd. During World War I, the company produced a range of armaments including Ricardo engines for Mark IV tanks.  In 1918 it merged with Joseph Baker & Sons Ltd of Willesden to become Joseph Baker Sons & Perkins Ltd and in 1923, Baker Perkins Ltd. By the time of the merger, Baker and Perkins were well-established names in the bakery, biscuit, confectionery, chocolate and chemical machinery industries. Just as the companies combined, the Bakers bought a factory in Saginaw, Michigan, that for over 60 years was the base for manufacture of food and chemical equipment in North America. Between the wars, the company manufactured a wide range of machinery including laundry equipment.  In 1939, Baker Perkins was asked to take on production of the new twin 6-pounder coast defence gun and also made components for a wide range of other artillery pieces.   Post war, Baker Perkins specialised in equipment for the food processing and printing industries. The business had expanded to become global in its organisation and sales when in 1987 the dairy and liquid food specialist, APV, acquired it. During this time the company relocated from old premises near the centre of Peterborough to a new purpose-built facility on the outskirts. In 2006 Baker Perkins regained its historical name and its independence when it was acquired by private investors. Most recently, Baker Perkins has introduced new moulding and forming technology for bread; developed equipment allowing confectioners to develop candies and lollipops; and pioneered technology expanding the variety of snacks and breakfast cereals.  Baker Perkins currently operates in two office locations, the headquarters being in Paston, Peterborough with a second office in Grand Rapids, Michigan.  Baker Perkins maintains close links to the industries it serves through membership of key trade associations and research organisations. These include AACC International, PMCA,  BEMA and B&CMA in the US: and the Leatherhead Food International  and Campden BRI in the UK.  