 Turkvision Song Contest 2016 (Turkish: Türkvizyon Şarkı Yarışması 2016) would have been the fourth edition of Turkvision Song Contest, and was scheduled to take place at the Yahya Kemal Beyatli Cultural Centre, in Istanbul, Turkey; and organised by TMB TV and Azad Azerbaijan TV. Twenty-six Turkic regions, which have either a large Turkic population or a widely spoken Turkic language, had confirmed their participation in the contest. Dagestan, Kumyk, Latvia, Moldova, Netherlands, Poland, Stavropol Krai and Sweden were expected to be making their debut, whilst Altai Republic, Bashkortostan, Crimea, Kabardino-Balkaria, Moscow, Tatarstan, Tuva, and Yakutia were going to be returning after a one-year absence. Karachay-Cherkessia had chosen not to return to the contest and would no longer be in joint-participation with Kabardino-Balkaria, meaning the latter would have been participating as a single region. Khakassia also initially planned to return to the contest and had selected their participant, but later withdrew from competing. In February 2017, two months after the contest was supposed to air, it was announced as being cancelled, and Kazakhstan were announced as the hosts for the Turkvision Song Contest 2017 in Astana. Apparently, it was too much to ask, because it too was cancelled, and the contest has not been held since. In May 2016 it was announced by Subhane Isgenderova the Azerbaijan Head of Delegation that Antalya was going to be the host city for the fourth edition of the contest.  However, on 11 July 2016, it was later confirmed that the announcement made Isgenderova was in fact incorrect, and the official host city would be Istanbul.  Had the 2016 contest gone ahead as scheduled the venue would have been for the second consecutive year, the Yahya Kemal Beyatli Cultural Centre, which has 10,000 covered seats of 30,000 seats at total in Küçükçekmece district of Istanbul.  Just like the 2015 edition, which had no semi-final stage because of the withdrawals from several Russian states from the contest due to the international relations between the Russian Federation and Turkey in 2015, it was announced that the same format would have continued at the 2016 edition.   On 15 July 2016 it was confirmed that Turkish Music Box Television (TMB TV) would have been the host broadcaster for the second consecutive year, which would have been responsible for the organisation of the contest.  On 8 December 2016, it was announced that the contest had been delayed until March 2017, marking the first time since the inaugural contest in 2013 that a postponement of the contest had occurred.  However, it was later confirmed that the 2016 contest had been cancelled for unknown reasons.  The contest was rescheduled to take place between 8–10 September 2017 at the Barys Arena, in Astana, Kazakhstan, but even that was too much to ask, as it was cancelled again on October 20.  Twenty-six Turkic regions, which have either a large Turkic population or a widely spoken Turkic language, had confirmed their participation in the contest, fifteen of which had selected their artist (nine of those having also chosen their song). Shir Charyev was announced as participating, although details as to which country he would have represented had not been disclosed.  