 The National Film Registry (NFR) is the United States National Film Preservation Board's (NFPB) selection of films deserving of preservation. The NFPB, established by the National Film Preservation Act of 1988, was reauthorized by acts of Congress in 1992, 1996, 2005, and again in October 2008.    The NFPB's mission, to which the NFR contributes, is to ensure the survival, conservation, and increased public availability of America's film heritage.  The 1996 law also created the non-profit National Film Preservation Foundation which, although affiliated with the NFPB, raises money from the private sector.  The NFPB adds to the NFR up to 25 "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant films" each year, showcasing the range and diversity of American film heritage to increase awareness for its preservation.  To be eligible for inclusion, a film must be at least ten years old.  For the first selection in 1989, the public nominated almost 1,000 films for consideration. Members of the NFPB then developed individual ballots of possible films for inclusion. The ballots were tabulated into a list of 25 films which was then modified by Librarian of Congress James H. Billington and his staff at the Library for the final selection.   Since 1997, members of the public have been able to nominate up to 50 films a year for the NFPB and Librarian to consider.  —Dr. James H. Billington, Librarian of Congress.  The NFR includes films ranging from Hollywood classics to orphan films. A film is not required to be feature-length, nor is it required to have been theatrically released in the traditional sense. In addition, television programs, commercials, and foreign films are not excluded from consideration, although American films are given preference. The Registry contains newsreels, silent films, student films, experimental films, short films, music videos, films out of copyright protection or in the public domain, film serials, home movies, documentaries, animation and independent films. As of the 2017 listing, there are 725 films in the Registry.  Currently, the earliest listed film is Newark Athlete (1891), and the most recent is 13 Lakes (2004). Counting the 11 multi-year serials in the NFR once each (as the NFR does) by year of completion, the year with the most films selected is 1939, with 19 films from that year chosen. The time between a film's debut and its selection varies greatly. The longest span is 121 years; Edison Kinetographic Record of a Sneeze was originally released in 1894 and selected in 2015. The shortest span is the minimum 10 years; this distinction is shared by Raging Bull, Do the Right Thing, Goodfellas, Toy Story, Fargo and 13 Lakes.  This table is through the 2018 induction list (727 films total). For purposes of this list, multi-year serials are counted only once (as they are in the Registry) by year of completion.  