Adaptive clothing is clothing designed for people with physical disabilities, the elderly, and the infirm who may experience difficulty dressing themselves due to an inability to manipulate closures, such as buttons and zippers, or due to a lack of a full range of motion required for self-dressing. Adaptive clothing typically offers rear-closure designs so that an individual can be dressed more easily by a carer. For example, rather than buttons and zippers, Velcro may be used for garment closures.  A common misconception of adaptive clothing is that it is only for wheelchair users or others that suffer from severe disabilities. Whilst these groups do benefit from the garments, adaptive clothing is for anyone that can be limited by traditional clothing.    Adaptive clothing is specialised clothing that is modified to enable easier dressing for people with a disability. The clothing is modified to help people with a high degree of disability and their carers or to assist individuals with a lower degree of disability to dress independently.  Adaptive clothing can benefit people of all ages with disorders or natural ageing such as the following: Adaptive clothing typically incorporates flat seams to reduce friction, and discreet adaptations to make the clothing look as consistent with fashion norms as possible, including: easy access snaps, Velcro, stretchy fabric, roomy design to accommodate incontinence aids, longer rise in the back to accommodate sitting in wheelchairs, and elastic waist for increased comfort and easier dressing. For individuals suffering from Parkinson's and other disabilities that affect motor skills, magnetic closures have emerged as a great solution across multiple garments. The original technology was developed by MagnaReady and was patented in December of 2015.  The technology was licensed for numerous lines of adaptive clothing by brands including Van Heusen and MagnaClick.   Magnetic closures again came to the forefront of adaptive clothing when Tommy Hilfiger featured magnetic closures prominently in the launch of their adaptive clothing line in the Spring of 2018.  