  The Public Health Act 1875 (c 55) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, one of the Public Health Acts,  and a significant step in the advance of public health in Britain. Its purpose was to codify previous measures aimed at combating filthy urban living conditions,  which caused various health threats, including the spread of many diseases such as cholera and typhus. Reformers had since the 1830s wanted to resolve sanitary problems in urban areas, because sewage was flowing down the street daily, including the presence of sewage in living quarters.  In 1848 their efforts led to the establishment of a three-man Board of Health – if one with very limited powers.   Many factors delayed effective implementation of reform, however, such as the fact that to perform a cleanup would cost money, and neither government, factory owners, or local authorities were keen to pay.  Gradually, however, reformers helped to counteract the laissez-faire attitude of the government and public. In 1871, the Board of Health was subsumed into the Local Government Board by the Liberal Party; and when the Conservatives came to power in 1874, they were committed by Disraeli to extending social reform.  A public health Act was introduced in 1875. Home Secretary Richard Cross was responsible for drafting the legislation, and received much good will from trades union groups in the consequent years for "humanising the toil of the working man".   Disraeli ensured the passing of the 1875 Act; and when mocked by his opponents for neglecting more important political reforms, retorted on them with the resounding phrase ‘”sanitas sanitatum, omnia sanitas” [Health above Everything].  The Act provided local authorities with new powers: With the rapid urbanisation that accompanied the Industrial Revolution, huge swathes of terraced houses had been built to accommodate the factory workers. The contrast between the housing stock built before the passage of the Act and that built after it was stark. The Act required all new residential construction to include running water and an internal drainage system, and also led to the government prohibiting the construction of shoddy housing by building contractors.  The Act also meant that every public health authority had to have a medical officer and a sanitary inspector,  to ensure the laws on food, housing, water and hygiene were carried out; and that towns had to have pavements and street lighting.  It is, however, important to realise that the new powers provided were permissive, not compulsory: they provided a model of best practice for municipalities, but actual implementation remained for the most part up to the individual local authority.   