College Success Foundation is an educational nonprofit headquartered in Bellevue, Washington, serving school districts in Washington state and the District of Columbia.  CSF serves those who might not otherwise get to college without its help, including first-generation college students, students of color, low-income students and foster youth, by removing barriers to college access and completion.  The foundation was formed in 2000 as the Washington Education Foundation by two former members of the state's Higher Education Coordinating Board,   Bob Craves   and Ann Ramsay-Jenkins, under the terms of the Washington State 2020 Commission on the Future of Post-Secondary Education created by past governor Gary Locke.  By 2006, the founders realized that college scholarships alone weren't enough to increase high-school-to-college enrollment among low-income students. In 2007, the organization widened its focus to include college prep and support services for students beginning in middle school, expanded its reach to the District of Columbia   and changed its name to reflect its broader geographic mission. CSF advisors work directly in schools with high percentages of low-income students. CSF collaborates with school districts striving to improve high school graduation rates and increase the number of graduates going directly to college.  CSF works with these key public school districts: College Success Foundation provides direct on-campus college planning and support to middle school, high school and college students.  Middle School: CSF builds awareness of college and career choices, ensuring that students know college is an option for them before they enter high school. CSF advisors and coaches guide students through the steps they’ll need to take to become college-bound, working directly in schools to create a college-going mindset. Students may attend learning institutes, career academies and college campus visits. High School': CSF’s ninth- and tenth-grade Higher Education Readiness Opportunity (HERO) program focuses on engaging students academically and guiding them on their own college path. In its junior and senior year Achievers college preparation program, CSF offers proactive academic advising, college planning, college readiness support, summer programming, campus visits, financial aid and scholarship search assistance and high-school-to-college transition support. College: As CSF Scholars prepare for college, advisors stay engaged with students during summer to make sure they fulfill the final steps necessary. As students transition into undergraduates, CSF advisors and mentors help them navigate the early years of college so they understand the rigors ahead and supports available. CSF also offers scholarships to help make college accessible and affordable. Post-College: CSF supports scholars as they graduate and begin their careers. Alumni Relations focuses on helping graduates with four priorities: networking, professional and leadership development, personal finance and giving back. Alumni learn to prepare for graduate school and/or receive guidance pursuing internship and job opportunities. They may participate in financial goal-setting and homeownership workshops to enhance their personal finance skills. CSF alumni also give back—as mentors, advocates or donors—to help pave the way for students just like them. Scholarships: In addition to college pathway planning, CSF administers scholarships for low-income, underserved, and foster youth, including the Washington State Governors’ Scholarship for Foster Youth, the Leadership 1000 scholarship, the DC Achievers scholarship and the College Bound Scholarship. 