GEO Foundation is a blueprint for the support and funding of American charter schools. Currently, there are six such schools in the United States. 21st Century Charter School of Gary, Gary Middle College East, and Gary Middle College West are located in Gary, Indiana. Geo Prep Academy and Geo Prep Mid-City are located in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.  The curriculum at all schools is centered on self-directed learning and is facilitated by a computer program called the A+ Learning System. This program is a completely computer-based learning system in which students take various exams to determine their introductory level of knowledge. A curriculum supervisor then adds lessons to each student's personalized account. Students then complete these lessons at their own pace. Each lesson ends with an exam which serves to certify a student for the next lesson.  The GEO Foundation strives to break the cycle of poverty by providing students and families with access to quality educational options in impoverished neighborhoods. The foundation reaches this goal by starting, supporting, and managing high-quality charter schools in different areas of the country. History The GEO Foundation, a non-profit 501(c) 3 research and educational institution, was founded under the leadership of President Kevin Teasley in June 1998.  The GEO foundation recognizes that reaching the national level takes time, and believes that starting at the local level is best. The GEO foundation has been featured on numerous magazines. In 2017, they received a visit from Education Secretary, Betsy DeVos. Her visit was noted in the NWI Times.   In May 2017, People Magazine featured an article on a student who graduates from college before she receives her High School diploma. In the year of 2007, the GEO foundation had a full page in Forbes magazine. News coverage and working with fellow foundations has been a factor for GEO. GEO has been the subject of two front-page stories in the New York Times, and there have been numerous news accounts in the Indianapolis Star, Denver Post, and Colorado Springs Gazette.  Stanford University has published reports showing GEO Academies to be in the top 25% of the country in terms of academic growth.  Jeff Ready - Chair CEO Scale Tom Zupancic - Treasurer  Senior Vice President Indianapolis Colts John Gottsman  President & CEO The Clarity Group Joan Lange  Managing Director - Slick Rock Capital Partners Kevin Teasley  President/CEO GEO Foundation  