ASLERD, the Association for Smart Learning Ecosystem and Regional Development, is an interdisciplinary, democratic, professional association open to institutions and individuals. It was founded in 2015 by academics, researchers and scholars, mostly from European Institutions, with the intention of developing the work previously carried out by the Observatory on Smart City Learning (2012-2015). ASLERD is registered as a not-for-profit organisation under Italian law. The mission of the association is to support learning ecosystems to develop their people centered smartness towards becoming incubators of social innovation and engines of sustainable regional development. ASLERD has adopted a more people centered vision of ecosystem "smartness"  that integrates the Maslow's hierarchy of needs  and the Flow (psychology) theory:  "Ecosystems are smart when individuals that take part in the local processes achieve a high level of skills and, at the same time, are also strongly motivated and engaged by continuous and adequate challenges, provided that their primary needs are reasonably satisfied." Unlike the most popular models   used to benchmark the performance of smart cities, in the ASLERD vision the ecosystem "smartness" is not determined by infrastructural or process and product indicators but emerges, bottom-up, from the opinions of all categories of players involved in the learning processes, as it has been shown in the case studies concerning European Campuses   and Rome's Schools.  In such vision the development of  people centred ecosystem "smartness" is considered as a continual process that needs to be supported by participatory approaches, co-design practices and technologies. At the first  ASLERD conference, held in Timişoara, (Romania) a document, Better Learning for a Better World - Through People Centered Smart Learning Ecosystems, also known as The Timişoara Declaration, was signed on 19 May 2016 by representatives of some of the most prominent European Associations involved in the development of the Technology Enhanced Learning and of the Distance Education, including EADTU,  EATEL, EDEN and IAFES  The Timişoara Declaration recognizes: The association supports good quality research on Smart Learning Ecosystems and their relevance for social innovation and regional development by fostering networking and supporting projects at regional, national and international level (mainly European). The actions develop mainly in three ways: ASLERD supports the development of Smart Learning Ecosystems by: The European relevance of the ASLERD vision, and previously that of the Observatory on Smart City Learning, was first recognized in 2013 with the inclusion of People Centered Smart Cities through Smart City Learning among the Grand challenges of the XXI century in Technology Enhanced Learning.  Recently ASLERD organized a session on "Smart Learning Ecosystems for social innovation and territorial development at "ICT2015: Innovate, Connect, Transform" (Lisbon, Portugal) promoted by the European Commission - DG Connect. ASLERD is also committed to producing further analysis and collaboration among European Associations as outlined in the Timisoara declaration. SLERD 2017 has been supported by European Platform for Adult Learning (EPALE) - Erasmus+. Members of the association, and previously of the Observatory on Smart City Learning, have been promoting ASLERD vision by organizing workshops and panels all over the world: Since 2016 the association organizes its own annual conference: SLERD. The first edition of the series, SLERD 2016 was organized by the Politehnica University of Timișoara (Romania). SLERD 2017 took take place in Aveiro, Portugal, organized by the University of Aveiro and SLERD 2018 in Aalborg, Denmark organized by the University of Aalborg. SLERD 2019 will take place in Rome, Italy, May 22-24, co-organized by the University of Rome Tor Vergata, the ITD of the National Research Council (Italy) and the Quasar University of Rome. ASLERD is supporting the publication of a high-quality peer-reviewed online open access multidisciplinary journal - IxD&A - indexed among others, by SCOPUS, ESCI (Emerging Sources Citation Index - Web of Science) and DOAJ. Members of the association, and previously of the Observatory on Smart City Learning, have promoted several special issues published by the IxD&A journal IxD&A Open Archive : From 2017 onwards, the proceedings of the annual SLERD conference will be published by Springer Science in the series Smart Innovation, Systems and Technologies. ASLERD is strongly involved in supporting secondary schools in improving their smartness. Since its foundation, the association has been successfully implementing actions aimed at disseminating design and evaluation literacies, fostering participatory evaluation, co-design and the increase of the social capital and experimenting with new approaches and strategies for Alternate Schemes. ASLERD activities are steered by an elected board of people, which have a strong background in the ASLERD related topics. The board remains in office four years and is elected by all members of the ASLERD. The present elected board of ASLERD is composed by (in alphabetical order): • Gabriella Dodero (ASLERD Italia) • Carlo Giovannella (University of Rome Tor Vergata - Dept. of SPFS) - elected President (office will end in December 2019) • Alke Martens (University of Rostock - Institute of Computer Science) (office will end in December 2019) • Oscar Mealha (University of Aveiro - Dep. de Comunicação e Arte) (office will end in December 2021)  • Matthias Rehm (Aalborg University - Department of Architecture, Design and Media Technology) - elected Deputy President (office will end in December 2019) Past members of the board that served from September 2015 till December 2017 • Antonella Nuzzaci (University of L'Aquila - Dipartimento di Scienze Umane)  • Fernando Ramos (University of Aveiro - Dep. de Comunicação e Arte) 