 Aron Ra  (born October 15, 1962) is an atheist activist, former president of the Atheist Alliance of America,   and the host of the Ra-Men Podcast,    He is also the former Texas state-director of American Atheists.  In addition, he self-identifies as a feminist.  Aron Ra was born in Kingman, Arizona, and baptized as a Mormon. He says as a child he never saw himself as a member of that faith, however, because he did not know enough about it or other religions to make a responsible choice about what to believe.  He studied paleontology in Dallas.  Ra is a critic of creationism, and promotes the teaching of science in Texas schools.  Ra has advocated for the inclusion of evolution in the Texas Science Textbook hearing.    Ra spoke at Skepticon 6 (2013)  and along with Matt Dillahunty, was in the 2014 documentary film My Week in Atheism by director John Christy.   In 2014, Ra, Seth Andrews, and Dillahunty held the Unholy Trinity Tour in the United States in 2014,  which then went on to Australia in 2015.  In April and May 2015, he traveled across Europe and spoke at several events including QED: Question, Explore, Discover in Manchester, England,  at De Vrije Gedachte in Utrecht, the Netherlands,   and at Skepsis Norge in Oslo, Norway.  In 2016, Ra recorded an interview for the 2017 documentary film Batman & Jesus by Jozef K. Richards.  That same year, he published his first book, Foundational Falsehoods of Creationism, based on the synonymous video series.   Ra has signed the Pro-Truth Pledge.  Ra resigned as President of the Atheist Alliance of America to focus on running for State Senate.  He identifies as a "Bernie-crat"   and is running as a Democrat in Texas State Senate District 2.  He also identifies as on the Left and as a Liberal, saying: "I'm on the Left, and that's another poisoned term, right? I'm a Liberal and I'm a Leftist, right? So, that's both of these words are terribly negative, but I am these things because I value Humanity more than Corporate profits."   The incumbent legislator is Republican Bob Hall. No democrat has run in that district since 2002.  Ra hosted a nearly three-hour Ra-Men podcast titled Ra Campaign Fundraiser telethon. Along with Lilandra, the video included guests such as Justin Scott, famous for asking various political figures during the 2016 Presidential campaigns how they felt about the separation of church and state.  He is also Founder and Director of the Eastern Iowa Atheists, Administrator of the Cedar Valley Atheists, winner of the 2016 Freedom From Religion Foundation's Nothing Fails Like Prayer Award, and the very first atheist to give the opening invocation to the Iowa State House. The second guest was Juhem Navarro-Rivera, political scientist, author of blog The LatiNone, and co-host of he podcast The Benito Juárez Experience. The final guest was political comedian, proclaimed Satanist, and Democratic California Senate Candidate, Steve Hill.  Though he says "For most things [atheism] would be irrelevant. It would not be irrelevant when we're talking about secular politics obviously,"  it also seems that atheism would be one of the biggest media draws. Instead, it seems to scare the media away, as Justin Scott points out.  He resigned from the run on 11/18/17, citing the low probability of winning due to four other Democratic candidates joining the race, the Democratic party endorsing a different candidate, news media refusing to cover his run due to his atheist position, and lack of funding.  