Julio Alberto Cabral-Corrada, born April 8, 1991, is a Puerto Rican investment banker, social advocate and writer. He is an expert on Latin America and Puerto Rico's fiscal, economic, and political affairs.   Cabral-Corrada was born and raised in San Juan, Puerto Rico. He graduated with honors in 2009 from Colegio San Ignacio de Loyola High School, where he stood out as an academic, leader, and athlete.  Cabral-Corrada graduated in 2013 with Dean's List recognition from the Cornell University School of Industrial and Labor Relations (ILR), concentrating in business and government studies.  He was also a member of the Alpha Kappa Psi business society and the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.  In 2012, he spent a semester studying economics and politics abroad as a Hansard Scholar at the London School of Economics, where he completed his academic thesis on the European sovereign fiscal situation.   Since August 2018, Cabral-Corrada has been enrolled in the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia's MBA program. Cabral-Corrada worked as an investment vice president at Stone Lion Capital, a $2 billion investment fund.  He performed financial analysis on credit and equity investments across Latin America and emerging markets. Cabral-Corrada has also served as an intermediary between the Puerto Rico government and investors in the high-profile $70 billion debt restructuring.   Prior to that, he served as a Certified Institutional Analyst with Series 3, 55, 63, and 7 in Morgan Stanley's Institutional Equity Trading Group.    During the ongoing debt crisis, Cabral-Corrada has appeared in panel discussions in and out of Puerto Rico to discuss the islands' fiscal and economic situation, calling for a good-faith renegotiation of the debt, economic development, public–private partnerships, improvement in collection of existing taxes,   and fiscal reforms. At the federal level, he has advocated for parity in Medicaid & Medicare federal funding, access to Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection currently available to every state of the nation, and exemption from the maritime cabotage legislation known as the Jones Act.  Cabral-Corrada has been invited to numerous of conferences on the islands and emerging Latin American markets.  He has participated in forums organized by the Puerto Rico Chamber of Commerce,  the University of Puerto Rico at Río Piedras College of Business Administration,  and WUNO Broadcasting Group.  In the aftermath of Hurricane Irma and María, Cabral-Corrada co-founded Puerto Rico Rising.   The non-profit effort raised  over 5 million pounds of food and supplies among 20 U.S. mainland cities and distributed it, in coordination with other organizations, to feed and supply over 200,000 affected residents of Puerto Rico.   Cabral-Corrada sits on the board of directors of the YoNoMeQuito Social Foundation.  As reported by NBC News in May 2016, "the goal of the movement is to spread positive energy and motivate 'borícuas', as Puerto Ricans are known, to keep moving forward despite the island's recent challenges".  Cabral-Corrada is the youngest member of the annual stewardship board of the Museo de Arte de Ponce in Ponce, Puerto Rico, which was founded by former Governor Luis A. Ferre.   Cabral-Corrada has been a staunch advocate of equality and democracy for the people of Puerto Rico through the achievement of statehood for the islands.   In 2013, after serving as executive director of the Puerto Rico Statehood Students Association, Cabral-Corrada was appointed by Josue Rivera to the organization's board of advisors, which includes former Governor Luis Fortuño, former Secretary of State and Lieutenant Governor Kenneth McClintock, and Puerto Rico's former Resident Commissioner, Pedro Pierluisi.  In 2012, he served as the co-director of former Governor Luis Fortuño's absentee ballot campaign, which encompassed all the votes by students, military, and travelers who were not in Puerto Rico for the elections.  Cabral-Corrada is the eldest son of Julio Cabral and Mercedes Corrada, a long-time marriage in Puerto Rico in business and philanthropy.   He has one younger brother and two younger sisters. He is a grand-nephew of the late Baltasar Corrada del Rio, who was Mayor of San Juan, Resident Commissioner, Secretary of State, Lieutenant Governor of Puerto Rico and Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico.  