Thelma C. Davidson Adair (born August 29, 1920) is a Presbyterian educator, church leader, advocate for human rights, peace and justice issues, writer, guest speaker, educator, and activist. She has been  a resident of Harlem, New York, since 1942. She has been active with Church Women United, a Christian women's advocacy movement.   She is an ordained Elder for the Mount Morris Ascension Presbyterian Church of New York City in Harlem. Adair was the moderator for the 1976 Assembly Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.). Her husband is the late Reverend Arthur Eugene Adair, s a minister of the church from 1943 to 1979, who died in 1979.   Adair is an advocate for early childhood education and helped to establish Head Start programs in Harlem. She is Professor Emeritus of the City University of Queens College, City University of New York. Adair is a graduate from Barber–Scotia College, Concord, North Carolina, and Bennett College, Greensboro, North Carolina.  She earned a master's degree and Doctorate of Education from Teachers College, Columbia University.  Adair was born in Iron Station, North Carolina, and lived there while in elementary school. Adair grew up during a period of North America history in the Southern United States known as the Jim Crow-era.  She was born Thelma Cornelia Davidson in 1922, one of five children, in Iron Station, North Carolina. Her family subsequently moved to Kings Mountain, North Carolina. She married Reverend Dr. Arthur Eugene Adair. They moved to New York City in 1942. He because a Senior Pastor of St. John's Episcopal Church (Mount Morris, New York), and is a Harlem and Presbyterian educator.  Like many African Americans and Americans, Adair participated in the World War II efforts at home and abroad. She worked in a war plant. She inspected radar tubes. She was also a young mother at the time. She described her experience: This was a period of perhaps the greatest number of lynchings. Everything was separate. Total restrictions. And at every moment you could be humiliated just because of color.Despite the denial, despite the tragedy, despite the suffering, black folks, colored folks, Negro, Afro-Americans, claim America. This was your country, and so the loyalty, and this is the mystery of it all, was so strong that you never, even as we worked in war plants, even as we brought our crippled back, even as we buried our dead and got flags – we were not fighting for someone else. We too were America, and we only wanted the chance and the opportunity that we could have to sit at the table.  Adair was an organizer for West Harlem Head Start Programs. In 1944 she was an organizer for the Arthur Eugene and Thelma Adair Community Life Center Head Start.   The center services more than 250 children throughout various locations in Harlem.  Adair has published and written numerous articles on early childhood education. Her publications are authoritative guides for early childhood educators throughout the United States.  In 1976, Adair was elected as a Moderator of the General Assembly for the Presbyterian Church. She is one of the original founders of Presbyterian Senior Services, and is a participant with the Fellowship of the "Least Coin", a worldwide prayer movement. She was president of Church Women United from 1980 to 1984. [not in citation given] She was honored in 2011 by Congressman Charles Rangel.  She attended the Selma, Alabama, 50th anniversary of the Selma to Montgomery marches across the Edmund Pettus Bridge.  