Discipline is action or inaction that is regulated  to be in accordance (or to achieve accord) with a system of governance. Discipline is commonly applied to regulating human and animal behavior, and furthermore, it is applied to each activity-branch in all branches of organized activity, knowledge, and other fields of study and observation. Discipline can be a set of expectations that are required by any governing entity including the self, groups, classes, fields, industries, or societies. Children being educated to use public litter bins is a form of disciplinary education that is expected by some societies. If a child cannot use a litter bin the lack of discipline can result in a reaction from observant people in public. Many people observe a form of disciplinary effort in their daily lives.  Discipline is a moral obligation among many groups of people. Disciplined behavior is required by some laws and other legal obligations. Commercial entities can also put in place strict disciplinary requirements for the length of the commercial agreement. Airlines enforce strict disciplinary and conduct rules upon flight passengers.  In the  military, discipline regards the efforts made by superiors to punish the serviceperson. In academia, discipline can also regard the educators' responses and efforts that are designed to punish the student(s). Not only in military, in every parts of life of an individual discipline plays the most important role. Discipline shows the actual face of an individual. In animal husbandry and training, the animals may be disciplined to perform specific task and activities without errors. Additionally, animals can discipline their young through numerous methods; including nips, bites, and grips. Disciplinarians have been involved in many societies throughout history. The Victorian era resulted in the popular use of disciplinarian governance over children. Edward VIII had a disciplinarian father, and the English had modelled the royal families during this era. Edward's grandmother was Queen Victoria who had championed the role of the family unit during her reign. A disciplinarian will enforce a stricter set of rules that are aimed at developing children according to theories of order and discipline. Disciplinarians have also been linked to child abuse in numerous cases and biographies. 