The FBI National Academy is a program of the FBI Academy for active U.S. law enforcement personnel and also for international law enforcement personnel who seek to enhance their credentials in their field and to raise law enforcement standards, knowledge, and also cooperation worldwide. The FBI National Academy is held four times a year, when up to 250 candidates go through a 10-week course.  The FBI National Academy was started on July 29, 1935  in response to a 1930 study by the Wickersham Commission that recommended the standardization and professionalization of the law enforcement departments across the United States through centralized training.   The National Academy is located at the FBI Academy on Marine Corps Base Quantico, Virginia. In 1935 China, Canada, and Great Britain were among the first foreign nations to send candidates for attendance.  There are a few specific requirements to get into the FBI National Academy. Candidates have to have been in one of the following groups: leaders and managers of state and local police, sheriffs' departments, military police organizations, and law enforcement agencies. To participate candidates have to be invited through a nomination process. Participants are drawn from every state in the union, from U.S. territories, and from over 160 international partner nations.  Candidates must be at least 25 years old; be in excellent physical condition, capable of strenuous exertion and regular participation in the use of firearms, physical training, and defensive tactics, which will be confirmed by a thorough physical examination (submitted when requested by the FBI) by a medical doctor of the nominee's choosing and at the nominee’s expense; possess an excellent character and enjoy a reputation for professional integrity; exhibit an interest in law enforcement as a public service, a seriousness of purpose, qualities of leadership and enjoy the confidence and respect of fellow officers; have a high school diploma or high school equivalency certificate; preferably a college diploma; agree to remain in law enforcement for a minimum of three years after graduating from the FBI National Academy.  While at the FBI National Academy during the 10-week course  there are many different classes including; law, behavioral science, forensic science, the terrorist mindset, communication, health and fitness, and leadership development.  Also at the end of the 10-week course there is a final physical exam called the "Yellow Brick Road" which is 6.1 miles in length and has many different obstacles along the way.   Coordinates: 38°31′49″N 77°26′45″W﻿ / ﻿38.5302°N 77.4459°W﻿ / 38.5302; -77.4459 