The National Conservation Training Center supports the mission of the U.S Fish and Wildlife Service in the following ways: The National Conservation Training Center, or frequently referred to as NCTC, is located near Washington DC metropolitan beltway.  NCTC is a walking campus on a 533 acre property. NCTC occupies 17 buildings, which make up a self-contained community. The instructional classrooms, commons, and housing are situated within the rural setting of both forest and grasslands. The architectural design demonstrates the buildings and walkways are blended with the landscape to entice guests to shed their metropolis pressures. Outdoor patios, walkways, and break areas are situated to easily view the Mid-Atlantic area wildlife throughout the four seasons. Birds, white-tailed deer, fox, and other critters are frequently seen skittering up nearby trees or moving along a grassland culvert.  Over five miles of asphalt trails inner-connect the buildings to each other. Instructional, dining, and lodging are all in separate buildings. Umbrella bins are available to migrate between buildings during inclement weather.NCTC is a walking campus on a 533 acre property. The instructional classrooms, commons, and housing are situated within the rural setting of both forest and grasslands. The architectural design demonstrates the buildings and walkways are blended with the landscape to entice guests to shed their metropolis pressures. Outdoor patios, walkways, and break areas are situated to easily view the Mid-Atlantic area wildlife throughout the four seasons. Birds, white-tailed deer, fox, and other critters are frequently seen skittering up nearby trees or moving along a grassland culvert.  The central portion of the property known as the core campus is the instructional buildings complete with the guest Front Desk check in-out, auditorium, classrooms, computer and biology laboratories, and NCTC staff offices.  A bridge built at the height of a bird’s-eye view connects the core instructional area to the commons dining hall, social lounge, a full size gymnasium, workout room, and overnight guest housing units.  Supporting over 300 staff, 200+ overnight guests, and any number of day guests are the NCTC central plant, maintenance shops, water treatment facility, and a waste management plant.  