     On-the-job training (sometimes called direct instruction) is one-on-one training located at the job site. It usually consists of an experienced worker passing down their skills to a new employee. This type of training is usually used for practical tasks. In antiquity, the work performed by most people did not rely on abstract thinking or academic education. Parents or community members, who knew the skills necessary for survival, passed their knowledge on to the children through direct instruction. This method is still widely used today. It is a frequently used because it requires only a person who knows how to do the task and the tools the person uses to do the task. It may not be the most effective or the most efficient method at times, but it is normally the easiest to arrange and manage. Because the training takes place on the job, it can be highly realistic and no transfer of learning is required. It is often inexpensive because no special equipment is needed other than what is normally used on the job. One drawback is that OJT takes the trainer and materials out of production for the duration of the training time. In addition, due to safety or other production factors, it is prohibitive in some environment. Even many researchers show the importance of the On the Job Training.A large majority of employee learning is accomplished through on-the-job training. Well designed OJT training programs are well planned and resourced, staff managers with competent coaching ability, and define the criterion for performance standards.  As far as on the job training goes, there are both advantages and disadvantages to this type of training goes. Most companies have to weigh out these options before they decide which type of training they will use with their new employees. In some case, the disadvantages are too strong, and companies have to shy away from OJT. A list of pros and cons can be found below. * On the job training is a quick method of training. There is no time being wasted in the classroom, only for the person to get to the job and still not know what to do. This is also a way of someone getting their feet wet from the get go, and not having to learn over a long period of time. * When a company is short on employees, and needs to hire someone new, they are able to have the employee immediately on the job! This means there is not any extra time wasted with fewer people on the job. * It is oftentimes hard to create a simulation of the work environment in a training field. By doing the on the job training, everyone is taught exactly what they will be using on a daily basis. * Cost effective method of on the job training, means that no money is being wasted on separate training. * On the job training can sometimes cause an issue when employees are not properly trained teachers. Not every employee is capable of training someone, which would then mean that trainers would need to placed on the job site. * On the job training can also cause distractions to the job. This would also affect the productivity of the job, and lead to it being down in a slower amount of time. If the employees are constantly having to help someone new, they are spending less time on the task. * In many jobs, there are safety precautions that need to be taught prior to entering the job field. Without employees being properly trained, there could be injuries that occur on the jobsite. * On the job training, is oftentimes rushed, which results in low productivity of the employee. On the job training is one of the earliest forms of training in the United States. It is the method in which someone is taught by watching an already trained professional. This is typically done on a one-to-one basis. This was originally used as the method of training, when people were not capable of being able to read and write. This is why this method dates back to many, many years ago. This method was used because it didn’t require many materials, just one person who knows how to do the job, and the necessary tools. This method of training does not require any training guides, etc. Over the years, as society has grown, on the job training has become less popular. Now that people are able to read and write, many companies have switched to doing training in simulation fields, and having employees read training guides. Many jobs that would use on the job training, now prefer to hire employees who are already experienced and have the required skill set. However, there are still many companies who feel that on the job training is the best for their employees. This means that the new employee will be taught the necessary skills to complete the job while they are on the job site. The concept of observational learning was introduced by Albert Bandura. Bandura’s theory about people learning best from the people surrounding them, is called the Social Cognitive Theory. Bandura believes that people learn best by observing people around them. Some of the things that he brings up during this theory, is that people first must pay attention to those around them. Next, the learner must retain what they have observed, and try to reproduce what they have watched. This links nicely to the idea of on the job training, in the aspect that the new employees first observe their trainer. They may watch this person first complete the task, before trying it themselves. After observing for some time, people typically will imitate the action they had observed. This is exactly how on the job training is expected to occur. First, the trainer will model their task for the new employee to watch. After this is done a few times, the new employee will try their best to produce the same outcome. This type of training will occur as long as necessary, until the new employee is capable of performing the task on their own. 