In some universities in the United Kingdom and Ireland — particularly collegiate universities such as Oxford, Cambridge, Dublin, Durham, York, Kent and Lancaster— students and the academic body are  organised into a common room, or at Cambridge a combination room. These groups exist to provide representation in the organisation of college or residential hall life, to operate certain services within these institutions such as laundry or recreation, and to provide opportunities for socialising. Typically, though there are variations based on institutional tradition and needs, the following common rooms will exist in a college or hall: In addition to this, each of the above phrases may also refer to an actual room designated for the use of these groups. At the University of Cambridge, the term combination room (e.g., "Junior Combination Room") is also used, with the same abbreviations. As a generalisation, JCRs are associations of undergraduates and SCRs an association of tutors and academics associated with a college. Postgraduates are sometimes given their own MCR, or placed in with either of the other groups. This terminology has, in addition, been taken up in some universities in other English speaking nations. The terms JCR, MCR and SCR originated from the University of Oxford and the University of Cambridge.  The terms are now used at ten British universities as well as Trinity College, Dublin in Ireland, Harvard College in the United States of America and at the University of Trinity College in the University of Toronto, Canada. Due to the way that the terms have evolved over time and the idiosyncratic nature of university structure, the use of the three terms varies considerably from institution to institution. The main variations involve terminology, mature students and postgraduate students. In addition to this, the terms may be used to refer to the elected groups that run the common rooms. Other names such as "Exec" may exist for these. Halls of the University of Bristol cater mostly for first year undergraduate students, though there is a sizable undergraduate and postgraduate community who choose to stay on, either in the capacity as Tutors or as full paying boarders. The term JCR refers to the entire undergraduate population, but more specifically and commonly to the elected body of students who run the JCR for one academic year. Though most Bristol Hall JCRs are made up of first years, it is custom in Clifton Hill House, Goldney Hall, Wills Hall and Manor Hall to elect returning students to the majority of positions, including JCR President. There is no MCR, but the SCR includes the Warden, the Vice/Deputy Warden, the Tutors and honourable guests at Formal Hall. Hall Bars physically house the JCR, with a separate and publicly inaccessible SCR room reserved elsewhere in Hall. At the University of Cambridge, many colleges do not have common rooms, but combination rooms. The same abbreviations are used. The JCR represents undergraduates, with postgraduate students being members of the Middle Combination Room. In some colleges, postgraduates are members of both the MCR and JCR: for example, at St John's, where the MCR is known as the Samuel Butler Room or at Peterhouse. Most colleges also have an SCR. At Pembroke College the common rooms are called "parlours", such as the Junior Parlour and Graduate Parlour. At Jesus College, Cambridge, the JCR is known as "The Jesus College Students' Union", with its physical space being the Marshall Room. JCRs and MCRs have elected committees to represent their interests within their colleges and in the central students' union. Cambridge University Students' Union. The committees are almost universally led by a President and a range of other elected positions to cover specific areas or interest or functions (e.g. Secretary, Treasurer, Entertainment). There is a great deal of variety between the colleges in terms of the roles that the JCRs and MCRs undertake, how much influence they have in college affairs and how many functions they provide. Nearly all are responsible for organising Freshers Week and frequent entertainments. JCR Presidents and External Officers in Cambridge are ex officio council members of the Cambridge University Students' Union (CUSU). Before CUSU was established, individual JCRs were direct members of the NUS. This meant that Churchill JCR was able to lead the NUS in its campaign for student representation.  Unlike most universities, CUSU serves the common rooms and common rooms may choose to disaffiliate. CUSU is funded by the common rooms rather than funding them. At Durham, the majority of the sixteen colleges divide their members into: In addition, there may be one or more rooms set aside for the use of these bodies referred to as 'the JCR' or 'the MCR' etc. The committees that run the JCR and MCR are called the Executive Committee or "Exec". Membership of the JCR and MCR is not obligatory to students. There are some exceptions to this. The College of St Hild and St Bede has a "Students Representative Council", which includes both undergraduates and postgraduates at the college, with a special postgraduate committee. St.Aidan's College combines the MCR and SCR into one SCR whereby the postgraduates and senior members belong to one Common Room as a whole, while St Cuthbert's Society combines the JCR and MCR into one JCR. Following a referendum in 2011, students of St. John's College are represented by the "John's Common Room" (JCR) a composite body representing Undergraduates, the MCR (Postgraduates) and the Cranmer Common Room (representing the students of Cranmer Hall) (pre-2011 the body was the Joint Junior Common Rom JJCR). Ustinov College, which does not take undergraduates, has a Graduate Common Room (GCR) for its students.  Although the Durham Students' Union is independent from the college common rooms, each college has a representative to the union. At the University of Exeter, a number of residential halls for first year undergraduates retain traditional common room structures. Lopes, Hope and Mardon hall are all home to extensive Common Room set ups, which form a central part of student life there. In such Halls, committees are elected to represent the student body via the Common Room, and it is their job to liaise with the Resident Tutors who reside within the Hall. Although somewhat under threat by mergers of Halls and changes to internal administration, the Common Rooms still play an active and important role within the University, by both providing welfare and recourse to higher authorities for the students, and by organising social events such as balls, formals and more casual activities. At Kent each of the colleges was initially built with one or more "senior Common Room" social spaces. However, over the passage of time a number of the common rooms have been transformed into eateries and more formalised social areas. Each college has a "management Committee" (formerly "Junior College Committee" and before that, "Junior Common Room Committee") which acts to represent the students of each college at the students' union and organise cultural events. The Rooms and Committees have traditionally been open to both undergraduates and postgraduates, with the Senior Common Rooms provided for staff. At Lancaster, undergraduates are members of one of eight colleges (with a further college for postgraduate students). Each undergraduate college is a quasi-autonomous body within the university, and each divides its members into Junior and Senior Common Rooms. These terms are more indicative of the collective student/staff bodies than actual space,  although each college has actual common rooms set aside for Junior members. Senior members are less fortunate due to a current policy by the university's estates department of removing Senior Common Room space from college control – refurbishing these as teaching rooms or putting them on the central booking system, so SCR members cannot just "drop in". The term "JCR", although intended to refer to all junior members of a college, is often used to refer to elected members of each college's JCR Executive.  Each JCR Executive organises a range of social and sporting activities for its college while also offering welfare support for its junior members. The President and Vice President represent their college at the Student Union Council and on a range of University Committees, and many JCR Executive members sit with SCR members on the College Syndicate – the governing body of each college. Within the Graduate College, the Graduate Students Association (GSA) takes on the role of an "MCR". Lancaster has a Students' Union which co-ordinates activities between the different colleges, and the JCR and GSA executives are considered to be standing committees of the Union Council. At Leicester  the Junior Common Room (JCR) is open to all members of the University, although its main focus is around the Halls of Residence of the University. The committee was responsible for running the various activities within the Halls of Residence and the represents students based at the Halls. The Term JCR also refers informally to the undergraduate population of the University as a whole . The committee of the JCR is main elected from its members within the Halls of Residence. The Senior Common Room (SCR) for the University remains on its main Campus. Membership of the Common Room is open to all full-time members of staff but not postgraduate students, although they may be entertained as guests of members in the bar. The Common Room itself and its activates are governed by a committee of elected academics and fellows. At Nottingham, the majority of the Halls of Residence predominantly house undergraduates, with a small number of postgraduates living in hall as part of the pastoral and disciplinary system; in this instance, the JCR refers to the undergraduate members of the hall. Postgraduates, along with a Warden, comprise the SCR (Senior Common Room). The Hall Warden is a member of university staff, often an academic, that might reside either in a special residence within the hall, or in a nearby house. JCR activities include representation by elected students of their hallmates on accommodation issues, organised social events, and sports teams that compete in the Athletic Union's Inter-mural sports competitions. Since most students move out of halls after their first year, it is common for students to retain a sense of affiliation to their hall while living 'off-campus'. Many JCRs include former residents of the hall in their sports teams. All of the JCRs are now part of the Students' Union. Melton Hall houses only postgraduates, and the student organisation there forms the university's only MCR. At the University of Oxford, a typical college has a Junior Common Room (JCR) for undergraduates, a Middle Common Room (MCR) for graduates and a Senior Common Room (SCR)  for its fellows. JCRs and MCRs have a committee, with a president and so on, that represent their students to college authorities, Oxford University Student Union (OUSU), etc., in addition to being an actual room for the use of members. SCRs typically have a President, an academic member of the body who deals with higher-level administrative matters pertaining to the SCR, such as inviting proposed visiting fellows to the body and identifying invited lecturers to any particular college event. SCRs are typically characterised by a copious provision of coffee, newspapers, and moderately informal space for academics to think and discuss ideas. Wadham College is a notable exception: although it maintains an MCR, its entire student population is represented by a combined Students' Union (SU). The JCR and MCR presidents of all affiliated Oxford Common Rooms, in addition to their OUSU Reps, are automatically voting members of OUSU's governing Council, which meets fortnightly during term to decide on virtually all aspects of OUSU's policy. OUSU Council meetings take place in odd-numbered weeks of the University term. JCR Presidents also get together in even-numbered weeks for meetings of Presidents' Committee (popularly known as Prescom). MCR Presidents also get together up to three times a term for meetings of the MCR Presidents' Committee (popularly known as MCR-PresCom). Alternative names are sometimes used for college MCRs. Brasenose College has the "Hulme Common Room" (HCR), and University College has the "Weir Common Room", named in honour of college alumni. At Christ Church, St Antony's and Templeton the representative bodies for postgraduate students are called "Graduate Common Rooms" or "GCRs". At some graduate colleges such as Wolfson, St. Cross and Linacre College, students and fellows share a single, egalitarian Common Room. In addition, colleges sometimes have additional common rooms, such as the "Summer Common Room" at Magdalen College. These are sometimes, but not always, associated with a particular section of the student or academic body. University of Reading JCRs are set up in a very similar way to their Oxford counterparts, as the University was founded as University College, Reading, as part of Christ Church, Oxford. The JCRs at Reading are some of the oldest outside Oxbridge with some such as Wantage JCR founded in 1908, St Patrick's Hall JCR in 1913 and Wessex JCR later in 1915. Today there are thirteen JCRs operating independently of each other, although they do work with the Students' Union. JCRs represent all Students in a particular Hall as well as having a large number of attached members living in houses. Each year a new committee is elected in each halls. At the University of St Andrews, each hall of residence has a common room for use by all the resident students. Each year, the residents of the hall elect a committee that is responsible for social events. A portion of the yearly residence fees are earmarked for use by the committee for such events. Each hall also has a warden, assisted by one or more subwardens, who is responsible for discipline in the hall (such as dealing with complaints of excessive noise), and who also acts as an advisor to the committee. The hall common rooms may contain a television or hall library (some halls have dedicated rooms for these). The committee may also subscribe to newspapers and magazines, or buy books and DVDs, which are made available in the common room. In addition St Mary's College has a JCR for the use of undergraduates and an SCR for the use of staff. The previous principal of St Andrews, Brian Lang, was criticized and finally rebuked by the university court for requisitioning common rooms in certain halls for private parties, despite complaints by residents about noise and disruption to hall activities. His successor, Louise Richardson, has indicated that she will not continue this or any similar practice. JCRs at the University of Southampton exist in each of the different halls of residences; Archers Road, Mayflower, Bencraft, Chamberlain, Connaught Hall, Erasmus Park (At Winchester School Of Art), Glen Eyre, Highfield halls and Montefiore. The JCRs provide a welfare and support role to new students, and coordinate social and sports activities around the halls. Yearly elections are held in December, with members serving one or two yearly terms. In 2009 JCRs became part of Southampton University Students' Union representative structure and operate under the JCR Executive officer, with a budget of nearly £92,000. The day-to-day running of the colleges is managed by an elected committee of staff and student members chaired by the college's Provost. Colleges have a Junior Common Room (JCR) for undergraduate students, which is managed by the elected Junior Common Room Committee (JCRC), and a Graduate Common Room (GCR) for post-graduate students, as well as a Senior Common Room (SCR), which is managed by elected representatives of the college's academic and administrative members. The only exceptions to this are Wentworth which as a post-graduate only college does not have a Junior Common Room, and Halifax  and Constantine  which are run by a student association that represents both undergraduates and postgraduates together. Langwith's Junior Common Room is branded as a Student Association, however Langwith retains a Graduate Common Room and a Senior Common Room and therefore it's SA plays the same role as the JCRC in the other colleges.  The Junior Common Rooms are run by a Junior Common Room Committee (JCRC) headed by an 'Executive Committee' made up of a Chair/President, Vice Chair/Presidents, Secretary, and Treasurer who have signatory powers. Below the Executive Committee are the rest of the members of the committees who have responsibilities for welfare, activities, events and the general running of the committee.  Annual elections are held in November with people coming forward to stand for the various positions. Each individual college's JCRC is slightly different in composition, however all are elected by the undergraduate population following a hustings. The successful candidates are then elected for a whole year, bar any extenuating circumstances e.g. a Vote of No Confidence. The JCRC's primary functions are to be representative of the specific needs of their undergraduate populations, and to provide welfare help to students in the form of welfare reps who can offer advice or give contact details of other groups to students through informal drop-in sessions. With York's collegiate system though, JCRCs are increasingly involved in fostering college spirit through organising the many major social events a college has, such as Christmas and Summer formal Balls. At Harvard College, the term "Junior Common Room" officially refers to the collection of undergraduates affiliated with one of Harvard's 12 houses. Every undergraduate is assigned to a house in the spring of his or her freshman year and thereafter is a member of that house's Junior Common Room, including students who have chosen to reside off campus. In everyday usage, however, "Junior Common Room" almost always refers to a large common room in an undergraduate house by the same name, or simply "JCR" for short. JCRs are generally available for undergraduates to study or watch television, and student groups often reserve the space for meetings. This is in contrast to a "Senior Common Room," or SCR, which is for exclusive use of the houses' Senior Common Room members, which includes the House Masters, tutors, and other accomplished academics in the community. The Faculty of Religious Studies houses a JCR and SCR.  The JCR is a center for social activity among students, and the SCR is often used as a setting in films due to its luxurious setting.  The university residences also have areas which are designated as "common rooms". Paton College of Memorial University of Newfoundland has a Junior Common Room for undergraduates and all members of the university, and a Senior Common Room for use by academics. Lady Eaton College continues several Oxbridge traditions present at the founding of Trent University in 1964.  This includes a Junior Common Room for the use of students and a Senior Common Room for college fellows and staff.  It is the only college on the main campus that presently maintains both a JCR and SCR. Most colleges at University of Toronto have a common room system. The University of Trinity College, as with the entire University of Toronto has adopted many of the traditions of Oxbridge, including the wearing of academic gowns and several common rooms, including a Junior Common Room, Divinity Common Room, and Senior Common Room, which are all communities within the college as well as physical rooms. All undergraduate students registered in the college are members of the Junior Common Room, which hosts a variety of lively social activities, as well as serving as a comfortable student lounge with newspapers from around the world. The Divinity Common Room is available to students in Trinity's Faculty of Divinity, the oldest Anglican theological faculty in Canada. The Senior Common Room consists of college fellows with teaching appointments in the University of Toronto, teaching staff in the Faculty of Divinity, senior college administrators, postgraduate students who serve as academic dons, and divinity graduate students with fellowships. Other select members of the wider academic, social, and ecclesiastical community are also included. The SCR hosts a number of social and educational events and weekly high table dinners in Strachan Hall. The room, which overlooks the college quadrangle, is a faculty lounge hosting daily tea and weekly wine receptions. In University College, Toronto, the JCR is a popular hangout for students. Newman College has two common rooms: The student population at Ormond College is split into four common rooms: Trinity has three common rooms: The Women's College, University of Sydney has three common rooms: The student population at St. Andrew's College, Sydney is split into two common rooms: The student population at St. Paul's College, Sydney is split into two common rooms: Christ College has two common rooms: Trinity has two common rooms:  Media related to Common rooms at Wikimedia Commons 