This is a draft Articles for creation (AfC) submission. It is not currently pending review. There are no deadlines as long as you are actively improving the submission. Drafts not being improved may be deleted after six months. Note: The submission-received box will appear at the bottom of the page at first. If it's there, your draft has been submitted correctly. DRAFT DRAFT -- Placeholder for Work in Progress -- Not Ready for External Edits or Missing Item notifications -- Inventor of in vivo glowing-cell and gene imaging -- Inventor of green light heart monitor -- Inventor of white light body spectroscopy David Benaron is an American digital entrepreneur, physician, and former Stanford University Professor.  He is a co-founder of the optical imaging company Xenogen, the first and leading company to label and image genes and cells in the body using light.  He invented the green light heart rate sensor now found on nearly 100 million wrists.  He is currently Chief Medical Officer at Jawbone Health. Benaron graduated as the outstanding biochemistry (top) undergraduate student at University of California at Davis. He completed graduate school at Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts Institute of Technology Health Sciences and Technology programs, both cum laude. He completed fellowships in Physiology at the National Institutes of Health, in Biophysics at the University of Pennsylvania under Dr. Britton Chance, and in Neonatal Intensive Care under Dr. David Stevenson. He became a Professor at Stanford University with laboratories in Physics and Medicine programs. Benaron founded his first company when he was 13. He founded (or developed the technology for) multiple companies, with 4 attaining IPO or Merger. He holds over 60 patents. He was indoctrinated into the Stanford Inventors Hall of Fame. Benaron became Chief Medical Officer at Jawbone, then a $3B consumer electronics company, and followed the spin-out of Jawbone Health, a digital health company. Born in 1958 in Los Angeles to Russian and Polish immigrant parents. He has two children, both named after scientists.  He received a US Federal permit from the USDA for the sanctuary care of exotic wildcats, and lives with 2 african spotted wildcats at home.   