American hip hop group Beastie Boys recorded many songs during their career. Between 1982 and 2012, the group released eight studio albums, four compilation albums, seven extended plays, and forty singles. Beginning in 1981 as a four-piece hardcore punk group, Beastie Boys consisted of Michael "Mike D" Diamond, Adam "MCA" Yauch, Kate Schellenbach, and John Berry.  In 1982, after the release of the EP, Polly Wog Stew, Berry left the group and was replaced by Adam "Ad-Rock" Horovitz.  A year later, the group released their debut single, "Cooky Puss", which marked a change in style to a more hip-hop oriented sound.  The single garnered the attention of New York University student Rick Rubin, who, in 1984, would form Def Jam Recordings with Russell Simmons and ask Beastie Boys to join his label.  Afterwards, Schellenbach left the group and the remaining three, Ad-Rock, Mike D, and MCA, decided to focus their attention on rap.  With Rubin's assistance on writing and producing, Beastie Boys released the singles "Rock Hard" in 1984 and "She's on It" in 1985, before releasing their debut studio album, Licensed to Ill, in November 1986.  The album was a huge commercial success, and received critical acclaim.   Due to financial disagreements, Beastie Boys broke away from Def Jam and signed with Capitol Records in California. Produced by the Dust Brothers, they released their second album, Paul's Boutique, in 1989.   While commercially unsuccessful on release, Paul's Boutique's reputation has grown significantly, with it being calling "the Sgt. Pepper of hip-hop" by Rolling Stone in 2013.   After Paul's Boutique, Beastie Boys released their next album, Check Your Head, in 1992.  More diverse than their previous albums, it was a commercial success and was supported by the singles "Jimmy James", "Pass the Mic", and "So What'cha Want".    Their next album, Ill Communication, topped the charts in the US.   The music video for the album's lead single, "Sabotage", received extensive play on MTV.  In 1995, the group saw a brief return to their hardcore punk roots with the EP Aglio e Olio.  The recurrence would be short-lived however, as, in 1998, their next studio album, Hello Nasty, reverted to rap and featured bombastic beats, samples, and more experimentation than their previous albums.  Hello Nasty topped the US charts was critically well-received.   The album, as well as the lead single, "Intergalactic", earned the group two Grammy Awards in 1999.  That same year, the group released the two-disc anthology compilation album, The Sounds of Science, containing previously unreleased songs, B-sides, and greatest hits.  The compilation was backed by the previously unreleased song, "Alive"; the single reached number eleven on the Billboard's Modern Rock chart.  The group's first studio album in six years, To the 5 Boroughs was released in June 2004.  The album was a commercial success,  and received positive reviews from critics.  The group's next album, the entirely instrumental The Mix-Up, was released in 2007 and earned the group a Grammy Award for Best Pop Instrumental Album in 2008.  In 2009, the group announced their next studio album, Hot Sauce Committee, as a two-part album.  The first part, Hot Sauce Committee Pt. 1, was scheduled to be released in September 2009 but was delayed after Adam "MCA" Yauch was diagnosed with cancer.   In 2010, Hot Sauce Committee Pt. 1 was shelved indefinitely and would be replaced by Hot Sauce Committee Pt. 2 in 2011.  Released in 2011, Hot Sauce Committee Part Two received critical acclaim  and debuted at number two on the Billboard 200.   The album was supported by the singles, "Lee Majors Come Again", "Too Many Rappers", featuring American rapper Nas, "Don't Play No Game That I Can't Win", featuring American singer Santigold, and "Make Some Noise".   A year later, on May 4, 2012, Adam Yauch died of cancer.  After Yauch's death, Diamond and Horovitz announced that they would be open to making more music.  However, in 2014, Diamond announced he and Horovitz ultimately decided they would no longer make music as Beastie Boys out of respect for Yauch.   