Top40-charts.com, Inc. is an American global entertainment information and measurement company with headquarters in Manhattan in New York City. The European headquarters are in Luxembourg's capital, Luxembourg. Top40-charts.com has bureaus in Los Angeles, London, Barcelona, Thessaloniki and Beijing.  The company started as an online music fanzine, but soon diversified, publishing official entertainment industry news content, selling DVDs, Blu-rays, CDs, video downloads/streaming and MP3 downloads/streaming. The company also produces instant music charts and is one of the world's largest music provider for News/PR writing services. Top40-Charts.com transformed to a leading global information and measurement company that enables music industry companies to understand consumers and consumer behavior. Top40 charts measures and monitors what consumers watch (programming TV, streaming) and what consumers buy (categories, brands, products) on global and local basis. It provides research and strategic consulting to large entertainment industry organizations in many countries, focusing on music analytics and advice to help leaders and organizations have a real global view.  The company employs roughly one hundred full-time employees, including about 25 scientists, and many avocational researchers in different countries. Although the Top40-Charts conducts surveys primarily of entertainment industry and it has participated in or carried out multiple "international opinion research projects". The role of the company is to commission, market, distribute and manage the World's sales/ radio/ video/ streaming charts – to enable the people to claim the fastest and most sophisticated charts in the world. Now its programmers manage the future development of the charts in the fast-moving entertainment industry. It is a unique place where one can access the definitive Official Charts: World Singles Top100, Airplay Singles Top100 and European Singles Top100 in full, plus official global charts for Dance, Rock, R&B, Alternative, Streaming, Classical, Country, Christian & Gospel, Asian, European and more - all in one place, at the click of a button. Top40-charts is known for its annual Year-End Charts and the reviews for "the best of the best". Top40-charts.com is a major free source for many entertainment textbooks, music books, encyclopedias or biographies which are focusing on its official and real information about the global music market (see notes below): Annual year-end charts are produced by Top40-Charts. 