  Marnie Therese Elizabeth Hughes-Warrington is the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) at the Australian National University.  Prior to taking up this position in 2012, she was Pro-Vice Chancellor (Learning and Teaching) at Monash University. Her areas of expertise and research include historical studies, historiography, the philosophy of history, and the history of education. Hughes-Warrington grew up in Tasmania. She studied Philosophy and History at the University of Tasmania from 1988 to 1991, and graduated with a Bachelor of Education with First Class Honours in 1992. She was chosen as a Rhodes Scholar in 1992, and completed her DPhil at Merton College, Oxford, where she served as President of the Middle Common Room. Her thesis, completed in 1995, is entitled Historical imagination and education, and focuses on philosophy, religion, education and history. After completing her DPhil, Hughes-Warrington lectured in history at the University of Oxford, the University of Washington and Macquarie University. She became Associate Dean of Education at Macquarie in 1998, and held the position until 2009. She has also taught at Leipzig University and Harvard University. From 2009 to 2012, she worked as Pro-Vice Chancellor (Learning and Teaching) at Monash University, and became Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) at the Australian National University in 2012. Professor Hughes-Warrington is the author of several books: She has also edited The Palgrave Guide to World Histories (aka Palgrave Advances in World Histories) and is currently working on a new book on the revision of histories. In 2012, Marnie Hughes-Warrington, acting as Deputy-Vice Chancellor (Academic) of the ANU, was a principal proponent of the controversial restructuring of the  ANU School of Music .  These restructurings favoured an 'Academic Model' over the 'Conservatorium Model'.  The restructurings resulted in wide opposition from the Canberra community, with more than 25,000 signatures collected to that effect.  Some members of the community claimed that the restructuring was mishandled, referring to the manner in which the Manhattan School of Music's name was used without their consent to endorse it.  The methods through which thirty-two staff were "split" was also a matter of public concern.  