Sylviane Anna Diouf is an award-winning historian of the African Diaspora. She gave the keynote address to the United Nations General Assembly on March 25, 2015, during the commemoration of the International Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Slavery and the Transatlantic Slave Trade. Sylviane Diouf is the author of Slavery's Exiles: The Story of the American Maroons (New York University Press, 2014). Her book Dreams of Africa in Alabama: The Slave Ship Clotilda and the Story of the Last Africans Brought to America (Oxford University Press, 2007) received the Wesley-Logan Prize of the American Historical Association and the James Sulzby Award of the Alabama Historical Association. It was a finalist for the Hurston/Wright Legacy Award. Servants of Allah: African Muslims Enslaved in the Americas (New York University Press, 1998) received awards and has raised notice for its detailed, well-written, and well-researched study of Muslims in the Americas from the 16th to the 19th centuries. It has been translated into Turkish. A 15th-anniversary, expanded, illustrated and updated edition was published in 2013. Diouf is the editor of the critically acclaimed Fighting the Slave trade: West African Strategies (Ohio University Press, 2003), the first book to study in detail African resistance to the slave trade. She co-edited In Motion: The African-American Migration Experience (National Geographic, 2005). She has written several books for younger readers. She received the 2001 Africana Book Award for Older Readers from the African Studies Association for her book Kings and Queens of West Africa, part of a four-book series (Scholastic, 2000). She authored a book on the lives of children enslaved in the United States, Growing Up in Slavery (Lerner, 2001). Her fiction book Bintou’s Braids (Chronicle Books, 2001) has been published in the USA, France, and Brazil. Diouf has appeared on PBS in the documentaries This Far by Faith: African-American Spiritual Journeys and Prince Among Slaves, an award-winning film produced by Unity Productions Foundation, and in History Detectives. She has also appeared on ABC. She is the Director of the Lapidus Center for the Historical Analysis of Transatlantic Slavery at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture of The New York Public Library. 