Bielefeld University Tanja Bueltmann is a Professor of History and Faculty Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor at Northumbria University. She specialises in the history of migration and diaspora. Bueltmann was born in Germany. She studied British Cultural Studies at Bielefeld University, also spending a year at the University of Edinburgh as an ERASMUS study abroad student, receiving an MA in 2005.   Participantion in the ERASMUS study abroad program "laid the roots for her subsequent research and career".  She was a PhD candidate with the Irish-Scottish studies program at the Victoria University of Wellington, with her PhD research funded by the New Zealand government’s New Zealand International Doctoral Research Scholarship scheme.  Whilst a PhD student, Bueltmann published several papers and appeared in national media.   Professor Bueltmann's research interests are in diaspora, the dispersion of ethnic communities, and the social history of British and German immigrant communities.  In 2011, Bueltmann published her thesis "Scottish Ethnicity and the Making of New Zealand Society, 1850-1930", in which she "sets the scene for Scottish migration to New Zealand".   In 2012 she focussed on English communities overseas, co-editing a collection entitled “Locating the English the English Diaspora, 1500-2010".  She continued to research the movement of Scots overseas, and in 2015 released "The Scottish Diaspora" together with Professor Graeme Morton and Dr Andrew Hinson.  Later that year she published "Clubbing Together: Ethnicity, Civility and Formal Sociability in the Scottish Diaspora to 1930", investigating Scottish ethnicity and associational activism.  In 2017 Bueltmann published the co-authored monograph "The English diaspora in North America: Migration, ethnicity and association, 1730s-1950s”, the output of an AHRC funded grant.  Bueltmann argues that amid the uproar about migrant populations trying to seek refuge within the UK, it is easy to forget the historic outward migration of Brits.  Bueltmann is a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society (FRHistS) and Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA). Bueltmann is vocal in her support for Britain remaining in the European Union.  As her research is focused on migration history, and she is a German living in the UK, her concern about Brexit is both professional and personal.  She was a member of the lobbying group "Historians for Britain in Europe" and describes herself as an EU citizen.   Before the referendum, Bueltmann was voiced concerns that the "tolerant UK I love seems to be vanishing".    After becoming a public figure for the Remain movement, she received abusive messages.   She was not surprised by the outcome of the EU referendum, but, as many others, has been troubled by the events since.  In March 2017 she attended Newcastle's pro-EU rally, and, when interviewed by the BBC, said she had moved from Germany to "contribute to life and society in the UK and I think I've been doing that every single day since I arrived eight years ago".  She was a guest speaker at the People's March for Europe in London in September 2017.  Since Britain's vote to leave the EU, she has started to write for the Guardian newspaper.   Bueltmann has publicly spoken out against the government's Brexit reassurances.  She remains concerned about the rights of EU citizens in the UK, and Britons who live in the EU, and continues to take a vocal stand against them being used as bargaining chips in negotiations.  When the government made a plea for EU academics to remain in the UK, Bueltmann told the Independent newspaper it "took the biscuit... if they really meant they want us to stay, they would have guaranteed our rights fully on 24 June 2016".  She later argued in the Times Higher Education, in a rebuttal to the then Immigration Minister Brandon Lewis's article addressed to EU nationals working in Higher Education,  that what everyone failed to see was that the UK is not the destination for EU nationals, but their home.  