Ursula Klein (born 1952) is a German historian of science known for her cross-disciplinary work in history, philosophy and semiotics. Klein's concept of a paper tool has been widely applied, and is seen as marking a foundational change in scientific reasoning and practice in the history of chemistry in the early 19th century. Klein is a senior research scholar at the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science in Berlin, Germany.  In 2016 she received the HIST Award for outstanding achievements in the history of chemistry from the American Chemical Society. Klein completed her Higher State Exam in chemistry and biology in 1979.  After studying chemistry and biology at the Free University of Berlin, she taught both subjects at the secondary level from 1980 to 1988.   She earned her Ph.D. in philosophy (summa cum laude) from the University of Konstanz in 1993.   Her work Verbindung und Affinität: Die Grundlegung der neuzeitlichen Chemie (1994) explored the 18th century meaning of "chemical  compound".   She received Habilitation in philosophy from the University of Konstanz in 2000.  In 1995 Klein became a Research Scholar at the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science.  In 2005, she became a Senior research scholar at the Max Planck Institute.  She became an unscheduled professor at the University of Konstanz  in 2007, teaching only occasionally.  Klein is an associate editor of Studies in History and Philosophy of Science   and Historical Studies in the Natural Sciences,.   She also serves on the editorial boards of Ambix,  Annals of Science,  and  Hyle.  In addition to being named a member of Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher/Leopoldina as of 2008, Ursula Klein also serves on the Human Rights Committee (HRC) of the Leopoldina.   Over her career Klein has mentored a number of historians whose work now engages with  the broader historical ontology developed in her research on the experimental sciences.   This group of scholars includes Carsten Reinhardt at Bielefeld University (former director of the Chemical Heritage Foundation in Philadelphia, USA), Emma Spary at Cambridge University, Maria Rentetzi at the National Technical University of Athens, José Ramón Bertomeu-Sánchez at the University of Valencia and Matthew Daniel Eddy at Durham University. Klein's interdisciplinary work draws upon history, philosophy of science, epistemology and semiotics. She is interested in the manipulation of sign systems on paper and their relationships with experimental and classificatory performance in the laboratory sciences.  :ix Klein introduced the concept of the paper tool through an examination of Berzelian formulas and their impact on inorganic and organic chemistry.   Berzelian formulas were particularly important because they connected a world of signs with the world of laboratory experimentation.  They enabled scientists to describe complex materials and reactions in organic chemistry in organized ways, similar to the ways in which chemists had identified and classified inorganic substances.   Berzelian formulas offered a graphically suggestible representation of compositional structure that could be manipulated to investigate chemical reactions.   In this way, formulas became a "material resource" for the creation and manipulation of chemical models.   These interpretive models of organic reactions were not based on a particular theory but could be applied to a variety of theories. They gave scientists a new tool for the examination of their ideas. Theories could be supported by the manipulation of Berzelian formulas as well as by experiments.  In this way, paper tools acted as causal mechanisms and became the precursors of new theories.    The idea of paper tools has been adopted since by others and applied to constructs such as periodic tables,   Feynman diagrams  and the molecular architecture of Linus Pauling, among others.  Klein examines paper tools, models and experiments in terms of their impact on scientific reasoning and practice in early-nineteenth-century organic chemistry in her book Experiments, models, paper tools (2003).  She is credited with identifying the "invisible turning point" of a "quiet revolution" which shifted chemistry's foundation from natural history, medicine and pharmacy to carbon chemistry.  Much of Klein's work has focused on the ontology of materials, the notion of substance, and the development of the observational and experimental sciences. She is particularly interested in  forms of knowledge, including bodily skills, technical competence, explicit knowledge, connoisseurship, and analytic and theoretical knowledge; and in methods of measurement, data collection, and classification.    In Materials in Eighteenth-Century Sciences (2007)  Klein and Lefèvre discuss ways in which eighteenth century chemistry  was grounded in a world of materials such as balsams, fats, salts, alloys, plant materials and blood, and practiced in a wide variety of settings including “apothecary's shops, foundries, assaying laboratories, arsenals, dye manufactories, distilleries, [and] coffee shops.”  They then focus on a transitional period in eighteenth-century European chemistry, around 1830. At this time, methods of classification of substances changed, from focusing on experiential classification such as chemical composition, provenance, and properties of the substance, to more fundamental levels such as chemical structure and application. The book was praised for its breadth and "well-written exposition of an important change in materials science".  Materials and expertise in early modern Europe (2010)  presents a nuanced understanding of the relationships between academic science and industrial technology in the late eighteenth century, examining the work of both artisans and scholars.  Klein's most recent publication, Humboldts Preußen. Wissenschaft und Technik im Aufbruch (2015), discusses Alexander von Humboldt and his contemporaries in the context of the early development of Prussian science and technology. Other figures discussed include Andreas Sigismund Marggraf, Franz Karl Achard, Martin Heinrich Klaproth and Carl Abraham Gerhard.  