Lucas GrabeelJosh Robert Thompson as Stewie's Robots "Guy, Robot" is the third episode of the fourteenth season of the animated sitcom Family Guy, and the 252nd episode overall. It originally aired on Fox in the United States on October 11, 2015, and is written by Chris Regan and directed by Mike Kim.  The title is a play on the Will Smith film I, Robot, which itself is a loose adaptation of Isaac Asimov's collection of short stories I, Robot. While the Griffin family watches a comedy show that Aziz Ansari is on, Brian is not impressed and insists he could do better. At the Chuckle Bucket Comedy Club, different acts are played like Carl doing his impression of Bob Belcher from Bob's Burgers and Sterling Archer from Archer (a reference to all three characters being voiced by H. Jon Benjamin). Brian's act bombs when he tries political humor. Desperate, he reads Stewie's Twitter quips and gets big laughs from the audience. After the performance, Brian is confronted at the bar area by an angered Stewie with this causing a wedge between the two. Stewie builds a robot which he names Lyle to replace Brian, angering Brian. Stewie and Lyle spend time together like seeing The Monuments Men (which disappoints them so much that they refuse to discuss the film and sullenly turn in for the night) and disguising themselves as an adult at a Six Flags park to ride the rides. Meanwhile, Lois gets ready for bed as a drunken Peter comes in and falls asleep on her side of the bed. This leaves her sleeping on his side which has collapsed springs due to Peter's weight. The next day, Lois insists they go out to find a new mattress as they visit the Quahog Mattress Store. As the salesman proves not to be a reliable source for advice, they try out mattresses on their own. She and Peter try the Deep Slumber 3000 at the mattress store, but Lois buys it on Amazon when they are purchasing it, and they chase a delivery drone that's delivering it. When they try out the new mattress, Peter wants to have intercourse with Lois, but Lois suggests holding off on it for a while since they just bought the mattress, much to Peter's dismay. Things take a disappointing turn for Stewie when Lyle becomes hugely intelligent (including creating an urban plan for a workable Palestinian state) and creates robot friends of his own named Ted R. and Ted B. since he pointedly tells Stewie that his creator is no longer smart enough to be his friend. The robots then make Stewie do humiliating things in order to join them, such as forcing him to eat and then vomit up salad dressing, and this makes Stewie miserable. When Peter voices his annoyance of not being able to have sex with Lois to Glenn Quagmire, Cleveland Brown, and Joe Swanson at the Drunken Clam, Quagmire suggests finding the past mattress. They first head to an asylum to find it, but the owner checks them in by institutionalizing Peter and Cleveland, euthanizing Joe, and allowing Quagmire to make out with the female patients. Then they head to a filming site where Bruce is involved in the production of a pornography film as they find that the old mattress is being used to hold all the food on it. Peter brings it back to the house, and convinces Lois to keep it since it symbolizes their marriage and they have intercourse on it. Brian finds Stewie in a toilet, where he says one of the Teds told him that it's where a piece of crap has to live. Brian coaxes him to stop them and they reconcile. Stewie tries to short them out with lemonade. But when he is unsure about outsmarting them, Brian steps in and shorts them out with a hose. Happy that things returned to normal, Lois and Peter find that they have severe itching and get rid of the old mattress again. When Brian asks what he did with the robots, Stewie says that he threw them to the curb. Simultaneously, Lyle, Ted R., and Ted B. are on the curb on top of Lois and Peter's old mattress. While walking Jesse, Herbert sees this. Thinking that it's a trap for pedophiles, Herbert voices his disapproval about it. The episode received an audience of 2.79 million, making it the second-most watched show on Fox that night behind The Simpsons episode, "Puffless".  Tommy North of Bubbleblabber gave the episode a 7/10.  The episode has a rating of 7.0/10 on IMDb based on 635 user ratings. 