Mega Babies is a Canadian animated series created by the Tremblay brothers, Christian and Yvon, who previously had made the H-B's show SWAT Kats: The Radical Squadron. It is produced by CinéGroupe and Landmark Entertainment Group in association with Sony Wonder.  The series was broadcast on Fox Family Channel and Teletoon. The show was also aired in UK on Sky One's weekday mornings and later repeated on Channel 5 on weekend mornings between 2001 and 2002. The show is about a trio of babies who are superheroes that fight off evil monsters and aliens. Their names are Meg, Derrick and Buck and their care-giver's name is Nurse Lazlo. The show takes place in Your City, USA. After their birth, they are brought to an orphanage.  When the entire solar system aligned itself, the babies and their nurse were struck by lightning.  The babies were given super strength and other powers, and Nurse Lazlo's IQ rose. The show uses a lot of toilet humor based on snot, vomit, feces, flatulence, drool, veins popping out of muscular parts, and various other bodily fluids coming from the cast. Buck was voiced by Sonja Ball, Dean Hagopian voiced many male characters, Laura Teasdale did Derrick's voice, Meg was voiced by Jaclyn Linetsky, and Bronwen Mantel voiced Nurse Lazlo. Even though the voice acting was done in Montreal, the voice directing was done by Vancouver based veteran voice actor and voice director Terry Klassen who has done voiceovers for many animated television series and films such as voicing Krillin in the Ocean dubbed version of Dragon Ball Z. Klassen has also voice directed over works such as Ed, Edd n Eddy, Johnny Test, Cardcaptors, several Barbie films, and more recently, My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic. This was the only time Klassen has ever voice directed an animated project outside of Vancouver. During the later episodes Terrence Scammell who also voiced several characters in the series as well as providing the main title narration took over as voice director. Scammell has also done many voice acting roles for film, television and video games in both Montreal and Ottawa, Ontario. Entitled with the same name, this video game based on the show was developed and published by Global Star Software in 2000, exclusively for PC.  