James Earl Jones as alternate timeline Maggie "Treehouse of Horror V" is the sixth episode of The Simpsons' sixth season and the fifth episode in the Treehouse of Horror series. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on October 30, 1994, and features three short stories titled The Shinning, Time and Punishment, and Nightmare Cafeteria. The episode was directed by Jim Reardon and written by Greg Daniels, Dan McGrath, David Cohen, and Bob Kushell.  In The Shinning the Simpsons are hired as caretakers at Mr. Burns' mansion. Deprived of television and beer, Homer becomes insane and attempts to murder the family. In Time and Punishment, Homer repeatedly travels back in time and alters the future. In Nightmare Cafeteria, Principal Skinner begins using students in detention as cafeteria food. David Mirkin deliberately placed more graphic violence in the episode due to complaints about excessive violence in the show. The episode features James Earl Jones as the voice of an alternate timeline Maggie. The episode was critically acclaimed. Marge warns that the episode is frightening and should not be viewed by children. During the warning, she is informed that it is so scary that Congress will not allow the episode to be broadcast. However, Bart and Homer interrupt the warning with a radio transmission and the episode begins. The Simpson family are employed as caretakers at Mr. Burns' mansion. Mr. Burns cuts the cable television wire and steals the beer, thinking this will ensure hard work from the family. While there, Groundskeeper Willie discovers that Bart has the power to read his thoughts and says that if Homer goes insane, he should use this to call him. The deprivation of his two favorite things causes Homer to go insane and a ghostly Moe informs Homer he must kill his family in order to get a beer. Marge is attacked by Homer and fends him off with a bat (from a case labeled "Break glass in case of spousal insanity"); Homer makes a terrifying face at her, but faints in horror after foolishly looking in a nearby mirror. She then locks him in the pantry until he has calmed down. While Marge and the children are enjoying dinner, Homer begins pursuing the family with an axe and Bart uses his powers to call Willie, who immediately runs to the family's rescue, abandoning his portable television in the snow in the process. Homer kills him by striking him in the back with the axe. Homer pursues his family outside but as he is about to kill them, Lisa discovers Willie's abandoned television. Homer's insanity gradually decreases and the family freezes in the snow as they are watching. One morning at breakfast, Homer gets his hand stuck in the toaster twice. While attempting to fix the now broken toaster, Homer accidentally turns it into a time machine, as seen with a test-toast that transports him to prehistoric times where he realizes he must be careful not to do anything to change history. Coincidentally, swatting a mosquito turns the present into a dystopia where Ned is a dictator of the world. Homer travels back in time again attempting to set things right; however, he accidentally kills a walking fish, and after returning to the present, he finds Bart and Lisa are giants, narrowly avoiding being crushed by them. His next attempt results in him accidentally releasing the cold virus while defending himself from a Tyrannosaurus rex, which proceeds to cause their extinction. Watching them fall like dominoes into the horizon, he grimly remarks "This is gonna cost me." He is initially pleased with the results in the present (amongst other perks, the family is now extremely wealthy and Patty and Selma have died), but is horrified upon discovering that donuts do not exist in this timeline and flees, only seconds before donuts begin raining from the sky. In another world, Willie attempts to help Homer, but is again struck in the back with an axe, this time by Maggie who then speaks to Homer in James Earl Jones' voice. On his next trip back, Homer smashes and crushes everything he can see, resulting in numerous changes to the timeline. Homer eventually arrives in a reality that appears normal; he finds humans eating with lizard-like tongues, but finally decides that it is "close enough". Principal Skinner is concerned that the detention hall is becoming overcrowded and as a result of the latest budget cut, Lunchlady Doris has been reduced to serving "Grade F" meat in the cafeteria. Principal Skinner discovers a common solution: eating misbehaving children. Jimbo Jones is the first student to be killed, followed by Üter. Bart and Lisa finally discover what Principal Skinner and Lunchlady Doris are doing, but one by one, the kids are "sent to detention" where they are caged and butchered. Eventually Bart, Lisa, and Milhouse are among the only students remaining and attempt to escape. Principal Skinner and Doris corner them on a ledge above a giant food processor. Willie attempts to help the students escape, but is once again felled with an axe in the back, this time by Principal Skinner. Milhouse, Bart, and Lisa fall to their demise. Bart wakes up from the nightmare to find his family beside his bed. Marge assures him he has nothing to be afraid of, but a green fog seeps in through the window and the Simpsons are turned inside out. They, along with Willie, perform a musical number over the end credits, but Bart is dragged away and eviscerated by Santa's Little Helper. David Mirkin attempted to put "as much blood and guts" into the episode as he could. This was because Mirkin was disappointed by complaints from Congress regarding the amount of violence in the show and their attempts for it to be censored. He later called it "the most [...] disturbing Halloween show ever". The opening sequence, in which Marge states the episode could not be shown and plays some live action stock footage, was also in reaction to this. Mirkin said he thinks Halloween shows can be "scary as well as fun".  This episode marked the end of the tradition of featuring humorous tombstones in the title sequence of Halloween episodes. The title sequence of this episode featured a tombstone reading "Amusing Tombstones", which was a sign that the writers could no longer devise ideas to use as humorous tombstone messages. Similar sequences were featured as introductions in all four preceding Treehouse of Horror episodes, but have not been featured since this episode.  The staff also decided against the traditional continuation of featuring wrap-around segments that were featured before each story in the preceding Treehouse of Horror episodes, to allow more time for the main stories.  The first segment, The Shinning, was inspired by the film The Shining, and is basically a parody of that film. The film's director, Stanley Kubrick, had been a big influence on Mirkin, and was "one of the main reason[s] [he] wanted to be a director".  Coincidentally, series creator Matt Groening admitted that he had not seen The Shining and most of the references to the film were entirely lost on him.  Matt Groening originally pitched the idea that Homer would travel through time in Time and Punishment. His original idea was that the time-travel would be the result of Homer simply jamming his hand in the toaster, but it was rejected by the other writers.  The first time Homer travels back in time, he was originally supposed to state "I'm the first non-fictional character to travel backwards through time".  The line was later changed from "non-fictional" to "non-Brazilian". Groening was confused as to the reason for the change, since he liked the original so much. In fact, he did not even understand what the new line implied.  In the scene where the Simpsons' house transforms into numerous objects, one of the original designs included the house made entirely of squirrels. The layout artist who designed it worked on the drawings for more than two days, but ultimately it was cut. To ensure their work did not go to waste, some staff members have used the drawings on Christmas cards and other studio-related notices.  In another deleted scene involving an alternate Simpsons future, the Simpsons had a teenage son named Roy.  Groening said that "somebody from outside the show" originally suggested the idea.  The joke was later used as a sub-plot for the episode "The Itchy & Scratchy & Poochie Show", although Roy was a lodger in that episode, rather than a son.  Nightmare Cafeteria was the first Simpsons story to be written by David X. Cohen.  He wrote the final scene where a nightmarish fog turns the family "inside out". This was inspired by a thriller featured on the radio show Lights Out called "The Dark", which frightened Cohen as a child. A dance number was added immediately afterwards in order to end the show on a lighter note. He also cut two scenes from this segment featuring Sherri and Terri being cooked as "Teriyaki" steak with a "Sherry" sauce and Homer regaling Lisa about his dream of eating Milhouse. Regardless, a book from this scene was featured in this segment. As a result of this scene being cut, Homer does not appear in the third segment, something Cohen thought never happened before.  The "grade F meat" joke was written by Mirkin, inspired by his cousin once seeing a box of hot dogs labeled "grade C, approved for human consumption".  The voiceover in the pre-title sequence is a reference to the 1963 television series The Outer Limits.  The first segment, The Shinning, is a parody of the Stephen King novel The Shining and the Stanley Kubrick film of the same name. The basic plot of the segment is the same as the novel and there are also many references to specific moments from the film, such as the blood coming out of the elevator and Homer breaking through a door with an axe and yelling "Here's Johnny".   The title of the second segment, Time and Punishment, is a reference to the Fyodor Dostoyevsky novel Crime and Punishment and the plot, where Homer causes major changes in the future by killing animals in the past, is a parody of the Ray Bradbury short story "A Sound of Thunder".  Peabody and Sherman from the animated series The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show, make an appearance during Homer's time traveling sequence and when, as a side effect of Homer's antics in the past, Kang and Kodos' heads are unexpectedly replaced with those of Peabody and Sherman.  The dinosaur scenes are reminiscent of Jurassic Park,  and the floor morphing into a television screen is a reference to similar scenes in both Terminator 2: Judgment Day and Time Bandits.  The title of the third segment, Nightmare Cafeteria, is a reference to the television series Nightmare Cafe  while the plot bears reference to Soylent Green The song over the end credits is based on the song "One" from the musical A Chorus Line,  while the concept of the family being turned inside out by a mysterious fog comes from an episode of the radio show Lights Out called "The Dark".  In its original broadcast, "Treehouse of Horror V" finished 27th in ratings for the week of October 24–30, 1994, with a Nielsen rating of 12.2, equivalent to approximately 11.6 million viewing households. It was the second highest-rated show on the Fox network that week, following Beverly Hills 90210.  Entertainment Weekly ranked this episode as the ninth best of the entire series; The Shinning segment was described as "a parody [...] with such detail [and] comic timing" and that it "ranks with the great [...] spoofs of all time", and the Time and Punishment segment as "one of the most beautifully random moments in [The] Simpsons history", but also said that the Nightmare Cafeteria segment "doesn't shine as brilliantly".  It ranked fifth on AskMen.com's "Top 10: Simpsons Episodes" list. The list stated that the episode "offers three completely different tales, [...] boasting a potent combination of wit and humor" that, "the laughs never end", and that it "does a great job of incorporating Halloween-themed stories with the standard Simpsons charm".  IGN called the episode "the funniest Treehouse of Horror to date".  In 2006, they also named it the best episode of the sixth season.  Adam Finley of the weblog TV Squad called it "possibly one of the best Halloween episodes ever".  Michael Passman of Michigan Daily said the episode "is largely regarded as the best, but a weak final third holds it back".  The Shinning is particularly the highest-praised segment. As well as Entertainment Weekly's praise, IGN voted it first on their list of the best segments in the Treehouse of Horror series, with Time and Punishment coming fourth.  It came ninth on the blog Noise to Signal's list of "The Ten Best Treehouse of Horror Vignettes".  Adam Finley of TV Squad opined that it "could [...] be the best Treehouse of Horror segment ever" and praised the opening of Time and Punishment.  When putting together the perfect Treehouse of Horror episode, Passman of Michigan Daily included The Shinning as "a shoo-in".  Empire named "No TV And No Beer Make Homer Go Crazy" the sixth best film parody in the show's history.  Alf Clausen's musical score for this episode received an Emmy Award nomination for "Outstanding Dramatic Underscore — Series" in 1995.  The authors of the book I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide, Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, called it "Another fine entry to the Treehouse canon".  James Earl Jones' guest appearance in this episode, as well as in "Treehouse of Horror" and "Das Bus", was listed seventh on IGN's "Top 25 Simpsons Guest Appearances" list.  Jones ranked 25th on AOL's list of their favorite 25 The Simpsons guest stars.  Matt Groening said that this line is among his favorite lines in the show.  David Mirkin said that Homer's line, "Oh I wish, I wish I hadn't killed that fish", is one of his favorites in the show, and that the alternate future in which the family are rich "breaks [his] heart every time".  Homer's line "close enough" from Time and Punishment was later used in the Stargate SG-1 episode "Moebius".  Time and Punishment was later referenced in DC Comics' Booster Gold comic book series, where Booster Gold explains the butterfly effect by referencing this episode.   