Creative Court  is an organisation that develops art projects and reflects on peace and justice.  Creative Court is based in The Hague, the Netherlands. It was founded in November 2013. In 2015 two journalists, Els Duran and Evelien Vehof, conducted interviews regarding statelessness in Europe in which they came across complicated regulations, coping mechanisms and pragmatism. Creative Court developed the video installation 'And now I am here' based upon these findings. This video installation questions feelings of displacement from various angles through the use of interview, excerpts and quotes from literature and philosophy which are merged with the images of video artist Farah Rahman, whose work revolves around migration. This video installation was created as part of the framework of the Europe by People arts and design programme which took place during the Dutch presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2016.  Video artist: Farah Rahman Research and interviews: Giselle Vegter, Els Duran, Evelien Vehof Interpretation and translations: Carlijn Teeven, Myrte Sara Huyts, Morgan Mekertichian Production: Anja Janssen Artistic and business management: Creative Court Articles Radio Post-Conflict Mind Check (working title 'The Ghost of Tito') is a tongue-in-cheek prototype card game created by Creative Court and MediaLAB about culture, history, conflict, and stereotypes in the six countries that once made up the former Yugoslavia. The game aims to engage players with socially taboo topics and unconventional content. It was developed in 2015 to be used for personal reflection and critical thinking about post-war legacy in the former Yugoslavia. Commissioner: Creative Court Project Mentor: Tamara Pinos Students: Jon Jonoski (MA Media Studies), Jennifer Lamphere (MA History) and Liliana Zambrano (BA Industrial Design) Blog With De Balie, a center for freedom of speech, art, politics, culture, cinema and media in Amsterdam, Creative Court produced Rooms of Humanity, a reflective programme, around (in)humanity in times of war and genocide. It debuted in The Netherlands at De Balie in Amsterdam on Saturday, 19 September 2015.  The theatre installation consists of the Room of Game, the Room of Propaganda, the Room of Acts for Humanity, and the Room of Questions and Answers and includes photographic and textual visuals, an audio installation, as well as group activities and discussions. Rooms of Humanity connects to themes such as individual and collective responsibility, exclusion, war, genocide, (in)humanity, propaganda, and the dynamic between victim – perpetrator – bystander. Artistic directors: Ilil Land-Boss (Israel-Germany) and Giselle Vegter (the Netherlands) Scenic design: Karin Betzler Business management: Creative Court Special guest speakers:  Moderator: Markha Valenta, a professor of American Studies at Radboud University Nijmegen Articles Radio Creative Court curated a selection of African cartoons that reflect on the International Criminal Court. The selection was made in the framework of the Nederlandse Vereniging voor Afrika Studies conference, 'Africans and Hague Justice, Realities and Perceptions of the International Criminal Court in Africa', which took place at The Hague University of Applied Sciences in May 2014.  The following cartoonists are represented in the collection:  Alphonce 'Ozone' Omondi (Kenya), Brandan Reynolds (South Africa), Cuan Miles (South Africa),  Damien Glez (Burkina Faso/France), Mohammed 'Dr. Meddy' Jumanne (Tanzania), Godfrey 'Gado' Mwampembwa (Tanzania), Jonathon 'Zapiro' Shapiro (South Africa), Khalid Albaih (Sudan/Qatar), Khalil Bendib (Algeria/US), Popa 'Kamtu' Matumula (Tanzania), Roland Polman (Ivory Coast), Talal Nayer (Sudan/Tunisia), Tayo Fatunla (UK/Nigeria), and Victor Ndula (Kenya). Articles Television Creative Court developed a photography project that reflects on forgiveness in post-genocide Rwanda. They commissioned South African photographer Pieter Hugo and Croatian-Dutch photographer Lana Mesić to try and capture the nature of forgiveness. The project includes photographs, interviews, and videos.  Articles Radio and Television Association Modeste et Innocent (Rwanda), City of The Hague, Doctors Without Borders, Foundation for Democracy and Media, Goethe-Institut Kigali (Rwanda), Haagse Hogeschool (The Hague School of Applied Sciences), Hogeschool INHolland, Huis van Gedichten, Humanity House, International Institute of Social Studies, Justitia et Pax, Karekezi Film Productions (Rwanda), Leiden University, Liberation Festival the Hague / Bevrijdingsfestival Den Haag, Mediaridders, Mondrian Fund,  Mukomeze Foundation, Nederlandse Vereniging voor Afrika Studies (NVAS),  NIOD Institute for War, Holocaust and Genocide Studies / Nationaal Instituut voor Oorlogs-, Holocaust- en Genocidestudies (NIOD), Nutshuis Den Haag, Prince Claus Fund, Tilburg University, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), amongst others. 