VII Photo Agency is an international photo agency wholly owned and governed by its membership. The cooperative agency was originally conceived by Gary Knight  and John Stanmeyer.  They were subsequently joined by Alexandra Boulat, Ron Haviv, Antonín Kratochvíl, Christopher Morris, and James Nachtwey    and the agency, named after the number of founding members, was launched at the Visa pour l'image Festival in Perpignan, France, in September, 2001. VII  was conceived to operate as a means of digital image distribution and representation wholly owned and controlled by the photographers it represented in response to large corporations acquiring the small photo agencies present in the industry at the time. Today, VII represents 19 photographers who have chronicled significant global events and topics since the late 1970s.  VII established its reputation for news coverage during the war in Afghanistan that followed 9/11 and during the conflict in Israel/Palestine in 2002 and the invasion and occupation of Iraq in 2003.  From being principally focused on news for editorial clients, the agency has diversified into social media, live events, video, and creative partnerships with NGOs  / colleges / universities, exhibitions in leading museums, featured appearances at major art and photo festivals, and education.  In addition to the 19 current member photographers, young photographers are mentored by full members through the VII Mentor Program and represented by the agency. As of 1 June 2015, Richard Schoenberg,  a Los Angeles-based businessman and former VII board member assumed the role of CEO and chairman of the board. Newest Americans is a three-year longitudinal study at Rutgers University–Newark that will document the lives and communities of students at the university and take an in-depth look at immigration and the idea of American identity. It is a collaborative effort involving VII, Rutger’s Center for Migration and the Global City (CMGC)  and the Department of Arts, Culture and Media. The project, spearheaded by Tim Raphael, director of CMGC, focuses on immigrant experiences in New Jersey with Newark as the hub where these different stories converge. Notes for My Homeland  was produced by  Talking Eyes Media   and is the first professionally produced piece in the storytelling project. For the Evolution Tour, photojournalists from VII Photo Agency, along with technical specialists from AbelCine, present an examination of the evolving business, technology and craft of visual storytelling.  This program is structured as a combination of seminars, panel discussions, hands-on workshops and networking. In 2015, Ed Kashi, Ron Haviv, Marcus Bleasdale, Stefano De Luigi and John Stanmeyer, all members of VII Photo Agency will lead photography workshops in 4 different European capitals: Paris, Barcelona, Amsterdam and Berlin, as part of the Eyes in Progress’s workshops program.  Through a partnership between VII, Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF, also known as Doctors Without Borders), and UNION HZ, Fatal Neglect is a multi-part documentary film project, to tell the stories of the millions of patients left behind by the global health revolution.  In Fatal Neglect: The Global Health Revolution’s Forgotten Patients, VII documents the impact of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis and some of the deadliest neglected tropical diseases: “kala azar,” and “sleeping sickness.” Award-winning photojournalists Ron Haviv and John Stanmeyer traveled to capture the stories of frontline health workers trying to fight diseases that affect millions of people and kill hundreds of thousands each year yet garner little attention from drug developers, policy makers or the mass media. In 2010, Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) and VII Photo launched “Starved for Attention,” an international multimedia campaign to rewrite the story of childhood malnutrition.  Petition signatures were collected from people around the world who joined the partnership  in demanding that donor nations stop supplying nutritionally substandard food to malnourished children. 