DIVO (Digital Interactive Video Online), is an active learning education project, incorporating creativity and ICTs. The project uses participant centred, creative digital video dialogue, and aims to promote inter-cultural understanding and peer-led learning between remote groups who are unable to meet face-to-face. The DIVO project uses digital video to augment online dialogue between remote groups. Groups of young people record and exchange short digital films based on common themes, which are shared via a website. The films are viewed and the issues contained are discussed and explored on and offline and new films are created and shared in response. DIVO is designed to be used to promote and support dialogue in formal and informal educational contexts, including inter-cultural understanding in support of Key Stages 3 and 4, since learning how to use digital interactive video creatively is coupled with the development of teamwork and negotiation skills. The project aims to puts media creation in the hands of participants, offering them the opportunity to experiment with a medium they are only likely to have experienced as consumers. In 2004, the DIVO project bought together two groups of girls: socially and economically marginalised young women from an Islamic community in Ghana and students from Elizabeth Garrett Anderson School for Girls in London, UK.  The project facilitated a cultural exchange based on gender issues faced by participants in the groups. The two groups created and responded to each other's films. Dialogues formed through the process have continued to develop beyond the initial life of the pilot project.  The pilot phase was funded by the British Council, the British High Commission and Guardian Newspapers Limited. A 20-min project documentary was made about the project, which has been recognised by selection in a number of international human rights film festivals[which?] and screens regularly on the Community Channel in the UK.  The methodology of DIVO comes from the combination of the creative application of technology with peer-led, participant-centred teaching techniques. Emphasis is placed on the process of generating media clips as well as the media clips themselves. In order to create a dialogue, groups need to digest what they have viewed and examine this against their existing knowledge before proceeding to generate more media and develop their response. DIVO is intended to operate as a multilateral dialogue between many groups and offer flexibility of access and timing. 