 eXeLearning is a free / libre software tool under GPL-2 that can be used to create educational interactive web content.  eXeLearning can generate interactive contents in XHTML or HTML5 format. It allows you to create easily navigable web pages including text, images, interactive activities, image galleries or multimedia clips. eXeLearning, available for Linux, Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X,  allows you to create or develop accessible contents in XHTML or HTML5 format, to generate complete websites (navigable web pages), to include interactive contents (different types of questions and activities) in each page, to export the contents in different formats such as ePub3 (an open standard for e-books), IMS or SCORM (educational standards used to publish interactive contents in platforms or elearning tools as Moodle or any other OER (Open Educational Resources) repositories or XLIFF (standard for translation). To classify, or to catalog, educational contents according to different metadata models: Dublin Core, LOM, LOM-ES. When exported as Web Site, we can create web pages that can be viewed in different digital devices (smartphones, tablets, laptops....) And all this stuff, and much more, without knowing anything about programming. eXeLearning was originally developed in New Zealand, in 2007, and was led by two universities (University of Auckland and Auckland University of Technology) and the Tairawhiti Polytechnic Institute. The project was originally supported by the New Zealand government, and it was later supported by many other institutions.  The original project remained active until 2010. At that time eXeLearning had thousands of users and it was a very well known authoring tool in educational environments. In 2009-2010, the Instituto de Tecnologías Educativas del Ministerio de Educación del Gobierno de España (now INTEF ) decided to restart and to evolve the project. The new eXeLearning, as it was named, would keep alive the original open source spirit of the project, adapting the application to new web developments and standards and introducing major improvements. A new eXeLearning website was developed, a site that allows the users to actively participate in the project: make contributions, suggestions, find answers to different questions.... Now the project is, again, alive and kicking, and it is supported by different government agencies and companies, both in Spain and in other countries all over the world. As it can be seen with the recent release, last September, of eXeLearning 2.0. In 2013 eXeLearning evolved as a web development, web application or tool, (written in Python + Ext JS) that can be used with the default or preferred browser of the user, capable to work, or to be executed, in different browsers.   Since then, the new eXeLearning has experienced major advances: However, the innovations included in the new release are the main reasons that let the development team to move forward from version 1 to version 2.  iDevices are the tools or blocks that can be included in our pages. eXeLearning 2.0 significantly improves its level of accessibility. Now it is much easier to generate accessible contents. User experience has also improved: now the iDevices are grouped by categories and it is easier to select them. We can also hide those who do not wish to use or show less common iDevices that can be interesting for us. Improvements in iDevices such as Image Gallery or Image Magnifier and proprietary solutions and / or Flash based are replaced. New iDevices are included. Preview option: now you don't need to export to see the content edited so far. The future of eXeLearning involves the incorporation of new iDevices and Styles, including a tool for editing in real time, the replacement of all the fragments of code that are not compatible with the GPL-2 license, improvements in the import of content generated by other tools, and to become a genuine web service connected with different platforms.  