H5P is a free and open-source content collaboration framework based on JavaScript. H5P is an abbreviation for HTML5 Package, and aims to make it easy for everyone to create, share and reuse interactive HTML5 content.   Interactive videos, interactive presentations, quizzes, interactive timelines and more  have been developed and shared using H5P on H5P.org. H5P is being used by 17 000+ websites.    In June 2017 the core team announced that H5P will be supported financially by the Mozilla Foundation within the MOSS program.  The framework consists of a web based content editor, a web site for sharing content types, plugins for existing CMS's and a file format for bundling together HTML5 resources. The web based editor is by default able to add and replace multimedia files and textual content in all kinds of H5P content types and applications. In addition a content type may provide custom widgets for the editor enabling any kind of editing capabilities and experiences including wysiwyg editing of the entire content type. H5P.org is the community website where H5P libraries, applications and content types may be shared. H5P applications and content types work the same way in all H5P compatible websites.  Currently four platform integrations exist, one for Drupal,  WordPress.,  Tiki,  and one for Moodle.  The platform integrations include the generic H5P code as well as interface implementations and platform specific code needed to integrate H5P with the platforms. H5P has been designed to have a minimum of platform specific code and a minimum of backend code. Most of the code is JavaScript. The aim is to make it easy to integrate H5P with new platforms. The file format consists of a metadata file in JSON format, a number of library files providing features and design for the content and a content folder where textual content is stored in JSON format and multimedia is stored as files or links to files on external sites.  H5P's primary support website is H5P.org. Here, H5P may be tried out; it hosts the online manual for H5P and a living repository for H5P information, documentation and forums.  