PASS-PORT is a web-based electronic portfolio assessment and course management system operated by Innovative Learning Assessment Technologies, LLC. PASS-PORT was originally conceived as a way to help the 20 teacher preparation schools prepare for, and pass, the revised NCATE 2000 unit standards.  This new standard set was highly data-driven and required that accredited bodies keep detailed information student performances and evaluations of those performances that were to be used to improve academic programs and services over time.  The Louisiana Board of Regents for Higher Education funded a statewide project to develop an electronic data system to assist with the collection and aggregation of student learning performance data and work on the system began in late 1999.  PASS-PORT entered service in 2001 and was made available to all of the Louisiana schools at no cost. From 2001 to 2006, all of the Louisiana teacher preparation schools who chose to use PASS-PORT had an NCATE review and all passed.  During this time, the system continued to be refined and expanded. In late August 2005, Hurricane Katrina made landfall in southeast Louisiana.  The storm's enormousness had 2 effects on PASS-PORT: Beginning in late 2005, Innovative Learning Assessment Technologies negotiated with the two Louisiana schools who jointly owned the PASS-PORT intellectual property: University of Louisiana at Lafayette and Xavier University of Louisiana.  An agreement was reached that provided ILAT with an exclusive on-going license to the PASS-PORT system while allowing the Louisiana schools to maintain ownership (for longevity purposes). Today, ILAT continues to offer PASS-PORT to schools, both in and out of Louisiana, on a fee basis.  With the introduction of new editions of the PASS-PORT system that target additional accrediting bodies beyond teacher preparation, there is renewed interest in the software's unique capabilities and history. PASS-PORT is designed to help colleges and universities meet accreditation standards for their academic programs and student services.  It assists administrators in collecting, aggregating, and reporting performance-based assessment data—aligned to accreditation standards—from a number of sources: It has a template-based design which allows administrators to design their own evaluation instruments and associate those measurements directly to standards.  PASS-PORT also collects Demographic data on students, faculty members, and field experience participants.  It also automates the review process associated with a student's transition points (which PASS-PORT calls a portal). PASS-PORT has several editions that are suitable for use in a variety of contexts: 