Schoology is a learning management system (LMS) for K-12 schools, higher education institutions, and corporations that allows users to create, manage, and share content and resources. Also known as a course management system (CMS) or virtual learning environment (VLE), the cloud-based platform provides tools to manage any classroom or blended learning environment.  The Schoology platform was designed by Jeremy Friedman, Ryan Hwang and Tim Trinidad in   2007 while still undergraduates at Washington University in St. Louis, MO. Originally designed for sharing notes, additional features and functionality continue to be added.  Schoology secured its first institutional round of venture capital funding amounting to $1.25M from Meakam Becker Venture Capital in June 2010, following an angel investment in 2009 from an unnamed investor.  In 2012, Schoology raised  $6M in a round led by Firstmark Capital, and in 2014, a  $15M round of funding was led by Intel Capital. As of November 2014, Schoology has over 9.5 million users across 100,000 schools in 200 countries around the world.  In November 2015, Schoology announced its $32 million Series D funding round, led by JMI Equity.  Visually familiar to users of Facebook  and other popular social networking websites, the service includes attendance records, online gradebook, tests and quizzes, and homework dropboxes. The social media interface facilitates collaboration among a class, a group, or a school.   Schoology can be integrated with existing school reporting and information systems  and also provides the added security, filters and support that school districts may require.  Schoology is offered to educators free of charge. Revenue is generated with a fee-based Enterprise product that includes premium add-ons such as customized branding, advanced analytics, single sign on (SSO), and data integration with existing student information systems (SIS).  Native mobile applications are available for iOS, Android, and Kindle devices. Product enhancements have included text message notifications, integrations with Google Drive, Dropbox, and Evernote, IMS Global learning tools interoperability (LTI), educational and non-educational apps,  a shared resources library, mastery analytics and a question importer for tests and quizzes. Users include Baltimore County Public Schools   San Juan USD,  Colorado State University-Global Campus,  Department of Defense Education Activity,  Uruguay's Plan Ceibal,  Greenwich Public Schools,  Judson Independent School District, Westminster Christian Academy,  Palo Alto Unified School District,  Cempaka Schools in Malaysia,  the Downingtown STEM Academy, Rocklin Unified School District, San Diego Unified School District, Jefferson County School District, Cincinnati Public Schools,  Cabarrus County Schools, Los Angeles Unified School District, Grosse Pointe Public School System and Australian Christian College (for both On campus & Distance Education students). 