Managing up and managing down is studied as part of management studies, and details how a middle manager should effectively deal with his or her manager and with his or her subordinates.  Additionally, managing up on its own may be a useful skill for a subordinate who in turn does not manage anyone. It is generally considered to be distinct from  "sucking up" or "kissing up" to the manager and "kicking down" to subordinates as it involves benign and straightforward influencing rather than underhand manipulation.     What can be accomplished when you influence up or down     What skills are needed to do so effectively     There are several ways to go about influencing up and they all regard appealing to your boss. Turk suggests several different guidelines for managing up including being loyal and committed, understanding your boss’s perspective and agenda, understanding your boss’s preferences, providing solutions not problems, and understanding your own management style.  Each of the different guidelines Turk provides serves an important benefit for both sides.  The Careers Group recommends “Understand where your work fits in with your manager’s goals and the wider goals of the organization”. Which comes into play when your managers have their own projects to work on in addition to managing subordinates. Considering the challenges that managers face with their projects and working to either assist or stay out of the way when those projects require more attention is a smart tactic. Putting yourself in the position to be recognized as someone who can handle the work they were assigned and assist the manager in their work can be particularly beneficial when advocating for your own projects. Figuring out where the work that you want to accomplish fits into the overall goals for the company is crucial to getting approval on those projects as well.   According to Badowski, good managing up requires going above and beyond the tasks assigned to you so that you can enhance your manager's work. Doing what you can to make your manager's job easier will not only help them do their job, but you will be considered a valuable asset to your manager and to your organization. You want to be described as indispensable.   A very important point to remember is “Be very clear about what job you were hired to do -and do it.” this is just one of three highlighted in the article Managing Up Without Sucking Up. The importance of this is, once you have established what it is that you were hired to do within the company and you do it you have fulfilled your duties anything additional that you work on is a bonus to your managers. With this achieved you can now begin to speak with your managers about the other things that you would like to do. With the right tactics, the problems and projects that you would like to take on become available to you.  Understand how your manager likes to communicate. Price suggests appealing to your managers' communication styles “If he or she likes to communicate face-to-face rather than through email updates, then set up short meetings”. When you communicate with your manager in a way that they are receptive to they feel as though time spent with you is well utilized and they will associate you and your work with productivity.  Bradford introduces the idea of influencing up where it may be possible for a subordinate without authority to influence those with authority.He delves into topics such as: creating a partnership between you and your boss and bridging the power gap.   It is claimed that good managing down requires the following attributes:  Both sides in every case benefit in some way when people choose to manage up and down. When you focus on creating value with the work you do for your managers and your company you benefit yourself with the skills you obtain in the process.  When you choose to manage up you create a level of trust between you and your boss by being a reliable trustworthy employee, through doing this you learn about yourself and the type of person you are. When you effectively manage down you create better relationships with your employees and in turn, you can create a work culture that makes people feel valued in turn encouraging better work. Books Journal articles 