The Afrobarometer is a pan-African, independent, non-partisan research network that measures public attitudes on economic, political, and social matters in Africa.   It is carried out through a partnership of the Ghana Center for Democratic Development (CDD Ghana),  Institute for Justice and Reconciliation (IJR) in South Africa, Institute for Empirical Research in Political Economy (IREEP) of the African School of Economics at Abomey Calavi in Benin,  Institute for Development Studies (IDS) at the University of Nairobi, the Institute for Democracy, Citizenship and Public Policy in Africa at the University of Cape Town and the Department of Political Science at Michigan State University.   Afrobarometer surveys are conducted in more than 30 African countries and are repeated on a regular cycle. The Afrobarometer is carried on in Algeria, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Cote d'Ivoire, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Africa, South Sudan, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.  Afrobarometer achieves this measurement through a series of face-to-face interviews with a random sample of either 1,200, 1,600 or 2,400 people in each country.  Because the instrument asks a standard set of questions, countries can be systematically compared. Trends in public attitudes are tracked over time. Results are shared with decision makers, policy advocates, civic educators, journalists, researchers, donors and investors, as well as average Africans who wish to become more informed and active citizens.  New subnationally geocoded data covering 1999-2015 are now available through partnership with the development research lab AidData for Rounds 1-6.  As of March 2018, Afrobarometer data and publications had been cited over   times. The project has conducted six main rounds of surveys, covering a total of 35 African countries, as well as a number of individual surveys.  Afrobarometer was founded by Professor Robert Mattes of the University of Cape Town and the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, Professor Michael Bratton of Michigan State University and Professor Emmanuel Gyimah-Boadi of the University of Ghana. Mattes is now senior advisor at Afrobarometer, Bratton is a former director of Afrobarometer and now senior advisor and Gyimah-Boadi is the current executive director of Afrobarometer and emeritus professor at the University of Ghana   The Afrobarometer currently covers twenty one survey topics: Conflict and crime, Democracy, Elections, Gender Equality, Governance, Identity, Macroeconomics and Markets, Political Participation, Poverty, Public Services, Social Capital, Tolerance, Access to Justice, Citizenship, China, Energy Supply, and Pan-Africanism/Regionalism.  