Robert Kirby (born 1953 in California)  is an American writer. He has been a columnist for the Salt Lake Tribune since 1994, focusing on the quirks of Utah and Mormon culture. Kirby was born into a military family.   in Barstow, California.   He served as a missionary for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Uruguay, where he met his future wife.  On his return from Uruguay, he was hired as a police officer with the Grantsville Police Department, and later the Springville Police Department (1979).   Kirby began writing columns for the local newspapers the Springville Daily Herald and Utah County Journal under the pseudonym Officer John "Blitz" Kreeg  In 1989, Kirby quit the police force to write full-time. The Salt Lake Tribune has published his column since 1994, winning the 2007 Utah Headliners Award.  In September 2018, Kirby was suspended from the Salt Lake Tribune for three months without pay, following an internal investigation into multiple complaints regarding his treatment of women.  This included the allegation that while attending a convention in July 2018 he made inappropriate sexual comments to a young woman, co-erced her into consuming an illegal drug, then outed her as a user. Kirby issued a written apology stating he was "sorry that my actions have offended people" and acknowledged that there was some truth to the allegations, but did not apologize for the actions and words themselves.  Kirby, who is active in the LDS Church, often writes about its teachings and how its members interpret those teachings in their daily lives. Since many of the Salt Lake Tribune's readers are non-Mormon, Kirby attempts to explain (usually in a humorous way) the Mormon way of thinking to outsiders. At one time he referred to himself as an "OxyMormon".  This approach either alienates those Latter-day Saints who feel their beliefs should not be satirized, or endears itself to the reader.  Despite this discordant reception, Kirby was once quoted favorably in the LDS Church's bi-annual General Conference.   As of 2017, Kirby lives in Herriman, Utah. He and his wife have three daughters and nine grandchildren.  Novels: Humor: Non-fiction: 