Université Paris-Sorbonne (Paris 4) Université Paris-Descartes (Paris 5)  Paris-Sorbonne University Abu Dhabi (PSUAD) or Université Paris-Sorbonne Abou Dhabi (UPSAD) is a French and English speaking university in Abu Dhabi, the capital city of the United Arab Emirates. An international agreement between the French University Paris-Sorbonne or Paris IV,  and the government of Abu Dhabi was signed on 19 February 2006 with the aim of bringing to Abu Dhabi the best international standards in higher education.  PSUAD was established on 30 May 2006 by decree of the ruler of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi (United Arab Emirates). The establishment of the university demonstrates the keenness of Abu Dhabi to create an international hub in culture and education as the establishment of the Louvre Abu Dhabi museum in 2007 shows as well. The University opened its doors on 7 October 2006 in a temporary building. On 6 December 2009, PSUAD moved into its permanent campus on Al Reem Island.  PSUAD campus features approximately 93,000m2 of newly built, teaching and recreational facilities, including accommodation for students, a library that accommodates 200,000 books, a 700-seated guest-auditorium, a sports centre and a spacious cafeteria. It is worth mentioning that the DH 1.6bn campus comes to translate the shared vision of the government of Abu Dhabi and the government of France. PSUAD remains true to the same teaching structure implemented in Paris. The campus of Abu Dhabi offers a whole array of subjects as in Sorbonne-Paris and Paris-Descartes. Its teachings are exclusively delivered by lecturers from the Paris following the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS). PSUAD is a full part of the European higher education area (or Bologna process), the European unified system of higher education. The teaching language is French. Paris Descartes University or Paris V is a partner for the Economics and Law programmes. Pierre-and-Marie-Curie University or Paris VI will deliver a diploma in physics in English, beginning in September 2013.  The degrees are French degrees. (European Licence = 3-year undergraduate programmes) Master Programmes PSUAD is a common place to meet a student who had no prior mastery of French language ultimately speaking French fluently and self-assuredly in a year's time. The Intensive French Course prepares students' integration into the Licence Programmes. PSUAD is ruled by Abu Dhabi Education Council (ADEC). PSUAD is managed by a board of six members, three of whom are appointed by Paris-Sorbonne University, the other three are appointed by Abu Dhabi Executive Council. PSUAD President is Paris-Sorbonne President and chairman of the board according to the agreement. The research programmes at PSUAD benefit from the world class research work carried out in the field of humanities and social sciences at Université Paris-Sorbonne and Paris-Descartes. Upon completion of their undergraduate studies in Abu Dhabi, students will be able to choose whether to carry on with one of the Master programmes in Abu Dhabi or to join one of the departments in Paris where some of the world's most renowned professors will guide them through their research, covering fields as varied as medieval Islam, intercultural processes, travel literature, national and international geopolitics and will allow each student to find support wherever their field of interest is. Highlighting the importance of dialogue between cultures, and the exchange of knowledge, PSUAD organises all year round lectures, round table discussions and colloquia hosting renowned experts from the region and beyond to shed the light on key aspects and phenomena in a wide range of fields. Most of these functions are open to public and provide simultaneous translation into Arabic and English. The university residence offers one type of rooms; that is the single accommodation. Two residence blocks are available; one for male students and another for female students. The university residence is adjacent to the main campus to facilitate students' daily commute. PSUAD campus is located near the center of Abu Dhabi city which makes it close to main landmarks and attractions. Sorbonne-Abu Dhabi lecturer Nasser Ben Ghaith was arrested for making pro-democracy remarks in April 2011, alongside two other pro-democracy campaigners including blogger Ahmed Mansoor. Following the Paris Air Show 2017, the university has signed an agreement with the École nationale de l'aviation civile to develop a Master's degree course in international air transport operations management.   Coordinates: 24°29′20″N 54°24′44″E﻿ / ﻿24.48889°N 54.41222°E﻿ / 24.48889; 54.41222 