The International Students of History Association (ISHA) is an international non-governmental organization of students of history. Based and active mainly in Europe, ISHA's goals are to facilitate communication and provide a platform of exchange for students of history and related sciences on an international level.  ISHA was founded in Budapest in 1990 thanks to the initiative of Hungarian history students who, after the fall of the Iron Curtain, wanted to forge links with their colleagues in Western Europe. At present, ISHA's members include more than 25 sections in fifteen European countries, and a number of observers and associate members, while ISHA is itself an associate member of the European Students' Union (ESU). Moreover, ISHA closely cooperates with a number of other academic networks, among them the European History Network and EUROCLIO, the European Association of History Educators.   Throughout the academic year, the various member sections take turns organizing several seminars and an Annual Conference. These events usually last five to seven days and take place with thirty to fifty (in case of the Annual Conference, up to a hundred) student participants from around Europe. They comprise workshops, discussions, lectures and presentations on varying topics, but also offer a cultural programme with visits and excursions. Additional leisure and evening activities are meant to provide more informal opportunities for participants to meet one another and thereby broaden their intercultural understandings.  Past conferences  In 2009-10, ISHA took part in the project "Connecting Europe through History – Experiences and Perceptions of Migration in Europe", together with EUROCLIO and The Europaeum, an organization of ten leading European universities.  Since 1999, ISHA publishes its own journal, Carnival, in which students can publish articles of their own. Carnival is a yearly publication and is open to contributions from all students of history and related sciences (not only ISHA members).  The organs of ISHA are: www.isha-international.org 