Cane is any of various tall, perennial grasses with flexible, woody stalks, and more specifically from the genus Arundinaria.  Scientifically speaking, there are  either of two genera from the family Poaceae.   The genus Arundo is native from the Mediterranean Basin to the Far East. The genus Arundinaria is a bamboo (Bambuseae) found in the New World. Neither genus includes sugarcane (genus Saccharum, tribe Andropogoneae). Cane commonly grows in large riparian stands known as canebrakes, found in toponyms throughout the Southern and Western United States; they are much like the tules (Schoenoplectus acutus) of California. Depending on strength, cane can be fashioned for various purposes, including walking sticks, crutches, assistive canes or judicial or school canes. Where canes are used in corporal punishment, they must meet particular specifications, such as a high degree of flexibility. Cane historically has been used for many other purposes such as baskets, furniture, boats, roofs and wherever stiff, withy sticks can be put to good use. The English word cane derives from Old French  cane, meaning 'sugarcane', from Latin  canna, from Ancient Greek  κάννα, from Aramaic  qanhā, qanyā and from Akkadian  qanû, meaning 'tube, reed'. Cane is used for a variety of artistic and practical purposes, such as Native American baskets of North America. During the 18th and early 19th century, non-commissioned officers in some European armies could carry canes to discipline troops (when not in use, the cane was hooked to a cross-belt or a button). Cane is used to describe furniture made of wicker. Cane also describes a length of colored, patterned glass rod used in caneworking, a style of glassblowing. Canes are used in regional folk-dancing and as props on stage. For example, folk-dancers may twirl canes overhead, stand them on the head, spin them off to the sides, or strike them on the floor.  Cane is used all around the world and can be used for weaving baskets for hampers, chairs with the use of seagrass to beautify it, for beds of different sizes for children and adult, cupboards, tables of different shapes and sizes and can also be used for walking sticks. it can also be used for boats and roofs according to history Canes are used in regional folk-dancing and as props on stage. For example, folk-dancers may twirl canes overhead, stand them on the head, spin them off to the sides, or strike them on the floor. in the aspect of walking sticks which is used for balancing when walking and they come in different shapes and sizes and can be used by disabled people as a crutch.The walking stick has also historically been known to be used as a defensive or offensive weapon, and may conceal a knife or sword as in a swordstick. Walking sticks, also known as trekking poles, pilgrim's staffs, hiking poles or hiking sticks, are used by hikers for a wide variety of purposes: to clear spider webs, or part thick bushes or grass obscuring the trail; as a support when going uphill or a brake when going downhill; as a balance point when crossing streams, swamps or other rough terrain; to feel for obstacles in the path; to test mud and puddles for depth; and as a defense against wild animals. A collector of walking sticks is termed a Rabologist. Cane has been used since the olden days till modern age and it is producing and will continue to produce new products or materials for different purposes like, beautification for houses, offices, for external or internal use. 