Sertoli cell-only syndrome (a.k.a. Del Castillo syndrome and germ cell aplasia  ) is a disorder characterized by male sterility without sexual abnormality. It describes a condition of the testes in which only Sertoli cells line the seminiferous tubules.  Sertoli cell-only syndrome patients normally have normal secondary male features and have normal or small-sized testes. Sertoli cell-only syndrome is likely multifactorial, and is characterized by severely reduced or absent spermatogenesis despite the presence of both Sertoli and Leydig cells. A substantial subset of men with this uncommon syndrome have microdeletions in the Yq11 region of the Y chromosome, an area known as the AZF (azoospermia factor) region. Generally speaking, testosterone and LH levels are normal, but due to lack of inhibin, FSH levels are increased. Testicular biopsy would confirm the absence of spermatozoa. Seminal plasma protein TEX101 was proposed for differentiation of Sertoli cell-only syndrome from maturation arrest and hypospermatogenesis.   A clinical trial at Mount Sinai Hospital, Canada started testing this hypothesis in 2016.  Sertoli cell-only syndrome is like other non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA), cases are managed by sperm retrieval through testicular sperm extraction (TESE), micro-surgical testicular sperm extraction (mTESE), or testicular biopsy.  On retrieval of viable sperm this could be used in Intracytoplasmic sperm injection ICSI In 1979, Levin described germinal cell aplasia with focal spermatogenesis where a variable percentage of seminiferous tubules contain germ cells.  It is important to discriminate between the two types in view of ICSI. A retrospective analysis performed in 2015  detailed the outcomes of N=148 men with non-obstructive azoospermia and diagnosed Sertoli cell-only syndrome: This study considers the effect of FSH levels on clinical success, and it excludes abnormal karyotypes. All patients underwent MD-TESE in Iran. Ethnicity and genetic lineage may affect treatment of azoospermia . 