Defastenism is a Remodernist art movement founded in Dublin in 2004. The Defastenists are also known as The Defastenist Party. Artists who have participated in it include Gary Farrelly, Pádraic E. Moore, Alexander Reilly, Liam Ryan, Sophie Iremonger and Nessa Darcy. Defastenism was founded in May 2004 by undergraduates at the Dublin National College of Art and Design, Gary Farrelly, ,  Ben Mullen, Alexander Reilly and Seanan Kerr.   Moore, Farrelly and Reilly co-wrote a Defastenist manifesto.  The membership consists of artists, musicians, architects, writers, film makers and designers.  The Defastenists are a self-declared Remodernist art movement. "Defastenism" is a term coined by the group. Moore described the use of the word: The Defastenists believe contemporary culture has become afflicted by "cultural paralysis", and endeavour to construct a revolution of "vigour and vitality". They have a strongly theatrical, propagandistic and rhetorical self-promotional style (reminiscent of early 20th Century movements such as Dada), including appointing themselves to ministerial posts of the imaginary "Kunstrepublic". This ideological DKR nation was according to Pádraic E. Moore, "definitely a symptom of not being able to deal with the city that we’re living in."   Their expression of an inner world has some parallels with Surrealism, as does their fixation with obsolescence and the uncanny. As of 2007, with the resignation of Alexander Reilly the remaining group's most prominent members are Liam Ryan(London), Pádraic E. Moore, Gary Farrelly (based in Paris), David Turpin (Dublin), Donna Marie O'Donovan (Dublin) and Christoph Kronke (Berlin). The Defastenists state: Initially the Defastenists staged weekly cabarets or happenings ("Cabaretta Defastena") in Dublin, and have held similar events consisting of performance, lectures, and recitals in Galway, Belfast, London, Paris and Berlin. They have staged group shows in Dublin, Limerick, Berlin and Paris, exhibiting mainly two-dimensional art in random styles and installations. Happenings and screenings include Europa and Kunstbahnhoff. In 2005, they staged a "provocative, young and energetic exhibition" at the Irish Museum of Modern Art.  In May 2005, The Dubliner said: In August 2005, Gary Farrelly and Alex Reilly represented the Defastenists in Addressing the Shadow and Making Friends with Wild Dogs: Remodernism at CBGB 313 gallery in New York City, along with Stuckist artists and Remodernist film makers and Stuckist Photographers.  In 2005, Victoria Mary Clarke, author and now wife of Shane MacGowan, joined the group, having heard the members were attractive young men who liked dressing in white tailcoats.  She received a show invite which read: As a result, a Happening, filmed by Sky One, took place at the home of Clarke's friend, Marina Guinness, consisting of an art display in a marquee on the lawn, the coronation of the hostess as Defastenist queen, pole-dancing, a trip to a meteor site, the burning of an effigy of negativity, buckets of Pimms and strawberries eaten off Defastenist Sophie Iremonger's naked body.  The Third Defastenist Exhibition took place at Liberty Hall, Dublin, on 14 September 2005.  Gary Farelly is staging a permanent exhibition of Defastenist art at Galerie W in Paris.  The Defastenists have not exhibited or published as a unified group since early 2006. All of the practitioners involved in the group continue to work in a manner closely in line with the ideals expressed in the Defastenist Manifesto. Certain members of the group have collaborated on non-defastenist - obsessive art projects such as PLANS SECTIONS AND ELEVATIONS  an exhibition curated by Moore involving Farrelly, Turpin and Kronke which went on show at The Royal Institute of architects, Dublin in 2007. Several members of the group also collaborated on the 2009 periodical The New Obsessive.  