The Carnegie Commission on Educational Television was established in 1965 by the Carnegie Corporation of New York in the United States. This commission was created to research the role noncommercial educational television played on society in America. The 15 member commission attempted to carry out this goal by; distinguishing between commercial television, entertainment for large mass audiences: instructional television, in-class educational material, and public television. Public television was considered anything else that largely helped public affairs and was not supported by advertising.  The commission first gained momentum at the First National Conference on Long-Range Financing of Educational Television Stations in December 1964. Although not created until 1965, the commission was first incepted at this conference.  On January 26, 1967, the commission published its most famous and influential report on broadcast history, Public Television: A Program for Action. The reports main rhetoric was persuading America’s institutions (and proposing new institutions) to enhance educational television. Among the final recommendations in the report were; that a Corporation for Public Television be created to receive and disburse funds from the government and other sources, that it support at least two national and many local production agencies, that it seek ways to encourage interconnection of stations, and that sufficient funds, not subject to the annual appropriation process, be provided through a 2-5% tax on television receivers. The recommendations of the report were stated with 12 actions to be carried out by Congress and the Commission itself, although some of these actions were vague as to whom the primary target was.  The following actions were used by the Commission to persuade U.S. political institutions to enhance educational television, authorize the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and provide said organization with funds, and sponsor further research and studies to improve and advocate educational television. These actions also included steps that the proposed Corporation for Public Broadcasting should carry out to reach their goals.  Public Television: A Program for Action sold 50,000 copies in just a few days and received wide attention. The report also led to rapid and drastic actions. President Johnson mentioned public television in his 1967 State of the Union address, and shortly afterwards proposed legislation that was similar to the proposals in the report. In November 1967, the Public Broadcasting Act of 1967 became law and created the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB).  