Monmouthshire Houses: A Study of Building Techniques and Smaller House-Plans in the Fifteenth to Seventeenth Centuries is a study of buildings within the county of Monmouthshire written by Sir Cyril Fox and Lord Raglan and published by Amgueddfa Cymru – National Museum Wales. The study was published in three volumes; Part I Medieval Houses, Part II Sub-Medieval Houses, c. 1550–1610 and Part III Renaissance Houses, c. 1590–1714, between 1951 and 1954. The series was republished by Merton Priory Press in 1994. A later historian of Welsh architecture has described the work as equal in importance, in its own field, to Charles Darwin's On the Origin of Species.  Sir Cyril Fox (1882–1967), was Director of the National Museum of Wales from 1926 to 1948.  Fitzroy Somerset, Lord Raglan was the great-grandson of the 1st Lord Raglan, British Commander during the Crimean War, a soldier, author and resident of Cefntilla Court in Monmouthshire.  Raglan was also a Commissioner for Ancient Monuments in Wales and both he and Fox were pioneers of the study of vernacular architecture, being founder members of the Vernacular Architecture Group. From the early 1940s until 1949, Fox and Raglan undertook the most extensive survey of lesser Monmouthshire buildings ever undertaken.  Raglan described their methodology in the introduction to the first volume, Medieval Houses, published in 1951. He would identify houses of interest and obtain the necessary permissions from owners, before calling in Fox to undertake a detailed survey.  In the Introduction to the 1994 reprint, Peter Smith, author of Houses of the Welsh Countryside, recorded Raglan's approach; "as we travelled from farmhouse to farmhouse, I realised that his was a name that carried weight and in Monmouthshire opened every door...status and personal charm carried the day and we followed in his wake".  The architectural historian, John Newman, author of the Pevsner for Monmouthshire, considered Fox and Raglan's joint work as "ground-breaking, the single most important publication on any aspect of the county's buildings",  and Smith described Monmouthshire Houses as "this landmark in the history of scholarship, a landmark, in its own field, as significant as Darwin's Origin of Species".  In the Introduction to Sub-Medieval Houses, the second volume of their history, Fox and Raglan record the genesis of the project. Wartime defensive precautions in 1941 led to a decision by the Ministry of Works to demolish an important farmhouse, Upper Wern-hir, near Llanbadoc. Fox and Raglan obtained permission to survey the building before its destruction and their investigations, together with the threats to Wern-hir and other, similar, buildings, convinced them of the need for a comprehensive survey of such structures throughout Monmouthshire.  The three-volume work comprises detailed studies of over 400 houses and farmhouses built in Monmouthshire between the medieval period and 1714.  The volumes are: 