Moslem Uddin Gazi,   Md. Jalal Uddin,  Babu Dulal Chandra Das,  Babu Girindra Nath Ghosh,  Doctor Mohiuddin,  Mr Raichuddin (C.O, Manirampur Thana),   Football  Handball  Volleyball  Manirampur Government Girls' High School (MGGHS) is a state secondary school for girls, located in Manirampur Upazila under Jessore District, Bangladesh.  It is situated near Mohanpur Bot tola, just west of the Jessore-Satkhira Highway. The school was established as "Guru Training School" at the village Mohanpur in Manirampur Upazila during the reign of British Government in the Indian Subcontinent. That means Junior Training (J.T) was provided to the class 8 passed students to be teachers. The then C.O (Circle Officer) Mr. Mosharraf Hossain was the chairman of that training school.   On 1 April 1965,  the training school was turned into Junior High School by the sincere effort of local renowned persons. They are Moslem Uddin Gazi, Md. Jalal Uddin, Babu Dulal Chandra Das, Babu Girindra Nath Ghosh, Doctor Mohiuddin (father Adv. Shaheed Md. Iqbal, Mayor, Manirampur Municipality), The circle officer of Manirampur thana, Mr Raichuddin, School Inspector Syed Nabiruzzaman and other locals. The school started with 15-20 girl students in two tin-shed rooms. During that period, Mrs. Nurzahan Begum took over the responsibilities as a headmaster. She passed I.A. and was the wife of S.I. Syed Nabiruzzaman.  From 1965 to 1970, the school continued its education programme as a Junior School. On September 21, 1971, the school was approved to start class nine. On August 12, 1972, the school got permitted as a bilateral high school. Since then, the education programme of class 1-5 had been postponed. On February 2, 1987, the bilateral girls' high school was nationalized as per the announcement of Hussain Muhammad Ershad, President of Bangladesh. Then the school was named as Manirampur Government Girls' High School, Manirampur, Jessore. The then Deputy Commissioner of Jessore District, Moktader Chowdhury has also contribution for nationalizing the school. He managed to register 1.04 shatak of land for the school.   It is situated on about 3 acres of land at Mohanpur (Bot tola) in Manirampur Upazila which is bounded by Jessore-Satkhira Highway in the east, Aghor Nath road in the north and Pulin Bihari road in the south. The school has two two-storeyed buildings. There are an auditorium, a library and a computer lab in the buildings. There is a pond in the school compound. The school follows the SSC curriculum in Bengali medium under the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Jessore. The EIIN is 116118.  The school has Science and Social Science division. According to the curriculum of 2010, all subject teachers have been provided C.P.D - 1 & 2 with cluster training by TQI-SEP with the support of the government and a three days training on creative question papers under the scheme of SESDP in order to develop the standard of education.  With a view to applying and implementing the modern education system, the school operates the following methods : 10:00 am in the morning to 4:00 pm in the afternoon. There is a tiffin break of 30 minutes during this period. To make the students efficient in information technology, there is a computer lab in the school with some computers, laptops and multimedia projectors. Internet connection has also been taken through Broad Band line. The administrative system of the school is directed by the directorates of secondary and higher secondary education under the ministry of education. The deputy director of Khulna area looks after different aspects of the school. For managing the local administrative system, there is a strong board of directors consists of 5 members under the presidency of upazila executive officer (UNO). 