The Gerlach and Ely model  emphasizes the cycle nature of instructional design.  The authors wanted to design a model which explained each component of the teaching and learning process while at the same time examining the relationship between the media and instruction. The model consists of ten elements and was constructed for teachers who both design and deliver instruction.  The model is clearly defined and easily understood.  The Gerlach and Ely instructional design model was developed by Vernon S. Gerlach and Donald P. Ely (1930 – 2014). Gerlach is an American Educator and writer who authored and co-authored books in the field of Education. Dr. Ely was an American professor and director of ERIC Clearinghouse on information and technology at Syracuse University. Dr. Ely also published and co-authored several journal articles and books and founded the ERIC Clearinghouse on information and technology. As an Educator, he was an advocate for instructional technology. Gerlach and Ely co-authored Teaching and the media, A systematic Approach (1971)  where they introduced the Gerlach and Ely Instructional design model. The model can be described as a mix of linear and concurrent activities that contains several steps which are seen as simultaneous.  In education, the model is suitable for primary, secondary and tertiary levels and can be implemented with limited resources available to teachers. The model is most suitable for instructional planning and designing where objectives and content are predetermined.  Both objectives and content are also synchronize and are the starting point of instruction.  The model includes strategies for selecting and including multimedia during instruction. It is one of the few models that recognizes content orientation of many teachers. In the field of education, the model “has stood the test of time and has continued to serve the classroom teacher well”.  Step One  Step Two  Step Three  Step Four  Step Five  The first task of the Gerlach and Ely instructional design model is the specification of content and objectives. This is done simultaneously since both content and objectives interact with each other. It is essential that the teacher indicates the reason for teaching the specific content and the medium in which the content will be used to achieve the objectives. The teacher is responsible for selecting the area of content to be taught and determining when it should be taught  The content is selected from the curriculum. The teacher also takes into consideration the state/local guidelines, personal experiences, goal or preferences of supervisor.  The objectives must be measurable and written as specific skills that learners should display under specific conditions and time. The second step is the assessment of entering behavior. At this stage, the teacher needs to determine the present skills and prerequisite knowledge of learners. Gerlach and Ely (1980) explained that the teacher must ask the question, “To what extent has the student learned the terms, concepts and skills which are part of the course?”    The teacher can determine the starting knowledge of each learner by using a variety of methods such as giving a pretes). Gerlach and Ely were advocates of pretesting; they believed that teachers should breakdown content into units and give learners a pretest at the beginning of each unit.  In this model there are five tasks which occurs simultaneously:  The fourth step in this model is the evaluation of performance. Evaluation of performance is focused on the measurement of students’ performance and the attitude of students towards the content.  In other words, the teacher must determine the effectiveness and efficiency of the instruction. The final step in the model is the analysis of feed back. A formative revision is done to complete the process. At this point the teacher will inform the students about their performance. Instructional Design ADDIE Model Instructional Technology Communication Theory Learning Theory Agamba, J. and Keengwe, J. ( 2015). Models for improving and optimizing online and blended learning in higher education. A volume in the advances in higher education and professional development (AHEPD) Book series (page 196). Hershey PA, USA. IGE Global. ISBN 978-1-4666-628-0-3 Gustafson, K. L., & Branch, R. (2002). Survey of Instructional Development Models (4th ed.). Syracuse, NY: ERIC Clearinghouse on Information & Technology, Syracuse University. Retrieved from: https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED477517.pdf Grabowski, S. (2003). A Critique of Teaching and the Media: A systematic Approach: The Gerlach and Ely Model.  Retrieved from: https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/d9e1/a80bd80c602ce380db1e3d4a2fe41026fa52.pdf Ledford, B and Sleeman, P. (2000) Instructional Design: A Primer. Information Age Publishing (IAP). Greenwich, Connecticut. 06831.ISBN 1930608004. Morrison, G, et al (2011). Designing Effective Instruction (6th Ed.) John Wiley and Sons Ltd. Hoboken, NJ. 07030- 5774. ISBN 978-0-470-52282-0 