The 60th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China took place on 1 October 2009.  A military parade involving 10,000 troops and the display of many high-tech weapons was held in Tiananmen Square in Beijing and various celebrations were conducted all over the country. Hu Jintao inspected the troops along Chang'an Avenue in Beijing. This parade was immediately followed by a civilian parade involving 100,000 participants. The People's Republic of China was founded on 1 October 1949. Since then, celebrations of varying scales occur on National Day each year. Military parades, presided over by Chairman Mao Zedong, were held every year between 1949 and 1959. In September 1960, the Chinese leadership decided that in order to save funds and "be frugal", large-scale ceremonies for National Day would only be held every ten years, with a smaller-scale ceremony every five years.  The last large-scale celebration during the Mao era was in 1969. Large-scale celebrations did not take place for 14 years amidst the climax of the Cultural Revolution.  Since then, the most prominent National Day celebrations have taken place in 1984 and 1999, at the 35th and 50th anniversaries respectively. During these celebrations, then-paramount leader Deng Xiaoping and Jiang Zemin reviewed military parades of the People's Liberation Army. The 2009 parade was the first and last time Hu Jintao oversaw this task, as he will leave office in 2012 due to term limits.  40 million potted flowers, supplied by the state-owned Beijing Flowers & Trees Corp., were put in place in Beijing streets, approximately 5 million of which have been planted along the east-west axis of Chang'an Avenue, also known as 'Avenue of Eternal Peace'. Flowers in Tiananmen Square were under 24-hour surveillance; Beijing Jinggong Red Flag factory is producing 2 million national flags for the celebrations.  In Tiananmen Square itself, 56 "pillars of national unity" – each one symbolizing the 56 ethnic groups in China – were erected, with each containing fireworks for the night event on 1 October.  800,000 volunteers controlled crowds and maintained order while a further 30,000 provided translation services at subway and bus stations.  Mosquitoes, rats, flies, and cockroaches were the targets of professional exterminators – four unannounced night-time sweeps were carried out around Tiananmen Square in Beijing, including in the Forbidden City complex. The public was encouraged to support the eradication through red slogan banners along Beijing streets and alleys, in what The Times said was reminiscent of the Four Pests campaign. One of these slogans read: “Eradicate the four pests, stress hygiene. Cleanly, cleanly welcome National Day!”  Tiananmen Square was sealed off for the day on 29 August for the first rehearsals. Tens of thousands of fully costumed performers rehearsed on 16 September.  The military also prepared, with several hundred vehicles rolling down Chang'an Avenue on 6 September.  parts of Beijing were closed down on 18 September for the final rehearsals of the anniversary parade. Police cleared streets and office buildings on the main roadways near Tiananmen Square from noon onwards for rehearsals that evening. State media went into overdrive, for example, highlighting how thousands of troops spent four months drilling to march in step on a mock practice ground with scale model of Chang'an Avenue - complete with the leadership reviewing stand.  Following disruptions caused by the drills, which shut down roads and large parts of the Beijing Subway, Xinhua News Agency announced that the final rehearsal parade, scheduled for 26 September, was called off.  The Sunday Times reported that "thousands of agents will stage a security clampdown exceeding anything seen for the 2008 Olympic Games".  Police in Beijing and neighbouring provinces were in a heightened state of readiness, with night patrols by armed police lasting from 15 September until the end of the festivities.  All basements in the city were subject to inspection by police, while some restaurants with roof terraces were not permitted to seat patrons on sides overlooking the street for the duration.  However, despite the supposed high alert around Beijing, a man armed with a knife killed two people and injured 12 in the heart of Beijing on 17 September.  Peter Ford of the Christian Science Monitor said that the stabbing incident had been played down locally.  Following the attacks, however, the knives were removed from sale at some stores such as Wal-Mart and Carrefour.   Thousands of paramilitary officers were deployed at bridges, road tunnels and other strategic points in the city.  Residents were warned that if they stepped out onto balconies along the route, they might be shot.  30,000 people with tickets have been invited to watch the event, but others were encouraged to watch it on television to "avoid complications."  The Times says the authorities engaged counter-terrorist units and informers in districts where Xinjiang Muslims live, placed Tibetan Buddhists under surveillance, and arrested dissidents.  Peasants coming to the capital to present their grievances as petitions were blocked.  while the government ordered the search of all cars entering Beijing. The security drives organised by the Ministry of Public Security in Beijing, as well as neighbouring Hebei, Liaoning, Shandong and Shanxi provinces, the Inner Mongolian Autonomous Region and the Tianjin Municipality was dubbed a "Security Moat" by a senior official. The official said the "safety of China's National Day celebrations and stability in Beijing was of overriding importance."  The Times reported Internet users saying censorship has been tightened: many sites have been blocked, among them Facebook and Twitter;  one media analyst said that the authorities upgraded their technology to block free proxy services and were trying to block any free proxy services and VPNs during the week prior to the anniversary.  Other security arrangements in place included relocation of mailboxes and newspaper stands along Chang'an Avenue and the closure or restricted opening of some of the hotels along the route (ex. the Beijing Hotel, the Beijing News Plaza Hotel, and the Beijing International Hotel). Other hotels on Chang'an Avenue closed guest rooms facing the main road during the celebrations.  The government established a media centre from 22 September until 2 October at the Media Center Hotel catering for journalists covering celebrations. The centre's deputy, Zhu Shouchen, said they received applications from more than 4,500 journalists around the world, including some 1,300 journalists from 346 media organisations in 108 countries. Almost 400 of them were said to be from Hong Kong, Macau, and Taiwan.  A film entitled The Founding of a Republic, commissioned by China's film regulator and made by the China Film Group (CFG) to mark the anniversary, was released nationwide on 17 September. The film retells the tale of the Communist ascendancy and triumph, with a star-studded cast including Zhang Ziyi, Jackie Chan, Jet Li, and directors Jiang Wen, Chen Kaige and John Woo in mostly cameos appearances; the leading roles – such as Mao Zedong – were played by lesser known actors. CFG chairman Han Sanping co-directed the film with Huang Jianxin. A CFG spokesman said many stars answered Han's call to appear in the film and waived their fee, helping it keep its modest budget of 60–70 million yuan (US$8.8–$10 million). According to the executive at one of China's top multiplex chains, the film unusually married "the core of an 'ethically inspiring' film" – code for propaganda films, according to the Associated Press – "with commercial packaging."  Liu Qi, as the Beijing municipal Communist Party Secretary, was the master of ceremonies for the event. Hu Jintao, in his position as the General Secretary of the Communist Party, President of the People's Republic, and Chairman of the Central Military Commission, presided over the military parade. In addition, all members of the Politburo Standing Committee at the time, along with the former General Secretary, President Jiang Zemin, stood atop Tiananmen in protocol order for the entire duration of the parade. Other prominent retired leaders, including former Premiers Li Peng and Zhu Rongji, and former Vice-President Zeng Qinghong were also in attendance. The military parade took place on Chang'an Avenue, with the country's leaders watching the parade from Tiananmen, above Mao's portrait. Hu Jintao inspected the troops standing onto a Hongqi HQE limousine designed for the event, with a special license plate (京V 02009). For the anniversary, the Chinese government budgeted roughly $44 million for the military parade, with some budget cuts due to the recent global financial crisis.  The parade displayed 52 new types of military hardware, including ZTZ99 main battle tanks, J-10 fighter aircraft, KJ-200 and KJ-2000 early-warning aircraft, Z-9W attack helicopters, and new models of the Type 95 and Type 03 assault rifles.  The five new types of missiles were paraded by the Second Artillery Corps. The Second Artillery's display included a total of 108 missiles and was intended to showcase China's strategic deterrence capabilities.  In order of appearance: Chinese official state media states that all equipment displayed in the parade are manufactured in China, with 90% of them first displayed to the public. The equipment are listed in the order of appearance, with new appearances in bold: Sixty floats showcasing themes such as "progress of the motherland", "scientific development", "brilliant achievement", and "beautiful prosperous China" passed by Tiananmen Square.  Dozens of floats were surrounded by groups of either 1,949 or 2,009 marchers, with the total number of people marching in the parade being over one hundred thousand. One float had a giant portrait of Mao Zedong, which was immediately followed by similar floats with equally large portraits of Deng Xiaoping, Jiang Zemin, and Hu Jintao. On each of these portraits were inscribed slogans of each leader's signature ideologies: Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory, the Three Represents, and the Scientific Development Concept. Voice recordings of each leader were also played through loudspeakers. A float with 181 foreigners from 53 countries named "One World" also took part.  China Central Television was responsible for the live broadcast of the National Day celebrations and military parade, from 8:00 am (CST) to noon, on CCTV-1, CCTV-3, CCTV-4, CCTV-7, CCTV-10, CCTV-12, CCTV News Channel, CCTV-HD and CCTV Music Channel, as well as in other languages (English, French, Spanish, Arabic and Russian on each of their respective language international channels), both on TV and online. CCTV-9 (English) rebroadcast the celebrations at 16:00, 24:00, and 7:00 (2 October). China National Radio provided live audio coverage throughout mainland China on CNR channels 1, 2, 3, 4, and 9; the Hong Kong and Macau region on CNR channel 7; and Taiwan on CNR channel 5. On the evening of 1 October, from 20:00 to 22:00, a music concert of 28 patriotic Chinese songs was performed with hundreds of dancers in Tiananmen Square, with a series of massive fireworks displays overhead. Early media reports earlier predicted that the fireworks presentation would be "double the firepower of the 2008 Olympics opening ceremony" . CCTV viewers and Internet users around the world were also both able to watch the live broadcast of the gala. (" * " denotes a translation of the song's title different from the officially provided CCTV title) Three types of gold coins and two types of silver coins were issued by the People's Bank of China on 16 September to commemorate the anniversary. A total of 60,700 gold coins with face values of ¥10,000, 2,000 yuan, and 100 yuan were issued, while a total of 106,000 silver coins with the face values of 300 and 10 yuan issued. All the coins, produced by Shenzhen Guobao Mint and Shenyang Mint, and distributed by the China Gold Coin Incorporation, are legal tender.  The obverse of the coins features China's national emblem, set in a frieze of peonies. The reverse includes various designs including a rocket, a satellite, a high-speed train, and the Beijing Olympic Stadium. Other forms will show designs of an open gate, a bridge, or urban construction. They bear Chinese characters saying: "In commemoration of the 60th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China, 1949–2009."   On 20 October 2009, the China National Philatelic Corporation issued three collections in commemoration of the 60th Anniversary. There are two stamp albums priced at ¥380 and ¥680 and a stamp scroll priced at ¥1,280.  Hongkong Post issues a set of six commemorative stamps and a stamp sheetlet on 1 October.  Unlike most stamps, the set of stamps are fan-shaped and form a circle when placed together (as seen in the souvenir sheet configuration). Their pictorial design is based on the winning entries of a competition: Victoria Harbour and Tiananmen Square are depicted on two interlocking cogwheels on the $1.40 stamp; the five-star national flag flying by the side of the "Forever Blooming Bauhinia" ($1.80). The Bird's Nest stadium is on the $2.40, while China's manned spacecraft Shenzhou 7 is depicted on the $2.50. The Temple of Heaven features on the $3 value and a golden dragon soaring above the Great Wall adorns the $5 stamp. A souvenir sheet features all six stamps, which form a perfect ring with the accompanying number "6", together forming the number "60". Hong Kong's stamp sheetlet has two $5 stamps in Chinese red, one featuring Beijing and one Victoria. The National Emblem and Tiananmen appear on the left and the Regional Emblem above a night view of Hong Kong.  The Empire State Building in New York City lit up in red and yellow lights on 1 October in commemoration of the founding of the People's Republic of China.   The display was criticised by some commentators within the United States, with some branding it as an improper gesture towards China.    The lights first ignited on the eve of 30 September, and lasted for the duration of the following day.  China's ally and neighbouring state, Pakistan, issued a commemorative postage stamp of five rupees on 1 October.  On 18 September 2009, three employees from the Japanese Kyodo News agency were assaulted by officials in their Beijing hotel room as they tried to cover the rehearsals of the parade.   China's Foreign Ministry stated that the reporters did not comply with a notification to news organisations to not cover the rehearsal.  Approximately 800 protesters, dressed in black and holding banners, participated in a human rights protest which started at Chater Garden in Central, Hong Kong. Scuffles broke out when activists tried to carry a mock coffin to the doorstep of the liaison office.   The music group My Little Airport also performed a song named "I Love The Country, But Not The Party" (我愛郊野，但不愛派對), using a pun on the 60th anniversary; its Chinese title literally translates "Country" to mean the rural area and "Party" to mean a "social gathering".   