Erwan Le Corre, a French American born on September 10, 1971,   is the founder and innovator of a physical education system and lifestyle   known as MovNat, which derives from the French words "mouvement naturel" ("natural movement").  Erwan Le Corre grew up in the French village of Étréchy, and later at Épinay-sur-Orge, both south of Paris. As a child he spent his free time outdoors exploring and playing in the fields and woods around his village. At age 18, Le Corre received a black belt in Karate. Starting at age 19 he did parkour-like training for 7 years with the Parisian stuntman Don Jean Haberey. During this period he also began barefoot running.  At age 27, he began a period of training which included sailing, Olympic weightlifting, rock climbing, long distance triathlon, trail running and Brazilian jiu-jitsu.  In 2004 Erwan Le Corre started researching the physical training method of the French naval officer Georges Hébert.  The training developed by Hébert is known as "la méthode naturelle" ("natural method").  In 2008 Le Corre formally began his physical education system and lifestyle known as MovNat  and began teaching it in weekend workshops and weeklong outdoor retreats. In the 2010s Le Corre was based near Santa Fe, New Mexico .  According to Le Corre, MovNat is "a school of physical competency entirely based on natural movement, which includes the locomotive skills of walking, running, balancing, crawling, jumping, climbing and swimming, the manipulative skills of lifting, carrying, throwing and catching, and the defensive skills of striking and grappling[,and that t]he most important principles of natural movement are practicality and adaptability."  Regarding the difference between Hébert's "méthode naturelle" and Le Corre's MovNat, Le Corre has said that "the main difference resides in the coaching system, which has been updated. It is more elaborate and efficient in MovNat.... MovNat's philosophy is formulated to better fit with today using modern forms of communication, for instance video and the Internet."  Le Corre is releasing his first book entitled The Practice of Natural Movement: Reclaim Power, Health and Freedom.  