 Fourth Grade (also called Grade Four, equivalent to Year Five in Britain) is a year of elementary education in some countries. In North America, the fourth grade is the fifth school year of elementary school. Students are usually 9–10 years old, depending on their birthday. It is a part of elementary school, a school providing instruction for young pupils, comprising traditionally of grades K-6. In some school districts, Fourth Grade is the first year of intermediate school or the last year of elementary. Examples of lessons taught include: larger place value; how to write a good summary; writing with transitions; how to read large numbers; writing with starter sentence; and detailed sentences. In Argentina, the minimum age required for fourth grade is from 8 to 9 years old. In this instance, children who are in the middle of primary school performed the "confirmation of loyalty to the homeland," is an act in which children will have to swear to the Argentina country to "defend for the rest of his life". Sometimes children do a trip to Rosario,  where raises the National Flag Memorial (Argentina). In elementary public schools, the study of the French Language begins. In The Netherlands, the fourth year of school is called group 6, and the pupils are 9 to 10 years old. Children start at school at the age of 4 and end school at the age of 12 or 13. In Belgium, it is called 4th (study) year. The children are also around the age 9 and 10. In France, the equivalent to the above grade is the Level 1 Intermediate Course, known by its short form CM1. In India, children enter Class 6 at ages 9 to 10.  In The Republic of Ireland, the equivalent is Fourth Class or Rang a Ceathair (for 9- to 10-year-olds) which is year 6 of Primary School. In New Zealand, this level of class is called Standard 3 or Year 5. Children generally start this level between the ages of nine and ten. In Portugal, what North Americans would call the fourth grade (quarto ano, 4º ano to Portuguese people) is the fourth and last year of the four-year 1º Ciclo do Ensino Básico that includes also the first grade, the second grade and the third grade.  Students take final exams (provas finais) of Portuguese and mathematics at the end of the fourth grade since the school year of 2012/2013.   In England, compulsory education begins with the first new term of the Reception year following a child's 5th birthday  . In practice, many children enter Reception at the beginning of the school year, aged 4. The sixth year of school is called year 4 (starting with nursery- or kindergarten- then reception, then year 1, year 2, year 3, then year 4), and the pupils are 8 to 9 years old.  Fourth grade is the equivalent of 'Year 5' (ages 9–10) in England and Wales, Primary 6 in Northern Ireland and Primary 6 in Scotland - the sixth year of compulsory education in England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland. 4th Grade in the United States is a grade or level in which students need to be about 9–10 years old. Students study subjects such as math, science, English grammar and writing, literature, and  history (often their state of residence during 4th grade). Most schools also offer health, music, art, and physical education. In some school districts, It is the first year of Intermediate school or the last year of Elementary school. Most states have adopted the Common Core standards. These standards state what students should accomplish at the conclusion of each grade level. 4th grade standards can be found at :///Math/Content/4/introduction/ In Spain, Primaria (6 to 12 years old) is compulsory for all children. 4th grade is called cuarto de Primaria or simply cuarto curso.  Primaria starts at six years old, so students usually start 4th grade the year of their tenth birthday. However, there may be eleven years old students because the educational system allows students to repeat a school grade if they do not achieve the passing grade in a specific number of subjects, which varies among each school and the grade that is to be repeated. 