Second grade (corresponding to Year 3 in the UK) is a year of primary education in Canada and  the US. Second grade is the second grade of primary school. Children are usually aged 7-8 in this grade level. In math, students work with multi-digit addition and subtraction with and without regrouping, AM and PM, fractions, rounding, and measurement. Usually multiplication and division are introduced toward the end of the school year. In language arts, students work with regular and irregular verbs, plurals, homophones, compound words, and comparative and superlative. Science includes basic physics like simple machines, magnets, and heat. Students learn about anatomy like the heart and the digestive system. A social studies class include the presidents, the states and capitals, the Civil War and geography. In Brazil, the minimum age required to enter second grade is 7 years. In Cameroon, there are two sub-educational systems, one based on French education taught in French and the other one based on British educational systems taught in English. So, in Cameroon this grade will correspond to "Class Two", for the English sub-educational system. That correspond to the second year for the kids in primary, however, most of them have spent 2 to 3 years in nursery school. In the French speaking school, this will correspond to the "Cours preparatoire (CP)". In France, it would correspond to CE1 (Cours Élémentaire 1) which is the second year of elementary school where children are 7-8 years old. Primary school is during 5 years. CP: Cours préparatoire, CE1, CE2, CM1 and CM2 ( cours moyen). In India, children enter Class 2 or 3 at ages 7 to 8.  In Italy, it corresponds to second class of primary school (seconda classe della scuola primaria) In Germany, this would be comparable to second class (2.Klasse) In Greece, it is the Second grade of Primary (Deftera Dimotikou). In New Zealand, this level of class is called Year 3. Children generally start this level between the ages of seven and eight. In Peru, this is also known as second grade (Segundo Grado), and pupils are between 7–8 years old. In Portugal, the second grade (segundo ano, 2º ano) is the second of the four-year 1º Ciclo do Ensino Básico that also includes the first grade, the third grade and the fourth grade.  In The Republic of Ireland, the equivalent is known as Second Class (usually for 7-8 year olds) which is year 4 of Primary School. It is traditionally the year that is dedicated to preparing for the child's "First Holy Communion", however, as Ireland becomes increasingly multicultural, more and more schools are opting to prepare for the sacrement outside of school hours - at weekends or after school. The British education system differs slightly between the four individual countries of the United Kingdom. In England, the second year of school is called year 1, and the pupils are 5 to 6 years old. So second grade is the equivalent to Year 3 in England and Wales  At the same age, Scottish and Welsh pupils are in their third year of compulsory education and in their fourth year in Northern Ireland. 