Sixth grade (equivalent to P7 in Scotland, Year 7 elsewhere in the UK, and Year 6 in Australia) is a year of education. In many nations, it is the first year of middle school or the last year of primary level (elementary). It is for students ages 11–12. This grade may be the last year of elementary school or the first year of middle school unless the student(s) has been held back. In Senegal, it would correspond to 6ème Lycee. It is the first grade of the third cycle called Collège (French). In Morocco, it would correspond to the sixth and the last year of elementary school. It is the last year before middle school. In Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Iran, India and many other countries sixth grade is called Class 6 and it is the first year of secondary school.  In Afghanistan, Grade 6 is the first year of middle school. Students are aged 11-12. In China, 6th grade would be the last year of elementary school. The students would be 11 or 12 years old, unless, of course, the student(s) has been held back. In Kuwait, Grade 6 is the first year of middle school. In Laos, Grade 6 is the first year of secondary school. In Malaysia, the equivalent is Year 6 also known as Standard 6, as the Malaysia academic year starts in January, unlike in Europe, Canada, and the United States where it starts in August. Students will sit for an important exam called Ujian Pentaksiran Sekolah Rendah (UPSR), which translates from Malay into English as "Low/Elementary School Assessment Test", before graduating from elementary education. Standard 6 is the final primary/elementary school year before embarking into secondary /high school (Form 1). In Malaysia, primary education are commonly broken down into primary school and secondary school. There is no existence of middle school. Middle school and high school are lumped as secondary school. In the Philippines, Grade 6 is the last year of elementary school. In Singapore, E.T would be usually referred as Primary 6 and the students would be 11 or 12 years old. Students sit for an important exam called PSLE (Primary School Leaving Examination) In Saudi Arabia, Grade 6 is the last year of elementary school. In South Korea, Grade 6 is the final year of elementary school. In Vietnam, Grade 6 is the first year of middle school. In Israel, Grade 6 (called Kita Vav) is the final year of elementary school. In Indonesia, Grade 6 (called Kelas 6) is the final year of elementary school. Students would be in the age of 10 in the half, 11, or 12 years old. Students have a final examination called Ujian Nasional (UN). Before UN, they have preparation called Try Out. In Belgium 6th grade is equivalent to the 6th year of primary school, called 6e leerjaar in Dutch. In Bulgaria, it would correspond to шести клас or 6-ти клас. Children in sixth grade are usually 12–13 years old. In Finland, equivalent is grade 6 (ages 11–13). Sixth grade is the last grade before students start attending Middle School. In France, it would correspond to 6ème (7 years before end of high school) which is the first year of junior high. Students are aged 11-12.  In Germany, it would be equivalent to 6. Klasse. Or 2 Klasse Gymnasium. In Greece, sixth grade (ekti dimotikou - έκτη δημοτικού) is the last grade of the elementary school (dimotiko scholio - Δημοτικό σχολείο) for pupils aged 11 to 12, before students start attending Middle  School (Gimnasio - Γυμνάσιο). In the Republic of Ireland, the equivalent is "6th Class" or Rang a sé which is the eighth and final year of primary school. In Italy, 6th grade is called "prima media" (first intermediate), and is the first year of Scuola secondaria di primo grado (first level of secondary school). Students are aged 11-12. In Lithuania,  Grade 6 is the first year of secondary school. Students are aged 11-12. In Malta, 6th grade is equivalent to Form 1 age of 11-12. This is the first year where students have different teachers for each subject but most schools have the same classroom for most of the subjects (such as Mathematics, English, Italian, French, science, Maltese etc.). This is the first year of secondary school. In the Netherlands it's the equivalent to Groep 8, the 8th and last year of elementary school. In Portugal, the sixth grade (sexto ano, 6º ano) is the second year of the two-year 2º Ciclo do Ensino Básico that includes also the fifth grade.  Starting with the school year of 2011/2012, students take final exams (provas finais) at the end of the sixth grade.   In Spain, the sixth grade is called 6º de Primaria (Educación Primaria) and is the last year of Primaria, which can be roughly translated from Spanish as Middle School. In Sweden 6th grade is called Sjätte Klass (6th class). Children in 6th class are usually 12–13 years old. Its English and Welsh equivalent is Year 7, the first year of secondary school in most counties. Its Northern Irish equivalent is First Form or Year 8, which is also the first year of secondary school. The Scottish equivalent is P7, which is the last year of primary school. The sixth grade is the sixth school year after kindergarten. Students are usually either 11 or 12,    though could be younger or older, if they are promoted (skip grades) or held back for not reaching a standard. In the United States Sixth grade has been considered the last year of elementary school or the first year of middle school. In some school districts it's the last year of Intermediate School. This can be seen at the local level, where adjacent districts can differ on what level sixth grade occupies.  Students still in Elementary school may continue to have a single teacher or more than one, but fewer than Middle school students. However, there have been schools where fifth graders (In Elementary) had five classes, and in sixth grade (Middle School) only had two classes/teachers who taught more than one subject. Students who attend Catholic schools generally remain in grammar school for K-8th grade, then go to high school in 9th grade, the same as public schools.  “Primaria” education, in its current form became compulsory in 2009, and runs from grade one through grade six, for students aged 6 – 12 years. The Secretariat of Public Education (SEP) officially determines primary school a part of ‘Basic Education’, making it free of charge, with one year of mandatory pre-school education. SEP standardizes curriculum content for public and private schools, which includes Spanish, mathematics, natural sciences, history, geography, art, and physical education. The National Institute for Assessment of Education monitors standards and provides quality control. Middle Education Secondary Education in Mexico is organized into two stages: Lower-Secondary Education (Educación Secundaria Básica), grades 7-9, and Upper-Secondary Education (Educación Media Superior), grades 10-12. Lower secondary school, or “Educacio Secundaria”, is compulsory and lasts for three years (grades 7 – 9). Education at state schools is free, and students may follow either an academic track (educación secundaria general) or a technical track (educación secundaria técnica). Students who enroll in the academic track generally continue their education at the upper secondary level. Lower-secondary programs, not leading to further study, are designated as nivel medio básico, nivel medio elemental or nivel medio terminal (basic lower secondary education). These are non-academic programs with a strong emphasis on vocational, commercial and artistic training.The “Preparatoria”, or upper secondary education (Educación Media Superior), is the second stage of secondary school in Mexico. Upper Secondary education consists of grades 10 – 12 and admission depends on institutional policies. Many upper secondary schools are affiliated with large public universities, while others are SEP or state-controlled colegios, private schools, preparatory schools or private schools. Two degree tracks are offered: Academic University- Preparatory and Professional Technical Education. The Academic track provides students with a general academic curriculum for the first two years of study, followed by more specialized study in the final year. Foreign Language is compulsory and students are awarded the Bachillerato certificate and certifocado de estudios (transcript) upon completion. The General Baccalaureate system is administered by the Secretariat for Tertiary Education and Scientific Research (SESIC). In the professional track, Professional Technical Institutions provide technical preparation that prepares students to work immediately following completion. The track leads to the Título de técnico professional (Title of professional technician), and consists of general education classes and professional classes in their chosen field. Vocational Education is offered at Professional Technical Institutions following the completion of lower secondary school (Educacion Secundaria Básica). The Technical Baccalaureate system is administered by the Secretariat for Technological Education and Research. Students graduate with the qualification of professional technician, technical professional, or base level technician, depending on the type of institution they attend and the program they undertake. Upper-secondary technical / technological instruction usually consists of dual academic-vocational programs called bachillerato tecnológico / technological upper-secondary education (also called bachillerato técnico / technical upper-secondary education). Successful students earn a technical qualification, usually título de técnico / title of technician in the vocational stream, and may seek undergraduate admissions in an appropriate field of study. The conferred título de técnico is registered with the Secretaría de Educación Pública / Secretariat of Public Education which issues a cédula / registration card serving as licensing in Mexico. The cédula indicates that the credential is at the técnico / upper-secondary technician level. Tertiary Education The Mexican higher education system largely follows the American model. A huge growth in demand has led to the expansion of program and degree options, as well as a swell in enrollment. Much of the growth has occurred at private institutions, where minimal fees are maintained. Higher Education (Educación superior) is offered at various types of institutions, including Public Universities, Technological Institutions and Universities, Teacher Training Institutes, and Private Institutions; the six official types of institutions in Mexico are public autonomous universities, public state institutions, institutions dependent on the federal government, private independent (libre) institutions, private institutions with official validity, and institutions without official validity. Each Mexican state has a public university and a teachers’ training college, for which a university diploma is awarded upon graduation. Institutions are recognized by the Comités Interinstitucionales para la Evaluación de la Educación Superior (CIEES) and/or accredited organizations recognized by the Consejo para la Acreditación de la Educación Superior (COPAES); the Subsecretaría de Educación Superior (SES) oversees curriculum. Undergraduate education can from 2 to 6 years. Similar to the U.S. System, Associate Degrees - Técnico Superior Universitario (University Higher Technician) or Profesional Asociado (Professional Associate), are two years in length. These programs are offered at Technological Universities. Other shortened programs (fewer than 4 years) include a certificado or diploma/higher university technician in a specialized field. These degrees can sometimes be applied to further higher education. The Licenciado (Licentiate) and Titulo Profesional (Professional Title) last 4 to 6 years. Common 5-year programs include accounting, economics, engineering, law, and architecture. Graduate Level work is offered at the level of Especialista (Specialist), Maestría (Master’s degree), and Doctorado (Doctorate). Especialista (Specialist) is usually a 1-year program with the licentiate degree required for admission. The licentiate degree can also grant access to the Maestría (Master’s degree), which lasts between 1 and 2 years. A thesis is usually required for graduation. The Doctorado (Doctorate), like in the U.S., is a degree based on coursework, research, and a thesis or dissertation. The degree requires at least 2 years of study beyond a master's degree. In Australia, sixth grade is the last (second last year in South Australia) year of Primary School, however in Australia it is more commonly called "Year 6".  Students are generally turning twelve in this year. In New Zealand, Year 7 (formerly Form 1) is the equivalent of sixth grade, with students aged 11 or 12 during the year. It is the seventh year of primary school and the seventh year of compulsory education. Depending on the area, students may take Years 7 and 8 at a full primary school, a secondary school, or a separate intermediate school. The nomenclature for all school grades in Brazil, including sixth, was recently changed. In that sense, sixth grade (ages 11 and 12) corresponds now to Brazil's seventh grade.  In Argentina (CABA), sixth grade (age 11/12) would be the second to last year of primary school. . After seventh grade (age 12/13) students start the first year of high school (age 13/14) which is 5 years long for regular High Schools, or 6 years long for technical high schools. The latter offers a specialization and a higher diploma. In Peru, Grade 6 is the final year of primary school. 