Attractiveness or attraction is a quality that causes an interest, desire in, or gravitation to something or someone. :59 [Notes 1][Notes 2] Attraction may also refer to the object of the attraction itself, as in tourist attraction. Visual attractiveness or visual appeal is attraction produced primarily by visual stimuli. Physical attractiveness is the perception of the physical traits of an individual human person as pleasing or beautiful. It can include various implications, such as sexual attractiveness, cuteness, similarity and physique.  Physical attractiveness can also include the attraction of smell. Pheromones secreted by animals and humans alike can attract others, and this is viewed as being attracted to smell. [better source needed] Human sex pheromones may play a role in human attraction, although it is unclear how well humans can actually pick up on the pheromones of another.  Judgment of attractiveness of physical traits is partly universal to all human cultures, partly dependent on culture or society or time period, partly biological, and partly subjective and individual.    According to a study determining the golden ratio for facial beauty, the most attractive face is one with average distances between facial features, and an average length and width of the face itself. . Facial attractiveness, or beauty, can also be determined by symmetry. If a face is asymmetrical, this can indicate unhealthy genetic information. Therefore, if a face is symmetrical (see Facial symmetry), healthy genetic information is implied. People will judge potential mates based off the physical expression of the genetic health, which is their apparent attractiveness . This supports the good genes theory, which indicates that attractiveness is seen as a way to ensure that offspring will have the healthiest genes and therefore the best chance of survival. Certain trains that indicate good genes (such as clear skin or facial symmetry) are seen as desirable when choosing a partner . Among animals, females often are "choosy" about who they pick for a mate. They will look for characteristics in their potential mates that ensure their offspring will have healthy genetic material. Therefore, they will be attracted to certain traits or behaviors of their potential mates. Attraction among animals is based mostly on what will give the females the best chance of having the most and healthiest offspring that will likely survive to adulthood because of the traits they will inherit from the male . Females will look for signs of health in the males, such as large and fancy adornments, bright colors, or other features that the male will only have if he is in good health.  . Eye candy is a slang term for superficial attractiveness.  In a 2017 Boston Globe article about the potential for cheerleading at the Olympics, eye candy was used to describe cheerleaders as "entertainment popularized by professional sports in the United States."   The term has also been used in professional sports in the United States referring to female athletes.  