  Siblings Day (sometimes called National Siblings Day or National Sibling Day) is a holiday recognized annually in some parts of the United States on April 10,  honoring the relationships of siblings. Unlike Mother's Day and Father's Day, it is not federally recognized, though the Siblings Day Foundation is working to change this.  Since 1998, the governors of 49 states have officially issued proclamations to recognize Siblings Day in their state.   Siblings Day has spread beyond the United States, and has been recognized by media outlets and celebrities in the United Kingdom,  Australia,  and India.  In France, in Portugal, in Spain, and some other European countries, Siblings Day or Brothers and Sisters Day is celebrated on May 31, following the initiative taken by the European Large Families Confederation (ELFAC) .  The Hindu holiday of Raksha Bandhan also celebrates the bond of brothers and sisters, but it is unrelated to the American holiday. The US holiday was originally conceived by Claudia Evart to  honor the memory of her brother and sister who loved each other, both of whom died at early ages.   The Siblings Day Foundation was incorporated in 1997 and achieved non-profit status in 1999.  Carolyn Maloney, then the U.S. Representative for New York's 14th congressional district, officially saluted the holiday and introduced it into the official Congressional Record of the United States Congress on September 26, 2005.  In Europe, the holiday was launched in 2014 by the European Large Families Confederation (ELFAC) to celebrate siblings bonds and relationships. The May 31 feast spread in different ways in the European countries where ELFAC is present. In Portugal, Dia dos Irmãos  has become very popular and the President of Republic of Portugal has greeted it publicly, in 2016 and 2017.    ELFAC has associate members in several European countries : Austria, Cyprus, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Portugal, Romania, Serbia and Switzerland. But adherence to the date and spirit of May 31 is open to any other European or non-European country. In the United States, approximately 80% of people have siblings.   The holiday is intended to be a celebration of the relationship of brothers and sisters.   Examples of commemoration during this observance include giving your sibling a gift (including a surprise gift),  a giftcard, and taking one out for dinner.  Nonmaterial examples of observances during this day includes giving hugs to your sibling(s), enjoying time with them, and honoring their presence in your life.   (federal) = federal holidays, (state) = state holidays, (religious) = religious holidays, (week) = weeklong holidays, (month) = monthlong holidays, (36) = Title 36 Observances and Ceremonies Bold indicates major holidays commonly celebrated in the United States, which often represent the major celebrations of the month. 