 Karl Vennberg (11 April 1910 – 12 May 1995) was a Swedish poet, writer and translator. Born in Blädinge, Alvesta Municipality, Kronoberg County as the son of a farmer, Vennberg studied at Lund University and in Stockholm and worked as a teacher of Norwegian in a Stockholm folk high school. His first poem "Hymn och hunger" ("Hymn and Hunger") was published in 1937. During his career, he published 20 collections of poetry. His literary criticism had an important influence on the Swedish literary scene. He also translated literary works into Swedish, among others Franz Kafka's The Trial. Generally considered a leading Swedish Modernist poet, several dissertations has been written about Vennberg's works. His poems are analytical but also often make use of irony. Vennberg is often said to be influenced by T. S. Eliot. It has been argued by some, such as poet Lars Gustafsson  and politician Per Ahlmark,  that Vennberg expressed support for fascism and nazism. However, these accusations were later revealed to be based largely on quotes taken out of context, and the truth is that Vennberg actually held strong anti-fascist views; for example, in his diary in 1935, he described nazism as "nothing but private capitalism's last resort". Per Meurling, a close friend of Vennberg's, quoted him as saying: "One can understand, or try to understand, all that lives and the way it constantly changes. But how can one grasp the infinite roughness and wickedness of Hitler? For me, nazism is, and has always been, the most repulsive thing I have seen in my life." Vennberg was also a member of the Swedish Clarté League, a socialist students' organization which resolutely opposed fascism and nazism in the 1930s and 1940s.  During the early Cold War, Vennberg was an adherent of the so-called "third stance" (Swedish: tredje ståndpunkten) in Swedish public debate, which advocated a neutral stance in the conflict between the two superpowers. Despite this, he participated in a gathering at the USSR embassy in Stockholm where he praised the "cultural upbuilding" in the USSR.  In 1948, he participated in the World Congress of Intellectuals for Peace in Wrocław, Poland, where he was elected to the International Committee of Intellectuals in Defence of Peace.  Karl Vennberg won a number of literary prizes during his career: He was also awarded an honorary doctorate at Stockholm University. 