Modernism is a philosophical movement that, along with cultural trends and changes, arose from wide-scale and far-reaching transformations in Western society during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Among the factors that shaped modernism were the development of modern industrial societies and the rapid growth of cities, followed then by reactions of horror to World War I. Modernism also rejected the certainty of Enlightenment thinking, and many modernists rejected religious belief. Modernism, in general, includes the activities and creations of those who felt the traditional forms of art, architecture, literature, religious faith, philosophy, social organization, activities of daily life, and sciences, were becoming ill-fitted to their tasks and outdated in the new economic, social, and political environment of an emerging fully industrialized world. The poet Ezra Pound's 1934 injunction to "Make it new!" was the touchstone of the movement's approach towards what it saw as the now obsolete culture of the past. In this spirit, its innovations, like the stream-of-consciousness novel, atonal (or pantonal) and twelve-tone music, divisionist painting and abstract art, all had precursors in the 19th century. Do you have a question about Modernism that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. The Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía (MNCARS) is Spain's national museum of 20th-century art, located in Madrid. The photo shows the old building with the addition of one of the contemporary glass towers to the exterior by Ian Ritchie Architects with the closeup of the modern art tower. Franz Marc, The fate of the animals, 1913, oil on canvas. The work was displayed at the exhibition of "Entartete Kunst" ("degenerate art") in Munich, Nazi Germany, 1937. Eugène Delacroix's Liberty Leading the People, 1830, a Romantic work of art Piet Mondrian, View from the Dunes with Beach and Piers, Domburg, 1909, oil and pencil on cardboard, Museum of Modern Art, New York City Odilon Redon, Guardian Spirit of the Waters, 1878, charcoal on paper, Art Institute of Chicago London Underground logo designed by Edward Johnston. This is modern version (with minor modifications) of one that was first used in 1916. Henry Moore, Reclining Figure (1957). In front of the Kunsthaus Zürich, Switzerland. Flatiron Building Manhattan, New York City, a groundbreaking skyscraper from 1902. Barnett Newman, Who's Afraid of Red, Yellow and Blue, 1966. Typical of Newman's later work, with the use of pure and vibrant color. Frank Lloyd Wright, Fallingwater, Mill Run, Pennsylvania (1937). Fallingwater was one of Wright's most famous private residences (completed 1937). Portrait of Eduard Kosmack (1910) by Egon Schiele Jean Metzinger, 1913, En Canot (Im Boot), oil on canvas, 146 x 114 cm (57.5 in × 44.9 in), exhibited at Moderni Umeni, S.V.U. Mánes, Prague, 1914, acquired in 1916 by Georg Muche at the Galerie Der Sturm, confiscated by the Nazis circa 1936–37, displayed at the Degenerate Art show in Munich, and missing ever since. Samuel Beckett's En attendant Godot, (Waiting for Godot) Festival d'Avignon, 1978 A Realist portrait of Otto von Bismarck. The modernists condemned realism Smithson's Spiral Jetty from atop Rozel Point, Utah, US, in mid-April 2005. Created in 1970, it still exists although it has often been submerged by the fluctuating lake level. It consists of some 6500 tons of basalt, earth and salt. André Masson, Pedestal Table in the Studio 1922, early example of Surrealism James Joyce statue on North Earl Street, Dublin, by Marjorie FitzGibbon The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 