 Intercultural communicative competence in computer-supported collaborative learning is the application of computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) to provide intercultural communicative competence (ICC). One of the well-known applications of CSCL is telecollaboration involving the use of the Internet or other computer-mediated communication tools by internationally dispersed students in order to foster the development of foreign language linguistic and intercultural competence in communication.  With the aid of the technological mediation used in telecollaborative study, participants on each side of the network have cost-effective access to "Languaculture." Numerous models and theories of intercultural communication have been proposed, including communication accommodation (Giles, 1973), cultural convergence (Barnett & Kincaid, 1983), identity or face negotiation theory (Ting-Toomey, 1993), and interactive acculturation (Bourhis, Moise, Perreault, & Senecal, 1997). A model of ICC (or IC) widely accepted in foreign language education has been proposed by Byram.  This model includes five components, all of which are needed for a student to become an "intercultural speaker": The benefits as well as the challenges of utilizing CSCL as a means of intercultural communication must be considered. Research in the field indicates several advantages, including: However, despite the potential advantages of using CSCL to overcome the barriers of face-to-face prejudice, develop social skills, and increase cognitive flexibility, simply adding CSCL to a communicative situation does not automatically foster trust nor resolve intercultural issues. In fact, research has indicated that some problems are made worse (or at least more obvious) by moving to a computer-supported medium: Although there are many benefits to using CSCL, especially in language learning contexts, teachers must approach its adoption with clear goals and objectives. Teachers should select the CSCL medium with careful consideration.  In fact, tool selection is critical since different media work well for some people and not for others.  In addition, instructors need to be familiar with concepts of intercultural communication in addition to CSCL.  In terms of its application CSCL is not appropriate for short-term projects,  and teachers should expect to spend a considerable amount of extra management time in roles such as mediators, monitors, and facilitators.  Teachers who have little extra time should not implement CSCL.  CSCL requires instructional scaffolding to accommodate different levels of foreign language ability  as well as concrete and structured exercises that are built in during the team formation stage.  Teachers may have to provide background information to extend their students' understanding of the target culture while also being unafraid to confront negative stereotypes that their students may possess.  Despite these challenges, CSCL may prove to be a superior tool through which teachers can foster greater understanding between their students and members of other cultures. 