Team-based learning (TBL) is a collaborative learning and teaching strategy  that enables people to follow a structured process to enhance student engagement and the quality of student or trainee learning.  The term and concept was first popularized by Larry Michaelsen, the central figure in the development of the TBL method while at University of Oklahoma in the 1970s, as an educational strategy that he developed for use in academic settings, as in medical education.   Team-based learning methodology can be used in any classroom or training sessions at school or in the workplace. Team-based learning consists of modules that can be taught in a three-step cycle: preparation, in-class readiness assurance testing, and application-focused exercise.  It consists of five essential components, with an optional last stage called peer evaluation.  Students are expected to peruse a set of preparatory materials, which can take the form of readings, presentation slides, audio lectures or video lectures. They should be set at a suitable level for the students of the course. In class, students complete an individual quiz called the IRAT, which consists of 5–20 multiple-choice questions based on the pre-work materials. After submitting the IRAT, students form teams and take the same test and submit answers—on a scratch card or using TBL-enabled software—as a team. Both IRAT and TRAT scores count toward the student's final grade. After taking both the IRAT and TRAT, students will have the opportunity to raise points of clarification or question the quality of  multiple-choice questions in the tests. Instructors can then address the questions and facilitate a discussion regarding the topics and concepts covered. Finally, students work in teams to solve application problems that allow them to apply and expand on the knowledge they have just learned and tested. They must arrive at collective response to the application question and display their answer choice in an e-gallery walk in the classroom. Instructors then facilitate a discussion or debate among teams to consider the possible solutions to the application problem. This last stage is an optional component of the team-based learning process. At the middle or end of the course, some faculty members do a peer evaluation for their teams. Students can assess the performance of their teammates using software such as Team Mates, CATME (Comprehensive Assessment for Team-Member Effectiveness), InteDashboard, and Team+. This form of assessment has a bearing on the final grade of the student—pre-determined by the instructor—and so students are encouraged to take peer evaluation honestly. The implementation of TBL is based on four underlying principles according to Michaelsen & Richards, 2005:  Team-Based Learning has been suggested to help students who seem uninterested in subject material, do not do their homework, and have difficulty understanding material. TBL can transform traditional content with application and problem solving skills, while developing interpersonal skills.  Its implementation in education can also be important for developing skills and abilities that are useful for businesses, organizations, careers, and industries where many projects and tasks are performed by teams. Learning how to learn, work, interact, and collaborate in a team is essential for success in this kind of an environment.  Many of the medical schools have adopted some version of TBL for several of the benefits listed above, and also for greater long-term knowledge retention. According to a study done by the Washington University School of Medicine, individuals who learned through an active team based learning curriculum had greater long-term knowledge retention compared to a traditional passive lecture curriculum. Evidently, faculty of professional schools are thus directing their focus towards developing application and integration of knowledge beyond the content-based curricula, rather than simple course objectives such as simply memorizing a concept.  Michaelsen adds that "assignments that require groups to make decisions and enable them to report their decisions in a simple form, will usually generate high levels of group interaction"  and are: Controlled studies of initial implementations of team learning have shown increases in student engagement and mixed results for other outcomes.   The World Economic Forum identified Top 10 skills required in its "The Future of Jobs and Skills"  report, namely complex problem solving, critical thinking, creativity, people management, coordinating with others, emotional intelligence, judgement and decision making, service orientation, and negotiation, and cognitive flexibility. TBL is often compared to the traditional one-way lecture format that does not develop those skills in students. On the other hand, TBL can engage students and provide an environment of collaborative learning and discussion. More than 500 publications in the Education Resource Information Center (ERIC) provide evidence for the positive educational outcomes of TBL-use in the classroom. TBL is resource efficient. In digitally-enabled classroom settings, the use of TBL cuts the amount of paper used for the lesson. Instructors also do not need to prepare the materials in hardcopy and can easily make changes to the questions to be discussed in class, remotely or on the go. Since most of the learning happens in the form of discussions and feedback sessions in class, unnecessary paperwork is left out of the equation altogether. In addition, instructors can gather data on the performance of a class and automate student grading. Team-Based Learning has been gaining traction in academic institutions, especially in the field of medicine in the US. Out of all 144 medical schools there, at least 83% use TBL pedagogy. 44 of those institutions also have faculty or staff who are part of the Team-Based Learning Collaborative (TBLC), an international collaborative that focuses on connecting TBL practitioners, sharing TBL resources, and promoting best practices. Within the top 50 medical schools in the US, 92% use TBL pedagogy. In Singapore, TBL has also been implemented in Duke-National University of Singapore Medical School, and has been proven to be effective. For example, Duke-NUS Medical School has been implementing TBL since 2006 and its students have managed to achieve similar results in less than half the time on United States medical license exams than if they were taught using non-TBL pedagogy.  Given its effectiveness in most teaching scenarios, team-based learning can also be used in institution-wide training programmes. Career skills education company 5stepCareers has utilised TBL methodology for undergraduate boot camps in China. A new online platform created by a team from Duke–National University of Singapore Medical School exclusively for team-based learning educators. It automates TBL administration and provides real-time data analytics for IRAT, TRAT, Clarifications, Applications and Peer Evaluation.  Over 30 universities on five continents use www.intedashboard.com for TBL including Duke-NUS, Yale-NUS, UCLA Medical School and the University of South Alabama. InteDashboard is part of CognaLearn, an education technology company based in Singapore. The Learning Activity Management System (LAMS), is an open source Learning Design system for designing, managing and delivering online collaborative learning activities. Among other supported pedagogies, LAMS allows educators to author and design, monitor in real-time and deliver team-based learning lessons. LAMS adopted TBL in 2011 and is currently the principle TBL platform used at Imperial College London, the Nanyang Technological University, Nanyang Business School, Singapore Polytechnic and the Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine in Singapore and University of Hong Kong   A web-based team development process designed by university professors to facilitate highly effective student teams. Team+ provides team development activities and peer evaluations to help TBL educators improve team cohesion, communication, and accountability. Co-developed with the UCL Institute of Education, TeamUp improves the process and outcomes of group work. Students work in teams during one or more lessons—contributing ideas and building shared presentations in the form of slide shows. Teams can work from individual or shared devices to create individual materials that they are accountable for, while the teacher provides ongoing and immediate feedback. Once the team is ready, a team leader can combine the team's materials and display them on a digital whiteboard for teacher and peer feedback. Team-based learning was jointly developed by Duke Corporate Education and PricewaterhouseCoopers.  In 2005, Judy Rosenblum, then President of Duke Corporate Education, and Tom Evans, Chief Learning Officer of PricewaterhouseCoopers, began to explore the learning environment in teaching hospitals and its possible transferability to corporate environments. They studied several teaching hospitals, principally Johns Hopkins Hospital. Teaching hospitals develop doctors (interns and residents) in the course of providing healthcare to patients. This is not classroom education. Rather it is teaching the practice of medicine while treating real patients with real diseases. The learning is embedded in the work. 