Samuel L. Stanley Jr., is an American educator, biomedical researcher and the fifth president of the State University of New York at Stony Brook. He formerly served as the Vice Chancellor for Research at Washington University in St. Louis.    Stanley is married to Ellen Li, a practicing gastroenterologist and active researcher. On May 12, 2009 Stanley was named the fifth president of Stony Brook University, a position he formally assumed on July 1, 2009 making him the first physician to serve as Stony Brook University’s president.  Stanley is one of the founding directors of the Midwest Regional Center of Excellence for Biodefense and Emerging Infectious Diseases Research.   Samuel L. Stanley Jr. attended Winston Churchill High School, a National Blue Ribbon School, located in Potomac, Maryland and graduated in 1972. He then attended The College of the University of Chicago where he graduated with honors in Biological Sciences in 1976 and was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa in the same year.     As an Albert Schweitzer fellow of Harvard Medical School, Stanley received his MD specializing in Internal Medicine in 1980.   He served as a medical intern at Massachusetts General Hospital between 1980 and 1981 and stayed to complete his residency in Internal Medicine at Massachusetts General Hospital.  He was appointed as an Associate member of the American College of Physicians.  During his time at Mass General, Stanley met colleague and future wife, Dr. Ellen Li, who was concurrently completing her residency in Internal Medicine.  Between 1983 and 1984, Stanley was a Fellow fellowship (medicine) in infectious diseases at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, Missouri.     While there, he was a Pfizer Postdoctoral Fellow in microbiology and immunology.  He became a Professor in the Department of Medicine, and served in the Division of Infectious Diseases and Department of Molecular Microbiology. Stanley also served as Director of the National Institutes of Health-funded Midwest Regional Center of Excellence for Biodefense and Emerging Infectious Diseases Research. In 2006, he was named  vice-chancellor for research at Washington University.  On May 12, 2009, Stanley was named the fifth president of Stony Brook University, a position he formally assumed on July 1, 2009, making him the first physician to serve as Stony Brook University's president.  In 2012, Stanley and his wife announced the establishment of the Ellen Li and Samuel S. Stanley Jr. Endowed Scholarship in the Stony Brook University School of Medicine. Stanley currently serves on the National Security Higher Education Advisory Board and the Board of the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities. He also serves as Chair of the NIH National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity and is Chair of the Universities Research Association (URA) Council of Presidents for 2014. He is on the Board of Directors at the Research Foundation of SUNY, the Board of Trustees at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory and on the Board of Brookhaven Science Associates LLC.(which is responsible for the management of Brookhaven National Laboratory).  Stanley is also on the Board of Directors of the Long Island Association and is a representative on the Long Island Regional Economic Development Council. In January 2015, Stanley began his term on the NCAA Division I Board of Directors. Stanley was a biomedical researcher.  His research interest in immunity from infections led him to publish several articles about the characterization of key proteins and pathways involved in amebic, bacterial and viral infections, blood-borne pathogen risks in hemophilia therapy, and the identification of new strain- specific clones.   Better defense against infection was a key focus of his research.  In 2008, he worked to create the Midwest Regional Center for Excellence in Biodefense and Emerging Infectious Diseases Research, with a $37 million grant from the National Institutes of Health.  The center was established with goals of improving biodefense, in reaction to the post September 11 bioterrorism threats and anthrax attacks.  He has also served on the National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity, the NIH Blue Ribbon Panel on the New England Infectious Diseases Research Laboratory, the NIH National Advisory Allergy & Infectious Diseases Council and committees led by the United States Department of Commerce.  Stanley is also the recipient of awards, including the Burrough’s Welcome Scholar Award in Molecular Parasitology and the Distinguished Service Teaching Award from Washington University.  Stanley is currently the owner of 3 patents.  He also serves as an ambassador for the Paul G. Rogers Society for Global Health Research and has received an honorary doctorate degree in Science from Konkuk University in South Korea.  US Patent 5,130,147: Entamoeba histolytica Immunogenic protein and cDNA clone. Significance: patent of the SREHP cDNA clone; recombinant SREHP is a major vaccine candidate for amebiasis, and a reagent utilized in prototype diagnostic tests. Inventor: Samuel S. Stanley Jr., and Ellen Li. Assignee: Washington University, St. Louis. US Patent 5,275,935: Amebic glycoconjugate and monoclonal antibody. Significance: patent of the amebic glycoconjugate, a major surface antigen of amebae and a monoclonal antibody, CC 8.6 which recognizes this antigen. Possible uses in diagnostic kits. Inventor: Samuel S. Stanley, Jr., and Ellen Li. Assignee: Washington University, St. Louis. US Patent 5,807,000: Method of screening anti-amebic compounds. Significance: Describes the use of mutant E. coli strains complemented with amebic antigens to screen compounds for anti-amebic activity. Inventor: Samuel S. Stanley, Jr. Assignee: Washington University, St. Louis. Stanley has authored and co-authored a number of peer-reviewed publications. He has also authored opinion editorials and essays. # denotes an acting or interim president 