Vivian S. Lee is an American radiologist and health care executive. A Senior Fellow at the Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI)  in Cambridge, Massachusetts and an NIH-funded investigator at the University of Utah,  she is a member of the Commonwealth Fund Board of Directors,  the JAMA Journal Oversight Committee,  and the Society of Medical Administrators. Raised in Norman, Oklahoma and trained in biomedical engineering and medicine, Lee established an NIH-funded research program in magnetic resonance imaging at NYU. She was elected Fellow of the International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine (ISMRM)  in 2006 and served as the President in 2008-2009. For her scientific discoveries, she was elected to the American Society of Clinical Investigation  and the National Academy of Medicine.  Among her leadership roles in academic medicine, Lee served as the inaugural Chief Scientific Officer and Vice Dean for Science at NYU Langone Medical Center, and prior to that as the Vice-Chair for Research in the Department of Radiology. For six years, she served as the CEO of University of Utah Health, Dean of the University of Utah School of Medicine and senior vice-president for health sciences of the University of Utah in Salt Lake City. During her tenure as Dean, she was elected to the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC)  Council of Deans Administrative Board. She is also a member of the advisory boards of the Massachusetts General Hospital  and the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine.  Lee has studied the management and improvement of health care, with an emphasis on data measurement and feedback to create learning health systems and her work has demonstrated the virtuous cycle of improved patient-centeredness, higher quality with better outcomes, and lower costs. She is married to international legal scholar Benedict Kingsbury.  Lee also serves on the Board of Directors of the American Association of Rhodes Scholars, and is also a Director of Zions Bancorporation and Merrimack Pharmaceuticals. A U.S. Presidential Scholar and National Merit Scholar, Lee graduated from Norman High School, in Norman, Oklahoma in 1983. Lee graduated from Harvard-Radcliffe College magna cum laude in 1986 before receiving a Rhodes Scholarship to study at University of Oxford where she received a doctorate in medical engineering.  She then earned an M.D. with honors from Harvard Medical School and subsequently completed a residency in diagnostic radiology at Duke University  and a fellowship in MRI at NYU Medical Center. In 2006, she completed a Master of Business Administration degree at NYU's Stern School of Business, graduating as valedictorian. She later delivered the commencement speech for the class of 2017.  Funded initially while an MRI fellow and subsequently by the NIH, Lee's initial work developed methods to measure kidney glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and perfusion, noninvasively using ultra-low dose gadolinium-contrast enhanced MRI.   These techniques were applied to the improved diagnosis of renovascular disease,  renal transplant dysfunction,  and renal function in cirrhosis.  Extensions of this work include the use of MR methods to measure tissue hypoxia  and tubular function.  While a part of the NYU MRI research team, Lee contributed to multiple advances in clinical body MRI, including pioneering 3D (volumetric) liver imaging for routine clinical care and for improved detection of hepatocellular carcinoma,  improved methods for assessing vascular disease with 3D gadolinium-enhanced MR angiography  and venography,  and improved surgical planning for living related transplant donor planning in liver and kidney transplantation.   As the director of Cardiothoracic MR imaging at NYU, Lee developed new MR methods for fast cardiac imaging  and for improved detection of myocardial infarcts.  Subsequently, Lee's NIH funded research focused on the development of non-contrast-enhanced methods for vascular MR imaging, and functional calf muscle studies that assess exercise-induced "stress-rest" performance in patients with suspected peripheral vascular disease.    A popular lecturer who has received multiple teaching awards, Lee authored a textbook entitled Cardiovascular MRI: Physical Principles to Practical Protocols (Lippincott 2006). During her 5-year tenure as Vice-Chair for Research in Radiology, Lee helped build a research administrative infrastructure that enabled the department, previously unranked in NIH research funding, to reach the top 20.  During that time, NYU Langone was also the first U.S. site to install a whole body 7 Tesla MRI scanner.  In 2007, Lee became the inaugural Vice Dean for Science, Chief Scientific Officer and Senior Vice-President, serving as a member of NYU's executive leadership team. Initiatives as Chief Scientific Officer included establishing a new philanthropically-funded Neurosciences Institute  and a new NIH-funded Center for Translational Science Institute (CTSI),  upgrading core facilities, educational initiatives in grantsmanship, and establishment of a new Center for Health Informatics and Bioinformatics  and a new Department of Statistics and Epidemiology. During her four-year tenure, NYU's ranking among NIH-funded schools of medicine increased from #36 to #26, and continued to rise thereafter.  While at NYU, Lee held a number of leadership positions in the ISMRM, the preeminent professional organization of clinical and research MR scientists. She served on the Board of Trustees from 2002-2010, President 2008-2009, and as Scientific Program Chair for 2005 Annual ISMRM meeting. During her tenure, the ISMRM increased financial reserves, enhanced clinician membership and supported sustainability efforts through new "virtual" meetings. From 2011 to 2017, Lee served as Senior Vice-President for Health Sciences, Dean of the School of Medicine, and the CEO of University of Utah Health. Lee was responsible for an academic health sciences complex that includes five major schools (School of Medicine, School of Dentistry, and Colleges of Nursing, Pharmacy and Health) and a health care system comprising four hospitals, dozens of clinical and research specialty centers, a network of 12 Salt Lake City-area health centers, a regional affiliate network of 19 partner facilities, a health plan, and over 1,400 board-certified physicians. Under her leadership, the University of Utah established a new School of Dentistry, the first new academic dental school in the nation in over 25 years, graduating its first class in 2017.  Lee led University of Utah Health to recognition for its health care delivery system innovations  that enable higher quality at lower costs    and with higher patient satisfaction,     as well as successful strategies of faculty development and mentorship.   In 2012, the University of Utah become the first health system in the country to post patient reviews online.  In 2016, University of Utah was ranked first among university hospitals in quality and safety,  with NYU Langone and Mayo Clinic rounding out the top three. That year marked the 7th consecutive year that the University of Utah was ranked in the top 10 in quality in the nation. The University's health insurance plan acquired a commercial license, grew five-fold, and was successful in the individual exchange. Improved financial performance of the clinical enterprise enabled increased support and growth of education, research, and community service initiatives. As Dean, Lee led the significant expansion of the School of Medicine class size from 82 to 125 students per year with increased ongoing state funding.  A number of significant philanthropic commitments were made during her tenure, including the establishment of a new Rehabilitation Hospital,  funding for a number of research initiatives including the Utah Genome Project,  the Center for Medical Innovation,  and Driving Out Diabetes: A Larry H. Miller Family Foundation Wellness Initiative,  as well as both private and state funding for a new School of Medicine building.  During her tenure, the University of Utah's health sciences budget grew 50 percent to over $3.5 billion. Early in her tenure at the University of Utah, Lee announced the Utah Genome Project as a cornerstone of the University of Utah's biomedical research strategy.   The Utah Genome Project is "a large-scale genome sequence and analysis initiative to discover new disease-causing genes," and is unique among genome initiatives because it uncovers genetic signatures of disease and drug response in large families. The University, one of the few sites selected to conduct large scale mapping for the Human Genome Project  and the International HapMap Project,  had previously identified important disease-causing genes such as BRCA1, breast and ovarian cancer gene, APC colon cancer gene, and KCNH2 cardiac arrhythmia gene, among more than 30 others.  Among the industry partnerships developed to advance genomic research as part of the Utah Genome Project included Regeneron,  Omicia,  and Janssen Research and Development.  In September 2014, the University of Utah accepted a controversial $12 million donation from billionaire entrepreneur Patrick Soon-Shiong for the "Chan Soon-Shiong Heritage 1K Project" under the umbrella of Lee's signature Utah Genome Project. The contract governing the tax-deductible gift led to the University paying $10 million of the donation to NantHealth, a company founded by Soon-Shiong, for genetic testing services.     On April 25, 2017, Greg Hughes, Speaker of the Utah House of Representatives, stated that the Utah Legislature was considering an investigation into the questionable donation.    Stat News reported on May 3, 2017, that the Utah legislative investigation was in its early stages, reviewing documents and conducting interviews about the contract with NantHealth and the donation from Soon-Shiong.  State auditors found that "the U of U should have conducted a competitive procurement process. The university believes it did not need to conduct a competitive procurement because it was an allowable exception to the competitive process." The auditors disagreed with the University's position, "Because the request to use his company was not ... a condition of the donation, it did not meet the exception requirements of state [procurement] code." The audit also noted positively that "University scientists have used data generated during the H1K project to obtain $7.6 million in new money and up to $43.7 million in furthered research," leading to the identification of 34 gene mutations in diseases including multiple cancers and other conditions.       Lee became embroiled in a public controversy when University leadership fired Huntsman Cancer Institute CEO, Dr. Mary Beckerle, on April 17, 2017. Lee and university leadership were publicly criticized for the move by HCI's founder and prime benefactor, billionaire philanthropist Jon Huntsman, Sr.  The decision prompted public protests by University of Utah faculty and staff,  including an online petition calling for University leadership to reverse the decision and reinstate Beckerle.  Jon Huntsman, Sr., publicly called for Lee and University President David W. Pershing to be fired from their leadership positions on April 21, 2017,   questioning their ethics and predicting that the governor and state legislature would become involved to ensure their removal.  On April 22, 2017, the Editorial Board of the Salt Lake Tribune (a newspaper owned by a member of the Huntsman family) called for Lee's removal as the "only remedy in this case."  The University Board of Trustees met with Pershing and Lee on April 25, 2017.  Within hours after the meeting, Pershing released a written statement announcing that Beckerle was immediately resuming her service as CEO and Director of Huntsman Cancer Institute and would report directly to the President of the University.    Pershing's announcement signaled that Lee would no longer oversee the Huntsman Cancer Institute, raising questions about the future direction of the University Health system.  Huntsman stated that a planned donation of $250M dollars would have been withheld unless the university's decision was reversed and Dr. Berkerle reinstated.  He also called the university's action, which he attributed to Lee, a "terribly, terribly unethical act."   On 28 April, Lee announced via email that, effective the same day, she was stepping down as the university's senior vice president for health sciences, dean of the medical school, and CEO of the healthcare system.   She retains her appointment as a tenured professor of radiology. As part of her contract, Lee retained her salary of more than $1 million for one year after resigning her administrative position.   After her resignation, local reporters at the Deseret News discovered more details about the dispute over finances with Huntsman Cancer Institute, including demands for substantial increases in financial transfers from the University to the Huntsman Cancer Institute.     In her academic career Lee was awarded a Rhodes Scholarship to study at Oxford University, and   received the Chang-Lin Tien Leadership award  in 2009. She was elected to the National Academy of Medicine in October 2015.  Currently, she is on the board of directors at Zions Bank, Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, and the American Association of Rhodes Scholars. She  is part of the Journal of the American Medical Association Journal Oversight Committee, the National Advisory Committee for the Health Care Delivery System Reform Program of The Commonwealth Fund, the Scientific Advisory Board of Massachusetts General Hospital, the Council of Councils of the National Institutes of Health, and the Administrative Board of the Council of Deans for the Association of American Medical Colleges. 