William Gilman Thompson (December 26, 1856 - October 27, 1927) was a founder and president of the New York Clinic for the Functional Re-education of Disabled Soldiers, Sailors, and Civilians  (later renamed Reconstruction Hospital, which then merged with N.Y.U. Bellevue). He became a professor of medicine at New York University Medical College, at Woman's Medical College, and at Cornell University Medical College in New York City, retiring as a professor emeritus. He consolidated the Demilt Dispensary and Park Hospital with the New York Clinic. He was appointed consulting physician to Bellevue Hospital and Nassau Hospital, Mineola Medical Service, Woman's Hospital, Lawrence Hospital and to the Standard Oil Company. Thompson was also appointed the consultant in industrial hygiene for the Public Health Service and served as a member of the Council of National Defense, chairman of Industrial Hygiene Division of New York State Labor Department,  a trustee of the New York Academy of Medicine, serving as its vice-president from 1904 to 1907. Thompson was also President of the New York Botanical Garden,  Vice President of Lenox Garden Club and author of medical books, several still used to teach medicine in 2017.  Thompson's parents were the abolitionist and Congregational minister Joseph Parrish Thompson and Elizabeth Coit Gilman Thompson, sister of the educator Daniel Coit Gilman.  Married Harriet Howard Pomeroy, daughter of John Norton Pomeroy and Ann Rebecca (Carter) Pomeroy.  Association of American Physicians American Medical Association New York State and County Medical associations New York Clinical Society New York Practitioners' Medical and Surgical Society New Hampshire State Medical Association American Association for the Advancement of Science Associations of Alumni of Presbyterian New York, and Bellevue hospitals and College of Physicians and Surgeons Council of American Numismatic Society   Joseph Mather Smith Prize for an essay on the valves of the heart.  Harsen Prize 