Healthcare in Egypt consists of both a public and private sector. Public health coverage is offered through Ministry of Health, which operates a series of medical facilities providing free health services. There are two main private insurers. The Health Insurance Organization covers employed persons, students, and widows through premiums deducted from employee salaries and employer payrolls. It operates its own network of medical facilities and at times contracts with private healthcare providers. The Curative Care Organization operates in specific govern orates, and contracts with other entities for provision of care. There are also private insurance options, and a network of private healthcare providers and medical facilities. Many mosques also operate their own clinics, especially in the large cities. Many churches offer subsidized or free clinics. Medical care offered by the public health insurance system is generally of poor quality. Government hospitals are known to be rife with negligence and generally provide minimal care. Only about 6% of Egyptians covered by the Health Insurance Organization actually utilize its services due to dissatisfaction with the level of services it funds. In 2008/2009, 72% of health expenditure in Egypt was paid out of pocket by people seeking treatment. Egypt is currently working on an overhaul of its public healthcare system to improve its quality.      A draft law was approved in October 2017 which would increase citizens’ contribution from the present 4% of wages to 5% , with 4% to be paid by employers and 1% by employees. The Egyptian Medical Syndicate is concerned that this may lead to privatisation of public hospitals, especially those that might not meet the quality standards set by the new law. They say only 20% of the 660 government hospitals are committed to safety and infection control standards.  Doctors' pay in Egypt is low. Monthly salaries range from 1,218 Egyptian pounds ($69) to 6,365 Egyptian pounds ($361) per month. Of the Egyptian Medical Syndicate's members only about a third are working in the country.   