This is a listing of the publications from Steve Jackson Games and other licensed publishers for the GURPS role-playing game. These are the books necessary to play, with the core rules used in all settings (GURPS Basic Set: Characters and Campaigns), plus basic accessories. There is a total of 28 free GURPS products given out as no-cost PDFs,  in addition to the three above and one below, this includes: These books detail general rules not used in all possible campaign, such as rules for magic spells, for superpowers and for martial arts. These books describe how to design and play campaigns in a particular genre, such as fantasy, science fiction or detective fiction. These supplements details how to design and play campaigns set in particular fictional settings, either specific to GURPS (such as "Banestorm", a fantasy setting, or "Infinite Worlds", about exploration of parallel universes) or independent of it (such as the Star Trek universe). Gurps Locations is a series of 5 sourcebooks:  These handbooks describe the data, in terms of GURPS, of specific objects, gadgets and vehicles, and how to construct new ones. These handbooks give a streamlined method for spacecraft construction and combat. Volumes 1 through 8 written by David Pulver. These handbooks describe monsters and creatures. These handbooks describe how to reduce GURPS to the essential abilities and rules you need to play in a typical Medieval Fantasy "Dungeon Crawl" type of game. These supplements describe how to reduce GURPS to the essential abilities and rules you need to play in games inspired by action movies of the 1980s and beyond. These supplements add a small set of new abilities for characters. These handbooks describe how to reduce GURPS to the essential abilities and rules you need to play in a typical modern "Monster Hunting" type of game. Example settings include Buffy the Vampire Slayer, or Charles Stross's The Laundry series. The following fictional settings are adaptations of preceding fictional works originating in novels: A set of books designed to allow game play in Traveller's Third Imperium science-fiction setting using the GURPS rule system. Traveller was originally published in 1977 by Game Designers' Workshop. Steve Jackson Games also publishes online Journal of the Travellers' Aid Society, the official magazine of Traveller.  Several books were produced in Japanese, mostly by the Japanese company Group SNE, and published by various publishers. The Korean publisher Dayspring Games (Hangul: 도서출판 초여명) published the Korean translation of GURPS and at least an original supplement, GURPS Sylfiena, a fantasy setting.  