A comprehensive list of Werewolf: The Apocalypse books by White Wolf Publishing, including production code and ISBN. As of 2011 White Wolf Publishing started to publish new material for the cWoD. These books are available only as Print on Demand or limited-run deluxe editions, therefore they lack ISBN. During GenCon 2012 it was announced that Onyx Path Publishing has the license to publish table-top RPG material for all classic World of Darkness lines. They will produce the titles previously announced by White Wolf. In 1993 Steve Jackson Games released Werewolf: the Apocalypse, among other classic World of Darkness lines, as a setting for GURPS. The softcover has 208 pages and ISBN 1-55634-276-4.  Some copies of Rage Across the Amazon have ISBN 1-56504-041-4 which is the same as Book of the Wyrm (1st Edition). Note: Breathe Deeply and The Silver Crown were marketed under the Rage-Logo. Note: Breathe Deeply makes use of the Amazonas setting, as detailed in the game supplement Rage across the Amazon (1993; ISBN 1-56504-061-9). Note: Call to Battle was intended as first of a series about the main character (as written on the cover), but no follow-up was published. The book also makes use of material from the game line Mage: The Ascension. Note: The Tribe Novel Series refers to the content of The Silver Crown, while The Last Battle refers to the content of the Tribe Novel Series. Many of the main characters in those novels are considered signature characters of the game line. Pinnacle Entertainment released three instalments of its Dime Novel series set in the world of its roleplaying game Deadlands, that contained a single crossover story with Werewolf: The Wild West. The issues are named „Strange Bedfellows”, „Savage Passage” and „Ground Zero”. All are available in an electronic version on DriveThruRPG. Two issues have conversion guidelines between both games in their respective appendix. World of Darkness: Strange City contained some of the Werewolf: the Apocalypse short stories also found in When will you rage?, together with stories based on White Wolf's games Vampire: the Masquerade and Wraith: the Oblivion.  The following Books each contain one novel based on Werewolf:The Apocalypse and other novels based on other games set in the same fictional world: Partly retrieved from "http://www.moonstonebooks.com" Note: These are stand-alone publications. There are also comic strips as introduction elements in the 1st Edition series of Tribebooks, as well as in the Breedbooks and in the 2nd Edition Core Rulebook. 