This timeline of volcanism on Earth is a list of major volcanic eruptions of approximately at least magnitude 6 on the Volcanic Explosivity Index (VEI) or equivalent sulfur dioxide emission around the Quaternary period. Some eruptions cooled the global climate—inducing a volcanic winter—depending on the amount of sulfur dioxide emitted  and the magnitude of the eruption.  Before the Holocene epoch, the criteria are less strict because of scarce data availability, partly since later eruptions have destroyed the evidence. So, the known large eruptions after the Paleogene period are listed, and especially those relating to the Yellowstone hotspot, the Santorini caldera, and the Taupo Volcanic Zone. Only some eruptions before the Neogene period are listed. Active volcanoes such as Stromboli, Mount Etna and Kilauea do not appear on this list, but some back-arc basin volcanoes that generated calderas do appear. Some dangerous volcanoes in "populated areas" appear many times: so Santorini, six times and Yellowstone hotspot, twenty-one times. The Bismarck volcanic arc, New Britain, and the Taupo Volcanic Zone, New Zealand, appear often too. In addition to the events listed below, are many examples of eruptions in the Holocene on the Kamchatka Peninsula,  which are described in a supplemental table by Peter Ward.  The Holocene epoch begins 11,700 years BP  (10,000 14C years ago). This is a sortable summary of 27 major eruptions in the last 2000 years with VEI ≥6, implying an average of about 1.3 per century. The count does not include the notable VEI 5 eruptions of Mount St. Helens and Mount Vesuvius.  Date uncertainties, tephra volumes, and references are also not included. Note: Caldera names tend to change over time. For example, Okataina Caldera, Haroharo Caldera, Haroharo volcanic complex, Tarawera volcanic complex had the same magma source in the Taupo Volcanic Zone.  Yellowstone Caldera, Henry's Fork Caldera, Island Park Caldera, Heise Volcanic Field had all Yellowstone hotspot as magma source. 2.588 ± 0.005 million years BP, the Quaternary period and Pleistocene epoch begin.  Approximately 5.332 million years BP, the Pliocene epoch begins. Most eruptions before the Quaternary period have an unknown VEI.Approximately 23.03 million years BP, the Neogene period and Miocene epoch begin.         The global dimming through volcanism (ash aerosol and sulfur dioxide) is quite independent of the eruption VEI.    When sulfur dioxide (boiling point at standard state: -10 °C) reacts with water vapor, it creates sulfate ions (the precursors to sulfuric acid), which are very reflective; ash aerosol on the other hand absorbs  Ultraviolet.  Global cooling through volcanism is the sum of the influence of the global dimming and the influence of the high albedo of the deposited ash layer.  The lower snow line and its higher albedo might prolong this cooling period.  Bipolar comparison showed six sulfate events: Tambora (1815), Cosigüina (1835), Krakatoa (1883), Agung (1963), and El Chichón (1982), and the 1808/1809 mystery eruption.  And the atmospheric transmission of direct solar radiation data from the Mauna Loa Observatory (MLO), Hawaii (19°32'N) detected only five eruptions:    But very large sulfur dioxide emissions overdrive the oxidizing capacity of the atmosphere. Carbon monoxide's and methane's concentration goes up (greenhouse gases), global temperature goes up, ocean's temperature goes up, and ocean's carbon dioxide solubility goes down.  Location of Mount Pinatubo, showing area over which ash from the 1991 eruption fell. Satellite measurements of ash and aerosol emissions from Mount Pinatubo. MLO transmission ratio - Solar radiation reduction due to volcanic eruptions NASA, Global Dimming - El Chichon, VEI 5; Pinatubo, VEI 6. Sulfur dioxide emissions by volcanoes. Mount Pinatubo: 20 million tons of sulfur dioxide. TOMS sulfur dioxide from the June 15, 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo. Sarychev Peak: the sulphur dioxide cloud generated by the eruption on June 12, 2009 (in Dobson units). Yellowstone sits on top of four overlapping calderas. (US NPS) Diagram of Island Park and Henry's Fork Caldera. Harney Basin, Steens Mountain, Owyhee and Malheur River.  Steens Mountain, McDermitt volcanic field and Oregon/ Nevada stateline. Location of Yellowstone Hotspot in Millions of Years Ago. Snake River Plain, image from NASA's Aqua satellite, 2008 Location of Yucca Mountain in southern Nevada, to the West of the Nevada Test Site. Jemez Ranger District and Jemez Mountains, Santa Fe National Forest. 