A Lady Playing the Guitar (after 1670s) is an oil on canvas painting by an unknown copyist after a work by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is part of the collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art. This painting by a follower of Vermeer was documented as authentic by Hofstede de Groot in 1908, who wrote; "26. A LADY PLAYING THE GUITAR.  B. 28. H. 31.  A young lady with fresh red cheeks, wearing a white silk dress and a  yellow jacket trimmed with ermine, sits on the left facing the spectator.  Her figure is seen at three-quarter length. She looks with a smile at something above her to the left. Behind her is a table with a blue cloth, on  which are several books. On the wall hangs a landscape. The scene is  lighted from a window with a dark blue curtain on the right. The  colours are delicately harmonised. The paint is thin. This picture  belongs to about the same period as the National Gallery picture (23).  Signed in full ; canvas, 19 1/2 inches by 16 1/2 inches.  Exhibited at the Royal Academy Winter Exhibition, 1892, No. 46.  The picture was, after Vermeer's death in 1676, in the possession of his  widow, Catharina Bolnes ; this picture, and "The Love Letter" in the Beit collection (35), were given as security for a debt of 617 florins.  Sales. Amsterdam, May 16, 1696, No. 4 (70 florins).  Ph. van der Schley and D. du Pre, Amsterdam, December 22, 1817,  No. 62 (65 florins 5, Coclers).  In the possession of the dealer Gruyter, Amsterdam.  In the collections of J. H. C. Cremer, Brussels measuring, according to  Bürger, 21 inches by 18 inches; of Lord Iveagh ; of Henry Bischoffsheim,  London.  In the possession of the dealer Gooden, London, 1896.  Now in the collection of John G. Johnson, Philadelphia."  Years later it became apparent that Hofstede de Groot (and Johnson G. Johnson) had been tricked and this was a copy of the version in Kenwood House. It is thanks to Johnson's deeply founded interest in art that all dubious attributions of paintings in his possession such as this one were allowed to remain in the collection, where it has become a quiet testament to the "Vermeer craze" at the turn of the 20th-century. Even after seeing the Kenwood House version, Hofstede de Groot was convinced of this painting's superiority, which demonstrates the skill of the unknown copyist. Needless to say the provenance records mentioned by Hofstede de Groot pertain to the Kenwood House version. It is still unknown where the dealer "Gooden" acquired the painting.  