The Arts District is a performing and visual arts district in Downtown Dallas, Texas. It is located south of State Thomas; southeast of Uptown; north of the City Center District; west of Bryan Place; and east of the West End Historic District.  It is bounded by St. Paul Street, Ross Avenue, Spur 366 (Woodall Rodgers Freeway), and the US 75/I-45 (unsigned I-345) elevated freeway (Central Expressway).  (Previously the district extended east only to Routh Street, but a 9 March 2005 Dallas City Council approval extended it east to I-345.)  The Arts District is the founder and member of the Global Cultural Districts Network. The district is 68 acres (0.28 km²) large and is home to some of Dallas’ most significant cultural landmarks including facilities for visual, performing, and developing arts.  The Arts District is home to 13 facilities and organizations including The Annette Strauss Artist Square, the Belo Mansion/Dallas Bar Association, Booker T. Washington High School for the Performing and Visual Arts, Cathedral Shrine of the Virgin of Guadalupe, Dallas Black Dance Theatre, Dallas Museum of Art, Dallas Symphony Orchestra, Dallas Theater Center, Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center, Nasher Sculpture Center, St. Paul United Methodist Church, Fellowship Church, Trammell Crow Center, and the Trammell & Margaret Crow Collection of Asian Art. In addition, multiple other organizations perform in the District on an ongoing basis. This includes everything from concerts to outdoor festivals, to lectures, youth education programs, and more. The Arts District is served by the Dallas Independent School District. One school, the Booker T. Washington High School for the Performing and Visual Arts, is located in the Arts District. Residents of the Arts District north and east of Akard Street are zoned to Sam Houston Elementary School. Residents south and west of Akard are zoned to Hope Medrano Elementary School. All Arts District residents are zoned to Thomas J. Rusk Middle School and North Dallas High School.  Interior of Margot and Bill Winspear Opera House. The Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center Cathedral Santuario de Guadalupe, Dallas Arts District The Dallas Museum of Art Coordinates: 32°47′21.57″N 96°47′53.88″W﻿ / ﻿32.7893250°N 96.7983000°W﻿ / 32.7893250; -96.7983000 