The HighScope early childhood education approach, used in preschool, kindergarten, childcare, or elementary school settings, was developed in Ypsilanti, Michigan in 1970. It is now common there and in some other countries. The philosophy behind HighScope is based on child development theory and research, originally drawing on the work of Jean Piaget and John Dewey. Since then, the HighScope Curriculum has evolved to include the findings of ongoing cognitive-developmental and brain research. In its teaching practices, the HighScope Curriculum draws upon the work of developmental psychologist and educator Lev Vygotsky, especially the strategy of adult scaffolding — supporting children at their current developmental level and helping them build upon it — in a social setting where children have opportunities to choose materials, ideas, and people to interact within the projects they initiate. [non-primary source needed] The adults working with the children see themselves more as facilitators or partners than as managers or supervisors. As director of special services in the Ypsilanti, (Michigan) public school district, David Weikart became increasingly interested in the academic performance of a number of at-risk children from poor neighborhoods. He found that these students tend to do poorly on district-wide, standardized tests and also receive low scores in IQ assessments. Weikart brought together, and collaborated with, a committee of elementary education leaders that included Perry School's Charles Eugene Beatty, Michigan's first African-American principal. Known as the Perry Preschool Project (1962), members discussed possible changes to teaching methods and curriculum choices. Even though they did not expect to radically change Ypsilanti's teaching core (which mostly worked), they explored why it seemingly failed a certain population of students. While searching for better teaching methods and programs, Weikart (now also part of a special services committee tackling the same issue), zeroed in on programs for three- and four-year-olds. Outside the normal organization of the school district, Weikart hired four teachers and began operation of a preschool at Perry Elementary School. [non-primary source needed]     Weikart and Perry School's teachers and staff chose to differ from traditional nursery school settings by designing a program that focused on a child's intellectual maturation rather than a child's social and emotional advances. They wanted a program that:  The HighScope Perry Preschool Project was evaluated in a randomized controlled trial of 123 children (58 were randomly assigned to a treatment group that received the program and a control group of 65 children that did not). Prior to the program, the preschool and control groups were equivalent in measures of intellectual performance and demographic characteristics. After the program the educational and life outcomes for the children receiving the program were much superior to outcomes for the children not receiving the program. Many of the program outcomes were significant or approaching significance.   Educational outcomes for preschool group (versus control group): At age 27 follow-up Pregnancy outcomes for preschool group (versus control group): At age 27 follow-up Lifetime criminal activity for preschool group (versus control group): At age 40 follow-up Economic outcomes for preschool group (versus control group): At age 40 follow-up Overall, a study documented a return to society of more than $16 for every tax dollar invested in the early care and education program.  [non-primary source needed] Heckman et al 2010 finds a lower benefit of $9.2 back on the dollar, mostly due to lower benefits from less crime (table 8).  See also Heckman, Moon, Pinto, Savelyev, & Yavitz (2010a, b).   