Ceroc is an international dance club which has with over 200 venues across the UK as well as national and regional competitions and weekend events throughout the year. It also has franchises in many other countries in Europe, Asia and the antipodes. The name 'Ceroc' is said to derive from the French "C'est le roc" (it's roc), used to describe rock n' roll dancing in France. Ceroc was created in London, England, by James Cronin,  the son of writer Vincent Cronin, and grandson of Scottish author A. J. Cronin. In January 1980 he held the first ever Ceroc event in Porchester Hall in London.  By 1982, Ceroc had a cabaret team that performed routines in London nightclubs and venues. Throughout the spring and summer of 1982, the Ceroc troupe worked with choreographer Michel Ange Lau, whose classes Cronin and Sylvia Coleman had attended at the Centre Charles Peguy, a French youth centre, in Leicester Square. The first video recording of a Ceroc event appears on the description for the "Gold Bug" routine, performed at the 1982 Ceroc Ball, a charity event, at the Hammersmith Palais. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, Cronin and Sylvia Coleman created Ceroc Enterprises,  registered Ceroc as a trademark  and started to sell Ceroc franchises around the country. In 1992, the Ceroc Teachers Association (CTA) was created, with associated examinations – all Ceroc teachers had to pass the relevant CTA examinations to be licensed to teach at Ceroc events. In 1994, Ceroc introduced 'taxi dancers' to their venues – volunteers who are experienced dancers, designated to assist beginners. In the early 2000s, Cronin and Coleman sold Ceroc Enterprises to Mike Ellard, the current owner. By 2004, Ceroc Enterprises were running over 100 different venues, and claimed attendance figures of 500,000.  In 2006, Ceroc started expanding into the "Weekender" market. As of 2008, Ceroc Enterprises has franchises operating in Ireland, France, Italy, Spain, the UAE, Canada, the United States and Hong Kong. As of September 2008, there are over 30 Ceroc franchises running in the United Kingdom   and 150 Ceroc venues there. There are also Ceroc organizations in the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Hong Kong, South Africa and Dubai.     Apart from the franchises described above, there are Ceroc organisations in Australia and New Zealand. Ceroc Enterprises is a separate company to Ceroc Australia and Ceroc and Modern Jive Dance Company or CMJ (also based in Australia). These Australian companies are not franchisees of Ceroc Enterprises. Similarly, there is no legal connection between Ceroc Enterprises and Ceroc New Zealand. In November 2013 'Ceroc Australia' was sold to 'Ceroc and Modern Jive Dance Company or CMJ to bring them both back under the same umbrella since they split in 1998. Outside of the Ceroc Franchise, the dance style Modern Jive is also taught and danced in many independent venues, where it is commonly called LeRoc. Originally it was the same dance style taught in Ceroc venues and independents, but these have diverged enormously over the last 20 years. However, dancers who have learned at either Ceroc venues or independents can dance together in freestyle, as underneath stylistic differences it is fundamentally the same dance. Ceroc franchise venues often attract a younger demographic than independents, largely because of their branding and that they often recruit younger teachers, however this is by no means ubiquitous. In 1990, Robert Austin, an original Ceroc franchisee who had broken away from Ceroc to form LeJive, coined the term "Modern Jive". "Modern Jive" is a generic term for the dance form, and is used by teachers and clubs that are not affiliated to Ceroc Enterprise. Ceroc does not recognise the term “Modern Jive”, and Ceroc’s web site states that it teaches dance in general and not a specific dance form. Most Ceroc venues run regular classes, every week, usually on Monday through Thursdays. Ceroc class formats are quite different from most other dance forms, in that: In the UK, the franchise nature of Ceroc enforces a degree of uniformity across all teachers and all venues.  Ceroc classes typically follow the same format,  and comprise: The start time varies from venue to venue, but is generally between 7pm and 8pm. Sunday classes often start earlier. Whatever the start time, the entire evening lasts three to four hours in most venues (with rare exceptions). A Beginner Progression   class (also known variously as Bridging, Beginner Consolidation, Intromediate or Freestyle class  ) taught at the same time as the Intermediate or Intermediate/Advanced class has also been introduced in Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth, and Adelaide, involving a breakdown of technique and either a review of the preceding Beginner class (possibly with some extensions or variations to the moves from that class) or a new routine drawn from a mixture of intermediate and beginner level moves  .  This class is taught at the same time as the Intermediate class. Individual teachers are less constrained as to the content of the Intermediate classes, however there is generally a stronger focus on technique (footwork, frame & connection, balance etc.), intermediate skills (dips & drops, leans, spinning etc.) and styling rather than just teaching moves. A video clip of a Ceroc class filmed in Melbourne can be seen at Mind Body & Soul Most Australian schools teach "Step" footwork. See Modern Jive#Step footwork vs Rock footwork In New Zealand there are typically Beginners, Intermediate and Advanced classes, with the clearer separation of moves between the classes. Moving up the classes leads to moves which are more complicated, more syncopated and physically closer. Beginners moves have 2-4 timing, preserve contact between partners at all times, have single speed, single turn spins, the dancers keep their balance (no leans, drops or dips) and partners only contact with each other is hands, arms and shoulders. Intermediate moves introduce single speed double spins and assisted double speed turns, contact with the partners back, and leans (in which one partner takes the others' weight with their body). Advanced moves can include multiple speed, multiple turn spins, loss of contact, significant syncopation, dips and drops (in which one partner takes the weight of the other with their arms) and/or contact with different body parts. As well as regular class nights, most Ceroc franchises put on special events, termed 'Freestyles', on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays.  Sunday freestyles are termed 'tea dances' and are often held in the afternoon rather than evening. Some freestyle events begin with an 'icebreaker' class, usually at an intermediate level as beginners are unlikely to attend freestyles. A typical Saturday night freestyle would begin at either 8pm or 9pm and run until between 12midnight and 2am. Freestyles are usually held at larger venues such as town halls, and often have two rooms: the Main Room, usually the largest room playing up tempo music between 100 and 150BPM; and often a 'Blues Room' or 'Chillout' room, playing slower music between 80 and 110BPM, allowing for slower dancing focusing more on connection, interpretation and musicality. Many Ceroc teachers also occasionally run daytime dance workshops at weekends, which in the UK are known as Cerocshops.   A workshop lasts for four hours, and covers more moves than are covered in a single regular evening class. The standard Ceroc workshops are graded (Beginners 1, Beginners 2, Beginners Plus, Intermediate 1, Intermediate 2, and Intermediate Plus).  Specialised workshops may also be available which cover more advanced techniques and styles such as Dips & Drops, Baby Aerials, Double Trouble (one lead, two follows), Switch it Up (swapping partners),  Ceroc to Blues, Footwork, Frame, Spins & Turn technique, Musicality, Connection & Posture. The frequency and content of these workshops depends on the resident teacher or guest teachers who may teach various workshops over the course of a weekend often with a freestyle party in the evening such as Ceroc Aberdeen's Beach Ballroom Weekend  or Ceroc Conexion's Extreme Mini Weekender.  Ceroc Enterprises holds an annual UK Ceroc dance championship.  This is held in London (currently at the Watford Colosseum) at the beginning of May  with a mix of freestyle dancing and competitions.  Competitions range from beginner oriented categories, such as the Lucky Dip (a Jack and Jill competition) and 'Ceroc X' where competitors are restricted to a set list of 8 basic moves, which they have to dance to different musical styles and are judged on performance and musicality. In recent years, the Intermediate and Advanced Freestyle Categories have been merged into an All Stars category divided into three different age brackets. Above this there is still the Open category, and Top Cats, another Jack and Jill where individual competitors are judged rather than couples. Other categories include Aerials, Showcase, and Team Cabaret competitions.  There are other championships held on a regional or franchise basis, for example the Midlands, Ceroc Scotland and Welsh champs, and the Australasian. Ceroc also hosts the European Neo-Blues Championships. This is held at the weekender 'Breeze' at the Pontins at Brean Sands in October, and includes an invitational Masters Jack and Jill, Blues Open, Blues DWAS, and Showcase categories. Ceroc hosts a number of 'Ceroc Escape' dance weekenders throughout the year, attracting hundreds of dancers from around the UK and Europe. Most of these take place at the Pontins holiday resorts at Camber Sands, Southport and Somerset. Other more luxurious weekenders are held at hotels, such as LUX and Swish. Freestyle dancing begins on the Friday night and carries on through until the Monday morning. During the day a range classes and workshops are available with teachers from around the country. Most events have a Saturday night cabaret, featuring teachers showcase, competition, and showcase performances. In 2005, Ceroc Enterprises completed the purchase of Rebel Roc, along with its annual dance weekender event at Pontins, Camber Sands. The first such event under the ownership of Ceroc Enterprises was Ceroc "Storm" at Camber Sands in March 2006. Ceroc Enterprises has been expanding its weekender offerings, and has taken over weekender venues from JiveTime (Camber Sands) at the end of 2007, and Jive Addiction (Southport) in August 2008. 