Starting in 1997, the Royal Canadian Mint started to sell hockey medallions to the public. To commemorate the induction of Mario Lemieux in the Hockey Hall of Fame, a set was issued honouring all three inductees. One set was issued in Sterling Silver while another was issued in Nickel. The success of the release led to future issues. As a way of commemorating the retirement of Wayne Gretzky, a medallion was issued with a mintage of over 50,000. The medallions were $9.95 each and they were packaged in a blue sleeve with the number 99 in red on the packaging. Starting in 2000, a series of stamps was issued to commemorate the All-Star Game in Toronto. The success of the series led to future stamp releases. Starting in 2001, the stamps were issued in a special collectors set. The stamps were packaged in a hard plastic case, with a hockey puck and corresponding medallions. These medallions were struck by the Royal Canadian Mint.   The Royal Canadian Mint has produced the medals for the 2009 IIHF World Junior Hockey Championship. This event will take place in Ottawa from December 26, 2008 to January 5, 2009. For the IIHF World Junior Hockey Championship medals, which were designed in collaboration with the IIHF and Hockey Canada, the Mint cut each blank – which is a medal without a design – out of copper. After the distinctive Ottawa design was struck onto each blank twice on a manual press using several tons of pressure, the medals were given their distinguishing finish: the coveted championship medals are plated with 24kt gold while the second-place medals are silver-plated and the third-place medals are finished with a warm bronze tone. All medals are lacquered and bear a Maple Leaf which is coloured with red enamel.  The Mint also sourced the tournament's popular Player of the Game award, which this year is a uniquely Canadian-made acrylic and aluminum Hoselton sculpture, housed in a cherry wood box.  In 2004, the Royal Canadian Mint produced a test token set as a way to commemorate Canada’s first 25 cent coloured coin. The token set contains one twenty-five cent coin, and six test tokens. The tokens for the one cent to the twenty five cents are multi-ply plated while the token for the one and two dollar coins are composed of nickel. The finish is brilliant relief on a brilliant background.  In 2006, the Royal Canadian Mint produced a test token set as a way to commemorate Canada’s second 25 cent coloured coin. The token set contains one twenty-five cent coin, and six test tokens. The tokens for the one cent to the twenty five cents are multi-ply plated while the token for the one and two dollar coins are composed of nickel. The 30th Canadian Numismatic Association annual convention was held in Moncton, New Brunswick, from July 20 to July 23, 1983. The obverse of the Convention Medal shows the #66 locomotive, a 4-4-0 Type D-17. The reverse shows the early seal of British Columbia at the left and the arms of British Columbia at the right.  The design for the reverse was based on the Voyageur dollar. The obverse was designed by Lloyd R. Carson, a retired CNR mechanical supervisor. These were the first medallions struck by the Royal Canadian Mint.  The 31st Canadian Numismatic Association annual convention was held in Hamilton, Ontario, from July 19 to July 22, 1984. The obverse of the Convention Medal has a theme for the United Empire Loyalists. The artists rendition was taken from a statue erected by the City of Hamilton as a tribute to the settlers that came and made a very positive impact in the surrounding area.  The 32nd Canadian Numismatic Association annual convention was held in Regina, Saskatchewan, from July 17 to July 21, 1985. The theme for the obverse was the “Northcote at Batoche 9 May 1885.” The design features naval action, which was part of the Northwest Rebellion led by Louis Riel.  The 34th Canadian Numismatic Association annual convention was held in Calgary, Alberta, from July 14 to July 19, 1987. The theme for the reverse was a grain elevator, an oil derrick, the Rocky Mountains, and the Calgary Tower.  The 38th Canadian Numismatic Association annual convention was held in Toronto, Ontario, from July 23 to July 28, 1985. The obverse of the Convention Medal featured the skyline of Toronto. At the time, it was the most detailed object ever struck at the Royal Canadian Mint.  Every line of its design was drawn by the Royal Canadian Mint’s engraver Stan Witten. It took over a week of painstaking detail to complete the thousands of lines in the 8” diameter sketch.  The Royal Canadian Mint manufactured the medals for the Vancouver 2010 Olympic and Paralympic games. All medals for the 2010 Winter Games were manufactured in the Mint's Ottawa facility. The medals were designed by Corrine Hunt and Omer Arbel. The medals are based on two large master artworks of an orca whale (to be used on the Olympic medals) and raven (to be used on the Paralympic medals). Each of the medals has a unique hand-cropped section of the abstract art, making every medal one-of-a-kind.  The Mint also produced participation medals for athletes and volunteers of the Game. The Royal Canadian Mint has also been involved in creating medals for various Canadian government agencies. The various medals include the Long Service and Good Conduct for the RCMP, medals for the  Department of Veterans’ Affairs and for the Governor General’s Performing Arts Awards. The medallions were marketed as Eaton "GiftCoins". They were inscribed  '$50 *REDEEMABLE FOR MERCHANDISE AT EATON*REMBOURSABBLE EN MERCHANDISE CHEZ EATON'.    The RCM is also known for its production of several military awards. In 1943, the RCM was commissioned to produce the Canada Medal for the Department of National Defense.  Currently, it produces the General Campaign Star and ISAF Bar awarded for service in Afghanistan. It also produces the Canadian Forces Decoration and the Memorial Cross.   The 10 oz Elvis Presley medal has no dollar denomination. Furthermore, these medals have a serial number stamped on the outer edge. 