Anna Kennedy (born March 12, 1960) founded schools to provide an improved education and other facilities for special children with autism spectrum disorders. She has now expanded her support for these special children including two schools, a college, a respite home and a website with over 50,000 international followers   She was appointed an OBE (Royal Reward for Inspirational Mother) Award by Queen Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace in 2012 for her services.  Anna born in Middlesbrough, to Maria and Antonino Sammarone. She studied at Sacred Heart School Middlesbrough. Before leaving to Italy, she had set up a dance school which was owned and run by her for a number of years. She married Sean Kennedy, a qualified legal solicitor, in 1998.  They have two sons, named Patrick and Angelo,  when these kids reached their school age, she then discovered that they were affected with autism spectrum disorders. It was difficult for Anna and Sean to find a suitable education for their eight-year-old affected by Asperger Syndrome and a five-year-old with autism, therefore they started a support group in their home which grew rapidly and was attended by 275 families.  They remortgaged their house in order to raise funds and to open a school with special educational needs for their kids.  Anna and her husband prepared a feasibility report to convert a local school which was apparently to be demolished, into a school for Special Needs children.  This school was the place to play and laugh together in the playground for pupils who had been bullied.  At that time, they took a huge financial risk by using their savings of £3000 and mortgaged their house in order to raise 627,000.  Volunteers were also coming out to help them which include carpenters, electricians and painters. Anna also approached the Probation Service for volunteers to come and help them. Finally school for autistic children was opened in 1999 with only 19 pupils.  Initially, this school had places for 14 children which were later increased to 63 places by 2002. The funding for places from local authority was based upon the condition that if parents of autistic children select this school as suitable place for their special children's needs.  This school is now building a brighter future with safe and structured education for 150 special children.  The school was subject to an emergency Ofsted report in January 2017, the report for which was published in March. The inspection, the report of which was published in March 2017, found that the school does not meet all of the independent school standards that were checked during the inspection.  The former Prime Minister's wife, Samantha Cameron, was invited to the official opening of a Specialist School set up by Anna Kennedy in Kent, South East London.    She has more than 50,000 online followers through her website including the parents of autistic children, professionals, media and those who are concerned with Autism. She is constantly creating awareness about Autism and making efforts to raise funds in order to continue their work.  Anna also provides training for the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC)  and Child line with regards to the disability bullying issue and create awareness about autism all over the UK.  In 2009, Anna wrote a book named, Not Stupid which was about the struggle she had to set up the school for her kids.  Based on the story of a mother who fights to rescue the lives of her children from autism  this bestselling biography is available on Amazon.  A fitness DVD, 'Step in The Right Direction' was a groundbreaking project which features a dance DVD, offering a clear picture of Autism Spectrum Condition (ASC). It has been launched in Birmingham at the British Institute of Learning Disabilities Conference.  Anna accepted a role as Patron in a bid to boost the profile of a charity called the Daisy Chain Charity which helps support families with autistic children. She has visited Calf Fallow farm, the home of Daisy Chain, to meet staff and see for herself the work being done there. "This is really very good, I am very impressed," she said afterwards. The space available here is fantastic and just what is needed as we move forward and develop the services Daisy Chain provides. I am really excited about coming on board at this stage of development." It was the first talent show organized by Anna on May 12, 2012. In this show, children and adults with autism performed on the stage at London's Mermaid Theatre.  A performance from James Hobley, an autistic dancer was also included in this show who had appeared on Britain’s Got Talent. On World Autism Day, a survey has been conducted about autism children. As to the survey report, 74% parents of Autistic children says that their children find difficulty to be social or even frightening breaks or lunch times in schools and colleges.  However, 67% of the Asperger children reports that during lunch times they are taunted and bullied by others.  During Autism Awareness Month in April 2013, ABA and Anna launched their 'Give Us a Break' campaign.  This campaign aimed to raise awareness about the bullying of autistic children in school and colleges, particularly during break times, highlighted the need for autistic children to feel safe by providing them opportunities to indulge in positive activities and to encourage schools and colleges to share the ways they can improve their social skills and keep them safe too.  Anna Kennedy addressed the issues and tackled them which were faced by autistic children. She highlighted the activities that can keep children from bullying during lunch times. She also emphasised that there should be a strong communication between the parents and school which comes up with a 24-hour curriculum for the children in order to get a better idea about their behaviour all day and to prevent them getting mixed messages by parents and teachers.  In 2001, Anna also set up a community college for adults, a respite home in 2004 and a second specialist school in Bromley, Kent. This was inaugurated by Samantha Cameron.  Anna has been awarded by an OBE (Royal Reward for Inspirational Mother) in the Queen's Birthday Honors by Queen Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace   for her services and campaigning work for autistic children. She won an award named, 'Woman of the Year' in 2009 which runs with the collaboration of The Observer and Smooth Radio. Anna has been the recipient of the coveted Institute of Directors (IOD) Chairman's special award for her contributions to the community.  She is the “Achieving Mum of the Year” of Tesco Mum of the Year Awards 2013 for her campaigning work for autistic children.  She is an ambassador for the Outcomes First Group.  Anna's story has been published in various magazines and newspapers including The Guardian, The Times, The Daily Mail, etc. Her story was appeared as 'pick of the day' an hour long Video Diary Documentary on BBC.  Samantha Cameron hosted a show, where there were the five finalists of the Daily Mail's inspirational Woman of the Year Awards. Anna has been interviewed by her, in which she highlighted the facts about her children and struggle throughout the life for brightening her kids' future.  Anna Kennedy had one-on-one interview with David Cameron where he discussed about Autistic provision plans for Special Educational Needs (SEN) by the Government.  