Charalambos Bouras (Greek: Χαράλαμπος Μπούρας, 17 July 1933 - 27 July 2016) was a major Greek restoration architect, engineer and professor of architectural history. Amongst his most notable contributions are his restoration work on the Acropolis of Athens,  Brauron and the monastery of Hosios Loukas as well as the collection of his books and scientific articles.  Bouras received a diploma in Architectural Engineering from the National Technical University of Athens in Greece at 1952. In the following years he joined the Greek Archaeological Service as a member of the Directorate of Restoration of Ancient and Historic Monuments. In this role, he undertook the study and restoration of the fifth-century B.C.E. stoa at the Sanctuary of Artemis at Brauron (1961–1962). He then continued his studies at the Université de Paris (École Pratique des Hautes Études) under the supervision of André Grabar, receiving a doctorate at 1964. Meanwhile, he received another doctorate from the Polytechnic School of Thessaloniki (1966). He then became one of the founding members and President of the Acropolis Restoration Service, coauthored the first volume on the Europa Nostra's restoration of the Parthenon and issued his book on the Nea Moni of Chios.  Charalambos Bouras was born in Preveza on 17 July 1933. He grew up in Chios, where his family moved when his father (a state chemist) was transferred there. He was married to fellow architect and Byzantinist Laskarina Philippidou (Boura), who died early. At a second marriage, he married archaeologist Kornilia Hadjiaslani, with whom he acquired a son, Nikias. Bouras died in Athens on July 27, 2016. He was buried on July 29, at the First Cemetery of Athens.  External view of the Theotokos church, Hosios Loukas Section and plan of the katholikon of Hosios Loukas Capital of a column at Hosios Loukas The Π-shaped stoa at Brauron Section of the katholikon of the Nea Moni of Chios The stoa at Brauron Charalambos Bouras was awarded the following order: 