A túath (plural túatha) was a Gaelic Irish political and administrative unit. The word is from Old Irish, and means "country" or "people",  "nation".  A túath was the basic political and jurisdictional unit of Gaelic Ireland. The term "túath" referred to both a geographical territory and the people who lived on that territory.   It is thought to derive from Proto-Celtic *toutā ("tribe, tribal homeland"; cognate roots are thought to occur in the Gaulish god Toutatis), perhaps from Proto-Indo-European *tewtéh₂ ("tribesman, tribal citizen").In Modern Irish it is spelled tuath, without the fada (length mark), and means "countryside".  The old Irish land system fell into disuse after the Elizabethan conquest, being replaced by a system of baronies and counties. There is therefore some confusion regarding territorial units in Ireland, mainly between tricha cet and tuatha, which in some cases seem to be overlapping units, or different measurements altogether. There appears to be a military meaning to the tricha cet. Some authors equate the tuath with the modern parish, whereas others equate it with the barony. This partly depends on how the territory was first incorporated into the county system. in cases where surrender and regrant was the method, the match between the old tuath and the modern barony is quite exact. Contrary to the idea that the tuath were ever changing, the basic units appear to be quite stable over time, while the confederations to which they belong do change, depending on the rise and fall of different dynastic powers.  In ancient Irish terms, a household was reckoned at about 30 people per dwelling. A trícha cét ("thirty hundreds"), was an area comprising 100 dwellings or, roughly, 3,000 people. A túath consisted of a number of allied trícha céta, and therefore referred to no fewer than 6,000 people. Probably a more accurate number for a túath would be no fewer than 9,000 people.  The organization of túatha is covered to a great extent within the Brehon laws, Irish laws written down in the 7th century, also known as the Fénechas. The social structure of ancient Irish culture was based around the concept of the fine (plural finte), or family kin-group. All finte descended from a common ancestor out to four generations comprised a social unit known as a dearbhfhine (plural dearbhfhinte). Túatha are often described as petty kingdoms. Owing to the complex and ever-changing political nature of ancient and medieval Ireland, túatha ranged in character from petty kingdoms sovereign in their own right, to areas bound by fealty to much larger "over-kingdoms" such as Connacht or Ulaid. Thus the place of túatha in the socio-political structure of Ireland varied, depending on the power and influence of the individual dynasties at the time. 