Necrotizing fasciitis (NF), commonly known as flesh-eating disease, is an infection that results in the death of the body's soft tissue.  It is a severe disease of sudden onset that spreads rapidly.  Symptoms include red or purple skin in the affected area, severe pain, fever, and vomiting.  The most commonly affected areas are the limbs and perineum.  Typically, the infection enters the body through a break in the skin such as a cut or burn.  Risk factors include poor immune function such as from diabetes or cancer, obesity, alcoholism, intravenous drug use, and peripheral vascular disease.   It is not typically spread between people.  The disease is classified into four types, depending on the infecting organism.  Between 55 and 80% of cases involve more than one type of bacteria.  Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is involved in up to a third of cases.  Medical imaging is helpful to confirm the diagnosis.  Necrotizing fasciitis may be prevented with proper wound care and handwashing.  It is usually treated with surgery to remove the infected tissue and intravenous antibiotics.   Often, a combination of antibiotics is used, such as penicillin G, clindamycin, vancomycin, and gentamicin.  Delays in surgery are associated with a higher risk of death.  Despite high-quality treatment, the risk of death is between 25 and 35%.  Necrotizing fasciitis affects 0.4 to 1.0 person per 100,000 per year.  Both sexes are affected equally.  It becomes more common among older people and is very rare in children.  It has been described at least since the time of Hippocrates.  The term "necrotizing fasciitis" first came into use in 1952.   Symptoms may include fever, swelling, and complaint of excessive pain when compared to a small, benign swelling on the skin. The initial skin changes are similar to cellulitis and abscess, thus making the diagnosis of necrotizing fasciitis at early stages difficult. Induration (hardening of the skin and soft tissue) and swelling beyond the area of skin changes are commonly present in those with early necrotizing changes.  The redness and swelling usually blend into surrounding normal tissues. The overlying skin may appear shiny and tense.  Other signs which are more suggestive of necrotizing changes (but present in later stages in 7 to 44% of the cases) are: formation of bullae, skin ecchymosis which is present before skin necrosis  (skin turning from red to purple and black due to thrombosis of blood vessels),  presence of gas in tissues, and reduced or absent sensation over the skin  (due to the necrosis of the underlying nerves).  Rapid progression to shock despite antibiotic therapy is another indication of necrotizing fasciitis. Necrotizing changes affecting the groin are known as Fournier gangrene.  However, those who are immunocompromised (malignancy, corticosteroid usage, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, HIV/AIDS, or prior organ or bone marrow transplantation) may not show normal signs and symptoms. Immunocompromised persons also have two-fold higher risk of death from necrotizing infections, so higher suspicion should be maintained in this group.  The very first symptom of NF. The center is clearly getting darker red(purple). Early symptoms of necrotizing fasciitis. The darker red center is going black. The start of necrotizing fasciitis More than 70% of cases are recorded in people with at least one of these clinical situations: immunosuppression, diabetes, alcoholism/drug abuse/smoking, malignancies, and chronic systemic diseases. For reasons that are unclear, it occasionally occurs in people with an apparently normal general condition.  Necrotizing fasciitis can occur at any part of the body, but it is more commonly seen at the extremities, perineum, and genitals. Only a few of such cases arise from the chest and abdomen. Trauma is the usual cause of the infection such as intravenous drug injection, insulin injection, animals and insect bites, catheter insertion over the skin, or a fistula connecting skin to the internal body organs. Skin infections such as abscess and ulcers can also complicate necrotizing fasciitis. Spreading of infection through blood has been suggested for those with streptococcal pharyngitis. For infection of the perineum and genitals (Fournier gangrene), trauma, surgery, urinary tract infection, stones, and Bartholin gland abscess are the usual causes.  Types of soft-tissue necrotizing infection can be divided into four classes according to the types of bacteria infecting the soft tissue. This classification system was first described by Giuliano and  his colleagues in 1977.   Type I infection  - This is the most common type of infection which accounts for 70 to 80% of the cases. It is caused by a mixture of bacterial types, usually in abdominal or groin areas.  This type of infection is usually caused by various species of Gram-positive cocci,(Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes, and enterococci), Gram-negative rods,  (Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa), and anaerobes, (Bacteroides and Clostridium species).  Populations of those affected are typically older with medical comorbidities such as diabetes mellitus, obesity, and immunodeficiency.  Usually, trauma is not the cause of such infections. Previous history of abscess infection or gut perforation with bacterial translocation may be elicited. Clostridial infection accounts for 10% of type I infection.  Clostridium species involved are Clostridium perfringens, Clostridium septicum, and Clostridium sordellii, which typically cause gas gangrene (also known as myonecrosis). Clostridium perfringens produces two deadly toxins: alpha-toxin and theta-toxin. Alpha-toxin causes excessive platelet aggregation which blocks blood vessels and deprives the vital organs of oxygen supply. This creates an acidic, oxygen-deficient environment for the proliferation of bacteria. When alpha-toxin is absorbed by soft tissues, it can inhibit the migration of white blood cells from blood vessels into the soft tissue, thus impairing phagocyte function. The two toxins together can cause destruction of red blood cells in blood vessels, damage to the integrity of the blood vessels, and suppression of heart function. Clostridium sordellii can also produce two major toxins: all known virulent strains produce the essential virulence factor lethal toxin (TcsL), and a number also produce haemorrhagic toxin (TcsH). TcsL and TcsH are both members of the large clostridial cytotoxin (LCC) family.  The key Clostridium septicum virulence factor is a pore-forming toxin called alpha-toxin, though it is unrelated to the Clostridium perfringens alpha-toxin. Myonecrotic infections caused by these clostridial species commonly occur in injecting heroin users. Those with clostridial infections typically have severe pain at the wound site, where the wound typically drains foul-smelling blood mixed with serum (serosanguinous discharge). Shock can progress rapidly after initial injury or infection, and once the state of shock is established, the chance of dying exceeds 50%. Another bacterium associated with similar rapid disease progression is group A streptococcal infection (mostly Streptococcus pyogenes). Meanwhile, other bacterial infections require two or more days to become symptomatic.  Type II infection - This infection accounts for 20 to 30% of the cases, mainly involving the extremities.   This mainly involves  Streptococcus pyogenes bacteria or in combination with staphylococcal infections. Both types of bacteria can progress rapidly and manifest as toxic shock syndrome. Streptococcus species produce M protein, which acts as superantigen, thus stimulating a massive systemic immune response, which is not effective against the bacterial antigen, precipitating shock. Type II infection more commonly affects young, healthy adults with a history of injury.  Type III infection - Vibrio vulnificus, a bacterium found in saltwater, is a rare cause of this infection, which occurs through a break in the skin. Disease progression can be as rapid as type II infection without any visible skin changes.  Type IV infection - Some authors have described the type IV infection as fungal infection.  Early diagnosis is difficult, as the disease often looks early on like a simple superficial skin infection.  While a number of laboratory and imaging modalities can raise the suspicion for necrotizing fasciitis, none can rule it out.  The gold standard for diagnosis is a surgical exploration in the setting of high suspicion. When in doubt, a small incision can be made into the affected tissue, and if a finger easily separates the tissue along the fascial plane, the diagnosis is confirmed and an extensive debridement should be performed.  Imaging has a limited role in the diagnosis of necrotizing fasciitis. The time delay in performing imaging is a concern. Plain radiography may show subcutaneous emphysema (gas in the subcutaneous tissue) which is strongly suggestive of necrotizing changes, but it is not sensitive enough to detect all the cases, because necrotizing skin infections caused by the bacteria other than clostridial infections usually do not show subcutaneous emphysema. If the diagnosis is still in doubt, computed tomography (CT) scans and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are more sensitive modalities than plain radiography. However, both the CT scan and MRI are not sensitive enough rule out necrotizing changes completely.  CT scan may show fascial thickening, edema, subcutaneous gas, and abscess formation.  In MRI, when  fluid collection with deep fascia involvement occurs, thickening or enhancement with contrast injection, necrotizing fasciitis should be strongly suspected. Meanwhile, ultrasonography can show superficial abscess formation, but is not sensitive enough to diagnose necrotizing fasciitis.  CT scan is able to detect about 80% of cases, while MRI may pick up slightly more.  A white blood cell count less than 15,000 cells/mm3 and serum sodium level greater than 135 mmol/l have a sensitivity of 90% in detecting the necrotizing soft tissue infection. It also has a 99% chance of ruling out necrotizing changes if the values have shown otherwise. Various scoring systems are being developed to determine the likelihood of getting necrotizing fasciitis, but a scoring system developed by Wong and colleagues in 2004 is the most commonly used. It is the laboratory risk indicator for necrotizing fasciitis (LRINEC) score, which can be used to stratify by risk those people having signs of severe cellulitis or abscess to determine the likelihood of necrotizing fasciitis being present. It uses six laboratory values: C-reactive protein, total white blood cell count, hemoglobin, sodium, creatinine, and blood glucose.  A score greater than or equal to 6 indicates that necrotizing fasciitis should be seriously considered.  The scoring criteria are: However, the scoring system has not been validated. The values would be falsely positive if any other inflammatory conditions are present. Therefore, the values derived from this scoring system should be interpreted with caution.  About 10% of patients with necrotizing fasciitis in the original study still had a LRINEC score <6.  A validation study showed that patients with a LRINEC score ≥6 have a higher rate of both death and amputation.  Prevention is by good wound care and handwashing.  Surgical debridement (cutting away affected tissue) is the mainstay of treatment for necrotizing fasciitis. Early medical treatment is often presumptive; thus, antibiotics should be started as soon as this condition is suspected. Cultures are taken to determine appropriate antibiotic coverage, and antibiotics may be changed when culture results are obtained. Besides blood pressure control and hydration, support should be initiated for those with unstable vital signs and low urine output.  Treatment of necrotizing fasciitis, however, has not been extensively studied.  Aggressive wound debridement is often performed early, usually as soon as the diagnosis of necrotizing soft tissue infection (NSTI) is made. Surgical incisions often extend beyond the areas of induration (the hardened tissue) to remove the damaged blood vessels that are responsible for the induration. However, cellulitic soft tissues are sometimes spared from debridement for later skin coverage of the wound. More than one operation may be used to remove additional necrotic tissue. In some cases when an extremity is affected by a NSTI, amputation may be the surgical treatment of choice. After the wound debridement, adequate dressings should be applied to prevent exposure of bones, tendons, and cartilages so that such structures do not dry out and to promote wound healing.  For necrotizing infection of the perineal area (Fournier gangrene), wound debridement and wound care in this area can be difficult because of the excretory products that often render this area dirty and affect the wound-healing process. Therefore, regular dressing changes with a fecal management system can help to keep the wound at the perineal area clean. Sometimes, colostomy may be necessary to divert the excretory products to keep the wound at the perineal area clean.  Wound after aggresive acute debridement of NF Necrotic tissue from the left leg surgically removed Postsurgical debridement and skin grafting After knee disarticulation amputation Traditionally, empiric antibiotics are initiated as soon as the diagnosis of NSTI has been made and then later changed to culture-guided antibiotic therapy. In the case of NSTIs, empiric antibiotics are broad-spectrum, covering gram-positive (including MRSA), gram-negative, and anaerobic bacteria.  While studies have compared moxifloxacin (a fluoroquinolone) and amoxicillin-clavulanate (a penicillin) and evaluated appropriate duration of treatment (varying from 7 to 21 days), no definitive conclusions on the efficacy of treatment, ideal duration of treatment, or the adverse effects could be made due to poor-quality evidence.  - Hyperbaric oxygen: While human and animal studies have shown that high oxygen tension in tissues helps to reduce edema, stimulate fibroblast growth, and increase the killing ability of white blood cells, inhibit bacterial toxin release, and increase antibiotic efficacy,  no high-quality trials have been shown to support or refute the use of hyperbaric oxygen therapy in patients with NSTIs.  - Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG): No clear difference between using IVIG and placebo has been shown in the treatment of NSTIs, and one study showed serious adverse effects with IVIG use, including acute kidney injury, allergic reactions, aseptic meningitis syndrome, haemolytic anaemia, thrombi, and transmissible agents.  - AB103: One study assessed the efficacy of a new type of treatment that affects the immune response, called AB103. The study showed no difference in mortality with use of this therapy, but it is difficult to draw definitive conclusions due to low-quality evidence.  - Supportive therapy: Supportive therapy, often including intravenous hydration, wound care, anticoagulants to prevent thromboembolic events, pain control, et cetera should always be provided to patients when appropriate. Necrotizing fasciitis affects about 0.4 in every 100,000 people per year in the United States.  About 1,000 cases of necrotizing fasciitis cases occur per year in the United States, but the rates have been increasing. This could be due to increasing awareness of this condition, leading to increased reporting, or  bacterial virulence or increasing bacterial resistance against antibiotics.  In some areas of the world, it is as common as one in every 100,000 people.  Higher rates of necrotizing fasciitis are seen in those with obesity or diabetes, those who are immunocompromised or alcoholic, or have peripheral vascular disease. However, the disease may also occur in young, healthy adults with no underlying illnesses. NSAIDs may have increase the rates of necrotizing infections due to the modification of immune response in the body, because NSAIDs inhibit the cycloxygenase -1 and cycloxygenase-2 enzymes which are important in producing thromboxane and prostaglandin E2. Prostaglandin has been responsible for fever, inflammation, and pain. The inhibition of prostangladin E2 production reduces inflammatory response and leukocyte adhesion, and thus reduces immune response against bacterial invasion, giving rise to soft-tissue infection.  In the fifth century BC, Hippocrates described necrotizing soft tissue infection as a disease which was the complication of streptococcal infection where those affected would have "erysipelas all over the body while the cause was only a trivial accident. Bones, flesh, and sinew (cord, tendon, or nerve) would fall off from the body and there were many deaths". The first English description for necrotizing soft-tissue infection was by British surgeon Leonard Gillespie and British physicians Gilbert Blaine and Thomas Trotter in the 18th century. At that time, necrotizing soft-tissue infection was known as phagedaenic (gnaw - biting or chewing which gradually make a hole or destroying it) ulcer, phagedena gangrenous, gangrenous ulcer, malignant ulcer, putrid ulcer, or hospital gangrene. Later,  "hospital gangrene" became more commonly used. In 1871, Confederate States Army surgeon Joseph Jones reported 2,642 cases of hospital gangrene with a mortality rate of 46%. In 1883, Dr Jean-Alfred Fournier described the necrotizing infection of the perineum and scrotum which termed as Fournier gangrene today. The term "necrotizing fasciitis" was first coined by Wilson in 1952. Its definition has become broader, to include not only infection of fascia, but also other soft-tissue infection.  