Neurogenic inflammation is inflammation arising from the local release by afferent neurons of inflammatory mediators such as Substance P, Calcitonin Gene-Related Peptide (CGRP), neurokinin A (NKA), and endothelin-3 (ET-3).     TRPA1 channels stimulated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) may also cause acute neurogenic inflammation.  Once released, these neuropeptides induce the release of histamine from adjacent mast cells. In turn, histamine evokes the release of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide; thus, a bidirectional link between histamine and neuropeptides in neurogenic inflammation is established.  Neurogenic inflammation appears to play an important role in the pathogenesis of numerous diseases including migraine,     psoriasis,    asthma,   vasomotor rhinitis,   fibromyalgia, eczema, rosacea, dystonia, and multiple chemical sensitivity.     In migraine, stimulation of the trigeminal nerve causes neurogenic inflammation via release of neuropeptides including Substance P, nitric oxide, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, 5-HT, Neurokinin A and CGRP.   leading to a "sterile neurogenic inflammation."  Magnesium deficiency causes neurogenic inflammation in a rat model.  Researchers have theorized that since substance P which appears at day five of induced magnesium deficiency, is known to stimulate in turn the production of other inflammatory cytokines including IL-1, Interleukin 6 (IL-6), and TNF-alpha (TNFα), which begin a sharp rise at day 12, substance P is a key in the path from magnesium deficiency to the subsequent cascade of neuro-inflammation.   In a later study, researchers provided rats dietary levels of magnesium that were reduced but still within the range of dietary intake found in the human population, and observed an increase in substance P, TNF alpha (TNFα) and Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), followed by exacerbated bone loss.  These and other data suggest that deficient dietary magnesium intake, even at levels not uncommon in humans, may trigger neurogenic inflammation and lead to an increased risk of osteoporosis.  As of September 2018, two CGRP blockers have been approved by the FDA for the treatment of migraine.   Additional CGRP blockers are progressing through clinical trials.    Anticipating later botox therapy for migraine, early work by Jancsó et al. found some success in treatment using denervation or pretreatment with capsaicin to prevent uncomfortable symptoms of neurogenic inflammation.  A recent (2010) study of the treatment of migraine with CGRP blockers shows promise.   In early trials, the first oral nonpeptide CGRP antagonist, MK-0974 (Telcagepant), was shown effective in the treatment of migraine attacks,  but elevated liver enzymes in two participants were found.  Other therapies and other links in the neurogenic inflammatory pathway for interruption of disease are under study, including migraine therapies.  Noting that botulinum toxin has been shown to have an effect on inhibiting neurogenic inflammation, and evidence suggesting the role of neurogenic inflammation in the pathogenesis of psoriasis,  the University of Minnesota has a pilot clinical trial underway to follow up on the observation that patients treated with botulinum toxin for dystonia had dramatic improvement in psoriasis.  Astelin (Azelastine) "is indicated for symptomatic treatment of vasomotor rhinitis including rhinorrhea, nasal congestion, and post nasal drip in adults and children 12 years of age and older."   Statins appear to "decrease expression of the proinflammatory neuropeptides calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P in sensory neurons,"  and so might be of use in treating diseases presenting with predominant neurogenic inflammation. In a 2012 article  in Nature Neuroscience Chiu et al. discuss the development of science related to neurogenic inflammation and provide a graphic  illustrating key discoveries leading toward the current understanding of neurogenic inflammation, its mechanisms, and the conditions caused by its disorder. 