 Rick Sheehy (born October 3, 1959) is the former 38th Lieutenant Governor of Nebraska, serving from his appointment in 2005 until his resignation in 2013. He is a member of the Republican Party and was the longest serving lieutenant governor in Nebraska history, with slightly over eight years of service. Sheehy was born in Hastings, Nebraska and graduated from St. Cecilia High School.  He attended the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and later received certification as a paramedic from Central Community College in Hastings. Sheehy worked for Rural Metro Ambulance for more than 20 years, starting as an emergency medical technician and becoming Rural/Metro's paramedic field supervisor. In 1987, he became the market general manager, a position he held until his appointment as lieutenant governor. In 1994, Sheehy was elected to the Hastings City Council.  He served on the council for six years, for four of which, as president.  He then served as mayor of Hastings for four years. In 2005, governor Mike Johanns resigned to serve as U.S. Secretary of Agriculture under President George W. Bush. His place was filled by lieutenant governor Dave Heineman, who appointed Sheehy to fill the vacancy as lieutenant governor.  In 2006, Heineman and Sheehy were elected to their first full term in office and were re-elected in 2010.  Sheehy is past Chairman of the National Lieutenant Governors Association; he completed his term in July, 2012. He continued his work with the Association by serving on the executive committee. He also served on the Homeland Security Advisors Council for the National Governors Association.  As lieutenant governor, Sheehy was Director of Nebraska's Homeland Security Department. He is a past board member of the Nebraska Rural Health Association, as well as a FEMA Disaster Response Team member. He was awarded the "Distinguished Service to the States" award by the Council of State Governments for his efforts as an advocate for Nebraska, and his work on computerized health records and emergency preparedness. The Omaha World-Herald reported that Sheehy, who was then married, had been using his state-issued cell phone for years to make 2,000 late-night telephone calls to four different women.    On February 2, 2013, governor Dave Heineman held a press conference at the state capitol building to announce that he had accepted Sheehy's resignation as lieutenant governor. No information was given as to the reason for Sheehy's resignation, and Heineman did not say whether he resigned voluntarily or was asked to resign. At the press conference Heineman said that "I trusted him and that trust was broken."  He was replaced by Lavon Heidemann. Sheehy married Connie Sheehy in 1983. The couple had two children before divorcing in 2012.  