Fauji Foundation College for boys and girls (located in Rawalpindi), Pakistan,  are institutions affiliated with the Federal Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education.  The colleges offer education at the Intermediate Level with English as the medium of instruction. Admission in these institutions is merit-based. For admission in Class XI, the lowest threshold stands at 80% in Pre-Engineering/Pre-Medical and 65 - 70% score in General Science/Humanities groups. The Foundation University Islamabad (FUI) is a project of Fauji Foundation.  The university was granted its Charter in the private sector by the Federal Government in October 2002. On its establishment, three institutions, already functioning under Fauji Foundation at Rawalpindi, became its constituent units, viz. Foundation University Institute of Engineering and Management Sciences (FUIEMS), Foundation University Medical College (FUMC) and Foundation University College of Liberal Arts and Sciences (FUCLAS). The Higher Education Commission (HEC) has placed FUI in Category “W “. The university is at its consolidation stage where emphasis is being laid on quality of intake, quality of instruction and upgrade of infrastructure/facilities. The university programs have been accredited by HEC, PEC and PM and DC.	 Colleges. Fauji Foundation College for Boys has the distinction of being a pioneer institution of the Fauji Foundation Educational System. Established in 1982 as a Model High School, the College over the years has shown very good results in both Secondary and Higher Secondary level Examinations.  The College was inaugurated by General Mirza Aslam Beg. Most of its Faculty Members are believed to the best teachers in the city of Rawalpindi. The College has been zealously maintaining the distinction of achieving a high GPA in the Federal Board. Two students of the College secured 2nd and 3rd Positions in the Federal Board Higher Secondary Examinations in the year 2006.The College offers a variety of extra-curricular and co-curricular activities. Its students secured First position in Federal Board Na`at, Second position in English Debate Competition, First position in Squash and Second position in Table Tennis Competitions. The college is divided into Four major Houses – namely they are, Jinnah, Iqbal, Sir Syed and Liaqat houses.  The college was established in 1989 in Rawalpindi.   In 2003, it was declared as the best affiliated institution for obtaining the top GPA for five consecutive years in the Federal Board. In the year 2006, the college secured First Position in the Intermediate Examination in Pre-Medical Group, Second and Third Positions in Pre-Engineering Group. During the same year, Second Position in Humanities Group was achieved at the Matric level.   In 2006, the college won the Bi-lingual Debate Trophy in the colleges as well as the Federal Board Debate Competitions. Two girls from the college were amongst the four students selected through the National Science Talent Competition to represent Pakistan in the International Science Talent Contest in Biology in Argentina in 2006. In 2003, the Principal of the College was amongst the 125 prominent personalities nominated as ‘Leaders of New Millennium’, by South Asia Publications, a Non-Government Organization. She also had the distinction of being one of the seven from amongst these distinguished personalities to be awarded a Gold Medal in recognition of her services in the field of education. This college got 1st, 2nd and 3rd positions in SSC-II FBISE examination in 2016. This creadit goes to the college Principal Mrs Nuzhat Shohail, teachers and as well as the administration. The institution was established in December 1998. Following the grant of charter to the Foundation University, FURC became one of its constituent campuses in October 2002. FURC has two faculties: Faculty of Engineering and IT, and Faculty of Management Sciences. This institute's Software Engineering Program is accredited by the Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC).  The Telecommunication Engineering Program, batches 2003 and 2004, has also been accredited by PEC. A proposal for consolidation of the existing BS-Telecom Engineering program by changing its name to BS-Electrical Engineering and offering of the following specializations is under consideration: The Foundation University Medical College (FUMC) was established in 2000. The Medical College is recognized by the Pakistan Medical and Dental Council (PM&DC). The college has 21 departments, of which seven pertain to Basic Sciences and 14 to Clinical Sciences, with an authorized strength of 500 students. FUMC has a permanent faculty of 143 and visiting/honorarium faculty 26. The intake of the College is 100 students per year. Presently the college has 497 students on its strength. Three batches of MBBS totaling 272 students have graduated till 2008. The Academic Wing has two divisions - Basic Medical Sciences Division and Clinical Sciences Division. The college has boys and girls hostels. FUMC is listed in the International Medical Education Directory (IMED) and is a member of International Association of Medical Regulatory Authorities (IAMRA). The college is included in the World Directory of Medical Schools (WDMS) by WHO, making its students eligible to appear in the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) and United Kingdom Professional and Linguistic Assessments Board (PLAB). FUMC has introduced internationally accepted problem based learning methodology Integrated Curriculum from the academic year 2009 in place of discipline based curriculum on the instructions of PM and DC. World bodies endorsing this integrated curriculum include, General Professional Education for Physicians, Canadian Medical Council, World Federation for Medical Education and General Medical Council, UK. FUMC is the fourth institution after Aga Khan University, Shifa College of Medicine and Army Medical College and before Azad Jammu Kashmir Medical College to introduce this teaching methodology in Pakistan. The Foundation University College of Liberal Arts and Sciences (FUCLAS) was established as Teachers Training Institute (TTI) in 1990. In April 2000 it was elevated to a college of education to run Bachelor of Education (B.Ed) programs. It became part of Foundation University in 2002. It was later renamed as Foundation Universality College of Liberal Arts and Sciences (FUCLAS), offering post graduate courses. FUCLAS provides refresher/training courses to the existing teachers of the colleges/schools under the Fauji Foundation. FUCLAS has a permanent faculty of 18. The visiting faculty varies from 30 to 35 per semester. Coordinates: 33°33′36″N 73°04′16″E﻿ / ﻿33.5600°N 73.0711°E﻿ / 33.5600; 73.0711 