The Translators Association (TA) is an association representing literary translators in the United Kingdom. The Translators Association is affiliated with the International Federation of Translators (FIT). The Translators Association (TA) was established in 1958 as a specialist group within the Society of Authors, a trade union for professional writers, with a membership of more than 7,000. The TA was set up  to provide translators with an effective means of protecting their interests and sharing their concerns. The TA is a source of professional advice, a representative for individuals, and an advocate for the profession as a whole. The TA administers prizes for published translations of full-length work of literary merit and general interest from the following languages into English: Arabic, Italian, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese, modern Greek, Dutch or Flemish, and Swedish.  Japanese was formerly also included. The TA is run by a committee of 11 elected members.  The current (2015) committee members are: Charlotte Collins and Ruth Martin (co-chairs), Nicky Harman (vice-chair), Kareem Abdulrahman,  Simon Bruni, Sasha Dugdale, Paul Garrett, Daniel Hahn, Louise Rogers Lalaurie, Deborah Smith - and Roland Glasser, Duncan Large and Shaun Whiteside (three ex-officios).  Previous committee members include Anthea Bell, Peter Bush, Robert Chandler, Howard Curtis, Rosalind Harvey, Anna Holmwood, Antonia Lloyd-Jones, Samantha Schnee, Ros Schwartz, Jamie Lee Searle, Trista Selous, Ruth Urborn, Helen Wang. A special series, curated by Charlotte Collins to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the TA.  The Saif Ghobash Banipal Prize (for translation from Arabic) The Vondel Prize (for translation from Dutch) The Scott Moncrieff Prize (for translation from French) The Schlegel-Tieck Prize (for translation from German) The Goethe-Institut Award for New Translation (for translation from German) The John Florio Prize (for translation from Italian) The Hellenic Foundation for Culture Translation Prize (for translation from Greek) The Calouste Gulbenkian Prize (for translation from Portuguese) The Premio Valle Inclán (for translation from Spanish) The Bernard Shaw Prize (for translation from Swedish)  