Conception: Ore no Kodomo o Undekure![a] is a role-playing video game developed by Spike. The game was released exclusively for the Playstation Portable in Japan on April 26, 2012.   A remaster of the game titled Conception Plus: Ore no Kodomo o Undekure![b] is in development for the Playstation 4. A second game in the series, Conception II: Children of the Seven Stars, was released for the PlayStation Vita and Nintendo 3DS across 2013 and 2014 in Japanese and English, and later released on Steam in 2016. The player's goal is to charm girls from National Star God Academy, raise their affection for Itsuki, then produce and take the "Star Children" to explore dungeons and battle "impurities".   However, it is not an "eroge",  as the "Star Children" are produced by pouring energy from Itsuki and one of the twelve "Star Maidens" into a particular device.  The child's class and statistics are determined by which character parents the child; for example, certain combinations could result in creating a warrior, or someone who specializes in magic.  To produce more plentiful and more powerful “Star Children”, you must increase your intimacy with the twelve maidens, the other aspects of the gameplay is typical to dating simulation games. Battles in the game are turn-based.  On his high school graduation day, Itsuki's cousin, Mahiru, tells him that she's pregnant.   Just then, a gate of light emerges and transports the two into the world of Granvania.   In this land, "Impurities" have been causing a disturbance to the Stars, ultimately plunging Granvania into chaos and disorder.  And Itsuki, now revealed to be one who is fated to meet with the "Star Maidens", is seen as Granvania's last hope and was thus given the task to produce "Star Children" and combat the "impurities".  And unless the task is complete, Itsuki may never be able to return home.  Famitsu rated this PSP game with a score of 35/40 . A sequel to the game, titled Conception II: Children of the Seven Stars (コンセプションⅡ 七星の導きとマズルの悪夢), was released on August 22, 2013  for the Nintendo 3DS and  PlayStation Vita, and August 15, 2016 on Steam.   On September 17, 2018, Famitsu teased an article that would reveal a new Conception project. The next day on September 18, 2018, a remaster of the first Conception video game titled "Conception Plus: Ore no Kodomo o Undekure!" was announced to be shown at Tokyo Game Show 2018 . It is being developed by Spike Chunsoft. No further details are known at this time.  On May 4, 2018, an anime television series produced by Gonzo was announced, and is set to premiere in October 10, 2018 on STV, BS11, and Tokyo MX. [c] The series will be directed by Keitaro Motonaga, with Yūko Kakihara writing the screenplay, Masato Kōda composing the music, and Yōsuke Okuda adapting Shinichiro Otsuka's character designs for animation.  The opening theme is "Star light, Star bright," by Nano, and the ending theme is "Desires" by Manami Numakura.  