Disney Fairies is a Disney franchise created in 2005. The franchise is built around the character of Tinker Bell from Walt Disney's 1953 animated film Peter Pan, subsequently adopted as a mascot for the company. In addition to the fictional fairy character created by J. M. Barrie, the franchise introduces many new characters, and expands substantially upon the limited information the author gave about the fairies and their home of Neverland. The characters are referred to within stories as "Neverland fairies". The franchise includes children's books and other merchandise, a web site, and the computer-animated Tinker Bell film series, featuring the character and several of the Disney fairies as supporting and recurring characters. In Barrie's 1902 novel The Little White Bird, in which he introduced the mythos of Peter Pan and the fairies, he wrote, "When the first baby laughed for the first time, his laugh broke into a million pieces, and they all went skipping about. That was the beginning of fairies."  The Disney Fairies are based on a similar idea: every time a newborn baby laughs for the first time, that laugh travels out into the world, and those that make their way to Neverland turn into a Never fairy. The fairies generally reside in the Home Tree, a towering, massive tree located in the very heart of Pixie Hollow in Neverland. Various groups of fairies work and live nearby as well. Most of the fairy characters are young and female, but older, taller, and male fairy characters are also included. The males are sometimes referred to as "sparrow men", though the term "fairies" is used to refer to both female and male fairy characters. There are several key characters that are not Never Fairies. Some of Tink's book-only best friends who also may appear in a crossover special with the Fairies in the movies and with other shows: Fawn, Iridessa, Queen Clarion, Rosetta, Silvermist, Sweetpea, Terence, and Vidia were from the books, as well. They are the only fairies from the books to appear in the movies. Sweetpea only appears in The Pirate Fairy (the sixth movie). There is a set of supernumerary fairies, appearing a few times in the Chapter books Others include: There is a set of key Never Mermaids: Disney Publishing Worldwide transferred the Disney Fairies franchise main publishing license to Little, Brown Books for Young Readers in January 2014 except for the Never Girls series starting in February. This roll out will included nine titles, including leveled readers, storybooks, a Passport to Reading title, a sticker book, and a board book. Brown planned on introduction a new character, Croc, in the board book to allow the line appeal to younger readers, including some boys. Additional, Brown's plan includes greater connection to the Peter Pan story, pirates and Never Land. Five of the books tie into the April 1st video release The Pirate Fairy.  At the opening of the 2005 Bologna International Children's Book Fair, the Walt Disney Company revealed its plan to introduce a children’s illustrated novel for girls 6–10 years of age.  Disney Fairies debuted September 2005, when Disney Publishing Worldwide unveiled the novel Fairy Dust and the Quest for the Egg, written by Newbery Honor-winning author Gail Carson Levine with a US$1 million marketing and publicity campaign and a virtual world.  It was released in 45 countries and 32 languages and became a New York Times bestseller and has already sold over 1 million copies worldwide. The story begins in Fairy Haven/Pixie Hollow, located in the heart of Neverland. Prilla, who is a brand-new fairy, born of a baby's laugh, arrives in Neverland and discovers that she has no talent for any of the fairy avocations. Tinker Bell takes Prilla to see Mother Dove, but before the wise bird can advise Prilla, Neverland is shaken by a terrible hurricane. Mother Dove is thrown off her nest, and her precious egg, which holds all the secrets of Neverland, is shattered. Immediately, all those who live in Neverland begin to age. The island's only hope is for some brave fairies to take the egg pieces to Kyto the dragon and ask him to restore it with his fiery breath. The book was followed in 2007 by a sequel, entitled Fairy Haven and the Quest for the Wand. Another sequel, Fairies and the Quest for Neverland, was released in 2010. In the Year of a Million Dreams celebration, book stores released a form submitting a fairy character. The winner is said to be put in his/her own fairy's book. Random House has published a series of chapter books starting soon after the release of the first novel  under the banner "Tales of Pixie Hollow". In June 2006, Egmont Magazines launched a new monthly magazine for girls for 5–9 years old, produced by The Walt Disney Company Italia, S.p.A. and published in Italy a couple of months prior to the Egmont translations. The magazine, entitled Fairies, began with an initial print of 110,000 copies and a cover price of £1.99. The magazine's content is centered on Tinker Bell, and her fairy friends from the Pixie Hollow. Each issue features a collectable pull-out story, games, puzzles, posters and colouring pages.  Fairies Magazine has been launched in Italy, Malaysia, Singapore, Poland, Russia, Spain, the Nordic countries, Portugal, Germany, and Benelux.  In January 2013, PDW launched Never Girls chapter book series extension of the Disney Fairies franchise under publishing partner Random House's Stepping Stone imprint.   The Never Girls chapter series reached the New York Times Bestsellers List - Children's Series on the week of August 10.  Random House retained publication of this line despite the move of the franchise's general move to Little, Brown in February 2014.  In addition to the Published work, The Walt Disney Company provides support for the Disney Fairies across all business units. The campaign includes The Disney Fairies Website, where visitors can explore and discover information about the Disney Fairies. The website allows users to learn about the fairies, create a fairy, visit the Pixie Hollow, and explore related merchandise. Disney Consumer Products have also produced a line of dolls and role play assortments. The first Disney Fairies Products were a series of 10-inch dolls, which were a Disney store exclusive in January 2006.   Since then, Playmates Toys Inc teamed up with Disney in October 2005 to design and produce a line of toys for the Disney Fairies, which will include 3.5" small dolls, 8" fashion dolls, playsets & activity sets with DVDs and collectible story cards. Fairy Dust and the Quest for the Egg was the inspiration for the line of toys.  Disney Consumer Products launched a wide variety of Disney Fairies branded items, consisting of everything from apparel to stationery.  A series of ten postage stamps were issued by Japan Post in 2006. Each stamp has a face value of 80 JPY, and they were distributed in a hardcover case, including some information about the Fairies. The stamps could be ordered at some post offices in Japan, and were for domestic addresses. A long-running series of 3D computer-animated films featuring Tinker Bell has been releasing since 2008. Produced by DisneyToon Studios, and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Home Entertainment, the series consists of six direct-to-video films and one TV special. In October 2008, two Pixie Hollow locations opened at Disney Parks. One opened at Disneyland near the Matterhorn in the area where Ariel's Grotto was formerly located, and the other at Walt Disney World's Magic Kingdom in Mickey's Toontown Fair.  Another version opened at Hong Kong Disneyland on January 21, 2011 as one of the festivities to celebrate the park's 5th anniversary. At these Pixie Hollow locations, guests have the opportunity to meet and greet Tinker Bell and other fairies, Silvermist, Rosetta, Iridessa, Fawn, Terence, Vidia, and arriving in October 2012, Periwinkle, from the franchise, as well as dine with them. The Magic Kingdom location closed in February 2011 as part of the ongoing Fantasyland expansion. A larger Pixie Hollow area was included in the original plans for the expansion, but they have since been abandoned. On July 28, 2011, Tinkerbell and her fairy friends returned to the Magic Kingdom in "Tinkerbell's Magical Nook", located at the Adventureland Veranda. But in 2014, it was closed, and Tinker Bell has moved to Town Square Theater where she can greet guests alone. Pixie Hollow was an MMOG created by The Walt Disney Company and released September 8, 2008.  The game was free to play online, however a subscription was needed to have access to things for members only. The website was based partly on the Disney fairy books written by Gail Carson Levine. Free-members could create a female Fairy or male Sparrow Man avatar who each came with a small selection of furnishings to decorate a virtual room. Players were able to interact with others and have access to both 'speed' chat with pre-selected phrases and full chat where they are able to type their own messages. They could also play various "Talent Games," or fairy themed mini-games, found in the various meadows and forests of Pixie Hollow. The game used organic materials as a virtual currency for players to shop. Players could also play games and visit places to earn badges that they could see in their "leaf journal," which also served as a handbook and inventory. Players could purchase a monthly, semi-annual or annual membership. The membership included: Clothing, furniture, access to the ballroom, and a hair salon with spa. You could also purchase Pixie Diamonds. Members were granted an allowance of Pixie Diamonds, (once a month.) People who were not members were able to buy clothing, but they had to use Pixie Diamonds. Members  In January 2012, "Pixie Diamonds" were introduced, an in-game currency that could be purchased with real-world money and used to buy or upgrade items without an active membership. Though the website was geared towards young girls, on April 22, 2010, the game introduced a male character named Slate; he was referred to as a "Sparrow Man" rather than a male fairy.  On August 20, 2013, it was announced that Pixie Hollow would be closing on September 19, 2013. All the fairies were given unlimited access to the world until the closing date.  Jake and the Never Land Pirates has featured Tink in "Jake's Never Land Rescue", "Battle for the Book" and "Jake's Awesome Surprise". To date, two of the characters from the Disney Fairies franchise have appeared in ABC's fantasy drama series Once Upon a Time. Tinker Bell appears as a recurring character played by Rose McIver and debuts in the third episode of Season Three. Silvermist appeared in the spin-off Once Upon a Time in Wonderland in the second episode of Season One where she is played by Jordana Largy. 