Girlish Number (ガーリッシュナンバー, Gārisshu Nanbā, stylized as gi(a)rlish number)[a] is a Japanese multimedia project. It launched in the March 2016 issue of ASCII Media Works' Dengeki G's Magazine as a serial novel written by Wataru Watari, with illustrations by QP:flapper and Yamcha. A manga series drawn by Yūki Dōmoto is serialized in Dengeki G's Comic. A 12-episode anime television series by Diomedéa aired from October to December 2016. The story revolves around Chitose Karasuma, a voice actress who has been working in the anime industry for a year. Although she believes she is talented, she thinks the anime industry is rotten as she has only been voicing minor characters. One day, an opportunity arises for her to voice a main role in an upcoming anime adaptation of a light novel as an idol voice actress with four other girls. A serial novel written by Wataru Watari was serialized in ASCII Media Works' Dengeki G's Magazine from the March 2016.  to the July 2017 issues. The novel features illustrations by Yamcha, except for the colored pages which are illustrated by QP:flapper, who also provided the original character designs.  ASCII Media Works published three volumes from July 27, 2016  to June 26, 2017. A manga series, written by Watari and illustrated by Yūki Dōmoto, was serialized in ASCII Media Works' Dengeki G's Comic between the April 2016 and July 2017 issues.   ASCII Media Works release three tankōbon volumes from July 27, 2016  to June 26, 2017. A spin-off four-panel comic strip manga series, titled Girlish Number Shura (ガーリッシュ ナンバー 修羅) and illustrated by Shin Ikezawa and Yū Tsurusaki, was serialized online by Dengeki G's Magazine from August 15 to November 26, 2016; a single volume was released on November 26, 2016.  Another spin-off manga, titled Girlish Number Momoka Memorial (ガーリッシュ ナンバー momoka memorial) and illustrated by Mami Surada, was seiralized in Dengeki G's Comic from the September to December 2016 issues; a single volume was released on November 26, 2016.  A 12-episode anime television series, produced by Diomedéa and directed by Shōta Ihata, premiered on October 7, 2016. The opening theme is "Bloom" and the ending theme is "Ima wa Mijikashi Yumemiyo Otome" (今は短し夢見よ乙女); both songs are sung by Girlish Number, a group made up of Sayaka Senbongi, Kaede Hondo, Yui Ishikawa, Eri Suzuki and Saori Ōnishi. The opening theme of the first episode is "Ketsui no Dia" (決意のダイヤ) sung by Kohaluna, a fictional unit made up of Momoka Sonō (Suzuki) and Kazuha Shibasaki (Ōnishi). The series was released on six DVD and Blu-ray compilation volumes from December 21, 2016 to May 26, 2017.   The anime has been licensed by Sentai Filmworks,  and is streamed by Hulu,  Anime Network,  and Crunchyroll.  Madman Entertainment streamed the series on AnimeLab.  MVM Films will release the series in the United Kingdom.  An anime adaptation of the Girlish Number Shura manga has been announced.  