Jump (ジャンプ, Janpu), sometimes stylized JUMP, is a line of manga magazines created by Shueisha. It began with Shōnen Jump manga magazine in 1968, later renamed Weekly Shōnen Jump. The origin of the name is unknown. The Jump magazines are intended for the male audience, although the Weekly Shōnen Jump magazine has also been popular to the female demographic.  Along with the line of manga magazines, Jump also includes a crossover media franchise, where there have been various Jump themed crossover anime and video games (since Famicom Jump) which bring together various Shōnen Jump manga series. In 1949, Shueisha got into the business of making manga magazines, the first being Omoshiro Book.  In 1951, Shueisha created a female version of that anthology entitled Shōjo Book.  Shōjo Book led to the publication of the highly successful Shōjo manga magazine: Ribon.  Omoshiro Book went out of print and Shueisha decided to make another male version of their successful Shōjo Book to even it out and made the magazine Shōnen Book.  In the middle of Shōnen Book's publication, Shōnen Jump began its run (at the time was a Semiweekly magazine and had no "Weekly").  Shōnen Book ended when Shōnen Jump became a Weekly magazine correctly changing its name to Weekly Shōnen Jump.  In 1969 a special issue called Bessatsu Shōnen Jump took Shōnen Book's place.  In addition to the success of Weekly Shōnen Jump, Shueisha created a Seinen version of the magazine in 1979, called Young Jump (now Weekly Young Jump).  Bessatsu Shōnen Jump, later got renamed Monthly Shōnen Jump and became a magazine of its own.  The seasonal issues of Weekly Shōnen Jump are now called Akamaru Jump. In 1985, Shueisha started the publication of two business related manga magazines; a salaryman Jump magazine called Business Jump and an office lady manga magazine called Office You,  also in 1988 started the publication of Super Jump.  Many other Seinen related Jump magazines, started as spin-off issues of the Weekly Young Jump magazine.  In 1993, Shueisha announced and released the video game/manga magazine V Jump alongside the Jump light novel line Jump j-Books.  In 2003 Shogakukan's Viz Media released an English version of Weekly Shōnen Jump called Shonen Jump.  Monthly Shōnen Jump discontinued in 2007 and was replaced with the Jump SQ. magazine, four series from the magazine were moved.  In addition to the Jump SQ. anthology, a spin-off issue was created, called Jump SQ.II (Second).  Saikyō Jump was started on December 3, 2010, with close ties to Weekly Shōnen Jump and V Jump.  Ani Kichi Special Aomaru Jump Bessatsu Shōnen Jump e-Jump Go!Go! Jump Jump Heroes Jump Maruchi Wārudo Jump the Revolution! Monthly Shōnen Jump Saikyō Jump Shōnen Jump Gag Special Super Jump V Jump Weekly Shōnen Jump 35 Shūnen Kinen Jump Kuronikuru Weekly Shōnen Jump Sōkan 30 Shūnen Kinen Gengashū Yomu Jump Go!Go! Jump Weekly Young Jump Zōkan Mankaku Young Jump Chō Zōkan: Ultra Jump Jump Comics (ジャンプコミックス, Janpu Comikkusu) is used as an imprint label for publishing manga, most often for collected tankōbon volumes of manga series originally serialized in Weekly Shōnen Jump and other Jump magazines.  Jump Festa (ジャンプフェスタ, Janpu Fesuta) is Jump convention held every year. Jump Festa focuses on all the Shōnen related magazines: Weekly Shōnen Jump, V Jump, Jump SQ., Saikyō Jump, and formerly featured Monthly Shōnen Jump at the conventions.  Also the video game company, Square Enix promotes their games at Jump Festa, due to their close ties with the V Jump magazine. The Jump media franchise includes the following video games, published by Bandai and Bandai Namco Entertainment: 