Kamisama Minarai: Himitsu no Cocotama[a] is a Fantasy Slice of Life anime series produced by OLM, Inc., based on both the series of toys and Media Franchise created by Bandai Namco Holdings.  The series focuses on Kokoro Yotsuba, a Fifth Grader who accidentally witness a Small God born from her treasured Color Pencil set, and must be bound through a contract in order to keep his existence a secret. It is directed by Norio Nitta and written by Michihiro Tsuchiya (Mirmo De Pon!, PriPara, Cross Game) with character designs by Shinobu Ookawa. The series aired on all TXN stations in Japan on October 1, 2015 to June 28, 2018, replacing Tamagotchi! on its initial timeslot.   The series uses a few elements from Shinto Animism, regarding the Cocotamas.  A sequel anime, titled Kira Kira Happy ★ Hirake! Cocotama was announced on June 7, 2018, and began airing on September 6, 2018.   Kokoro Yotsuba is a fifth-grader who lives on the seaside town of Aozora, who is clumsy yet also takes good care of her things. Living alongside her brother, she once understood what her grandmother said to her, regarding that "everything has a soul" and that things should be cherished with. One day, a strange egg was born from her colored pencil she cherished the most, revealing to as Luckytama, a Cocotama. However, he is been found by Kokoro after returning from school and for him to exist, he asks Kokoro to sign a "Secret Contract" on which she cannot reveal the secret of the Cocotamas to the world and also must take care of him with great love and care. Now with Luckytama living with his new human friend, Kokoro must make sure she never reveal nor tell their secret while meeting other Cocotamas who either befriends her or cause her trouble. Long time ago, Haruka Hoshinogawa made a wish with the town's old Cherry Blossom tree with her grandfather while receiving a present from him: a Cherry Blossom Ribbon accessory. As she grew up, she treasured the gift that was given to her while starting fifth grade in her school. One day, upon noting that the old cherry blossom tree is wilting, her grandfather decided to leave the shop to explore the world and let Haruka take care of the store in his absence. The next day while sleeping after taking care of the shop. her treasured ribbon sprouted a strange egg, revealing a Cocotama, a god born from an object that has been cherished with love and care. Haruka woke up and accidentally saw the Cocotama on the table, confused while the Cocotama retreated to her Hiding Egg. As Haruka picked it up, it started resonating and Ribbon's hiding egg has changed into a mysterious key. Now left with questions, the cocotama introduced herself as Ribbon, the Ribbon Goddess and Haruka learned about the existence of her kind and the mysteries behind the strange key she had. Ribbon realized that the key is actually the Key of Wonders, and that Haruka was chosen by it to be the Legendary Contractor to the Cocotamas. Now, both of them try to run the shop and meet new Cocotama friends, while discovering the mysteries and powers behind the Key of Wonders. The series and toy line were both simultaneously unveiled at the 2015 Tokyo Toy Fair on June 18, 2015, and scheduled for an October release. The business partners for the series were also present at the unveiling, including Bandai President and CEO Kazunori Ueno, TXN's Anime Bureau member Yukio Kawasaki, OLM Representative Toshiaki Okuno, Lantis's Yoshie Terunari, Bandai's Hiroshi Kawata, and Narabe Ayumi of Kodansha.  The series and toy line is planned to be a multimedia franchise aimed at girls, revealing the series' concept of "cherishing things you care for" relating to the title and theme. Kodansha confirmed in a press release that the series would be included as a serialized kid's manga in Tanoshī Yōchien, and that the toys are released in September 2015.  The sequel series was first teased back on June 6, 2018 before the 2018 Tokyo Toy Fair. The series was fully revealed on the franchise's official Twitter page and livestream on June 7, 2018, which reveals the basic premise, characters and the new set of toys that will be released in Fall 2018. Part of the attendants of the livestream were the voice actors of the new characters: Minami Takahashi, Inori Minase and Mariya Ise.  They confirmed in stage that they would voice the new characters in the show, with Ise saying that she loved her role in the first series after 3 years, and that she will do her best in the sequel.   Later on in August 24, Manga artist Yuka Fujiwara  is confirmed to be the character concept designer for the series.  The Cocotama House Series (ここたまハウスシリーズ, Kokotama hausu shirīzu), on which the anime is based on was released on September 19, 2015, with its first set including a small Luckytama figure and a decorative dollhouse. The toy line focuses on decorating its own dollhouse and expanding it with other sets, which can be connected to the main dollhouse itself. The figures were also released the same month, in which each Cocotama figure can be placed inside its plastic egg shell and opened by "cracking" the egg to reveal the figure. The Cocotama House series was later succeeded by a new line, the Hirake! Cocotama House Series (ひらけ！ここたまハウスシリーズ, Hirake! Kokotama hausu shirīzu), released on September 2018. It retains the same concept as the previous dollhouse set but with a new feature of interactivity. Unlike the first series, the Cocotama Figures each has a special pin on the bottom, on which connected to a compatible set will activate special lights and sounds depending on each figure. Aside from the figures, certain parts of the new dollhouse set can also be activated and opened using a key which is included with the first figure of the series or the deluxe edition of the Cocotama Music Box Castle Dollhouse set. As well with other Bandai Namco-related franchises, the series is also a cross media franchise and has other merchandising goods related such as stationery, plush toys and novelty items. The anime based on the toyline, produced by OLM, aired on October 1, 2015 and ended on June 28, 2018, replacing Tamagotchi! Tama Tomo Daishū GO! on its initial timeslot. The opening song from episodes 1 to 76 is titled "Coro Coro Cocotama!" (ころころここたま!, Korokoro kokotama!, "Roly-Poly Cocotama!") and from episode 77 to 126 is titled "Cocotama Happy~Paradise!" (ここたまハッピ～パラダイス!, Kokotama Happi ~ Paradaisu!), both performed by Erika. From episode 127 onwards, the title song is titled "Coro Coro Cocotama! ~Naka Naka Nakayoshi Version~" (ころころここたま!～なかなかなかよしバージョン～, Korokoro kokotama!~Nakanaka nakayoshi bājon~, "Roly-Poly Cocotama! ~Naka Naka Friends Version~") by Kaede Hondo and Megumi Han. The first ending theme is titled "Kokon Poipoi Cocotama!" (ここんぽいぽいここったま!, Kokon Poipoi Kokottama!) by Aki Toyosaki featuring Megumi Han, Yumi Kakazu, Ryoka Yuzuki, Rikako Aikawa and Michiyo Murase, the second ending theme is titled "Kokoro Daisuki Cocotama!" (こころだいすきここったま!, Kokoro daisuki kokotama!, "Heartfully loving Cocotama!") by Kaede Hondo and Megumi Han, the third is titled "Utao ♪ Cocota-March!" (うたおう♪ここったまーち!, Utaou ♪ Kokottamachi!, "Let's Sing ♪ Cocota-March!") by Kaede Hondo featuring Megumi Han, Aki Toyosaki, Yumi Kakazu, Ryoka Yuzuki, Rikako Aikawa, Michiyo Murase, Ayumi Fujimura, Yuri Shiratori, Fumiko Orikasa and Ayaka Nanase while the fourth is titled "Ikou yo! Cocotama-kai!!" (いこうよ!ここたま界!!, Ikou yo! Kokotama-kai!!, "Let's go! Cocotama World!!") by Megumi Han, Aki Toyosaki and Saki Fujita. The series's music is composed by Ryosuke Nakanishi (Sakura Trick, High School DxD, Kuroko's Basketball). The first official soundtrack of the series was released on October 26, 2016 in Japan. The second ending theme was later covered by BNK48 member Praewa Suthamphong for the Thai release of the anime.  An 8-episode special program following the end of the first series, only titled Kamisama Minarai: Himitsu no Cocotama: Natsu Da! Ōhashagi Special[b], aired from July 5, 2018 to August 30, 2018. Kadokawa currently released the series in several DVD box sets in Japan under the Media Factory label. 5 Box sets were currently released. A sequel series, entitled Kira Kira Happy ★ Hirake! Cocotama[c] will begin airing on September 6, 2018.  Norio Nitta and Michihiro Tsuchiya returns as both director and writer for the series, with character design drafts from Yuka Fujiwara and character designs from Shinobu Ookawa and Shouji Yasukazu. The series's opening theme is titled "Himitsu no Kagi, Cocotama!" (ヒミツのカギ、ここたま！, Himitsu no kagi, kokotama!, "The Secret Key, Cocotama!") by Minami Takahashi, Inori Minase, Mariya Ise and Emiri Iwai while the ending song is titled "Cocotama Sagaso-tsu! Mi~tsukketta♪" (ここたまさがそっ！み～つっけた♪, Kokotama sagaso~tsu! Mi~tsukketa ♪, "Look for Cocotamas! I~found You♪") by Kaoru Masaki. The music for the sequel is composed by Ken Itō (Handa-Kun) and Kenichi Kuroda. TV Tokyo officially streams the series in Japan as part of the Ani.TV Lineup on October 8, 2015.  Bandai Channel also starts streaming the series in Japan as well in the video site Nico Nico Douga and in NTT DoCoMo's video streaming service Docomo Anime Store. Starting in April 2016, the timeslot of the series is changed to make way for Aikatsu Stars!'s premiere. Reruns of the series later aired in Disney Channel Japan starting May 1, 2016 through CS Broadcasts and later on in TV Tokyo's Animeteleto Streaming Service. Also, it aired in foreign countries such as South Korea via Disney Channel Korea beginning on August 1, 2016, Hong Kong via ViuTV on February 22, 2017, Thailand via Channel 3 on November 4, 2017, Taiwan via MOMO Kids on November 12, 2017  and MENA via Spacetoon on November 12, 2017.  A theatrical film adaptation of series, titled Eiga Kamisama Minarai: Himitsu no Cocotama: Kiseki o Okose ♪ Tepple to Dokidoki Cocotama Kai (Japanese: 映画かみさまみならい ヒミツのここたま 奇跡をおこせ♪テップルとドキドキここたま界, Hepburn: Eiga Kamisama minarai Himitsu no Kokotama Kiseki o okose ♪ Teppuru to dokidoki kokotama-kai, "Cocotama: Secret Apprentice Gods the Movie: Make a Miracle♪ Tepple and the Exciting Cocotama World") was released in April 28, 2017  during Japan's Golden Week.     It was released alongside a Tamagotchi! short film.  The film's opening theme is titled "Coro Coro Cocotama! 2017" (ころころここたま! 2017, Korokoro kokotama! 2017, "Rolling Cocotama! 2017") by Erika with Megumi Han,  Aki Toyosaki, Yumi Kakazu, Ryoka Yuzuki, Rikako Aikawa and Michiyo Murase while the ending theme is titled "Taisetsunamono" (たいせつなもの, Taisetsunamono, "Things we Cherish the Most") by Kaede Hondo. The movie's official soundtrack was released by Lantis on April 28, 2017. The toy franchise topped sales numbers in Japan, with more than 1 million in total sales in December 2015.  It again topped its previous record, with the total toys sold being 1.4 million.  In May 2018, the Cocotama Dolls was sold and shipped more than 5 Million pieces while the Cocotama House shipped more than 1 million pieces.  The first movie debuted in 10th place at the Japanese Box Office during Golden Week across 151 theaters in Japan.  On its South Korean theatrical release, it was watched by more than 136,000 people in 3 weeks.  