KonoSuba: God’s Blessing on this Wonderful World! (Japanese: この素晴らしい世界に祝福を！, Hepburn: Kono Subarashii Sekai ni Shukufuku o!, literally "A blessing to this wonderful world!") is a Japanese light novel series written by Natsume Akatsuki. The series follows a boy who is sent to a fantasy world following his death, forming a dysfunctional party with a goddess, a wizard, and a crusader to fight against monsters. Beginning as a web novel series published on Shousetsuka ni Narou between December 2012 and October 2013, the series was revised into a printed light novel series with illustrations by Kurone Mishima, which began publication under Kadokawa Shoten's Kadokawa Sneaker Bunko Imprint from October 2013. A manga adaptation, illustrated by Masahito Watari and Joseph Yokobori, began serialization in Fujimi Shobo's Monthly Dragon Age magazine from October 2014. A radio drama CD was released by HobiRecords in March 2015, and an anime television adaptation by Studio Deen aired in Japan between January and March 2016. A second season of the anime aired between January and March 2017.    A spin-off light novel series, Kono Subarashii Sekai ni Bakuen o!, began publication from July 2014. Both the light novels and the manga are licensed in North America by Yen Press. An anime film adaptation has been announced. Following an untimely and embarrassing death, Kazuma Satō, a Japanese teenager shut-in NEET, meets a goddess named Aqua, who offers to reincarnate him in a parallel world with MMORPG elements, where he can go on adventures and battle monsters. Despite being offered a superpowered item or ability to use in this new world, Kazuma, following some provocation, chooses Aqua herself to accompany him to the town of Axel, quickly finding her absent-mindedness to be less than beneficial.LN 1.P With Aqua unable to return to the afterlife until the Devil King is defeated, the two form a party and recruit two other members; an explosion-obsessed magician named Megumin and a masochistic crusader named Darkness.LN 1.2.4 Due to the party's dysfunctional abilities, Kazuma quickly gives up on the idea of defeating the Devil King and tries to live a luxurious lifestyle, only to find the circumstances of his daily life are forcing him and his party to encounter and battle the Devil King's generals.LN 2.3 The original web novel series written by Natsume Akatsuki was published on Syosetu between December 2012 and October 2013.  The author also wrote a side story featuring Wiz and Vanir.  Akatsuki, who enjoyed playing fantasy video games like Wizardry and Final Fantasy, also derived much of KonoSuba's fantasy elements from tabletop role-playing games.  A light novel version with illustrations by Kurone Mishima began release under Kadokawa Shoten's Kadokawa Sneaker Bunko imprint from October 1, 2013,  with thirteen volumes released as of December 1, 2017.  The light novel diverges significantly from the web novel's plot from the sixth volume onwards,  and also features changes to the characters' ages. A Megumin-focused spin-off light novel series, also written and illustrated by Akatsuki and Mishima respectively, titled Kono Subarashii Sekai ni Bakuen wo! (この素晴らしい世界に爆焔を！, lit. "Give Explosions to This Wonderful World!") and takes place a year prior to the main series, began release from July 1, 2014, with three volumes released as of June 1, 2015.  A sequel novel was released December 28, 2016,  named Zoku: Kono Subarashii Sekai ni Bakuen wo! (続・この素晴らしい世界に爆焔を！, lit. "Sequel: Give Explosions to This Wonderful World!"). Another spin-off featuring Vanir was published on April 1, 2016, called Kono Kamen no Akuma ni Sōdan wo! (この仮面の悪魔に相談を！, lit. "Consulting with the Masked Devil!").  Written by Hirukuma and illustrated by Uihime Hagure, a third spin-off is published since August 1, 2017, it is titled Kono Subarashii Sekai ni Shukufuku wo! Extra Ano Orokamono ni mo Kyakkou wo! (この素晴らしい世界に祝福を！エクストラ あの愚か者にも脚光を！, lit. "Bless Me in This Wonderful World! Extra: Attention Also to That Fool!").  The second volume was released on December 1, 2017.  Yen Press announced on May 20, 2016 that it had licensed the light novels for release in North America.  The first volume was released in conjunction with the second manga volume on February 21, 2017.  A manga adaption of KonoSuba illustrated by Masahito Watari began serialization in the October 2014 issue of Fujimi Shobo's Monthly Dragon Age magazine on September 9, 2014.  Five tankōbon volumes have been released as of March 2017. A spin-off manga, A Spotlight For (Even) This fool! Gifting this Wonderful World with Blessings! Extra, was released as a bundle with the twelfth light novel volume. Written and illustrated by Kuma Hiru and Hagure Yuki, respectively, it follows the story of Dust, who finds himself in trouble with Vanir over selling stolen products.  Yen Press announced its acquisition of the manga adaptation at the same time that it licensed the original light novels.  An anime television adaptation by Studio Deen  aired on Tokyo MX between January 14, 2016, and March 16, 2016;  later broadcasting on eight other networks and several video on demand streaming networks.  The series was simulcast by Crunchyroll in several regions such as North America,  and by AnimeLab in Australia.  The series was directed by Takaomi Kanasaki and written by Makoto Uezu with character designs by Koichi Kikuta.  An original video animation (OVA) was bundled with the ninth light novel of KonoSuba in June 2016.  The anime's opening theme is "Fantastic Dreamer" by Machico while the ending theme is "Chīsana Bōken-sha" (ちいさな冒険者, lit."Little Adventurer") performed by Sora Amamiya, Rie Takahashi, and Ai Kayano.  The series was animated by Koichi Kikuta and Momoka Komatsu, with the former working on odd-numbered episodes and the latter on even-numbered. While Komatsu's character designs closely resembled those of the light novels and had more attractive appearances, Kikuta based his designs on children's shows like Pokémon as he felt KonoSuba's story was similar to those found in such shows.  A second season premiered on January 12, 2017.    The second season's opening theme is "Tomorrow" by Machico, and the ending theme is "Ouchi ni Kaeritai" (お家に帰りたい, lit."Want to Go Home") by Amamiya, Takahashi, and Kayano.  A second OVA was bundled with the twelfth volume of KonoSuba in July 2017.  On July 25, 2017, Jun Fukushima and Takahashi, the voice actors of Kazuma and Megumin respectively, announced plans for a new KonoSuba anime project.   A PC video game developed by game creator Tachi, titled Kono Subarashii Sekai ni Shukufuku o! In The Life (この素晴らしい世界に祝福を！in the life), is bundled with the first Blu-ray Disc/DVD volume of the anime series on March 25, 2016.  The game is developed using the software RPG Maker VX.  Another video game, created by Team Ladybug and Krobon, titled KonoSuba: God's Blessing on this Wonderful World! Revival of Beldia (Kono Subarashii Sekai ni Shukufuku o! Fukatsu no Verdier (この素晴らしい世界に祝福を！復活のベルディア)) is bundled with the limited edition of first Blu-ray Disc/DVD volume of the anime series' second season and was released on April 28, 2017.  The game is a side-scroller with gameplay resembling the Mega Man series.  A visual novel adaptation for PlayStation Vita and PlayStation 4, KonoSuba: God's Blessing on this Wonderful World! Judgment on this Greedy Game! (Kono Subarashii Sekai ni Shukufuku o! -Kono Yokubukai Game ni Shinpan o!- (この素晴らしい世界に祝福を！ -この欲深いゲームに審判を！-)), was developed by 5pb. and was released in Japan on September 7, 2017.  The game features an original story, in which Kazuma discovers a cursed ring that allows him to steal the underwear of others near him. He learns the only way to undo the curse would be through raising enough money. Judgment on this Greedy Game! introduces an "Underwear Judgment" system, where the player assists Kazuma in returning lost underwear to their rightful owner.  Like the anime, Machico performed the opening ("Million Smile"), while Amamiya, Takahashi, and Kayano sang the game's ending theme ("101 Pikime no Hitsuji").  On June 25, 2018, a film adaptation was announced to be in development at J.C.Staff. The cast and staff are set to reprise their roles from the TV series.  A radio drama CD, featuring a different voice cast to the anime, was released by HobiRecords on March 1, 2015.  A second drama CD, along with an original soundtrack by Kouda Masato and a character song album, was released in March 2017.  The KonoSuba light novels have been quite popular. As of March 2, 2016, the 11-volume series has a total of 1.5 million copies in print, each volume selling 136,000 copies.  As of February 2017, the light novels had three million copies in print.  In a review of the first novel, Andy Hanley praised the series' comedy reflected in the "tired genre" as well as its cast finding them appealing based on their traits. However, Hanley criticized the short length of the first volume.  The series won BookWalker's 2016 Grand Prix Award.  – Richard Eisenbeis, in his review of the anime  Like its light novel counterpart, the anime has received positive reception for its comedy, parody of the "trapped in a fantasy world" subgenre, and faithful adaptation of the light novels.  Reviewing the first few episodes, Anime News Network (ANN)'s Theron Martin described the second episode as "the funniest episode of anime I have seen since Monthly Girls' Nozaki-kun aired", while also praising the series' musical score.  The voice acting has also been a subject of praise; Nick Creamer of ANN commended Sora Amamiya and Rie Takahashi's roles as Aqua and Megumin for the energy provided in their performances,  while Martin applauded Jun Fukushima for his work in voicing Kazuma, considering his dry tone an additional factor in the show's humor.  In contrast, a common criticism of the anime was its inconsistent character animation, one that was described as "low budget" as characters appeared off-model.  Koichi Kikuta responded by stating such design was intentional, hoping to "bring out the individuality of each character" rather than the prettier artwork in the light novels; to do this, Kikuta's animation displayed "their more human sides, like their unflattering traits and their distressed moments."  Crunchyroll's Kim Morrissy considered the animation to be humorous, especially fitting in a comedic anime.  Kotaku writer Richard Eisenbeis explained much of the series' humor derives from the deconstruction of Kazuma's hopes of becoming the hero of a fantasy world, instead realizing he is forced to struggle his way through the world.  Comparing Kazuma's problems in a fantasy world to those in real life, Creamer wrote about a sense of relatability between the series' protagonists and the audience, as the party deals with issues like debt and taking questionable jobs because of high pay. On a critical note, Creamer disapproved of Kazuma's negative attitude, which he felt harmed the comedy in the series.  KonoSuba's characters, especially those in Kazuma's party, have gained favorable thoughts in the anime community. Creamer described the group as possessing a "strange but endearing chemistry," as the members are unfriendly with one another, yet are close.  Morrissy added the party's "emotional bond is also evident in the ways they interact with each other. My favorite thing about the anime is that it takes the time to draw these nuances out onscreen and express them with visual flair."  Megumin in particular has been considered one of the series' most popular characters, winning Sneaker Bunko's official Favorite KonoSuba Character poll.  She was also the sixth-highest vote in Newtype's 2015–16 Awards for Best Female Character (Kazuma was third in the male category) and received the most "Other" votes in the Best Girl category in Crunchyroll's Anime Awards 2016.   In an interview with internet personality The Anime Man, Natsume Akatsuki described Megumin as giving off "a pure and elegant atmosphere" like one of an anime heroine or waifu, hence her popularity among fans.  In 2016, the anime was voted the tenth-best TV anime in the Newtype 2015–16 Awards.  KonoSuba also finished runner-up for Best Comedy in the Anime Awards 2016 to Haven't You Heard? I'm Sakamoto.  