Lake Placid is an American series of monster horror/comedy films created by David E. Kelley. It began with Lake Placid in 1999 and spawned five made for television sequels, Lake Placid 2 (2007), Lake Placid 3 (2010), Lake Placid: The Final Chapter (2012), Lake Placid vs. Anaconda (2015) (the latter being a crossover with the Anaconda series) and Lake Placid: Legacy (2018).  Each installment revolves around the presence of giant, 30-foot-long man-eating crocodiles in the fictional location of Black Lake, Maine, and the efforts of various groups to capture or destroy the creatures. All of the films reference members of the fictitious "Bickerman" family. A group attempts to destroy a giant, 30-foot-long man-eating crocodile, which terrorizes Black Lake, Maine. In the sequel to the feature film, man-eating crocodiles return to the lake as two males and one aggressive female crocodile, which is protecting her nest, wreak havoc on the locals. A game warden moves his family to Lake Placid, once the site of deadly crocodile attacks. Locals assure him the crocs are gone, but his mischievous young son finds a few baby crocs and begins feeding them. They quickly grow into very big adults and start attacking the game warden's family and nearby town. Reba the poacher is back, now an EPA agent. Black Lake is turned into a crocodile sanctuary surrounded by an electric fence. When the fence gets left open one night, a high-school field trip bus unknowingly enters the park. It's up to Reba and the sheriff to save the kids from becoming crocodile chow. In Black Lake, Maine, an accident allows the two giant species, crocodiles and anacondas to be regenerated and they escape towards Clear Lake. Now, Reba teams up with Tully to find his daughter Bethany and a group of sorority girls in a deadly match between the two creatures. A group of young explorers discover a secret area hidden from all maps and GPS devices. When they reach the center of the lake, they discover an abandoned facility that houses one of the largest, and deadliest apex-predators known to man. This is a direct sequel to the original film, which ignores the events to the previous films and the only film in the series to not feature or reference the Bickerman family. Croc Drop is an interactive game produced in 1999 to promote the film Lake Placid from the same year.  Lake Placid 2: Croc Alley is an interactive game produced in 2007 to promote the film Lake Placid 2 from the same year.    