Re:Creators (Japanese: レクリエイターズ, Hepburn: Re:Kurieitāzu, stylized as Re:CREATORS) is a Japanese anime television series produced by Troyca. The series is about a high school student who becomes involved in a battle between several characters from manga, anime, and video games who somehow appear in the real world. It aired from April 8 to September 16, 2017, and was exclusively streamed by Amazon on their Amazon Video service. A manga adaptation by Daiki Kase was announced on February 18, 2017. Sōta Mizushino is a young high school student and anime fan who dreams of writing his own light novel. While watching the anime adaptation of the mecha light novel Elemental Symphony of Vogelchevalier to look for inspiration, the tablet computer he is watching it on sputters and drags him into the anime's world, where he witnesses a battle between the anime's character Selesia and a mysterious girl wearing a military uniform. After returning with Selesia, Sōta discovers that other characters from different stories and forms of media were also brought to the real world, with some of them aligned with the military uniform girl, who promised them the ways to end the strife in their worlds and a way back home, unaware of her true intentions. To stop her, Sōta and Selesia agree to find the other characters and bring them home; lest the military uniform princess will bring untold destruction to every world that exists. Creations (被造物, Hizōbutsu) are fictional characters that are taken out from various forms of 2D entertainment such as anime, manga, light novels, and video games by the "Military Uniform Princess". Much like in their respective worlds, they are able to use their own powers, making them unbalanced with normal humans in the real world. Characters that can be taken out are those who receive approval and 'enough' popularity from their readers and viewers. Creators (創造主, Sōzōshu) are people who created the Creations. They can be the scenario writer, character designer, planner, or the author of their respective series. They are able to 'upgrade' their respective characters if they received enough positive responses from readers and viewers. A manga adaptation by Daiki Kase was announced on February 18, 2017 in the March 2017 issue of the Monthly Sunday Gene-X magazine published by Shogakukan.  Another manga adaptation by Yūki Kumagai that served as a spin-off to the main anime series that focused on a different set of characters titled Re:Creators One More! (Re:CREATORS わんもあ！) is serialized in the Monthly Shōnen Sunday magazine also published by Shogakukan.  The manga ended serialization on November 10, 2017.  The series' original concept is by Rei Hiroe and directed by Ei Aoki.  Hiroe provided the original character designs, Ryuichi Makino provided the adapted character designs and Hiroyuki Sawano composed the music for the anime. The series aired in Japan from April 8 to September 16, 2017 on Tokyo MX and other television networks,  and was simulcast exclusively on Amazon's Amazon Video service.  The first opening theme is "gravityWall" by SawanoHiroyuki[nZk]:Tielle & Gemie, and the ending theme song is "NewLook" by Mashiro Ayano.  The second opening theme is "sh0ut" by SawanoHiroyuki[nZk]:Tielle & Gemie, and the ending theme song is "Rubicon" (ルビコン, Rubikon) by Sangatsu no Phantasia.  Episode 13 features an ending song by Aki Toyosaki under her character name Altair titled "World Étude". The anime ran for 22 episodes with 3 special programs.  Specials: The series' soundtrack was composed by Hiroyuki Sawano. The soundtrack album was released by Aniplex on June 14, 2017 with a total of 34 tracks split across two discs.   All music composed by Hiroyuki Sawano.