Rilu Rilu Fairilu (Japanese: リルリルフェアリル, Hepburn: Riru Riru Feariru) is a character franchise created in collaboration by Sanrio and Sega Sammy Holdings, illustrated by character designer Ai Setani (KIRIMI-chan).   It is the second Sanrio franchise that was handled by two companies, the first being Jewelpet.  The franchise was officially launched in December 2015.   An anime adaptation produced by Studio DEEN, titled "Rilu Rilu Fairilu ~Yousei no Door~", aired on all TXN stations in Japan from February 6, 2016 to March 25, 2017.  A second season titled "Rilu Rilu Fairilu ~Maho no Kagami~" began airing from April 7, 2017 to March 30, 2018.  A 3rd season titled "Oshiete Mahou no Pendulum ~Rilu Rilu Fairilu~" began its airing on July 7, 2018.  In a strange magical world of Little Fairilu live the Fairilus: small magical fairies representing flowers, insects and other entities who all born from the Fairilu Seed. Each Fairilu is born with its own key, the Fairilu Key, that can open magical doors, casting magic spells. If the Fairilu finds the right door, it can finally mature into a full-fledged fairy. The doors also link to the human world. Fairilus must study and go to school to learn about the world in which they live, while meeting new friends. The anime series focuses on Lip, a newly-born Flower Fairilu, and her friends in Little Fairlu. The series follows Lip's overall life in Little Fairilu while making new friends and learning from everything around her, growing up day after day. It also tells about the Fairilu friends' adventures in the human world, where they can meet their human partners who support their dreams and are willing to help each other fulfill them. The anime tells about a human girl called Arisu Hanazono, who by chance discovered a magical pendulum and book, summoning Fairilus. She is a girl with many worries, but by meeting the friendly Fairilus and traveling into their homeworld, Little Fairilu, she gets a chance to solve her problems and change herself. The franchise was first announced in Press Conference on December 11, 2015 as the second collaboration work between Sanrio and Sega Sammy Holdings, meant for the younger female demographic. It was revealed also that the series will have themes relating to flowers and keys, as well as mermaids and insects with characters officially based on the said themes.  Merchandise of the series is officially planned, including stationary, toys, raincoats, clothing and more and was released in March 2016. In games, the series will appear in the next installment of the Apron of Magic Arcade game.   More information of the franchise was unveiled on the 2016 Sanrio Expo on January 30, 2016, which includes the Sanrio Puroland Mascot form of Lip as well as revealed merchandise.  An anime adaptation of the series, titled Rilu Rilu Fairilu ~ Yousei no Door ~ (Japanese: リルリルフェアリル～妖精のドア～, Hepburn: Riru Riru Feariru ~ Yōsei no doa ~, "Rilu Rilu Fairilu ~ The Fairy's Door ~") is officially animated by Studio DEEN and began airing in all TXN stations in Japan on February 6, 2016, replacing Jewelpet Magical Change: Dream Selection on its initial timeslot, and is ended in March 25, 2017. It is directed by Sakura Gojō and written by Aya Matsui (Boys Over Flowers, Marmalade Boy, Tamagotchi!).  The anime's opening theme is titled Brand New Days by Korean Pop group Apink as their 5th Japanese Single.   The first ending theme is titled key of life by Shiggy Jr,   the second is titled Kera Kera Acchi Muite Hoi! (Japanese: ケラケラあっちむいてホイ!, "Kera Kera Face that Way!") by Kera Kera, and the third is titled Rilu Rilu Wonderful Girl! (Japanese: りるりるわんだふるがーる！, Hepburn: Riru Riru Wandafuru Gāru!) by Yumiri Hanamori, Rina Hidaka, Aya Uchida and Aina Kusuda as Lip, Sumire, Himawari and Rose.  A sequel, titled Rilu Rilu Fairilu ~ Mahou no Kagami ~ (Japanese: リルリルフェアリル～魔法の鏡～, Hepburn: Riru Riru Feariru ~ Mahō no kagami ~, "Rilu Rilu Fairilu ~ The Magic Mirror ~") was announced by Sanrio via the official Anime Twitter account  , began airing on April 7, 2017, and is set to end on March 30, 2018. It is directed by Sakura Gojō and Nana Imanaka, written by Akemi Omode. The first opening theme of this series is titled Papipupe Pon! (Japanese: ぱぴぷぺPON!) by Girl group Apink as their 7th Japanese Single together with their song "Bye Bye",  and the second is titled Sakura Saku Aoi Haru (Japanese: さくら咲く青い春, "Sakura Blooming Blue Spring") by Silent Siren.  The first ending theme is titled Onegai Roji (Japanese: お願いロジー) by Q-pitch,  and the second is titled Fairy Smile (Japanese: フェアリースマイル, Hepburn: Fearī Sumairu) by the same group.  A third season, titled Oshiete Mahou no Pendulum ~ Rilu Rilu Fairilu ~ (Japanese: おしえて魔法のペンデュラム～リルリルフェアリル～, Hepburn: Oshiete mahō no penduramu ~ Riru Riru Feariru ~, "Tell Me, Magical Pendulum ~ Rilu Rilu Fairilu ~") began its airing on Kids Station, Animax and Tokyo MX, and the premiere dates are July 7, July 8 and July 15, 2018 respectively.  It is directed by Chisei Maeda and written by Akemi Omode. The anime's opening theme is titled Oshiete Mahou no Pendulum (Japanese: おしえて魔法のペンデュラム, "Tell Me, Magical Pendulum") by Yumiri Hanamori and Ari Ozawa as Lip and Spica. The ending theme is titled "Suki" no Katachi (Japanese: "好き"のカタチ, "Shape of Love") by Yumiri Hanamori as Lip. 