Sanrio Boys (サンリオ男子, Sanrio Danshi) is a Japanese media franchise created by Sanrio in November 2015. The Sanrio Boys were conceptualized as a social media project to promote merchandise for Sanrio's best-selling characters.  Due to its popularity, it grew to have its own merchandise line, a manga series, a series of character drama CDs, a 2016 smartphone game for iOS and Android, and an anime television series by Pierrot that premiered on January 6, 2018.   The Sanrio Boys were created by Sanrio to promote merchandise for their best-selling characters on social media, a strategy of which has been compared to Twitter accounts run by characters from Uta no Prince-sama.  The Sanrio Boys originally consisted of five characters, but has since then expanded to seven.  The characters were so well-received that they received their own line of character merchandise starting in June 2016.  Sanrio Boys was adapted into two manga adaptations written and illustrated by Mai Ando, with both manga series running concurrently.  Sanrio Danshi: Oretachi, Seishun, Hajimemashita. (サンリオ男子～俺たち、青春、はじめました。～), which features the Sanrio Boys' daily lives, was published on the mobile app Manga One starting April 2016. Sanrio Danshi: Oretachi, Koi, Hajimemashita. (サンリオ男子～俺たち、恋、はじめました。～), which features one of the Sanrio Boys being romantically involved with a girl, was serialized in the magazine Sho-Comi starting from its June 2016 issue.  Both were compiled into volume format and released under the title Sanrio Boys under Shogakukan's Flower Comics label.  A visual novel style dating sim game was released onto Android and iOS under the name Sanrio Danshi: Watashi, Koi wo, Shirimashita. (サンリオ男子～わたし、恋を、知りました。～) on September 13, 2016.  The theme song is "Fun! Fantastic Girl", produced by Elements Garden and performed by the voice actors of Sanrio Boys.  Approximately 100,000 users downloaded the game during the first six days of release.  An anime adaptation of Sanrio Boys was announced in the fifth issue of the 2017 edition of Shogakukan's Sho-Comi magazine.  The series is directed by Masashi Kudō and written by Takashi Aoshima, and the anime production is handled by Pierrot. The anime premiered in Japan on January 6, 2018.  The series is licensed by Ponycan USA in North America,  who are simulcasting the series on Crunchyroll.  The anime has 12 episodes.  A stage play titled Miracle☆Stage Sanrio Boys  was announced at the end of episode 12.  The play is directed by Masami Itō, with the script written by Shinjirō Kameda, the choreography by Tetsuharu, and the music composed by Yu.  The main cast consists of Naoya Kitagawa as Kōta, Hiroki Sasamori as Yū, Tsubasa Yoshizawa as Shunsuke, Yū Miyazaki as Ryō, Shinichi Wagō as Seiichiro, Kōhei Kishi as Subaru Amagaya, and Jin Hiramaki as Naoki.    Five new characters created exclusively for the play were revealed at Sanrio Expo 2018.  The play is scheduled to run from November 29 to December 9, 2018 at The Galaxy Theatre in Tokyo.   As of April 5, 2018 the manga had 200 000 copies in print.  