 Schoolgirl Strikers: Radio Channel Schoolgirl Strikers (スクールガールストライカーズ, Sukūrugāru Sutoraikāzu) is a Japanese social network game released by Square Enix. The world you know is under threat by aliens, named "Oburi" (apparitions). These enemies are too strong for normal humans, and are especially threatening due to the fact that they can travel through to the 'fourth' dimension where they can be safe. For some reason, certain young girls are able to harness the power to transverse these dimensions, and enter a 'fifth' dimension - a parallel universe. There are endless amounts of parallel universes, all of which are similar but run in their own way. The Schoolgirl Strikers are able to fight the Oburi by searching these alternate worlds for alternative "Memory card" (Memoca) costumes that are usable by them and effective against the "Oburi". You have been chosen by a mysterious person to lead a group of 5 girls in defeating an enemy that is threatening to destroy the world. Why you were chosen and who you are yourself is a mystery... Caramel Spika (キャラメル・スピカ, Karameru Supika) It is one of the missing teams that carries the name of Caramel and Spica, and it is dissolved at the start of the game. Coconut Vega (ココナッツ・ベガ, Coconatsu Bega) Procyon Pudding (プロキオン・プディング, Purokion Pudingu) Biscuit Sirius (ビスケット・シリウス, Bisuketto Shiriusu) Almond Fomalhaut (アマンド・フォーマルハウト, Amando Fōmaruhauto) Altair Torte (アルタイルトルテ, Arutair Ukēki) Schokolad Mira (ショコラーデ・ミラ, Shokorade Mira) Schoolgirl Strikers is a card collecting mobile game with RPG and visual novel influences. It was released in 2014 and is available for iOS and Android devices. Some of the things that make Schoolgirl Strikers different from your average card collecting game are the special story missions and the 3D battle system; along with the ability to dress the girls up as you see fit. The way the battle system as a whole works is also quite different; you can choose any girls you want (limited to 5 at a time) to be in your team as long as you have at least one card of them. Then you add main and sub "Memocas" to them instead of just simply putting the cards themselves in a battle deck. The main Memocas also affect the girls' appearances in battle. An original anime television adaption has been announced, Hiroshi Nishikiori directed the series at J.C.Staff with scripts written by Takao Yoshioka and Mizuto Suzuki and Kengo Tokusashi produced the music at Square Enix.  The anime aired between January 7 to April 1, 2017 on Tokyo MX with further broadcasting on BS11, AT-X, KBS, and SUN; Crunchyroll streamed the anime.  The series ran for 13 episodes and released across seven BD/DVD volumes.  Schoolgirl Strikers: Twinkle Melodies (スクールガールストライカーズ ～トゥインクルメロディーズ～ Sukurugāru Sutorāikazu ~Tuinkuru Merodīzu~) is a spin-off game also released for iPhone and Android devices. Set in the same universe as the original game, Twinkle Melodies is a rhythm game focused on a new team named Apricot Regulus, who want to be a Japanese idol group due to their abilities for singing. Characters from the original Schoolgirl Strikers appears in Twinkle Melodies, with the exception of Chocolate Mira and Almond Fomalhaut groups as the Others as well. The game features an anime opening and a new character design. 