Star-Myu (スタミュ, Sutamyu, or STARMYU), with subtitle Kōkō Boshi Kageki (高校星歌劇, lit. High School Star Musical) is a Japanese original anime television series produced by C-Station and NBCUniversal Entertainment Japan. It premiered in Japan on 5 October 2015. It has generated 2 anime seasons, 2 OVAs, a stage musical adaptation, 2 manga adaptations, 2 radio programs, multiple musical song CDs and drama CDs, as well as a variety of related merchandise and collaboration. A third season has been announced to premiere in 2019. The franchise will also get a sequel stage musical in July 2018 and a new OVA project in October 2018.  The series tells the story of five students, Yuta Hoshitani, Toru Nayuki, Kaito Tsukigami, Kakeru Tengenji, and Shu Kuga as they struggle to enter the Musical Department of Ayanagi Academy, an elite school for aspiring musical performers. They want to be accepted to the Star Frame Class, which is directly taught by the members of the Kao Council, the most talented students from the Musical Department who stand at the top within the academy. Luckily, they are spotted by Itsuki Otori, one of Kao Council members who puts them on his Star Team. A manga adaptation illustrated by Ren Hidō, ran in ASCII Media Works's manga magazine Sylph from 22 June 2015 in its August 2015  issue to 22 October 2015 in its December 2015 issue.  It goes in-depth into some of Team Otori's issues/history which were untold in the anime. Gempak Starz licensed the manga for distribution in Malaysia and Singapore.  A sequel to the manga titled Star-Myu: Stardust's Dream began serialization in the same magazine on 22 April 2016 in its June 2016 issue. The first drama CD was announced prior to the anime television series and was released on 5 August 2015, titled ☆☆Forever★Stage☆☆ (☆☆永遠★STAGE☆☆, ☆☆Eien★STAGE☆☆).  It is set during the period between episode 1 and episode 2 of the anime. The second drama CD was released on 21 December 2016, titled Second STAGE. The third drama CD was released on 9 February 2017, titled Third STAGE. For each season of the anime, 12 musical song CDs are released for 12 weeks in a row, concurrent with 12 episodes of that season. These CDs contain the musical songs used in the anime story, as well as character image songs. Season 1 Season 2 A radio program titled Star-Myu Radio 〜Mezase! Radio Star〜 (スタミュラジオ 〜目指せ!ラジオスター〜), hosted by Arthur Lounsbery, the voice actor of Kaito Tsukigami, was delivered biweekly on Wednesday from Onsen (音泉), from 26 August 2015 to 10 February 2016. The recordings were collected into 2 CDs released on 27 January and 30 March 2016. The second season of the radio program, titled Star-Myu (Season 2) Web Radio ～AYANAGI Star RADIO～ (スタミュ(第2期)webラジオ ～AYANAGI Star RADIO～), was delivered from 4 April to 20 June 2017. The anime television series is produced by NBCUniversal Entertainment Japan and animated by C-Station. It is an original creation of Rin Hinata and is directed by Shunsuke Tada, with series composition by Sayaka Harada. The series features music by Ken Arai and character designs by Asami Watanabe. It was initially titled as High School Star Musical (ハイスクールスター・ミュージカル, Haisukūrusutā Myūjikaru) but has since shortened to Star-Myu (スタミュ, Sutamyu, or STARMYU) as the official title.  The first season of the anime began airing in Japan on 5 October 2015 and concluded on 22 December 2015. It is licensed and distributed in North America by Funimation,   who began releasing the series on Blu-ray Disc and DVD on 7 March 2017.  The opening theme is "Dreamer" by Gero and the ending theme "Seishun COUNTDOWN" (星瞬COUNTDOWN) is performed by the main five voice actors (Natsuki Hanae, Kensho Ono, Arthur Lounsbery, Yoshimasa Hosoya and Tomoaki Maeno) as Team Otori.  Two OVA volumes served as the 13th and 14th episodes of the first season were released on 27 July and 21 September 2016, respectively.  Team Otori (voiced by: Natsuki Hanae, Kensho Ono, Arthur Lounsbery, Yoshimasa Hosoya and Tomoaki Maeno) and Team Hiragi (voiced by: Nobuhiko Okamoto, Yuuma Uchida, Yoshitsugu Matsuoka, KENN, Kazuyuki Okitsu) both perform their own version of the opening theme "Yume・Iro" (ユメ・イロ, lit. Dream・Color) and the ending theme "C☆ngratulations!". The second season aired between 3 April and 19 June 2017.  The opening theme is "SHOW MUST GO ON!!" by Fourpe (voiced by: urashimasakatasen) and the ending theme is "Gift" by Team Otori (voiced by: Natsuki Hanae, Kensho Ono, Arthur Lounsbery, Yoshimasa Hosoya and Tomoaki Maeno). Crunchyroll streams both seasons of the anime in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Iceland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Netherlands.  A third season has been announced to premiere in 2019.  The OVA project is set at Ayanagi Academy after the students finish the school festival and face the new year. On the day the current Kao Council members end their final duties and leave the academy, every team holds a performance during the graduation ceremony to offer their thanks. Another OVA project has been announced to be released in October 2018. It will tell a story about Hoshitani and friends on Halloween.  A musical based on the anime titled Musical Star-Myu (ミュージカル「スタミュ」, Myūjikaru「Sutamyu」, or Star-Myu-Myu スタミュミュ) was performed at Zepp Blue Theater Roppongi in Tokyo from 1 to 9 April 2017 and then at Morinomiya Piloti Hall in Osaka from 15 to 16 April 2017.  It adapts the anime's first season and features the songs from the first season.  The cast includes:  A spinoff musical focused on Team Hiragi titled Musical Star-Myu Spin-Off Team Hiragi Solo Review Performance「Caribbean Groove」 (ミュージカル「スタミュ」スピンオフ team柊 単独レビュー公演「Caribbean Groove」) ran at Maihama Amphitheater in Urayasu from 27 to 28 April 2018. A sequel titled Musical Star-Myu Second Season (ミュージカル「スタミュ」-2ndシーズン-) ran at Nippon Seinenkan Hall in Tokyo from 4 to 11 July 2018 and then at Morinomiya Piloti Hall in Osaka from 20 to 22 July 2018. The original cast return, except for Kensuke Takahashi, who is replaced by Kota Shinzato as Shu Kuga.  