  The Super Sentai Series (スーパー戦隊シリーズ, Sūpā Sentai Shirīzu) is a Japanese superhero team metaseries of TV series produced by Toei Company, Toei Agency and Bandai, and aired by TV Asahi ("Sentai" is the Japanese word for "task force" or "fighting squadron").  The shows are of the tokusatsu genre, featuring live action characters and colorful special effects, and are aimed at children. Super Sentai airs alongside the Kamen Rider series in the Super Hero Time programming block on Sunday mornings. In North America, the Super Sentai Series is best known as the source material for the Power Rangers franchise. In every Super Sentai Series, the protagonists are a team of people who – using wrist-worn or hand-held devices – transform into superheroes and gain superpowers – color-coded uniforms, signature weapons, sidearms, and fighting skills – to battle a group of evil beings that threaten to take over the Earth. In a typical episode, the heroes thwart the enemies' plans and defeat an army of enemy soldiers and the monster of the week before an enlarged version of the monster confronts them, only to be defeated again when the heroes fight it with their mecha. Each Super Sentai Series is set in its own fictional universe; various TV, video and film specials feature a team-up between one or more teams. The series was created by Shotaro Ishinomori,  then known for the 1971–1973 Kamen Rider TV series and the long-running manga Cyborg 009. He developed the first two Super Sentai Series Himitsu Sentai Gorenger, which ran from 1975 to 1977, and J.A.K.Q. Dengekitai, released in 1977. Toei Company put the franchise on hiatus in 1978,  collaborating with Marvel Comics to produce a live action Spider-Man series, which added giant robots to the concept of tokusatsu shows. The giant robot concept was carried over to Toei and Marvel's next show, Battle Fever J, released in 1979, and was then used throughout the Super Sentai Series. In 1993, American production company Saban Entertainment adapted 1992's Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger into Mighty Morphin Power Rangers for the Fox Kids programming block, combining the original Japanese action footage with new footage featuring American actors for the story sequences. Since then, nearly every Super Sentai series that followed became a new season of Power Rangers.  Some countries, such as France, Brazil, Thailand, and the Philippines, switched from broadcasting Super Sentai to Power Rangers.  In 2002, Saban sold the Power Rangers franchise to Disney's Buena Vista division,  who owned it until 2010, broadcasting Power Rangers on ABC Kids, ABC Family Channel, Jetix, and Toon Disney.  In May 2010, Saban bought the franchise back from Disney, moving the show to the Nickelodeon network for 2011.  On 1 May 2018, toy company Hasbro announced they had acquired the Power Rangers franchise from Saban Capital Group for $522 million.  The following is a list of the Super Sentai Series and their years of broadcast: The following releases were on Super Video or Special DVD: Although the Super Sentai Series originated in Japan, various Sentai series have been imported and dubbed in other languages for broadcast in several other countries. Bioman, Flashman, Maskman, Liveman, Turboranger, Fiveman, and Jetman were broadcast in France in the 1980s and early 1990s, with Maskman and Liveman marketed as Bioman 2 and Bioman 3, respectively.  Additionally, Liveman, Turboranger, and Jetman were broadcast in Spain and Portugal. Denziman, Goggle-V, Sun Vulcan and Battle Fever J were broadcast in Italy. In addition, some episodes of Bioman and Turboranger were released on VHS in Greece. By the early 1990s, the Sentai broadcasts were replaced by Power Rangers. Various Sentai series were broadcast in Malaysia starting with Hikari Sentai Maskman during the 1990s, dubbed in English and later in Malay. Almost all Super Sentai shows were broadcast in Thailand since the 1980s, a year following their Japanese debut. They were exclusively broadcast on Channel 9 from the late 1980s to early 1990s until Power Rangers replaced Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger in the mid-1990s. Since then, the series have appeared on various channels. In Vietnam, most of the Super Sentai Series were fansubed into Vietnamese and posted on public Internet sites. Phuong Nam Film licensed Vietnamese distribution of Super Sentai Series, starting with Hyakujuu Sentai Gaoranger in 2003, which was the best-selling series in the country at that time.  As of  2018,[update] Phuong Nam Film continue to release the series a year or two after their Japanese premieres. In the late 1970s, J.A.K.Q. Dengekitai was the first Sentai series to be shown in the Philippines. Choudenshi Bioman (the last tokusatsu dubbed in English on Philippine television) and Hikari Sentai Maskman (the first Super Sentai Series dubbed in Filipino on IBC) were broadcast in the Philippines in the 1980s. Choudenshi Bioman was so popular that many people from that generation came to associate all the Super Sentai Series as continuations of it,[original research?] and Hikari Sentai Maskman was marketed as Bioman 2 Maskman on local TV. During the early 1990s, some other series were shown, such as Kousoku Sentai Turboranger, Chikyu Sentai Fiveman and Chōjin Sentai Jetman which became the last Sentai series to broadcast on ABC5 in 1994. Dai Sentai Goggle-V was also aired on RPN 9 in 1998 every Sunday morning. From 1995 to 1999 and 2004 to 2015, ABS-CBN aired the American-produced Power Rangers.  Super Sentai has been broadcast in South Korea, dubbed in Korean. The first such series was Choushinsei Flashman which aired as Jigu Bangwidae Flash Man (Earth Defence Squadron Flashman), released in video format in 1989 by the Daeyung Panda video company; this was followed by Hikari Sentai Maskman and Chodenshi Bioman. Throughout the 1990s, Dai Sentai Goggle Five, Dengeki Sentai Changeman, Choujuu Sentai Liveman, and Kousoku Sentai Turboranger were also released in video format. In the 2000s and early 2010s, Tooniverse (formerly Orion Cartoon Network), JEI-TV (Jaeneung Television), Champ TV/Anione TV (Daewon Broadcasting), Cartoon Network South Korea, and Nickelodeon South Korea have broadcast Super Sentai Series a year following their original Japanese broadcast, but have changed the titles to "Power Rangers".    Recently,[when?] there have been broadcasts of Bakuryuu Sentai Abaranger, Tokusou Sentai Dekaranger, Mahou Sentai Magiranger, GoGo Sentai Boukenger, Juken Sentai Gekiranger, Engine Sentai Go-onger, Tensou Sentai Goseiger, Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger, Tokumei Sentai Go-Busters, Zyuden Sentai Kyoryuger, Ressha Sentai ToQger, Shuriken Sentai Ninninger,  Doubutsu Sentai Zyuohger, and Uchu Sentai Kyuranger under the titles of Power Rangers Dino Thunder, Power Rangers S.P.D., Power Rangers Magic Force, Power Rangers Treasure Force, Power Rangers Wild Spirits, Power Rangers Engine Force, Power Rangers Jungle Force, Power Rangers Miracle Force, Power Rangers Captain Force, Power Rangers Go-Busters, Power Rangers Dino Force, Power Rangers Train Force, Power Rangers Ninja Force, Power Rangers Animal Force, and Power Rangers Galaxy Force respectively.[original research?] Furthermore, Power Rangers Dino Force has the South Korea-exclusive sequel called Power Rangers Dino Force Brave. Choushinsei Flashman and Choujuu Sentai Liveman were broadcast in Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru in the early 1990s, and as reruns in the early 2000s. Flashman arrived with Spanish dubbing done in Brazil and Liveman in Venezuela. Dengeki Sentai Changeman, Flashman, Maskman and Goggle V were broadcast in Brazil. The first season to air was Changeman in 1988, on the TV Manchete channel (now RedeTV), and caused a tremendous impact in its time, considered a cult classic.[original research?] In the early 1990s, the Sentai broadcasts in Latin America were replaced by Power Rangers.  After Honolulu, Hawaii's KIKU-TV had success with Android Kikaider (marketed as Kikaida) and Kamen Rider V3 in the 1970s, multiple Super Sentai Series, including Himitsu Sentai Gorenger and Battle Fever J, were brought to the Hawaiian market, broadcast in Japanese with English subtitles by JN Productions.  In 1985, Marvel Comics produced a pilot for an American adaptation of Taiyo Sentai Sun Vulcan,  but the show was rejected by the major US TV networks.  In 1986, Saban Productions produced a pilot for an American adaptation of Choudenshi Bioman titled Bio Man.   In 1987, some episodes of Kagaku Sentai Dynaman were dubbed and aired as a parody on the USA Network television show Night Flight.  On 25 July 2014, Shout! Factory announced that they would release Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger on DVD in the United States.  Since then, Shout! has been the official distributor of Super Sentai DVDs in North America. Beginning in 2016, Super Sentai episodes would be available on demand on ShoutFactoryTV.com.  These episodes can only be viewed in North America. The Super Sentai Series has been parodied and emulated in various ways throughout the world.  The term "Sentai" is also occasionally used to describe shows with premises like the Super Sentai Series.  Gainax produced a Japanese fan film called Patriotic Squadron Great Japan (愛國戰隊大日本, Aikoku Sentai Dai-Nippon) in 1982 as a homage to the Super Sentai franchise.   The Thai TV series Sport Ranger, another homage to Super Sentai, aired in 2006.   Jushi Sentai France Five (later known as Shin Kenjushi France Five) is a French online mini-series that was released in six installments from 2000 to 2013.  The series was so popular in Japan that Akira Kushida recorded its second opening theme.  Naoko Takeuchi used the Super Sentai Series as inspiration for the creation of the Sailor Soldiers in Sailor Moon.   As part of the Omoikkiri Ii!! TV television program, a series of features was produced on various spas and onsen around Japan titled Bihada Sentai Sparanger (美肌泉隊ＳＰＡレンジャー, Bihada Sentai Suparenjā, Handsome Muscle Spring Corps Sparanger). This featured tokusatsu and drama actors Takashi Hagino (Changéríon of Choukou Senshi Changéríon and Kamen Rider Ouja of Kamen Rider Ryuki) as Spa Red (ＳＰＡレッド, Supa Reddo), Kento Handa (Kamen Rider Faiz of Kamen Rider 555) as Spa Blue (ＳＰＡブルー, Supa Burū), Kengo Ohkuchi (Emperor Z of Ressha Sentai ToQger) as Spa Green (ＳＰＡグリーン, Supa Gurīn), Masashi Mikami (Bouken Blue in GoGo Sentai Boukenger) as Spa Yellow (ＳＰＡイエロー, Supa Ierō), and Kohei Murakami (Kamen Rider Kaixa in Kamen Rider 555) as Spa Murasaki (ＳＰＡムラサキ（紫）, Supa Murasaki, "purple" or "violet" in Japanese, a running joke would involve people referring to him as Spa Purple).  In 2013, Gainax produced EA's Rock (エアーズロック, Eāzu Rokku), a 13-episode miniseries of live-action shorts which parodied the Super Sentai Series. The series' characters are all former members of a fighting group called Sensation Warriors Gokan Five (感覚戦士ゴカンファイブ, Kankaku Senshi Gokan Faibu, "gokan" is Japanese for the "five senses").  EA's Rock is broadcast on the Tōmeihan Net 6 Japanese Association of Independent Television Stations as well as Nico Nico Douga.   Unofficial Sentai Akibaranger (非公認戦隊アキバレンジャー, Hikōnin Sentai Akibarenjā) is a Toei-produced parody series that premiered in April 2012 on BS Asahi and Tokyo MX. Akibaranger is made for adult fans who were fans of the Super Sentai Series as children. The story features three otaku who live in the Akihabara district of Tokyo who receive technology from a scientist to fight an evil threat that at first only exists in their delusions, but eventually starts materializing itself in the real world. Like Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger, Akibaranger features guest appearances by veteran Super Sentai actors (as themselves rather than their characters), and voice actors and musicians who have worked in anime and tokusatsu.  A second season aired in April 2013. Akira Toriyama was inspired to create the Ginyu Force for the Dragon Ball manga after seeing his children watch Super Sentai.  