       The Three Bogatyrs (Три богатыря) is an animated franchise produced by Melnitsa Animation Studio. Voices of Sergey Makovetsky, Dmitry Vysotsky, Liya Medvedeva, Valery Soloviev, Oleg Kulikovich, Oleg Tabakov, Anatoly Petrov, Andrei Tolubeyev and Fyodor Bondarchuk with Elizaveta Boyarskaya are featured in the films. The overall plot through the series follows the adventures of three most famous bogatyrs: Alyosha Popovich, Dobrynya Nikitich and Ilya Muromets. The series has now grossed over $135 million, making it the most high-grossing Russian animated films and earning a spot as one of the most profitable Russian films in the last 10 years.  This animated film is anachronistic, following the lead of the other films in this series. Set in medieval times, this film combines history of early Russia and Slavic and Russian folklore with more modern elements including a nod to Alexander Pushkin and video games. Each of the first three films featured one of the bogatyrs, Russian epic heroes, based very loosely on the heroes in the legends about Prince Vladimir in the Kievan-Rus’ bylina cycle, a collection of traditional Russian oral epic narrative poems. The fourth film, The Three Bogatyrs and the Shamakhan Queen, unites all three of the bogatyrs, Alyosha Popovich, Ilya Muromets and Dobrynya Nikitych, in one film and includes unforgettable sidekicks such as Julius the talking horse, introduced in the previous films. Unlike the other three animated features, this film also makes reference to the Russian literature from 19th century and the famous narrative epic of Alexander Pushkin: The Tale of the Golden Cockerel (Сказка о золотом петушке, 1834) with the addition of the Shamakhan Queen. The commercial success of this series has been increasing since the release of the first film in 2004, in part, because of such marketing. " Alyosha Popovich and Tugarin Zmey (2004)" the screen version of the Russian bylina about Alesha Popovic and his enemy Tugarin the Serpent. The Three Bogatyrs and the Shamakhan Queen or How Not to Rescue a Princess is the fourth film in the animated series and was released December 30, 2010. The DVD was released on 17 February 2011 and during the first six weeks made 566,731,786 rubles, breaking the record for Russian animated films and earning a spot as one of the most profitable Russian films in the last 10 years. In English-speaking countries it was distributed as "Three Bogatyrs far far away", which was commercially successful despite rather negative reviews. Kolyvan and Baba Yaga plan to take over the palace of the Prince of Kiev. They succeed in their attempt with the help of a singular army—two enormous bunnies. They also create a fake source of legitimation, the doubles of the three bogatyrs, who affirm that the charlatans are the legitimate successors of the Prince. In the meantime, with the help of further magic, Baba Yaga banishes the real bogatyrs to a remote shore. The plot develops through various episodes involving the impostors with their bunnies, the Prince of Kiev with the horse Iulii, the bogatyrs’ wives with the doubles, the real bogatyrs with the indigenous people and a giant gorilla, and the appearance of some characters from the previous series—Tikhon, babka and the dragon Gorynych. The film is perhaps most successful in presenting a straight criticism on Russian society and rulers. A satire that is undoubtedly addressed at contemporary Russia, but that has in itself recurrent traits of satirical works emerging at different times during the Russian and Soviet era: infatuation with foreign products, blind awe towards foreigners, ineptitude of the rulers to govern, corruption, unfair tax collection, high prices on produce, and swift acceptance of new impostors without any opposition. This type of satirical accent acquires even more weight when followed by shots of nationalist characters, such as the beautiful domes of the village that assume different colors from the reflection of the rising sun. To the contrary of many contemporary foreign animated films, Three Bogatyrs relies more on traditional, drawn animation than on computer graphics. As in many animation movies made in Russia, characters and scenes are first drawn, scanned, and only then do computer animators fill in the tasks of coloring, adding  backgrounds and special effects. Computers help the construction of the film and offer some special features, but the process of drawing successfully preserves the film from the cold and artificial effect that is common to pure computer animation. Known also as "Roundabout way and new adventures of ancient Bogatyrs". Court horse named Julius Caesar is at the hub of activity. The horse is supposed to save the grand duke of Kiev while the Bogatyrs are absent trying to catch the robber. The evil goes further eventually planning to take over not ancient Russia but over the whole world. The villain is represented by a living oak tree who gambles and outplays simpletons. The second bad guy is a robber named Potanya. 