Whisker Haven Tales with the Palace Pets (also known as Whisker Haven Tales  or simply Whisker Haven ) is an American animated short series animated and produced by Ghostbot Studios and Disney Publishing, created and developed by Thomas & Friends creator Britt Allcroft. It is based on Disney's Palace Pets toyline, which in turn, is a spinoff of the Disney Princess franchise. The series is directed by Alan Lau and written by Shea Fontana. The series launched on the Disney Junior watch app and then aired on Disney Junior. The animated shorts are now available through the accompanying app, “Palace Pets in Whisker Haven” which also includes activities and games featuring the Palace Pets.  Whisker Haven Tales with the Palace Pets is a series starring a core group of six palace pets: Treasure, Pumpkin, Petite, Sultan, Dreamy and Berry along with the caretaker fairy hummingbird Miss Featherbon. These Palace Pets enter magical portals from their respective Princess Kingdoms and travel to the animal kingdom of Whisker Haven. In this new magical world, the Palace Pets go on fun-filled adventures and learn to value friendship, kindness and loyalty. From putting on a dance show to throwing the biggest ball, there’s no task too big, too small, or too glamorous for the Palace Pets.  When Pumpkin floods the ballroom, it's up to Treasure and her friends to save her. Sultan and Treasure try to prove who is the bravest knight in Whisker Haven. After a series of tests, the Palace Pets ask Pumpkin to judge who should be named to the Knight Night Guard. The annual Cake-tillion celebration is about to begin in Whisker Haven! But where is Lily with all of the whisker cakes? The Palace Pets must find her in the woods before the sweetest day of the year! Palace Pets in Whisker Haven was named among several Disney mobile apps named in a class action lawsuit which alleged that Disney and three other software companies "secretly [collect] personal information on some of their youngest customers and [share] that data illegally with advertisers without parental consent".  