 X-Men  is an American superhero film series based on the fictional superhero team of the same name, who originally appeared in a series of comic books created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby and published by Marvel Comics. 20th Century Fox obtained the film rights to the characters in 1994, and after numerous drafts, Bryan Singer was hired to direct the first film and its sequel, X2 (2003), while Brett Ratner directed X-Men: The Last Stand (2006). After each film earned higher box office grosses than its predecessor, several spin-off films were released, including a Wolverine trilogy from 2009 to 2017 and a Deadpool duology from 2016 to 2018. Three X-Men prequels were also released from 2011 to 2016. X-Men, X2, X-Men: First Class, The Wolverine, X-Men: Days of Future Past, Deadpool, Logan and Deadpool 2 were all met with positive reviews from critics, X-Men: The Last Stand and X-Men: Apocalypse were met with mixed reviews, while X-Men Origins: Wolverine received negative reviews. With eleven films released, the X-Men film series is the sixth highest-grossing film series, having grossed over US$5.7 billion worldwide. It is set to continue with the releases of Dark Phoenix and The New Mutants in 2019. The film introduces Wolverine and Rogue into the conflict between Professor Xavier's X-Men and the Brotherhood of Mutants, led by Magneto. Magneto intends to mutate world leaders at a United Nations summit with a machine he has built to bring about acceptance of mutantkind, unaware that this forced mutation will only result in their deaths. In 1994, 20th Century Fox and producer Lauren Shuler Donner bought the film rights to the X-Men.  Andrew Kevin Walker was hired to write, and James Cameron expressed interest in producing.  Eventually, Bryan Singer signed on to direct in July 1996. Although he was not a comic book fan, Singer was fascinated by the analogies of prejudice and discrimination that X-Men offered.  John Logan, Joss Whedon, Ed Solomon, Christopher McQuarrie, and David Hayter wrote the script, with Hayter receiving sole credit.   Principal photography began in September 1999 in Toronto, Canada, and ended in March 2000.  The film was released on July 14, 2000.  Colonel William Stryker brainwashes and questions the imprisoned Magneto about Professor Xavier's mutant-locating machine, Cerebro. Stryker attacks the X-Mansion and brainwashes Xavier into locating every mutant on the planet to kill them. The X-Men must team up with the Brotherhood to prevent Stryker's worldwide genocide. Hayter and Zak Penn were hired to write their own scripts for the sequel, which Singer would pick, with an aim to release the film in December 2002.   Michael Dougherty and Dan Harris were hired to re-write the script in February 2002, writing around 26 drafts and 150 on set.  Principal photography began in June 2002 in Vancouver, Canada, and ended in November 2002. The film was released on May 2, 2003.  A pharmaceutical company has developed a "cure" that suppresses the mutant gene, provoking controversy in the mutant community. Magneto declares war on the humans and retrieves his own weapon: Phoenix, the resurrected former X-Man Jean Grey. A final battle between the X-Men and the Brotherhood ensues, and Wolverine must accept that in order to stop Grey, he will have to kill her. Joss Whedon's Astonishing X-Men story "Gifted", featuring a mutant cure, was suggested for the primary story. Matthew Vaughn came on board as director in February 2005  but left due to the rushed production schedule.  Brett Ratner was later hired as director in June.  Principal photography began in August 2005 in Vancouver, Canada, and ended in January 2006.  The film was released on May 26, 2006.  A prequel and a spin-off focusing on the character Wolverine and his relationship with his half-brother Victor Creed, as well as his time with Stryker's Team X, before, and shortly after his skeleton was bonded with the indestructible metal, adamantium. David Benioff was hired to write the screenplay for the spin-off film Wolverine in October 2004.  Hugh Jackman became producer as well as star and worked with Benioff on the script.  Ratner was negotiated by the studio to take the helm of Wolverine after directing X-Men: The Last Stand, but no agreement was made.  In July 2007, Gavin Hood was hired as director. Principal photography began in January 2008 in Queenstown, New Zealand, and ended in May.  The film was released on May 1, 2009.  Set primarily in 1962 during the Cuban Missile Crisis, the film focuses on the origins of, and relationship between Charles Xavier / Professor X and Erik Lehnsherr / Magneto and their respective teams of mutants, the X-Men and the Brotherhood.  Producer Lauren Shuler Donner first thought of a prequel based on the young X-Men during the production of X2, and later producer Kinberg suggested to 20th Century Fox an adaptation of the comic-book series X-Men: First Class.   Singer signed on to direct the film in December 2009; however, in March 2010 it was announced that Singer would be producing instead of directing.  Vaughn, who was previously attached to direct X-Men: The Last Stand, became the director and co-wrote the final script with his writing partner, Jane Goldman.  The film superseded a planned X-Men Origins: Magneto, and the Writer's Guild of America arbitration still credited Magneto writer Sheldon Turner for the film's story.  Principal photography began in August 2010 in London, England, and ended in December. The film was released on June 3, 2011.  Set after the events of X-Men: The Last Stand, the film features Wolverine heading to Japan for a reunion with a soldier named Ichirō Yashida whose life he saved years before. Wolverine must defend the man's granddaughter Mariko Yashida from all manner of ninja and Yakuza assassins.   Christopher McQuarrie, who went uncredited for his work on X-Men, was hired to write the screenplay for the second Wolverine film in August 2009.  Darren Aronofsky was chosen to direct the film, though bowed out, stating the project would keep him out of the country for too long.  James Mangold was later chosen to direct the film.  Mark Bomback was then hired to rewrite McQuarrie's script.  Principal photography began in August 2012 in Sydney, Australia, and ended in November.  The film was released on July 26, 2013.  Set years after the events of The Wolverine, the film features the cast of the original X-Men trilogy and X-Men: First Class.  The story, inspired by Chris Claremont and John Byrne's The Uncanny X-Men comic book storyline "Days of Future Past", features Wolverine going back in time to 1973 to prevent an assassination that, if carried out, will lead to the creation of a new weapons system called the Sentinels that threatens the existence of mutants — and potentially, all of humanity.  Matthew Vaughn was attached to direct the film but left in October 2012 to focus on the film Kingsman: The Secret Service.  Singer, who directed the first two X-Men films and produced X-Men: First Class, replaced Vaughn as the director of the film.  The screenplay was written by Kinberg.  Principal photography began in April 2013 in Montreal, Canada, and ended in August.  Additional filming took place in Montreal in November 2013 and February 2014.   The film was released on May 23, 2014.   Mercenary and former Special Forces operative Wade Wilson is subjected to an experiment that leaves him with new abilities. He adopts the alter ego Deadpool to hunt down the man who nearly destroyed his life.  In May 2000, Marvel Studios attempted to produce a Deadpool film as part of a distribution deal with Artisan Entertainment.  However by 2004, Marvel was developing the film with New Line Cinema. David S. Goyer was set to write and direct and courted actor Ryan Reynolds for the lead role, but lost interest within months in favor of other projects.    20th Century Fox acquired Deadpool the following year after New Line Cinema placed it in turnaround and was considering the spin-off in the development of X-Men Origins: Wolverine, with Reynolds being cast for the role.  After the opening weekend success of X-Men Origins: Wolverine in May 2009, Fox lent Deadpool out to writers with Donner acting as a producer.  Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick were hired to write the script in January 2010.  Robert Rodriguez was sent a draft of the screenplay the following June but did not pursue it, and Adam Berg emerged as a top contender to direct.   In April 2011, visual effects specialist Tim Miller was hired to direct.  Principal photography began in March 2015 in Vancouver, Canada, and ended in May.   The film was released on February 12, 2016.  Set after X-Men: Days of Future Past, En Sabah Nur, the first mutant, awakens after thousands of years. Disillusioned with the world as he finds it, he recruits a team of mutants to cleanse mankind and create a new world order, over which he will reign. Raven, with the help of Professor X, must lead the X-Men to stop Apocalypse and save mankind from destruction.  In December 2013, Singer announced the upcoming X-Men film, titled X-Men: Apocalypse, a sequel to X-Men: Days of Future Past. Directed by Singer from a script by Simon Kinberg, Dan Harris and Michael Dougherty, the film was said to focus on the origin of the mutants.   Kinberg said that it will take place in 1983 and will complete a trilogy that began with X-Men: First Class.   Principal photography began in April 2015 in Montreal, Canada, and ended in August.   The film was released on May 27, 2016, in North America.  In 2029, Logan and Charles Xavier meet a young girl named Laura, a test-tube daughter of Wolverine, who is being hunted by the Reavers led by Donald Pierce.   By November 2013, 20th Century Fox had begun negotiations for the treatment for a third Wolverine solo film with director James Mangold and Donner attached to produce.  Mangold said that it would be inspired by other Wolverine stories from the comic books and it would be made after X-Men: Apocalypse.   In March 2014, David James Kelly was hired to write the script. In April 2015, Michael Green was hired to work on the film's script.   Principal photography commenced in May 2016 in New Orleans, Louisiana, and concluded in August 2016.  The film was released on March 3, 2017, and marked both Hugh Jackman and Patrick Stewart's return as Wolverine and Xavier, respectively.  After a personal tragedy, Deadpool creates the X-Force to save a young mutant from the time-traveling soldier Cable. In September 2015, Kinberg said that a sequel for Deadpool was in development.  By the release of Deadpool, 20th Century Fox greenlit the film, with Rheese and Wernick returning to write, and Miller being looked at to return as director, as he was working on the script at the time.  However in October 2016, Miller left the film due to creative differences with Reynolds and was replaced by David Leitch in November as the director.  In February 2017, Drew Goddard had joined as a creative consultant to work on the script with Reynolds, Rheese and Wernick.  Filming commenced in June 2017 in Vancouver, Canada and concluded in October.  The film was released on May 18, 2018.  Set after the events of X-Men: Apocalypse, the X-Men are national heroes going on increasingly risky missions. When a solar flare hits them during a rescue mission in space, Jean Grey loses control of her abilities and unleashes the Phoenix.  The film was announced to be in development in February 2017, with Kinberg confirmed to write and direct in June of the same year.  Principal photography commenced in June 2017 in Montreal, Canada and ended in October of the same year.   While additional filming occurred in August and September 2018.    The film will be released on February 14, 2019.  Five mutants are discovering their abilities while held in a secret facility against their will. They will fight to escape their past sins to save themselves.  In May 2015, Josh Boone was hired to direct and write a film adaptation of The New Mutants comic-book series. Acting as a spin-off to the X-Men films, it is co-written by Knate Gwaltney, Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber with Donner and Kinberg producing.   By March 2017, pre-production had started.  Boone said it is a horror film involving the young mutants escaping a facility in which they are being held against their will.  Filming commenced in July 2017 in Boston, Massachusetts   for an August 2, 2019 release.   In October 2014, Josh Zetumer was hired to write the screenplay for a film about the character Remy LeBeau / Gambit, based on the treatment by comic-book writer Chris Claremont. In June 2015, Rupert Wyatt was then hired to direct but left in September due to schedule conflicts.  In November, Doug Liman was in final negotiations to direct the film.  However left the film in August 2016, to direct Justice League Dark.  In August 2017, Tatum stated that the script was in the process of being rewritten.  By October, Gore Verbinski had signed on as director, while Zetumer continued to work on the script.  In January 2018, Verbinski departed the film due to scheduling issues.  The film will star Channing Tatum in the lead role with Donner, Kinberg, Tatum and Reid Carolin attached as producers.  Kinberg stated that the film is intent to be the start of multiple installments focusing on Gambit.  In May 2018, Kinberg stated that the final script had been completed, and production will begin in the third quarter of 2018.  Filming will commence in New Orleans.  In July 2013, Jeff Wadlow was hired to write and direct a film adaptation of the X-Men spin-off comic-book series X-Force.  Mark Millar, the creative consultant for 20th Century Fox's Marvel Comics based films at the time, stated that the film would feature five characters as protagonists.  After the release of Deadpool, Ryan Reynolds said that Deadpool would appear in the film.  By May 2016, Simon Kinberg was in the process of rewriting the script.  In February 2017, Joe Carnahan had signed on as director, as well as a co-writer with Reynolds.  By September of the same year, Drew Goddard was attached to write and direct. Rhett Reese said the film would be a R-rated take on the X-Men.  Kinberg, Reynolds and Donner will produce the film.  Principal photography is scheduled to begin in October 2018.  In November 2016, plans for a third Deadpool film have started.  Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick stated the film would occur after the untitled X-Force film.  Production will begin in Atlanta, Georgia.  In December 2016, Boone stated that he pitched to 20th Century Fox for a New Mutants spin-off film encompassed three films, that would build upon each other and the X-Men franchise. In October 2017, Boone said that there would be sequels to the film, with the first sequel featuring Warlock and Xi'an Manh / Karma, joining the team.  He added that each film will explore a different style within the horror genre.  In February 2017, James Mangold stated that with the introduction of Laura / X-23 in Logan, there is a possibility that the character will appear in future films.  Later that month, Kinberg said that a film for the character is in development.   By October of the same year, the script was being co-written by James Mangold and Craig Kyle.  By November 2017, a film centering around James Madrox / Multiple Man is in development with James Franco starring as Madrox. Allan Heinberg is attached as screenwriter, with Kinberg and Franco as co-producers.  In January 2018, Tim Miller signed on to direct a Kitty Pryde film.  In February 2018, Brian Michael Bendis was hired to write the script.  In February 2017, Kinberg stated that 20th Century Fox has been focusing on developing ideas for future mutant-based teams that could expand the film series. He added that the Alpha Flight and the Exiles are characters being developed for a film adaptation.   In December 2017, The Walt Disney Company entered an acquisition deal with 21st Century Fox, including the film rights for the X-Men.  Disney's CEO Bob Iger stated that the studio intends to integrate the X-Men into the Marvel Cinematic Universe.  List indicator(s) The first three X-Men films and Deadpool set opening records in North America: X-Men had the highest July opening yet,  while X2 and X-Men: The Last Stand earned the fourth-highest opening weekends yet and Deadpool got the largest opening weekend in February.    The records for the first three films have since been surpassed. The next three X-Men films after X-Men: The Last Stand opened lower than their predecessor and didn't set opening records.  In North America, Deadpool is the highest-grossing film in the series, and it also has the highest opening weekend.   Outside North America, X-Men: Days of Future Past has the highest opening weekend and is the highest-grossing film in the series.  Worldwide, Deadpool is the highest-grossing film in the series and the highest-grossing R-rated film of all time.  The X-Men film series is the second highest-grossing film series based on Marvel Comics characters after the Marvel Cinematic Universe.  In North America, it is the fifth-highest-grossing film series, having earned over $2.3 billion.  Worldwide, it is the sixth-highest-grossing film series of all time, having grossed over $5.7 billion.  Wesley Morris of The Boston Globe praised the first three X-Men films as "more than a cash-guzzling wham-bang Hollywood franchise ... these three movies sport philosophy, ideas, a telethon-load of causes, and a highly elastic us-versus-them allegory." Morris praised X-Men: The Last Stand for "put[ting] the heroes of a mighty summer blockbuster in a rare mortal position. Realism at this time of year? How unorthodox!"  Roger Ebert gave the films mostly positive reviews, but criticized them for the amount of mutants, stating "their powers are so various and ill-matched that it's hard to keep them all on the same canvas."  The first two films were highly praised due to their cerebral tone. However, when director Bryan Singer left the series, many criticized his successor, Brett Ratner. Colin Colvert of the Star Tribune felt "Singer's sensitivity to [the discrimination themes] made the first two X-Men films surprisingly resonant and soulful for comic-based summer extravaganzas ... Singer is adept at juggling large casts of three-dimensional characters, Ratner makes shallow, unimaginative bang-ups."  James Berardinelli felt, "X-Men: The Last Stand isn't as taut or satisfying as X-Men 2, but it's better constructed and better paced than the original X-Men. The differences in quality between the three are minor, however; despite the change in directors, there seems to be a single vision."  David Denby of The New Yorker praised "the liquid beauty and the poetic fantasy of Singer's work", but called Ratner's film "a crude synthesizer of comedy and action tropes."  Singer's third film in the series, X-Men: Days of Future Past was also well received. Alonso Duralde of The Wrap felt that "Singer keeps things moving along briskly enough that you can just go along with the ride of Superhero Stuff without getting bogged down".  Spider-Man director Sam Raimi said he was a fan of the series, particularly Singer's films.  Film historian Kim Newman also tonally compared Batman Begins to Singer's films.  Logan received a nomination from Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay.  There was criticism of the large cast, and the limited screentime for all of them. Richard George of IGN reacted well to the depictions of Wolverine, Professor X, Magneto, Jean Grey, Storm, William Stryker, Mystique, Beast and Nightcrawler; however, George thought many of the younger X-Men characters, such as Rogue, Iceman, Pyro, Angel and Kitty Pryde were "adjectiveless teenager[s]", and was disappointed by Cyclops' characterization. He observed the filmmakers were "big fans of silent henchmen", due to the small roles of the various villainous mutants; such as Lady Deathstrike and Psylocke.  While Jesse Schedeen of IGN, stated that the continuity of the films doesn't make sense with dead characters returning with zero or little explanation, different versions of the same character appearing across multiple films and plot points that are conveniently ignored in later films. He also criticized 20th Century Fox for not mapping out the series from the beginning.  Richard George of IGN stated that the success of the first X-Men film paved the way for comic-book film adaptations such as the Spider-Man series, Fantastic Four (2005), V for Vendetta and Singer's Superman Returns.  Chris Hewitt of Empire magazine called the first X-Men film as the "catalyst" for films based on Marvel Comics characters, stating "Singer's 2000 film is the catalyst for everything that's come since, good and bad. Without it, there's no Marvel Studios."  Comic-book writer Mark Millar said that Singer's X-Men "revolutionized" superhero films.  Rebecca Rubin of Variety magazine stated that the X-Men franchise has proven there's an audience for a hardline superhero film. While Jeff Bock of Exhibitor Relations said that with films like the Deadpool films and Logan, that studios can do more with an R-rated film, and give the audience something new.  20th Century Fox Home Entertainment released the first ten films on DVD, Blu-ray and digital download.    The first two films were also released on VHS.  X-Men: First Class, X-Men: Days of Future Past, Deadpool, X-Men: Apocalypse, Logan and Deadpool 2 were also released on 4K Ultra HD.   The films were also released on VHS, DVD and Blu-ray box sets: The original X-Men Trilogy will be released on 4K UHD Blu-Ray on September 25 2018.  As of May 2014, the DVD and Blu-ray sales of the first six films in the United States earned more than $620 million.   