Static trapeze, also known as fixed trapeze, is a type of circus art performed on the trapeze.  In contrast to the other forms of trapeze, on static trapeze the bars and ropes mainly stay in place. Most often, the static trapeze is about 1.5 feet wide and the bar is generally 2 inches in diameter.  The ropes are at least two human lengths, as many figures are performed on the ropes above the bar.  The ropes can be made of many materials, including cotton or hemp, and often have a wire woven inside. It can be performed by a single artist or two partners working together. A single artist will do tricks above and below the bar, the ropes playing just as important a part as the bar. A partner act will involve the partners working together — supporting each other's weight, throwing, lifting and catching each other.  Self-standing trapezes can be purchased for home use. Multiple trapeze is an act entailing the use of more than one trapeze, typically two or three. In these acts, multiple people perform simultaneously. The most common type of multiple trapeze is a "triple trapeze". A triple trapeze has one long bar, held up by a ropes, basically three trapezes put together, with the middle trapeze sharing the ropes of the other two. Multiple trapeze can also refer to an abstract structure with trapeze like structures, inside which multiple artists may perform. An experimental cage-like structure was created by  Cirque du Soleil for their show Varekai, but was ultimately scrapped in production. However, the structure did appear in the 'Making of' documentary, 'Fire Within.' A triple trapeze is a type of static (still) trapeze with three trapezes on one bar. Therefore, there are four ropes connecting this trapeze to its frame, or whatever it is hanging from. Performers specialize in synchronized tricks. One example of a triple trapeze act can be seen in Cirque du Soleil's show Varekai. Static trapeze routines are choreographed from a number of standard tricks, movements, and positions, including: 