The Abbotsford International Airshow is held annually on the second Friday, Saturday and Sunday in August at Abbotsford International Airport in Abbotsford, British Columbia, Canada. It is Canada's largest airshow.  In the mid-1970s, Abbotsford was designated as Canada's National Airshow by Prime Minister Pierre E. Trudeau. It features both military and civilian aircraft from Canada and the United States, and on occasion military aircraft from other countries such as Britain, Germany (2000), and Russia. The airshow was started in 1962 by the Abbotsford Flying Club. The show experienced continuous growth through the 1960s and 70s. The 1986 show was conducted in conjunction with Expo 86, the Vancouver world's fair. This saw the inclusion of several European teams like the Patrouille de France and the Frecce Tricolori to the traditional participants ... as well as the Soviet-Ukrainian Antonov AN-124. In 1989, the show set a three-day attendance record of 321,000 people. The USSR was represented by a large number of aircraft at Abbotsford. Making their North American debuts were two MiG-29 Fulcrums (a single and two-seater), an Su-26M aerobatic plane, a Ka-32 helicopter and the An-225 Mriya, the world's largest aircraft. The MiG-29 demonstration pilot at Abbotsford was Anatoly Kvochur, who had ejected out of a Mig-29 at Le Bourget, France just months earlier. History was made at Abbotsford on the last day of the show when Major Bob Wade, Canadian Armed Forces CF-18 Hornet pilot, became the first western pilot to fly a modern fighter jet from the USSR. Major Bob Wade took the controls of the Mig-29UB two-seat aircraft with Soviet test pilot Valery Menitsky. Other highlights at the show included the first appearance at Abbotsford for the only airworthy Lancaster bomber in North America and the return of the USAF Thunderbirds for the first time since 1981. Post Cold War defence cuts affected the attendance of military teams and aircraft throughout the 1990s. Poor financial management resulted in the annual show being canceled in 1998 and returning in 1999. In 1994 Dan and Loretta Newall got married before the start of the show, the first wedding in the 33-year history of the show.  The "I do's" were almost inaudible due to the Harriers taking off six minutes ahead of schedule.  The wedding cake was shared with people around the wedding site.  CTV gave them five minutes of air time on the news. In 1995, while the Abbotsford Airshow included an arms trade aspect, Project Censored Canada rated it as the 8th most censored news story of the year.  The trade expo saw delegates visit from countries such as the United States and Saudi Arabia to inspect and purchase weaponry. Celebrating its fortieth anniversary in 2002 was a significant accomplishment; it was a milestone year while airshows across North America were threatened with cancellation due to high insurance costs after 9/11. In 2014 it was named one of the ten best airshows in the world,  and also held a twilight show for the first time.  In December 2014 the airshow won a prestigious Silver Pinnacle award from the International Council of Airshows.  In 2015 the airshow continued its successful twilight show and had the Breitling jet team from France perform its first Canadian show ever.  In addition, the airshow hosted the USAF F-22 Raptor for the first time.  In 2016 two 5th generation USAF F-35A Lightning II fighter jets made history as this would mark the first appearance of an F-35 in Canada. Although two aircraft were at the airshow only one was put on static display. The show is now operated by the Abbotsford International Airshow Society. Currently the duo consisting of Roy Hafeli & Ken Hildebrandt, more commonly known as H2A2 or Hafeli and Hildebrandt Airshow Announcers provide the Airshow announcing every year. Roy Hafeli began announcing at Abbotsford in 1999, and is a recipient of the North West Council of Air Shows 2005 Showmanship award and the 2006 Eric Beard Memorial Spirit of Flight award.  Roy also announces at many other airshows throughout Canada and the USA as well as at other special events. Ken Hildebrandt is the newest voice at Abbotsford. He began announcing in 2007. Having attended every Abbotsford show since 1979, he noticed that while he was certainly enthralled by the many amazing flying machines that screamed over his head each summer, he became particularly interested in the people who announced the action over the loud speakers. Thus began a thirty-year interest in airshow announcing. Demonstration teams • Breitling Jet Team, 2015, 2016 