   The Canadian International Air Show (CIAS) is an annual air show that has been held at the conclusion of the Canadian National Exhibition (CNE) in Toronto since 1949. Aircraft from Canada and the United States, as well as other countries, perform over Lake Ontario for three days in September. Toronto was the site of numerous air shows as the city developed into a centre of air transportation and aircraft manufacturing in the early twentieth century. The Canadian International Air Show began in 1946 when the National Aeronautical Association of Canada attracted overflow crowds to a show at de Havilland Canada manufacturing plant at Downsview Airport. Staged annually thereafter, the air show moved to Exhibition Place in 1949, and became a regular feature of the CNE in 1956.  The official CIAS takes place over the Canadian Labour Day Weekend, which coincides with the closing weekend of the CNE. The start time for the show is scheduled for 12:00 pm with the show ending at approximately 3:00 pm each afternoon.  The CIAS practice session is usually held on the day before the official CIAS, taking place between 10:00 am and 2:00 pm  The show is performed over Lake Ontario directly south of Exhibition Place. It can be best viewed from Exhibition Place or Ontario Place, although the show is visible from any other lakefront site, especially Marilyn Bell Park or Coronation Park. Performers fly in from Pearson, as well as the island airport on nearby Toronto Islands.  Admission to the air show is free; however, viewing from Exhibition Place requires paid admission to these sites.  There is no static display of aircraft.   A photo tour at Pearson had been introduced in 1993 and a full static display in 1996. Although a success, the display was cancelled by the time of the 1998 air show.  Toronto media have noted that the airshow is not popular with local residents and that there is widespread opposition to it, due to the noise and pollution it creates. The Toronto Star noted, "that in a city with a large population of refugee newcomers and people who have experienced the trauma of war it is insulting, invasive, and violent".    Since 2012, during the airshow weekend, the Wikipedia article about the show has been repeatedly vandalized as a form of protest against the airshow, a phenomenon noted by the local Toronto media.   Regular performers include the Snowbirds, other Canadian Armed Forces aircraft, the United States Air Force (USAF), and the United States Navy (USN).    Past performers have included the Royal Canadian Air Cadets,   the Canadian Harvard Aircraft Association,  Vintage Wings of Canada,  as well as private aerobatics teams,    and commercial airlines. Notable appearances include;       