MAKS (Russian: МАКС, short for: Международный авиационно-космический салон, translit. Mezhdunarodnyj aviatsionno-kosmicheskij salon, lit. '"International Aviation and Space Show"') is an international air show held at Zhukovsky International Airport, the home of the Gromov Flight Research Institute in Zhukovsky, 40 km (25 mi) southeast of Moscow, Russia. The event was organized by the Russian Ministry of Industry and Trade until 2009, more recently by the Government of Moscow and Aviasalon.  The first show, Mosaeroshow-92, was held in 1992. Since 1993, the air show was renamed as MAKS and is held biennially on odd years. MAKS is an important event for the Russian aviation industry and the Commonwealth of Independent States. Although it started mainly as an entertainment event, the show soon became a marketplace where Russian aerospace companies could negotiate export contracts and Russian air carriers could make foreign contacts.  The air show's history traces back to 1911, when one was held in Mikhailovskiy Square in Saint Petersburg. The Soviet Union held annual air shows on the Tushino Airfield in Moscow 22 years later.  Its history in Zhukovskiy, however, began much later with the Engineering Show by the Central Aerohydrodynamic Institute (TsAGI) in 1990.  The objective of the MAKS air show is to demonstrate leading technologies and to open up the Russian aerospace industry to the international market. A large portion of the show is dedicated to holding scientific conferences and symposia, under the auspices of Russia's Central Aerohydrodynamic Institute.  The air show is held in the city of Zhukovsky, at Zhukovsky International Airport, which is the home of the Gromov Flight Research Institute. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, many aviation companies eventually moved to Zhukovsky, using the Gromov Flight Research Institute's airfield for MosAeroShow-92 held on 11–16 August 1992.  A second show was held in 1993, now renamed MAKS. Since then the air show has been held biannually.  It lasts for six days, three of which are open to the general public.  Most of previous MAKS air shows were systematic: it usually opens with the attendance of the President of Russia, followed by company talks, and concludes with aircraft demonstrations by aerobatic teams such as the Russian Knights, Swifts, and the foreign Patrouille de France as well as Frecce Tricolori. Some highlights include: A main criticism of the airshow is the large influx of visitors  (up to 300,000 people per day). According to some sources, the administration is not doing enough to withstand such a massive number of visitors, which, together with tight security, caused problems such as long queues, congestion and transportation problems. The high cost of public electricity and the lack of air conditioning in the exhibition halls are also subject to criticism.   Some critics accused the organizers for still showing outdated Soviet-era aircraft. Critics believe that MAKS is still inferior to other leading airshows of the world, and do not agree with other parts of Russian and western press. Conversely, the Danish daily newspaper Børsen has commented that MAKS is not worse than the Le Bourget and the Farnborough shows.  Also, a number of authoritative international organizations such as the Union of Aerospace Industry in Germany and the Chamber of Commerce in France noted the high quality of the event in the official review for MAKS-2009.  The airshow administration argues that the airshows are conducted in a highly organized fashion, and are a hallmark of Russia.  From a financial perspective, the head of the state corporation "Rostekhnologia", Sergey Chemezov, has stated the price of participation in MAKS-2009 was quite acceptable as the rented space was about 10% lower than that at the Le Bourget airshow and 1.1 to 1.8 times lower than that at Farnborough.  