  The Singapore Airshow, formerly known as Changi International Airshow, is a biennial aerospace event held in Singapore, debuted in 2008. The event was launched as a partnership between Singaporean agencies Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore and the Defence Science and Technology Agency after the relocation of Asian Aerospace from Singapore. It hosts high-level government and military delegations, as well as senior corporate executives around the world, while serving as a global event for leading aerospace companies and budding players (including start-ups) to make their mark in the international aerospace and defence market. The event offers a unique platform for industry thought leadership through its high-level conferences, forums and co-located events. Leading industry players, government and military chiefs gather here bi-annually to contribute to dialogues, exchange ideas and seek solutions and strategies to advance the interests of the global aerospace and defence sector.  It is cited to be the third largest air show in the world after Le Bourget and Farnborough, as well as Asia's largest air show, although this is disputed by the Dubai Air Show.    The selected venue for the permanent site of Singapore Airshow is situated on a plot of land just beyond the northern edge perimeter fencing of Changi Air Base, which was itself located due east of the nearby Singapore Changi Airport. In 2006, a contract worth S$60 million was awarded to Eng Lim Construction to begin the building of the new exhibition site to replace the Changi International Exhibition and Convention Centre, including a main exhibition hall with 40,000 square metres of space.  When completed in September 2007, the new site boasted a 40,000 square metres of fully air-conditioned exhibition hall, 2,000 parking lots for trade visitors and motorists as well as 100,000 square metres of outdoor space for exhibitions and functions. Upon its completion, the hall was promptly named as the Changi Exhibition Centre to set it apart from the Changi International Exhibition and Convention Centre which had been in use by the Asian Aerospace exhibitions from 1988 to 2006. Note that the old site is a good 2 kilometres due west of the current one. The inaugural show was held from 19 to 24 February 2008, with the first four days reserved for trade visitors at the purpose-built Changi Exhibition Centre in Changi. Besides the usual exhibits and static displays, the event saw the return of aerobatic flying displays put up by the Airbus A380, Black Knights of the Republic of Singapore Air Force and the Roulettes of the Royal Australian Air Force. Also held concurrently are several seminars and conferences, including the Singapore Airshow Aviation Leadership Summit, the Global Air Power Conference, the International Defence Procurement Conference, the C4I Asia Conference and the Global Space and Technology Convention. The static displays included several themed exhibition pavilions, including the Airport Pavilion and the Integrated Land Defence Pavilion. The ATW Airline Industry Achievement Awards was also held during the Airshow. Prior to the commencement of the 2008 Singapore Airshow, deals to be announced or concluded was expected to reach into billions of dollars.   Deals since announced include: Singapore Airshow 2010, held at the Changi Exhibition Centre from 2 to 7 February 2010, featured more than 800 exhibiting companies from over 40 countries. More than 60 of the top 100 global aerospace companies participated, including Boeing, EADS, Honeywell, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman and Rolls-Royce. Mitsubishi Aircraft, Liebherr-Aerospace, B/E Aerospace and a number of Asian aerospace firms made their first appearances at the show. The show hosted 20 country pavilions, with Switzerland, New Zealand, Russia and Romania making their inaugural presence.   With its theme, 'Big Show, Big Opportunities', Singapore Airshow 2012 was held from 14 to 19 February 2012 and hosted nearly 900 exhibitors from 50 countries, such as Boeing, Airbus, Embraer, and Bombardier.  Fully half of the exhibitors represented the defence industry, but representation by the business aviation section grew significantly, including private jet manufacturers Gulfstream, Bombardier and Embraer, in response to rising demand from Asia's growing class of super-rich. The 2012 event also hosted the Aviation Leadership Summit.  The fourth edition of the Airshow was held from 11 to 16 February 2014. Singapore Airshow 2016 was held from 16 to 21 February 2016 Held from the 6th - 11th of February 2018. On the 6th of February a KAI T-50 Golden Eagle which is part of the  Black Eagles aerobatic team taking part in airshow veered off the runway during take off, it subsequently crashed and caught fire. The fire was put out by emergency services and the pilot was treated for minor injuries.   The ROKAF is currently investigating the incident. 