Kathleen M. Adams is a cultural anthropologist and Professor of Anthropology and Asian Studies at Loyola University Chicago. Her books include the award-winning Art as Politics: Re-crafting Identities, Tourism and Power in Tana Toraja, Indonesia, Everyday Life in Southeast Asia (With K. Gillogly), and Home and Hegemony: Domestic Service and Identity Politics in South and Southeast Asia (with S. Dickey), as well as over fifty articles. Adams' research focuses on island Southeast Asia, critical tourism studies, heritage studies, museums, material culture and ethnic arts, globalization, ethnicity and nationalism. She received her Ph.D. from the University of Washington in 1988 and has over three decades of research experience in Indonesia.  Adams is also Adjunct Curator of Southeast Asian Ethnology at the Field Museum of Natural History. Her research has led to profiles and interviews on National Public Radio' show "Soundprint," Voice of America and the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. A former Fulbright recipient, Adams has consulted for Indonesia's Ministry of Education and Culture/UNESCO and served as academic adviser for several BBC and National Geographic documentary film and television projects. Adams received a B.A. in anthropology at the University of California, Santa Cruz (1979), and a Ph.D. in socio-cultural anthropology at the University of Washington in Seattle   (1988). She completed additional graduate work in Museum Studies at the Univ. of Washington, and in Indonesian Studies at Cornell University and Universitas Kristen Satya Wacana (Salatiga, Indonesia). Prior to her current position at Loyola University Chicago,  Adams taught at Beloit College in Wisconsin (1988-1993), where she held the Mouat Family Endowed Chair for Junior faculty.  Adams has been a visiting professor at Loyola University Chicago's John Felice Rome Center, Ateneo de Manila University in the Philippines, Al-Farabi University in Kazakhstan, the National University of Singapore and has taught on several of University of Virginia's Semester at Sea voyages.  Adams' book on the politics of art and tourism in upland Sulawesi (Indonesia)  won the Alpha Sigma Nu award as the best social science book published in 2007–2009 by faculty at Jesuit institutions.  A past Fulbright awardee (1984–85) and Isaac Manasseh Meyer Fellowship (1999) recipient, Adams' research has also been supported by various fellowships from scholarly organizations such as the American Philosophical Society. In 2016 she received Loyola University's 2016 Sujack Master Researcher Award.  Adams' has also received teaching awards, including Loyola University Chicago's 2007 Sujack Award for Teaching Excellence, and in 2012 she was recognized by Princeton Review as one of the "300 best professors" in the US and Canada.  Adams has published several books and over fifty articles on island Southeast Asia, the politics of art, domestic work, identity dynamics, museums, and the anthropology of tourism. Some of her most significant works include the following: University of California, Santa Cruz faculty and alumni Toraja 