Mental Health Awareness Month (also referred to as "Mental Health Month") has been observed in May in the United States since 1949,  reaching millions of people in the United States through the media, local events, and screenings.  Mental Health Awareness Month was started in the United States in 1949 by the Mental Health America organization (then known as the National Association for Mental Health). Each year in mid-March Mental Health America releases a toolkit of materials to guide preparation for outreach activities during Mental Health Awareness Month. During the month of May, Mental Health America, its affiliates, and other organizations interested in mental health conduct a number of activities which are based on a different theme each year. Themes from recent years include: The campaign intends to encourage people to speak up about their own experiences, to share their point of view with individuals who may be struggling to explain what they are going through—and help others figure out if they too are showing signs of a mental illness.  The 2008 campaign aimed to: increase recognition that mental health is fundamental to overall health and well-being; increase awareness of the role of social connectedness in promoting mental health and protecting mental health during times of adversity, particularly when one is experiencing significant life stressors; and increase recognition of the signs and symptoms of mental health conditions, with an emphasis on stress and depression, and the importance of connecting with a health care provider early.  Its purpose is to raise awareness and educate the public about: mental illnesses, such as the 18.1% of Americans who suffer from   depression, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder; the realities of living with these conditions; and strategies for attaining mental health and wellness. It also aims to draw attention to suicide, which can be precipitated by some mental illnesses.  Additionally, Mental Health Awareness Month strives to reduce the stigma (negative attitudes and misconceptions) that surrounds mental illnesses.  The month came about by presidential proclamation.  Mental Health America is not the only organization to run campaigns throughout May. Many other similar organizations choose to host awareness observances that coincide with Mental Health Awareness month. National Children's Mental Health Awareness Day is one such campaign. This event is sponsored by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration in partnership with other non-profit and advocacy organizations.  Other months and weeks throughout the year are designated to raise awareness around specific mental health conditions or the mental health of different demographic groups (Minority Mental Health Month, Mental Illness Awareness Week, National Depression Screening Day, etc.). 