The subject of mental health in association football has been described as a "stigma" in the sport,   although other professional sports are also affected.  Professional footballers suffer more from symptoms of depression and anxiety than the general public.  former professional players Robert Enke and  Gary Speed have committed suicide; both suffered from depression. Enke threw himself in front of a train.     Five years after Enke's death his wife stated that she believed depression in sport was no longer a taboo subject.  Speed hanged himself.   In September 2018 his wife said that she a discovered a letter written by Speed as a teenager which hinted at his long-term depression.  Clarke Carlisle stated that he contemplated suicide after becoming injured early in his career,  and in December 2014 attempted suicide due to the severe depression he was suffering from.   Sebastian Deisler was hospitalized after being unable to cope with the pressures of professional football, eventually retiring from the sport at the age of 27.   Ex-player Mickey Bennett set up an organization called Unique Sports Counselling to help footballers deal with mental health issues.  In February 2016 Steve Harper spoke out about his mental health problems while in between clubs.  The PFA had to apologise after initially criticising his comments.  In February 2018 David Cox stated that he had been mocked by both players and fans for discussing his mental health problems.  In March 2018, the UK government announced plans to deal with mental health in professional sports.  In April 2018 The Secret Footballer, an anonymous former Premier League player, talked about his depression.  In June 2018, England international Danny Rose stated that he had been diagnosed with depression.  In September 2018, professional footballer Marvin Sordell suggested that clubs should have full-time counsellors to assist players with depression and other mental health issues.  Later that month Anthony Knockaert also revealed his struggles with mental health issues.  