A dago dazzler is an elaborately decorated document used to identify its bearer, usually an academic, as someone with an official association with an institution, usually a university or college, with the purpose of impressing low-level bureaucrats, usually of a foreign nation, so that they will allow the bearer to gain access to archived material or to perform some other action.  The document is given more than the usual amount of decoration—often with colored ribbons and shiny seals—solely for the purpose of impressing bureaucrats. The term, used by academics and sometimes by government officials, is meant to disparage the bureaucrats, who are usually located in another country. The first word (dago) is an ethnic slur for Italians (and sometimes Spaniards and Latin Americans), but dago dazzlers have been used in other countries, including China. Dago dazzlers were created as early as the late 19th century in the United States, but examples have been referred to in recent decades. Published references nowadays are often accompanied by a statement by the writer that the word "dago" in the term is an ethnic slur. In 1898, when United States Department of Agriculture scientist David Fairchild left the United States for a plant-collecting expedition in Europe and Asia, he was A. Lawrence Lowell, president of Harvard University, in 1920 gave a minor university official, Reginald Coggeshall, a dago dazzler "with a great gold seal of the University", according to the recipient.  In August 1929, an associate of Lincoln Kirstein had "what she called her 'Dago Dazzler'. Bearing the gold stamp of Harvard, this official looking piece of paper identified its bearer as a worthy and accredited scholar of art history who should be permitted to see any and all artworks, whether they were sequestered in private houses, or locked in minor chapels." In that situation, the bearer presented her document to a doorman at a private villa in Venice, and the villa's owner soon let her and her two companions inside to inspect frescos.  In 1940, Thomas Barbour, an official at Harvard's Museum of Comparative Zoology, sent biologist Archie Carr, then planning an expedition to Mexico, a dago dazzler, in this case a The dazzler was meant to help with "bureaucrats or border guards who could impede the collection and export of scientific specimens".  In 1937, Lawrence Griswold described dago dazzlers in Tombs, Travel and Trouble, his book of anecdotes about his travels in Latin America and Southeast Asia:  In his book, Panamexico (also published in 1937), Carveth Wells mentioned that the Geographic Society of Chicago issued him a dago dazzler.  Fernando Belaúnde Terry, president of Peru from 1963–1968 and again from 1980–1985, at some point gave Everett Ellin, an art expert, a dago dazzler to help Ellin with bureaucrats in that country. Ellin later described the document this way:  Journalists have also been known to use dago dazzlers. The National Geographic magazine's art department created "dazzlers" for use by its roving correspondents, including one which seemed to help get a photographer past customs officials in India in one incident in the early 1970s, when a clerk:  An anonymous writer for The Weekly Standard in 2004 recalled use of a dago dazzler at some point in the past when the writer was a student. In this case, the document was part of correspondence between university officials, not taken with the individual on a trip abroad. The writer  The document, according to the writer, was "calculated to impress the rubes".  