Action For Rural Rejuvenation (ARR) is a  program aimed towards improving the overall health and quality of life of the rural poor. It was established by the Isha Foundation    As of 2010, ARR has reached over 4,200 villages and a population of over 7 million people.   The city of Columbus in the state of Ohio, United States has felicitated Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev the founder of ARR for the social programs and activities conducted by ARR.  ARR was launched in August 2003 in the city of Gobichettipalayam in Erode district, Tamil Nadu by Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev. In 2004, when the Asian Tsunami struck the coast of Tamil Nadu, ARR was involved in rehabilitation work and provided medical aid, support for the reconstruction of houses and boats, adoption of orphans, impartation of yoga as a means to overall physical and mental well-being and in community building efforts.   ARR also adopted 120 affected villages in Cuddalore and Nagapattinam districts for long-term rehabilitation. Eight mobile health clinics with an allopathic physician and a paramedical support team of four each provided medical care every day to nearly 4,000 villages in the affected areas.  ARR also provided aid and support in 2005, when Cuddalore, Chidambaram and Trichy districts of Tamil Nadu were affected by monsoon floods. Mobile Health Clinics (MHCs) were launched by ARR in 2003  to service less accessible rural areas and provide timely medical care to people who would otherwise not have access due to financial constraints or the remoteness of the region. The clinics provide basic health care, distribute medicine and create health awareness among the rural public. The 20 MHCs in operation are accessible to 2.2 million people.  The clinic is equipped with a medical laboratory, diagnostic equipment and a pharmacy and is staffed by a physician, two paramedical staff and a yoga teacher who provide health care services and yoga training to patients. The mobile clinics are capable of attending to around 100 patients a day.  Service vehicles support the operation of the MHCs.  Isha Rural Health Clinics (IRHCs) provide communities with round the clock affordable and expert healthcare services. Currently, four IRHCs are in operation in the districts of Coimbatore,  Tirupur, Salem   and Velayuthampalayam. Each IRHC serves up to 30 surrounding villages and is equipped with a diagnostic lab, a subsidized pharmacy and minor surgery facilities and offers allopathic and alternative medical services at low cost, emergency medical services and minor surgeries.  Apart from an in-house doctor, the clinic also have a team of visiting specialists for gynecology, ENT and pediatrics. ARR has also signed an MoU with Sri Ramachandra Medical College (SRMC) to improve the standard of health in rural areas in Thiruvallur district through telemedicine. The MHCs in this area are equipped with teleconnectivity to provide online consultation to patients. SRMC provides technical support and telemedicine consultation by linking the MHC to its telemedicine centre.  ARR conducts health awareness events and medical camps across Tamil Nadu under the Isha Arogya Gramam Plan launched in 2008   in order to address the healthcare needs of people in rural areas. Patients are screened and treated for general health, eye, ENT and dental problems.  The “Wave of Health” or Arokia Alai program also works to support this endeavor by spreading awareness on nutrition, disease prevention and hygiene and sanitation to the rural people through talks and media presentations.   The Arokia Alai project provides free-of-cost, simple, healthy dietary solutions to help eradicate malnutrition in villagers. By providing knowledge on diseases and their symptoms, Arokia Alai seeks to make villagers proactive about their health and enable them to detect diseases early through the taught symptoms and thus take the necessary action.  ARR and Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society have collaborated to established a community care center for treatment and counseling of people living with HIV/AIDS in Palladam, Tamil Nadu in 2009. The centre offers medical treatment, consultations on illnesses related to HIV and AIDS, treatment of opportunistic infections, counselling services for patients on issues such as drug adherence, nutrition, use of contraceptives and positive living and a free ambulance service which serves as an emergency transport and for transporting patients for lab investigations. The 10-bed ward for in-patient care also acts as a link to other government and private hospitals, drop-in centres, clinics for sexually transmitted infection, family planning clinics, faith-based organisations and other service providers. The centre also advocates against social stigma, provides legal support, offers vocational guidance, recreational activities and spiritual and yoga programmes.  MHCs also refer patients exhibiting HIV related symptoms to the nearest Integrated Counseling and Testing Centre. IRHCs are equipped to test for HIV for consenting patients.  ARR conducts awareness programs on livelihood generation options for rural people. Educational assistance in the form of tuition are offered to village children and training in vocations such as tailoring and computers is offered to villagers.  ARR, in association with Suzlon Energy Limited and Project Concern International, India has launched an economic development program in Karumathampatti and Kittamapalayam Panchayat areas of Tamil Nadu. Training and basic infrastructure are provided in vegetable cultivation, fish and poultry farming, handicrafts production and food processing, entrepreneurship, assistance in value addition and marketing of produce. Seminars on agriculture as an income generating profession are also conducted as part of this initiative.   Isha Gramotsavam is an annual event conducted by ARR to showcase rural sports and art forms. Over 500,000 people from 900 villages attend this event.   Performances are given in various rural art forms such as Silambattam, Oyilattam, Karagattam and Tapattam. Handicrafts and traditional food from various regions are also displayed. Rural olympics are also conducted as a part of the Gramotsavam. The rural olympics includes competitions in rural sports such as rekla or bullock-cart races, tug of war, Uri adi (hitting a pot strung on a height) and vazhuku maram or greasy pole contests. Mainstream sports such as throwball, volleyball and track and field events are also conducted.  