 After German doctors became the first to identify the link between smoking and lung cancer,  Germany initiated a strong anti-tobacco movement  and led the first public anti-smoking campaign in modern history.  Anti-tobacco movements grew in many nations from the middle of the 19th century;   the campaign in Germany, supported by the government after the Nazi Party came to power, is probably the best known,  though in fact stronger laws were passed in some United States states between 1890 and 1930.  The German movement was the most powerful anti-smoking movement in the world during the 1930s and early 1940s.  The Nazi leadership condemned smoking  and several of them openly criticized tobacco consumption.  Research on smoking and its effects on health thrived under Nazi rule  and was the most important of its type at that time.  Adolf Hitler's personal distaste for tobacco  and the Nazi reproductive policies were among the motivating factors behind their campaign against smoking.  The Nazi anti-tobacco campaign included banning smoking in trams, buses and city trains,  promoting health education,  limiting cigarette rations in the Wehrmacht, organizing medical lectures for soldiers, and raising the tobacco tax.  The Nazis also imposed restrictions on tobacco advertising and smoking in public spaces, and regulated restaurants and coffeehouses.  The anti-tobacco movement did not have much effect in the early years of the Nazi regime and tobacco use increased between 1933 and 1939,  but the cigarette consumption, though not the smoking rates, of military personnel declined from 1939 to 1945.  Even by the end of the 20th century, the anti-smoking movement in postwar Germany had not attained the influence of the Nazi anti-smoking campaign.  Pre-war, German researchers were heavily involved with early research into tobacco harms. In the 1920s and 1930s, the Weimar Republic was at the cutting edge of tobacco research.  In 1840, the Prussian government re-instated a ban on smoking in public places.  The 1880s invention of automated cigarette-making machinery in the American South made it possible to mass-produce cigarettes at low cost, and smoking became common in Western countries. This lead to a backlash and a tobacco prohibition movement, which challenged tobacco use as harmful and brought about some bans on tobacco sale and use.    The German Empire also had anti-tobacco sentiment in the early 20th century. Critics of smoking organized the first anti-tobacco group in the country named the Deutscher Tabakgegnerverein zum Schutze der Nichtraucher (German Tobacco Opponents' Association for the Protection of Non-smokers). Established in 1904, this organization existed for only a brief period. The next anti-tobacco organization, the Bund Deutscher Tabakgegner (Federation of German Tobacco Opponents), was established in 1910 in Trautenau, Bohemia. Other anti-smoking organizations were established in 1912 in the cities of Hanover and Dresden.  After WWI, anti-tobacco movements continued in the German Weimar republic, against a background of increasing medical research. In 1920, a Bund Deutscher Tabakgegner in der Tschechoslowakei (Federation of German Tobacco Opponents in Czechoslovakia) was formed in Prague, after Czechoslovakia was separated from Austria at the end of World War I. A Bund Deutscher Tabakgegner in Deutschösterreich (Federation of German Tobacco Opponents in German Austria) was established in Graz in 1920.  These groups published journals advocating nonsmoking. The first such German language journal was Der Tabakgegner (The Tobacco Opponent), published by the Bohemian organization between 1912 and 1932. Deutscher Tabakgegner (German Tobacco Opponent) was published in Dresden from 1919 to 1935, and was the second journal on this subject.  The anti-tobacco organizations were also against consumption of alcoholic beverages.  Adolf Hitler was a heavy smoker in his early life—he used to smoke 25 to 40 cigarettes daily—but gave up the habit, concluding that it was "a waste of money".  In later years, Hitler viewed smoking as "decadent"  and "the wrath of the Red Man against the White Man, vengeance for having been given hard liquor",  lamenting that "so many excellent men have been lost to tobacco poisoning".  He was unhappy because both Eva Braun and Martin Bormann were smokers and was concerned over Hermann Göring's continued smoking in public places. He was angered when a statue portraying a cigar-smoking Göring was commissioned.  Hitler is often considered to be the first national leader to advocate nonsmoking; however, James VI and I, king of Scotland and England, was openly against smoking 330 years prior.  Hitler disapproved of the military personnel's freedom to smoke, and during World War II he said on 2 March 1942, "it was a mistake, traceable to the army leadership at the time, at the beginning of the war". He also said that it was "not correct to say that a soldier cannot live without smoking". He promised to end the use of tobacco in the military after the end of the war. Hitler personally encouraged close friends not to smoke. He even began to offer a gold watch to any of his inner circle who could quit. However, Hitler's personal distaste for tobacco was only one of several catalysts behind the anti-smoking campaign.  In the twenties, many German cigarette firms went bankrupt, and the market was increasingly dominated by a few large, highly automated manufacturers. By 1933, with high unemployment, the Nazi party was attacking the tobacco industry for having foreign and Jewish connections.  The Nazi reproductive policies were a significant factor behind their anti-tobacco campaign.  The Nazi leadership wanted German women to have as many children as possible.  Articles and a major medical book published in the 1930s observed an association between smoking (in both men and women) and lower fertility, including more miscarriages.  An article published in a German gynecology journal in 1943 stated that women smoking three or more cigarettes per day were more likely to remain childless compared to nonsmoking women.   Martin Staemmler (de), a prominent physician during the Third Reich, said that smoking by pregnant women resulted in a higher rate of stillbirths and miscarriages (a claim supported by modern research, for nicotine-using mothers, fathers, and their offspring  ). This view was also promoted in a 1936 book by well-known female racial hygienist Agnes Bluhm.  Measures protecting non-smokers (especially children and mothers) from passive smoking were tied to the Nazi's desire for healthy young soldiers.  Women who smoked were viewed as unsuitable to be wives and mothers in a German family. Werner Huttig of the Nazi Party's Rassenpolitisches Amt (Office of Racial Politics) said that a smoking mother's breast milk contained nicotine,  a claim that modern research has proven correct.     Smoking women were also considered to be vulnerable to premature aging and loss of physical attractiveness  (smoking does make the skin age faster ). There was also concern that mutations caused by cigarette smoking would have irreversible long-term effects on the genetics of the population.  Research on tobacco's effects on population health were more advanced in Germany than in any other nation by the time the Nazis came to power,  but overall Nazi research into the dangers of tobacco was limited, and only of marginal scientific significance and repute.   Physicians in the Third Reich were aware that smoking was responsible for cardiac diseases, which were considered to be the most serious disease resulting from smoking. Use of nicotine was sometimes considered to be responsible for increased reports of myocardial infarction in the country. In the later years of World War II, researchers considered nicotine a factor behind the coronary heart failures suffered by a significant number of military personnel in the Eastern Front. A pathologist of the Heer examined thirty-two young soldiers who had died from myocardial infarction at the front, and documented in a 1944 report that all of them were "enthusiastic smokers". He cited the opinion of pathologist Franz Buchner that cigarettes are "a coronary poison of the first order".  The term "passive smoking" ("Passivrauchen") was coined in Nazi Germany,  by Fritz Lickint,  a researcher purged by the Nazis.   Some say that the link between lung cancer and tobacco was first proven in Nazi Germany,    contrary to the popular belief that American and British scientists first discovered it in the 1950s.  In fact, the first observational studies that linked smoking to lung cancer and other illnesses were done in Germany and eastern Europe before the Nazi takeover    (longitudinal studies establishing causality were done in the UK and US in the 1950s).  Further observational studies were done in Nazi Germany and the wartime Netherlands. Nazi Germany supported epidemiological research on the harmful effects of tobacco use.  Hitler personally gave financial support to the Wissenschaftliches Institut zur Erforschung der Tabakgefahren (Institute for Tobacco Hazards Research) at the University of Jena, in Thuringia, headed by Karl Astel.   Established in 1941, it was the most significant anti-tobacco institute in Nazi Germany.  Thuringia became a test bed for anti-smoking measures, most of which were never implemented elsewhere.  Research projects funded by the Nazis revealed some disastrous effects of smoking on health.  Franz H. Müller in 1939 and Dietrich Eberhard Schairer in 1943 first used case-control epidemiological methods to study lung cancer among smokers. [contradictory] In 1939, Müller published a study report in a reputed cancer journal in Germany which claimed that prevalence of lung cancer was higher among smokers.  Müller, described as the "forgotten father of experimental epidemiology",  was a member of the National Socialist Motor Corps (NSKK) and the Nazi Party (NSDAP). Müller's 1939 medical dissertation was the world's first controlled epidemiological study of the relationship between tobacco and lung cancer. Apart from mentioning the increasing incidence of lung cancer and many of the causes behind it such as dust, exhaust gas from cars, tuberculosis, X-ray and pollutants emitted from factories, Müller's paper pointed out that "the significance of tobacco smoke has been pushed more and more into the foreground".  After 1941, Nazi tobacco research was deliberately slowed,  along with other restrictions on anti-tobacco publications.  Post-war researchers were unaware of the earlier non-English-language studies. They therefore duplicated the case-control studies showing the association with illness before doing prospective cohort studies that established causality.  That was never a coherent Nazi policy to impede smoking. Mostly, it was based on pre-existing policies. Although in some places some stern measures were taken, there was an inconclusivenes in policy to tobacco controls. Generally, these controls were often not enforced.  Smoking bans were widely ignored.  After recognizing the harmful effects of smoking on health, several items of anti-smoking legislation were enacted.  There were many small, local anti-tobacco measures, which were often unapproved and indeed viewed negatively by the Nazi Party.  The later 1930s increasingly saw anti-tobacco laws implemented by the Nazis.   The Nazi anti-tobacco policies were not free of contradictions. For example, the Volksgesundheit (People's Health) and Gesundheitspflicht (Duty to be Healthy) policies were enforced in parallel with the active distribution of cigarettes to people who the Nazis saw as "deserving" groups (e.g. frontline soldiers, members of the Hitler Youth). On the other hand, "undeserving" and stigmatized groups (Jews, war prisoners) were denied access to tobacco.  The Nazis used several public relations tactics to convince the general population of Germany not to smoke. Well-known health magazines like the Gesundes Volk (Healthy People),  Volksgesundheit (People's Health) and Gesundes Leben (Healthy Life)  published warnings about the health consequences of smoking   and posters showing the harmful effects of tobacco were displayed. Anti-smoking messages were sent to the people in their workplaces,  often with the help of the Hitler-Jugend (HJ) and the Bund Deutscher Mädel (BDM).    The anti-smoking campaign undertaken by the Nazis also included health education.    In June 1939, a Bureau against the Hazards of Alcohol and Tobacco was formed and the Reichsstelle für Rauschgiftbekämpfung (Reich Office for Drug Control) also helped in the anti-tobacco campaign. Articles advocating nonsmoking were published in the magazines Die Genussgifte (The Recreational Stimulants), Auf der Wacht (On the Guard) and Reine Luft (Clean Air).  Out of these magazines, Reine Luft was the main journal of the anti-tobacco movement.   Karl Astel's Institute for Tobacco Hazards Research at Jena University purchased and distributed hundreds of reprints from Reine Luft.  Editorials discussing the issue of smoking and its effects were published in newspapers.  Restrictions were imposed on the advertisement of tobacco products,  enacted on 7 December 1941 and signed by Heinrich Hunke, the President of the Advertising Council. Advertisements trying to depict smoking as harmless or as an expression of masculinity were banned. Ridiculing anti-tobacco activists was also outlawed,  as was the use of advertising posters along rail tracks, in rural regions, stadiums and racing tracks. Advertising by loudspeakers and mail was also prohibited.  Nichtraucherschutz (the protection of non-smokers [from passive smoking]) was the principle behind some bans.  In 1941, tobacco smoking in trams was outlawed in sixty German cities.  In 1944, smoking in buses and city trains was made illegal,  on the personal initiative of Hitler, who feared female ticket takers might be the victims of passive smoking.   Smoking was also banned not only in health care institutions, but also in several public offices and in rest homes.  Midwives were restricted from smoking while on duty. Smoking was also outlawed in bomb shelters; however, some shelters had separate rooms for smoking.   In 1939, the Nazi Party outlawed smoking in all of its offices premises, and Heinrich Himmler, the then chief of the Schutzstaffel (SS), restricted police personnel from smoking while they were on duty.   In 1938, the Reichspost imposed a ban on smoking.   Special care was taken to prevent women from smoking. The President of the Medical Association in Germany announced, "German women don't smoke".  Pregnant women and women below the age of 25 and over the age of 55 were not given tobacco ration cards during World War II. Restrictions on selling tobacco products to women were imposed on the hospitality and food retailing industry.  Anti-tobacco films aimed at women were publicly shown. Some local measures were quite strict; for instance, one district department of the National Socialist Factory Cell Organization (NSBO) announced that it would expel female members who smoked publicly.  Some women working in arms factories, however, were given special cigarette rations.  Smoking was also outlawed in schools in 1939.  The next step in the anti-tobacco campaign came in July 1943, when public smoking for persons under the age of 18 was outlawed.     Restrictions on smoking were also introduced in the Wehrmacht. Soldiers were not issued with more than six free cigarettes per day. Extra cigarettes were often sold to the soldiers, especially when there was no military advance or retreat in the battleground; however, these were restricted to 50 for each person per month.  Non-smokers could get alternate rations, such as food and chocolate.  Teenaged soldiers serving in the 12th SS Panzer Division Hitlerjugend, composed of Hitler Youth members, were given confectionery instead of tobacco products,  although other Hitler Youth members were given cigarettes.  The Wehrmacht's female auxiliary personnel were not given cigarette rations.  Medical lectures were arranged to persuade military personnel to quit smoking.  In 1938, the Luftwaffe imposed a ban on smoking.  In 1939, Heinrich Himmler, the then chief of the Schutzstaffel (SS), restricted police personnel and SS officers from smoking while they were on duty.  The JAMA also reported that Hermann Goering had banned soldiers from smoking when on the streets, on marches, or only briefly off-duty.  The Nazi paramilitary SA was funded by cigarette royalties, and violently promoted the sales of their own cigarette brands.  A plan to establish a state tobacco monopoly in Nazi Germany was not carried out.   Efforts were made to keep cigarettes freely available. In the inter-war period, cigarettes were made with tobacco from Greece, Bulgaria, and Turkey. Pipe tobacco and cigar tobacco often came from overseas, so the war disrupted their availability.  The tobacco industry worked closely with occupying forces in the in the Crimea, where forced labour, including child labour, was used to harvest tobacco.  Forced labour was used in cigarette manufacture, with prison camps set up at some locations.  More cigarettes were made with less tobacco, to stretch the supply.  Demand was also controlled; "undeserving" groups were forbidden to enter tobacconists, and later from buying tobacco.   An ordinance enacted on 3 November 1941 raised tobacco taxes by approximately 80–95% of the retail price. It would be the highest rise in tobacco taxes in Germany until more than 25 years after the collapse of the Nazi regime.  By 1941, tobacco taxes made up about a twelfth of state income, and antismoking efforts were being discouraged.   Despite these efforts, in 1942 there was a shortage of tobacco, and 2/3 of all German tobacco factories were shut down,  some to be converted into armaments factories. Tobacco went on the ration: smokers were not allowed to buy more than a limited amount. Cigarette consumption stopped rising rapidly  and fell rapidly, although the number of smokers continued to rise.  The early anti-smoking campaign was considered a failure, and from 1933 to 1937 there was a rapid increase in tobacco consumption in Germany.  The rate of smoking in the nation increased faster even than in neighboring France, where the anti-tobacco movement was tiny and far less influential. Between 1932 and 1939, per capita cigarette consumption in Germany increased from 570 to 900 per year, while the corresponding numbers for France were from 570 to 630.   The cigarette manufacturing companies in Germany made several attempts to weaken the anti-tobacco campaign. They published new journals and tried to depict the anti-tobacco movement as "fanatic" and "unscientific".  They also made unparalleled financial contributions to Nazi causes; the Sturmabteilung and other party organizations were given six-figure sums, and the Hitler Youth were given an aircraft.  One cigarette company paid over 12.3 million reichsmarks in bribes to Hermann Göring.  Some senior Nazi officials were opposed to anti-tobacco measures. Hermann Goering publicly smoked cigars, despite Hitler's opposition.  Joseph Goebbels felt that cigarettes were essential to the war effort,  and restricted anti-tobacco propaganda, arguing that anti-smoking campaigns were incompatible with free cigarettes being issued to millions serving in the military, legal tobacco advertising, and authority figures who smoked and denied the dangers of smoking.  The tobacco industry also tried to counter the government campaign to prevent women from smoking and used smoking models in their advertisements.  Despite government regulations, many women in Germany regularly smoked, including the wives of many high-ranking Nazi officials. For instance, Magda Goebbels smoked even while she was interviewed by a journalist. Fashion illustrations displaying women with cigarettes were often published in prominent publications such as the Beyers Mode für Alle (Beyers Fashion For All). The cover of the popular song Lili Marleen featured singer Lale Andersen holding a cigarette.  While some cigarette ads had been banned from Nazi party publications due to Jewish ownership, the publications lost money, and the early party needed money for election campaigning. In June of 1932, Hitler personally made a deal for half a million marks worth of cigarette advertising.  The Nazis implemented more anti-tobacco policies at the end of the 1930s.   Tobacco consumption rose until 1942, when tobacco went on the ration, due to supply shortages. The number of smokers continued to rise, but smokers could not buy as many cigarettes, so total tobacco consumption fell.   Smoking was common in the Wehrmacht; an 1944 survey found that 87% of servicemen smoked. 10% of servicemen had begun smoking while in the military, and only seven servicemen of the thousand surveyed had given it up.  However, as in the general population, the number of smokers rose while the number of cigarettes smoked fell. As a result of the anti-tobacco measures implemented in the Wehrmacht (supply restriction, taxes, and propaganda),  the total tobacco consumption by soldiers decreased between 1939 and 1945.  Average tobacco consumption per person among military personnel declined by 23.4% compared to the immediate pre-World War II years. The number of people who smoked 30 or more cigarettes per day (well above the general theoretical maximum of 7.7 cigarettes per day)  declined from 4.4% to 0.3%.  Apart from public health concerns, the Nazis were heavily influenced by ideology;  specifically, the movement was influenced by concepts of racial hygiene and bodily purity.  Nazi leaders believed that it was wrong for the master race to smoke  and that tobacco consumption was equal to "racial degeneracy".  The Nazis viewed tobacco as a "genetic poison".  Racial hygienists opposed tobacco use, fearing that it would "corrupt" the "German germ plasm".  Nazi anti-tobacco activists often tried to depict tobacco as a vice of the degenerate Negroes.  The Nazis claimed that the Jews were responsible for introducing tobacco and its harmful effects. The Seventh-day Adventist Church in Germany announced that smoking was an unhealthy vice spread by the Jews.  Johann von Leers, editor of the Nordische Welt (Nordic World), during the opening ceremony of the Wissenschaftliches Institut zur Erforschung der Tabakgefahren in 1941, proclaimed that "Jewish capitalism" was responsible for the spread of tobacco use across Europe. He said that the first tobacco on German soil was brought by the Jews and that they controlled the tobacco industry in Amsterdam, the principal European entry point of Nicotiana.  After the collapse of Nazi Germany at the end of World War II, American cigarette manufacturers quickly entered the German black market. Illegal smuggling of tobacco became prevalent,  and the anti-smoking campaign started by the Nazis ceased to exist after the fall of the Third Reich.  In 1949, approximately 400 million cigarettes manufactured in the United States entered Germany illegally every month. In 1954, nearly two billion Swiss cigarettes were smuggled into Germany and Italy. As part of the Marshall Plan, the United States sent tobacco to Germany free of charge; the amount of tobacco shipped into Germany in 1948 was 24,000 tons and was as high as 69,000 tons in 1949.  Post-war consumption in Germany remained initially low, due to poverty.  Per capita yearly cigarette consumption in post-war Germany steadily rose from 460 in 1950 to 1,523 in 1963.  Nazi-related rhetoric associating anti-smoking measures with fascism has been fairly widely used in nicotine marketing (except in Germany, where the such comparisons have brought strong reactions). This rhetoric may be being supplanted by Taliban-related rhetoric associating anti-smoking measures with theocracy.  At the end of the 20th century, the anti-tobacco campaign in Germany was unable to approach the level of the Nazi-era climax in the years 1939–41, and German tobacco health research was described by Robert N. Proctor as "muted".  This leads to more smokers, more smoking-caused suffering and death, and much higher public health costs.   