  The MTNL Perfect Health Mela   is a five-day annual event centred around prevalent health issues and their prevention. This health fair is held between Dussehra and Diwali in the month of October every year, and features seminars, lectures, entertainment shows, health workshops, free on-ground checkups, pop–up stores, and competitions for schools,  colleges and corporates. The event aims to create mass awareness on common healthcare issues in India. The brainchild of cardiologist Dr K K Aggarwal,  the event is organised and managed by the Heart Care Foundation of India (HCFI). It is one of the most visited community health events, with a footfall of more than a lakh each year from all segments of society. Over the past two decades, the Mela has conducted many health awareness campaigns including hand hygiene, influenza management, heart health, dengue, and malaria. Perfect Health Mela  was held for the first time in 1993. This was commemorated"India Post – Govt of India" (PDF). List National Post Stamps released. </ref>. Ever since, it has continued to be a mass awareness module which attracts more than a lakh of visitors every year. Spread over five days, the event is visited by more than 15,000 to 20,000 people each day and receives extensive coverage from print and electronic media. Relying on a consumer- driven model, the mela aims to remain a medium of mass cognizance towards all aspects of health. PHM  2018 marks the grand culmination of the Silver jubilee year which began at last year's event. It will be held from 24 to 28 October 2018 at New Delhi's Talkatora Indoor Stadium.  Working with the theme ‘Affordable Healthcare for All’, the event aims to reach out an even bigger audience via counseling sessions, new and exciting challenges and competitions for students as well as corporates. Other than these entertaining programmes, PHM also celebrates and honors individuals and organizations that portray excellent leadership skills and offer exceptional services in the field of healthcare. As part of this effort, PHM hosts the Annual HCFI Awards and the Perfect CSR Awards every year. HCFI is a Not For Profit organization conceptualized in 1986 with the aim of creating mass awareness about health and sanitation among common people. The organization continues to serve humanity on a large scale by providing healthcare solutions for all. It believes in using consumer-friendly entertainment modules to disseminate knowledge and spread awareness about various aspects of healthcare. HCFI's flagship programmes include: 