 Creep is a 2014 American independent found footage horror film directed by Patrick Brice, based on a story written by Brice and Mark Duplass, and is Brice's directorial debut, as well. Creep premiered on March 8, 2014, at South by Southwest, and was released on video on demand on June 23, 2015, by The Orchard prior to an international release via Netflix on July 14, 2015.  The film follows Aaron (portrayed by Brice), a videographer who answers an ad, created by Josef (portrayed by Duplass). As they get closer together, he discovers that his client is not who he was expecting.  Aaron (Patrick Brice) is a videographer who decides to go and work for Josef (Mark Duplass) after answering his ad. All Aaron has to do is record Josef throughout the day. Aaron drives up to a secluded home up a steep driveway. After making him wait for quite a while, upon arrival, Josef insists on hugging Aaron, and insinuates there will be "more of that to come." Josef explains that the home is his family vacation home, and that he beat cancer two years earlier but now has a large brain tumor. His wife, Angela, is pregnant, and Aaron will be recording a series of videos for Josef's unborn son, as he is dying and will never be able to see him grow up. Josef tells Aaron that he and his wife are calling the baby "Buddy." Josef first request for Aaron is to record him taking a bath with "Buddy". He simulates holding a baby, then pretends to drown to scare Aaron.   Later, Josef asks Aaron to go hiking with him. While getting a jacket, Aaron is startled by a wolf mask in the closet; Josef tells him that his father used to wear the mask, pretending to be a friendly wolf named Peachfuzz. While hiking, Josef claims to know of a secret place with "healing waters" and leads Aaron to a hidden waterfall. He writes "J+A" on a large stone with a rock, drawing a heart around the initials. Throughout their time together, Josef repeatedly scares Aaron, excusing his behavior by claiming he has a "weird sense of humor." At a restaurant after their hiking trip, Aaron becomes suspicious that Josef has never been to this restaurant, or even the area. Josef asks Aaron if he has ever been ashamed of anything. Aaron tells him that as a child, he would often pee himself to a point where he wore a monitor to alert him when it became 'wet'. Josef then admits to Aaron that while Aaron was waiting for Josef's arrival, he took photos of him standing by the front door. Josef says it was only because he wanted to get to know Aaron before meeting him and apologizes profusely.  As Aaron gets ready to leave that night, Josef asks him to stay for a drink. Aaron is already suspicious of Josef's behavior and insist on leaving, but reluctantly agrees to join him. Josef asks Aaron to turn off the camera, claiming that what he was going to say was not appropriate for "Buddy"; Aaron shuts off the video but leaves the sound on. Josef tells him he lied about Peachfuzz, and he wore the wolf mask in order to "rape" his wife to confirm his suspicions about her animal pornography habit. An unsettled Aaron then attempts to leave, but is unable to find his keys. Josef tells Aaron that he should wait to leave till the morning, that it will be easier to find the keys and to sleep off the alcohol. Aaron agrees. He then drugs Josef's whiskey with Benadryl, and lays him to sleep. Josef begins to talk in his sleep, saying very disturbing things to Aaron and even begins to touch himself. Aaron attempts to search Josef for his keys when Josef's phone begins to ring. Aaron answers the phone to Josef's "wife," who tells Aaron that she is really his sister, and that her brother has problems. She insist that he leaves the house, with or without his keys. The call drops, and Aaron returns to find Josef gone. Aaron searches the home until Josef scares him again and tells him that he doesn't want to die. Aaron tells Josef that he spoke to his sister, and that he wants to help Josef. Josef becomes angry and runs back into the home. Aaron attempts to leave, but finds Josef blocking the front door with the Peachfuzz mask on. Aaron asks Josef to please let him leave, in which Josef shakes his head 'no' and begins to growl and grope the door. Aaron charges at him, and the camera shuts off. When the video resumes, Aaron reveals that he escaped and made it home, but soon received a DVD in the mail from Josef. It depicts Josef dragging filled trash bags up a hill, and burying them. Aaron thinks it is meant as a threat but does not call the police. Aaron admits that he has been having terrible nightmares about Josef wearing a wolf mask and Aaron wearing a baby mask, dancing in the waterfall they previously visited. Aaron then receives a large box with a knife and a stuffed wolf in it, as well as another DVD with a video of Josef apologizing and saying that he really cares about Aaron. Josef now repeatedly calls Aaron "Buddy" in the videos. Per Josef's instructions, Aaron rips open the stuffed wolf to find a locket with Josef's and Aaron's pictures in it. Upset, Aaron throws everything away.  Aaron decides to go to the police, which are no help due to the fact that he does not know anything about Josef, including his full name. That night, Aaron hears odd noises in his home which prompts him to investigate. As Aaron searches his home, Josef can be seen looking through the front door. Josef runs away as Aaron approaches. Aaron does not see Josef, and goes to the ally way only to find his trash knocked over. Later that night as Aaron sleeps, Josef turns on the camera and films Aaron, even cutting off a piece of Aaron's hair. Aaron wakes up to find that the screen in his window ripped, and another DVD labeled "My Last Video" next to his bed. Josef, in the video, apologizes again, revealing that he found the locket in Aaron's trash, which hurt him greatly. He claims this led to the realization that he needs help, as he is sad and needs a friend. He asks Aaron to come to a public lake by his house to talk so they could finally have "closure." His pleas move Aaron enough to compel him to go to the lake. Aaron leaves the camera rolling from his car and has 911 on speed dial just in case. Upon arrival Aaron does not find Josef, and sits on a bench overlooking the lake to wait for him. Josef is seen approaching Aaron from behind and stands there for a few moments, before putting on the Peachfuzz mask. He then sneaks closer to Aaron and reveals an axe in his hand. Still unbeknownst to Aaron, Josef stands behind Aaron with the axe over him, before he swings it into Aaron's skull, killing him instantly. Josef is then shown filming himself watching the murder tape, which he has already done several times before. He expresses admiration and even puzzlement at Aaron's naivety and kindness, and claims he loves him and considers him to be his favorite "of them all."  He puts a DVD labeled "Aaron <3" in a cabinet full of videos and DVDs with different people's names on them, as he identifies himself as Bill over the phone while speaking to yet another person about hiring them to film him. Duplass said that the film's story "was inspired by character-driven dramas that are, at their heart, two-handers: My Dinner with Andre, Misery, and Fatal Attraction" as well as "[his] myriad of strange Craigslist experiences over the years."  Brice and Duplass originally began working on Creep under the working title Peachfuzz, but chose to rename the film as the title's relevance came later in the movie's plot and they did not want viewers to "spend the first half hour trying to figure out why the movie is called Peachfuzz and [not] pay attention to the very intricate details".  The two built the movie from a series of conversations they had with one another and decided to refine Creep while they were filming, which enabled them to film and screen portions of the film to see what would or wouldn't work on camera.  As a result, the film had multiple alternate end scenarios and Duplass stated that there were "10 to 12 permutations of each scene".  Of the creative process for his character, Josef, Duplass explained "We were interested in the psychological profile of this very, very strange person. We were very interested in how you meet people and don’t quite understand what’s up, but you start to get signs. For us that was intense eye contact, lack of personal space, oversharing, maybe a little bit too much love here and there. But, for me, there’s something wrong with both of these guys. Deeply. This concept of, 'who is the creep in this scenario?'"  Creep received a world premiere at the South by Southwest Film Festival on March 8, 2014 and film rights were purchased by RADiUS-TWC shortly thereafter.   Plans for an October 2014, video on demand release fell through, when RADiUS didn't release the film.  In June 2015, The Orchard and Sony Pictures Home Entertainment (Orchard's parent company) acquired distribution rights to the film.  The film was released on June 23, 2015, on video on demand, prior to a global release on Netflix on July 14, 2015.  Creep was released on DVD on April 5, 2016 from Sony Pictures Home Entertainment.  Creep received positive reviews.   The film has a 96% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 24 reviews and with an average rating of 7.2/10, the critical consensus stating, "A smart, oddball take on found-footage horror, Creep is clever and well-acted enough to keep viewers on the edges of their seats".  On Metacritic, the film holds a rating of 74 out of 100, based on 6 reviews.  The Hollywood Reporter and Indiewire both gave the film positive reviews,  and Indiewire noted that although the film had its flaws, they mostly worked in Creep's favor.  Variety remarked that Creep "could have been more effective if Duplass’ performance were a shade more ambiguous, and the audience had a chance to at least fleetingly believe Josef might be telling the truth" but that "Despite the blatancy of his character’s ulterior motives, Duplass scores a considerable impact by making the most of the aforementioned plot twists."  In contrast, Shock Till You Drop panned the movie overall, stating that "Creep might work for those don't regularly digest horror films, but for the hardened fan, this is a film that spins its wheels all too often and feels like an exercise in self-indulgence."  Shortly after Creep's premiere at South by Southwest, Duplass announced that he intended to film a sequel and after the film distribution rights were purchased by RADiUS-TWC,  he further announced that he was planning on creating a trilogy.   In August 2014, Duplass further stated that he and Brice planned on filming the second Creep film at the end of the year, that the film's cast would be announced during that time, and that the trilogy would be completed in 2015.  However, in February 2015, Duplass commented that neither he nor Brice had been able to start filming on Creep 2 due to scheduling issues, as the careers of both men had greatly expanded since Creep's release, but that the both of them were still actively developing the project.  In May 2016, Duplass & Brice announced discussions had begun on the sequel.   In August 2016, Duplass revealed that he had begun trying on costumes for the film.  In September 2016, it was announced production had begun on the film, with Duplass returning, and Desiree Akhavan joining the cast, with Brice returning as the director.  