John Finnemore's Double Acts is a series of radio comedy programmes, written by John Finnemore. It is an anthology series of largely unconnected two-handers.   The first series of six episodes was broadcast on Radio 4 in October and November 2015. A second series of six episodes was broadcast in May, June and July 2017. The series' working title was The John Finnemore Project.  The programme was produced and directed by David Tyler.  Each episode features only two main speaking parts, apart from Finnemore himself who acts as announcer. Additional, uncredited, voices are sometimes heard briefly. Each episode is a self-contained play, though four in the first series are loosely connected by incidental details, mainly revolving around references to a fictional bath supplier called Willard & Son: "A Flock of Tigers", which is set in the 1930s, features the character Edmund Willard - the titular "son" - while "Wysinnwyg", "Hot Desk" and "Red-Handed" all involve characters who work for the company in the present day. Both "Red Handed" (which takes place over half an hour in real time) and "Hot Desk" (which takes place over a few weeks) are implied to take place within the time frame of "Wysinnwyg" (which covers several months), and contain callbacks to each other in the form of references to characters appearing in the others. The episode "A Flock of Tigers" was shortlisted for Best Scripted Comedy Drama in the BBC Audio Drama Awards 2016. The episode "English for Pony Lovers" won the Writers Guild of Great Britain Award for Best Comedy in January 2017.  On a train in 1934, Edmund – a father who is unable to use his imagination – is helped to do so by Dolorosa. In the Sales Support Department of Willard & Son Bath Suppliers, Kerry meets an obstinate new boss, Adele, whom she must deal with in order to climb up the corporate ladder. Joel comes home early from work one day to find Henry, an older man, robbing him. In 1820, in the vestry of St Anne's church in the village of Mayton Chennett, Luke is attempting to use Mark as a model for a stained glass window of David and Goliath. In a small town in Germany, Lorna attempts to give Elke an English lesson. At Willard & Son Bath Suppliers, at precisely seven in the morning and seven in the evening, receptionist Sarah and security guard Barnaby meet to swap ownership of a desk each day, which blossoms into an unusual relationship. At her holiday home on the Isle of Wight, Queen Victoria is introduced to Mabel, who brings with her a machine for recording sound. When Malcolm asks Sue for some money to get to Winchester to visit a family member in hospital, he doesn't expect her to drive him there herself. Eileen and Lizzie, seated together at a wedding, plot to upstage the wedding's organizer, Yvonne, during the reception. Just after World War II, British official Bunning and Danish official (and penguin enthusiast) Søndergaard have a friendly bicker over a small island. Pidge, a college student, recruits his younger friend Gavin to help him steal something from Clare College, Cambridge. In a signal box in Wroxton, Alec notices something unusual about Percy and attempts to deduce what's going on.  