Lennart Möller is a professor of environmental medicine at the Karolinska Institute in  Stockholm, Sweden.   He  received  a doctor's degree in Medical sciences from the Karolinska Institute in 1988, with a thesis "2-nitrofluorene, in vivo metabolism and assessment of cancer risk of an air pollutant"   He is the editor and author of several books in popular sciences and theology covering urban air quality, cancer, environmental medicine, ethics, and photography.   He is the deputy chairman of the board for the Lennart Nilsson Award,  an international prize in scientific photography. He is a signatory  to the A Scientific Dissent From Darwinism statement issued in 2001 by the Discovery Institute, a conservative Christian think tank based in Seattle, Washington, US, best known for its advocacy of intelligent design. The statement expresses skepticism about the ability of random mutations and natural selection to account for the complexity of life, and encourages careful examination of the evidence for "Darwinism", a term intelligent design proponents use to refer to evolution.  Its claims have been rejected by the scientific community.   Möller is also the author of The Exodus Case, a 448-page book published in 2002 and revised and expanded in 2008.  The book expounds Moller's theory about the route of the biblical Exodus from Egypt, in particular that a mountain called Jabal al-Lawz in Saudi Arabia is the biblical Mount Sinai.   A review by Swedish archaeologist Martin Rundkvist stated that "Möller emphasizes that he is neither a theologian, a historian nor an archaeologist." and concludes with "The Exodus Case is such an extreme example of pseudo-science that any reasonably well-informed reader will wonder if Möller is joking."  A review on the Studiengemeinschaft Wort und Wissen (Study Community Word and Knowledge) website, whose members take a literal approach to the Bible, stated that it contained such "serious substantive and methodological errors" that it could not be recommended while agreeing that the Exodus took place. Peter van der Veen and Uwe Zerbst specifically criticized his identification of Jabal al-Lawz with Mount Sinai and a number of the geographical locations he thought to be part of the Exodus route.  