Robert M. Schoch is an American associate professor of Natural Sciences at the College of General Studies, Boston University. Since 1991, Schoch has been a proponent of the fringe Sphinx water erosion hypothesis. Schoch received a BA in Anthropology and a BS in Geology from George Washington University in 1979. He was awarded MS and PhD degrees in Geology and Geophysics from Yale University (PhD, 1983).   Schoch's PhD dissertation, Systematics, Functional Morphology and Macroevolution of the Extinct Mammalian Order Taeniodonta, was published in 1986 by the Peabody Museum of Natural History.  Schoch has taught at Boston University since 1984. He is an associate professor of Natural Sciences at the College of General Studies, a two-year core curriculum for bachelor's degree candidates. He teaches undergraduate science courses, including biology, geology, environmental science, geography, and science and public policy. He has received his college's Peyton Richter Award for interdisciplinary teaching.  He is a co-author of the college textbook Environmental Science: Systems and Solutions, now in its fifth edition.  In 1993, Schoch lent his name to a genus of extinct mammals, Schochia, of which Schochia sullivani is the genoholotype.  Schoch is best known for his fringe argument that the Great Sphinx of Giza is much older than conventionally thought and that possibly some kind of catastrophe was responsible for wiping out evidence of a significantly older civilization. In 1991, Schoch redated the famous monument to 10,000–5,000 BC, based on his argument that its erosion was due mainly to the effects of water, rather than wind and sand, and also based on findings from seismic studies around the base of the Sphinx and elsewhere on the plateau.    These conclusions do not have consensus in the scientific community. Schoch's arguments were featured in the 1993 documentary The Mystery of the Sphinx, which was aired by NBC and presented by Charlton Heston. Schoch stars in the film alongside author John Anthony West.  Schoch also claims that possibly all pyramids — in Egypt, Mesoamerica and elsewhere — represent, with other cultural commonalities, a much older global culture, either through common inheritance or ancient cultural contact around the world. In 2006, at the invitation of the locals, he investigated the so-called Bosnian pyramid excavations north of Sarajevo, but he concluded that the site held "absolutely no evidence of pyramids per se or of a great ancient civilization in the Visoko region."  He is also known for his research on the Yonaguni underwater monuments, where he has dived on several occasions, beginning in 1997. His conclusion from analyzing the formations is that this is a natural site modified by humans to suit their needs. Robert M. Schoch: "We should also consider the possibility that the Yonaguni Monument is fundamentally a natural structure that was utilized, enhanced, and modified by humans in ancient times."  Schoch contributed an essay to Lost Secrets of the Gods, a book which argues for the existence of ancient astronauts.  He has appeared on Coast to Coast AM.  Another of his interests is the study of parapsychology. Schoch has stated that he believes psychokinesis and telepathy to potentially be real.  Mark Lehner, an archaeologist and expert on the Sphinx, has criticized Schoch's claims, stating, "You don't overthrow Egyptian history based on one phenomenon like a weathering profile... that is how pseudoscience is done, not real science."  Geologist/geophysicist Robert Schneiker gave a presentation for the "Wednesday Nite @ The Lab" series of lectures of the University of Wisconsin - Madison on 2017.11.01 titled: "The Great Sphinx, From the Eocene to the Anthropocene" . His presentation contradicts the findings of Robert Schoch. Based on geologic and geotechnical evidence he concludes that the age of the Sphinx is 4500 yrs and therefore the conventional archeological view is right. Historian Ronald H. Fritze has described Schoch as a "pseudohistorical and pseudoscientific writer".  Schoch has been criticized for his unorthodox ideas that Göbekli Tepe, an ancient civilization revealed in an archeological site in present-day Turkey, was influenced by a solar event that may have been witnessed at Easter Island in the Pacific west of South America. Author Jason Colavito suggested he "abandons all reality in favor of a bizarre fantasy."  