The Choking Doberman is an urban legend that originated in the United States . Urban legends are, as Patricia T. O'Conner of The New York Times described, "fictitious narratives that are passed from person to person in the guise of true stories and sometimes persist until they reach the status of folklore."  The story of the choking doberman fits into this category of folklore and generally involves a protective pet found by its owner gagging on human fingers lodged in its throat. As the story unfolds, the dog's owner discovers an intruder whose hand is bleeding from the dog bite.  Jan Harold Brunvand, a folklorist and professor emeritus of English at the University of Utah,  wrote about this and other urban legends in his book The Choking Doberman and Other "New" Urban Legends   published in 1984 by W.W. Norton & Company.  He provided the reader with several varying accounts of the story. While the basic elements of the story remain the same in each version, the details, such as the number of fingers found, the breed of dog, and the condition of the intruder when discovered change slightly.  A woman goes out for the evening with friends. Upon her return, she is greeted by her pet Doberman choking in the hallway. Alarmed, she takes the pet to the veterinarian. The vet announces that he must perform a tracheotomy on the animal and he will call her when he has news. When the woman arrives home, the vet calls and tells her to leave the house at once. The dog was choking on three human fingers. The woman calls the police, who search the house. They discover the burglar, hiding in a closet, passed out from blood loss caused by having three fingers bitten off. In his book Brunvard cites an 1800 CE fable about Llewellyn and his dog Gellert as the oldest known ancestor of the story.  In that story the prince Llewellyn leaves his son at home with his guardian dog Gellert. Upon returning from hunting the hound greets him with a bloody face and he, thinking the animal has eaten the child, immediately slays it. When he investigates the nursery the prince discovers the child playing with the hair of a slain wolf that Gellert had saved the baby from.  In her 1992 paper The Ambiguous Guardians Adrienne Mayor cites the fifth century CE narrative The Omen of the Wolf as an earlier echo of both the 1800 fable and the urban legend as it is today. In this myth the emperor Honorius's retinue was attacked by a pair of wolves. When the beasts were killed they were found to have a pair of human hands in their bellies. Their aggressive behavior - coupled with the awful last meal - were taken as a sinister sign and rumors lit a panic in Rome. The emperor's official propagandist, Claudian, attempted to counter the popular understanding of the sign with his poem The Gothic War.  The first verifiable appearance of the legend is in the Phoenix New Times on June 24, 1981, pictured to the right. From the article, in part  : Gagging Dog Story Baffles Police Ronald B. Tobias cites the story as an example of oral tradition that through repeated retelling has become plot perfect.  This story appears in the 1991 Judith Gorog novel On Meeting Witches at Wells.  There is a margarita named the Choking Doberman made with habañero-infused tequila at Big Daddy's in Massapequa, New York.  The story also appears in Season 1, episode 1 of Mostly True Stories?: Urban Legends Revealed from 21:00 to 28:55 :move to refs Urban Legends Season 1 Episode 1 on YouTube 