Folk epidemiology of autism refers to the popular beliefs about the origin of autism.  Without direct knowledge of autism, a rare and complex disease, members of the public are influenced by rumors and misinformation presented in the mass media and repeated on social media and the internet.   These misinformed beliefs persist even when contradicted by scientific evidence.   Folk epidemiology persists because people seek, receive, and preferentially believe information that is consistent with their existing views;  misjudge the reliability of their sources of information, and are misled by anecdotal evidence;   and tend not to revise their opinions even when their original sources of information are shown to be wrong.  The scientific consensus is the MMR vaccine has no link to the development of autism, and that the vaccine's benefits greatly outweigh its risks.  Folk beliefs that the MMR vaccine causes autism led to a sharp drop in rates of vaccination in the UK and Ireland after 1998 and corresponding increases in the incidence of vaccine-preventable childhood illnesses, disability, and death.   In 1998 Andrew Wakefield published a fraudulent article in a The Lancet, a prominent British medical journal, claiming that the MMR vaccines caused autism.  Although the article was later retracted, the idea that vaccines cause autism became a major news story.  By the time that scientists had shown the narrative to be false, it had become part of the folk epidemiology of autism.   The narrative was easy to understand and apparently consistent with anecdotal evidence of children receiving autism diagnoses shortly after having been vaccinated. Doctors were highly critical of the media coverage for triggering a decline in vaccination rates.  The false belief has persisted despite a public information campaign aimed at making parents aware that by refusing vaccinations they are putting their children at risk of contracting infectious diseases that are frequently fatal.  Observers have criticized the involvement of mass media in the controversy alleging that the media provided Wakefield's study with more credibility than it deserved.  Endorsements by celebrities such as Jenny McCarthy and Robert F. Kennedy Jr. were highly publicized.  Later commentary faulted the coverage for giving a misleading impression of the degree to which the evidence supported a link between the MMR vaccine and autism.     The scientific consensus is that the MMR vaccine has no link to the development of autism, and that the vaccine's benefits greatly outweigh its risks.  The false belief that the MMR vaccine causes autism led to a sharp drop in rates of vaccination in the UK and Ireland after 1998, creating a major public health risk. Lower vaccination rates were followed by increases in the incidence of measles and mumps, and the resulting cases of permanent disability and death.  Public fears about vaccination have consumed resources that might otherwise have advanced research into the real causes of autism.  There have been thirteen studies that properly followed the scientific method and contained large numbers of participants that failed to connect autism to the MMR vaccine.  There have been seven well-constructed studies that have attempted to link autism to thiomersal in vaccines and were unsuccessful.  Special interest groups continue to push for more research on the link between vaccines and autism.   Further research motivated by the folk epidemiology of autism would represent a lost opportunity to investigate autism's true causes.  