 "Homosexual recruitment" and similar derogatory terms are used to describe the belief that lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people engage in deliberate attempts to convert otherwise heterosexual people into adopting a "gay lifestyle". Allegations of such recruitment have been used in opposition to institutionalized HIV prevention programs, anti-bullying legislation, anti-discrimination laws, in-school discussions of feminism and LGBT rights, and against the establishment of Gay-Straight Alliance school programs. They are seen as part of a larger narrative by opponents of LGBT rights to further the myth of gay people being predators.   "Homosexual recruitment" and similar terms refer to the allegation that LGBT people engage in a concerted effort to indoctrinate children into being LGBT as well,  and becoming, according to some social conservatives and Christian right groups, part of a "lifestyle that can kill them".  Supporters of recruitment allegations point at "deviant"  and "prurient" sex education as evidence. They express concern that anti-bullying efforts teach that "homosexuality is normal, and that students shouldn't harass their classmates because they're gay", suggesting recruitment as the primary motivation.  Supporters of this theory cite the inability for same-sex couples to reproduce as a motivation for recruitment.     Critics of the term describe it as an anti-gay myth,   and a fear-inducing bogeyman.  Many critics believe the term promotes the myth of homosexuals as pedophiles.   In a 1990 New York Times piece, gay writer David Leavitt criticized the term stating, "Of course, to any gay person who, as a frightened and confused teenager, searched desperately for books or films or television shows that offered even a mention of homosexual experience to latch on to, the idea of gay 'recruitment' is laughable. It is also profoundly insulting."  LGBT pride parades are often denounced as a homosexual recruitment attempt.    The term tends to be used in the context of opposition to LGBT rights, policies which present LGBT behaviour as acceptable, and any discussion (referred to as 'promotion') in schools and in sex education. Some examples: The term has been the target of critical parody.   In 1998, The Onion addressed the term with a satire entitled "'98 Homosexual-Recruitment Drive Nearing Goal", saying "Spokespersons for the National Gay & Lesbian Recruitment Task Force announced Monday that more than 288,000 straights have been converted to homosexuality since January 1, 1998, putting the group well on pace to reach its goal of 350,000 conversions by the end of the year."    The Westboro Baptist Church and other groups, apparently believing it accurate, passed along the story as fact.   The WBC cited the piece as evidence of a gay conspiracy.  Category:LGBT culture 