Coordinates: 41°N 3°E﻿ / ﻿41°N 03°E﻿ / 41; 03 The Montauk Project is a conspiracy theory that an alleges there were a series of secret United States government projects conducted at Camp Hero or Montauk Air Force Station on Montauk, Long Island, for the purpose of developing psychological warfare techniques and exotic research including time travel. The story of the Montauk Project originated in the Montauk Project series of books by Preston Nichols which intermixes those stories with stories about the Philadelphia Experiment.   Stories about the Montauk Project have circulated since the early 1980s. According to UFO researcher Jacques Vallée, the Montauk Experiment stories seem to have originated with the account of Preston Nichols, who claimed to have recovered repressed memories of his own involvement and claims that he is periodically abducted to continue his participation against his will.    Nichols, born May 24, 1946 on Long Island, New York, claims to have degrees in parapsychology, psychology, and electrical engineering,  and he has authored a series of books, known as the Montauk Project series, along with Peter Moon, the primary topic of which is alleged activities at Montauk.  These center on topics including United States government/military experiments in fields such as time travel, teleportation, mind control, contact with alien life and staging faked Apollo Moon landings, framed as developments which followed a successful 1943 Philadelphia Experiment.  These culminate in "a hole ripped in space-time" in 1983. The authors have encouraged speculation about the contents; for example, they wrote, "Whether you read this as science fiction or non-fiction you are in for an amazing story" in their first chapter,  describing much of the content as "soft facts" in a Guide For Readers and publishing a newsletter with updates to the story. The work has been characterized as fiction.  In 2015 Montauk Chronicles, a film adaptation of the conspiracy featuring Preston Nichols, Al Bielik, and Stewart Swerdlow, was released online and on DVD and Blu-ray. The film won the best documentary award at the Philip K. Dick Film Festival in New York City  and has been featured on Coast to Coast AM  and The Huffington Post.  The Netflix TV series Stranger Things was allegedly inspired by the Montauk Project, and at one time Montauk was used as its working title.     The Montauk story also features prominently in Thomas Pynchon's 2013 novel Bleeding Edge. 