The Muhlenberg legend is an urban legend in the United States and Germany.  According to the legend, the single vote of Frederick Muhlenberg, the first ever Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, prevented German from becoming an official language of the United States. The kernel of truth behind this legend is a vote in the United States House of Representatives in 1794, after a group of German immigrants asked for the translation of some laws into German.  This petition was debated by the House of Representatives without a decision made  and a vote to adjourn and consider the recommendation at a later date was defeated by one vote, 42 to 41. There was no vote on an actual bill, merely a vote on whether or not to adjourn. Because the motion to adjourn did not pass, the matter was dropped.   It was from this roll call on adjournment that the “German missed becoming the official language of the USA by one vote” legend sprang.   Muhlenberg (of German descent himself, who had not voted in the roll call) was later quoted as having said "the faster the Germans become Americans, the better it will be."   The United States has no statutory official language; English has been used on a de facto basis, owing to its status as the country's predominant language.  At times various states have passed their own official language laws.  The legend has a long history, and led to a number of analyses and articles published from the late 1920s into the early 1950s explaining why the story was not true.     The story was dubbed the "Muhlenberg legend" by at least the late 1940s.  Nevertheless, the legend persists.    For example, in 1987, a letter from a former election official in Missouri emphasized the importance of voting in an Ann Landers column.  He included a list of events allegedly decided by one vote from his local election manual, including that “in 1776, one vote gave America the English language instead of German."  (In fact, versions of this error-filled list long predate the 1987 Ann Landers mention.)  This led to another round of news stories again pointing out that this was a myth.   Oblivious to corrections of this sort, Ann Landers ran the same list again in November 1996.   A chorus of dismayed responses caused Landers to clear up the matter in a subsequent column.  According to one letter writer, who begged Landers to "stomp out that piece of fiction wherever you encounter it," the myth gained traction in the 1930s due to the work of Nazi propagandists.   Another version of the myth, which puts the vote in 1774 by the Continental Congress, appeared in Ripley's Believe It or Not! as early as 1930.   Ripley's included the myth in a 1982 book as well.  Ripley's version credits the story to an alleged letter by Heinrich Melchior Muhlenberg published in Halle in 1887.  Most accounts credit Franz von Löher as the source of the legend.  Löher was a German visitor to the United States who published the book Geschichte und Zustände der Deutschen in Amerika (History and Achievements of the Germans in America) in 1847.  Löher seemingly placed the crucial vote only in Pennsylvania, to make German the official language of that state, not the United States as a whole.  (Philadelphia was where the U.S. Congress sat at the time, but it was also the capital of Pennsylvania.  To further confuse matters, Muhlenburg did serve as Speaker of the Pennsylvania House before serving in that title for the U.S. Congress.)  According to Löher, the vote was tied, and Muhlenberg cast the tie-breaking vote for English.  