The Sports Illustrated cover jinx is an urban legend that states that individuals or teams who appear on the cover of the Sports Illustrated magazine will subsequently be jinxed (experience bad luck). While the list of "examples" (link is to unrelated subject) of the jinx may be extensive, an individual record of 50 cover appearances  by Michael Jordan did not hinder his success. Similarly, Vince Young also overcame the Sports Illustrated jinx by appearing on the cover of Sports Illustrated twice during Texas' National Championship season;  Emmitt Smith appeared on the cover the same week the Dallas Cowboys won Super Bowl XXVIII. In the America's Game documentary, Smith recalled that he adamantly wanted off the cover for fear of the jinx. Regardless, the Cowboys went on to win their second consecutive title of the 1990s, and fourth in team history. Tony Dorsett appeared on the cover under the title of "Heading for the Heisman" in 1976 and indeed won the Heisman Trophy that year. Andrew McCutchen was featured on a September 2013 cover, during a season in which he later won the National League MVP Award and led the Pittsburgh Pirates to their first playoff berth in twenty years.  The 2013 Seattle Seahawks appeared on a September 2013 cover in which the magazine predicted a Super Bowl XLVIII win for the team; indeed, the Seahawks won the Super Bowl the following February. The cover of the June 30, 2014 issue predicted that the Houston Astros would win the 2017 World Series; not only did the Astros win the World Series in 2017, but the MVP of that series was George Springer, who was featured on said cover. Stephen Curry was featured on two consecutive May 2015 covers and led the Golden State Warriors to their first NBA title in forty years. Kyrie Irving was featured on the June 6, 2016 cover and led the Cleveland Cavaliers to their first NBA title in franchise history. Usain Bolt was featured on the July 18, 2016 cover promoting his quest as the fastest human ever and won gold in the 100, 200, and 4x100 meter relay at the 2016 Rio Olympics. The Chicago Cubs appeared on the October 10, 2016 cover in which the magazine predicted a 2016 World Series win for the team; indeed, the Cubs won the World Series. Lamar Jackson appeared on the September 26, 2016 issue and later won the Heisman Trophy that year. A common explanation for the perceived effect is that athletes are generally featured on the cover after an exceptionally good performance, which might be an outlier compared to their usual level of performance. Therefore, their future performance is likely to display regression toward the mean and be less impressive by comparison.  This decline in performance would then be misperceived as being related to, or even possibly caused by, the appearance on the magazine cover. Most athletes that suffered the jinx most likely suffered because of an injury to their body, or some other bad luck following their appearance. One prime candidate for this explanation is Eddie Mathews who suffered a broken hand while the team's nine game winning streak came to a close following the cover.  In this case, the odds are that a player will suffer an injury while playing any given sport with injuries a given in a physical contact sport such American football or baseball which is what Mathews played.  Even injuries in individual sports such as skiing can fall under this explanation as it is common to make a bad move in this sport and get caught up in a massive mistake of the athlete's own doing which results in injury.  Finally, winning and losing streaks come to a close in all sports and this includes Milwaukee's 9 game winning streak in 1954.  This makes the 1972 Miami Dolphins perfect season, 2007 New England Patriots perfect regular season, and the 2008 Detroit Lions winless season all the more remarkable. SI addressed its own opinions on the "alleged" cover jinx in a 2002 issue that featured a black cat on the cover.  