Global Leadership is the interdisciplinary study of the key elements that future leaders in all realms of the personal experience should acquire to effectively familiarize themselves with the psychological, physiological, geographical, geopolitical, anthropological and sociological effects of globalization. Global leadership occurs when an individual or individuals navigate collaborative efforts of different stakeholders through environmental complexity towards a vision by leveraging a global mindset. As a result of trends, starting with colonialism and perpetuated by the increase in mass media, innovation, (brought about by the Internet and other forms of human interaction based on the speed of computer-mediation) a host of meaningful new concerns face mankind; consisting of but not limited to: human enterprises toward peace, international business design, and significant shifts in geopolitical paradigms.  The talent and insight it will take leaders to successfully navigate humanity through these developments have been collectively focused around the phenomenon of globalization   in order to embrace and effectively guide the evolution of mankind through the continued blurring and integration of national, economic and social strategies . A set of 40 general cross-cultural learning statements (knowledge, skills, and personal characteristics) were recommended by a DoD focus group in order to foster the career development of cross-cultural competence in military and civilian personnel.  Hofstede has performed research for several decades that continues to impact research in global and international arenas of global leadership.  Hofstede’s research is primarily focused on how values in the workplace are influenced by culture. According to him, all behaviors are determined by culture. In his definition; culture is ‘the collective programming of the mind distinguishing the members of one group or category of people from others.’ To conduct his research, he analyzed a large database of employee value scores collected within IBM between years 1967 and 1973. There is over 70 countries in the data. Hofstede’s primary tenants of culture differentiation are summed up through his research more elaborately, but primarily consist of:  In his model, he identified six dimensions of national culture based on his research. Those dimensions are also used to differentiate countries from each other, based on how countries score on the six dimensions. The scale of scores range from 0 – 100. If a score is below 50 it is considered as Low and if it is higher than 50 it is considered as High in that dimension. Here, although countries are represented with a score, the scores are relative and cannot represent unique individuals. In other words, ‘culture can be only used meaningfully by comparison.’ The relevant scores are proven to be stable over time. Forces that cause cultures to shift are global and therefore is there is something effecting the culture in a country, it actually effects many countries at the same time in the world. The model consists of six dimensions; which are Power Distance, Individualism, Masculinity vs Femininity, Uncertainty Avoidance, Long Term Orientation vs Short Term Normative Orientation and Indulgence vs Restraint. Furthermore, he has published several books and academic articles on the subject in order to light the way for global business leaders as well as academic researchers. The GLOBE (Global Leadership and Organizational Behavior Effectiveness Research) project took Hofstede’s original 1980 research findings (Hofstede, 1980) and dedicated an entire academic effort into exploring the differences of cultures (Hofstede, 1980). “Conceived in 1991 by Robert J. House of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and led by Professor House, the GLOBE Project directly involved 170 “country co-investigators” based in 62 of the world’s cultures as well as a 14-member group of coordinators and research associates. This international team collected data from 17,300 middle managers in 951 organizations. They used qualitative methods to assist their development of quantitative instruments. ”  The research identified nine cultural competencies and grouped the 62 countries into ten convenient societal clusters (Javidan & Dastmalchian, 2009). The GLOBE researchers used acquired data to put nations into cultural clusters that are grouped based upon cultural similarities due to shared geography and climate conditions, which all influence perceptions and behavior: Anglo Cultures England, Australia, South Africa (white sample), Canada, New Zealand, Ireland, United States Arab Cultures Algeria, Qatar, Morocco, Egypt, Kuwait, Libya, Tunisia, Lebanon, Syria, Yemen, Jordan, Iraq, UAE, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Oman Confucian Asia Taiwan, Singapore, Hong Kong, South Korea, China, Japan, Vietnam Eastern Europe Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Serbia, Greece, Slovenia, Albania, Russia Germanic Europe Dutch-speaking (Netherlands, Belgium and Dutch-speaking France) German-speaking (Austria, German-speaking Switzerland, Germany, South Tyrol, Liechtenstein) Latin America Costa Rica, Venezuela, Ecuador, Mexico, El Salvador, Colombia, Guatemala, Bolivia, Brazil, Argentina Latin Europe Italy, Portugal, Spain, France, Switzerland (French and Italian speaking) Nordic Europe Finland, Sweden, Denmark Southern Asia Pakistan, India, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Iran, Philippines, Turkey Sub-Sahara Africa Namibia, Zambia, Zimbabwe, South Africa (Black Sample), Nigeria The nine GLOBE cultural competencies are: After extensive review of the research the GLOBE strategically grouped over 21 primary leadership dimensions into six encompassing dimensions of global leadership and made recommendation about how the dimensions of culture and leadership could distinguish influences of one country from another. The six Globe dimensions of culturally endorsed implicit leadership (CLT) are: As globalization continues to thrive and change, the concept of global leadership will adapt to serve the best interest of a world being made incrementally smaller. 