Modern studies is a subject unique to the Scottish secondary school curriculum. The focus of Modern Studies is to develop learners' knowledge and understanding of contemporary political and social issues in local, Scottish, United Kingdom and international contexts.  Modern Studies is offered both at National Qualification level and also in the Broad General Education stage of Scottish education. Pupils in primary school and up to S3 in secondary school have the opportunity to study Modern Studies concepts through the 'People in Society, Economy and Business' area of the broader Social Studies Curriculum for Excellence experiences and outcomes.   In the Senior Phase, Modern Studies is offered as a discrete subject. Ray Gunnion, history teacher in Brannock High School until 2004, was largely involved in introducing Modern Studies into the Scottish Education system as he felt it was a valuable subject for kids in Scotland. Modern Studies helps you develop knowledge and understanding of the processes that determine political, social and economic life. These processes are studied locally, nationally and internationally. Modern Studies helps you develop important skills. For example you will become better at critically evaluating information, analysing complex sources and report writing. In some instances, the skills involved in using information technology will also be developed. Together, the knowledge you acquire and the skills you develop will allow you to become a more informed individual, able to participate more effectively in society in a more tolerant and responsible manner. Common study themes exist across Modern Studies qualifications, from Broad General Education to Senior Phase. Pupils are given the opportunity to learn about the democratic processes of the United Kingdom with a focus on either UK democracy or Scottish democracy.  This includes examining rights and responsibilities, the political process, participation and representation at various levels. Pupils examine social issues in society using sociological processes.  The focus of this unit is either Social Inequality or Crime and the Law. A focus on social inequalities would examine issues of health, education, income and wealth inequalities in the UK by studying selected groups such as the unemployed, working poor, women, children, the elderly, LBGT* people, BME people and others. A focus on Crime and the Law would explore the types of crime committed in the UK, the sociological and individualistic theories of the causes of crime, the impact of crime and attempts to tackle crime.  The unit would examine the role of the criminal justice system, the police and the government. The International Issues unit is intended to broaden the scope of pupils' experiences to international contexts.  The focus of this unit will examine either a World Power or a World Issue. A focus on a World Power will consist of a socioeconomic and political study of a G20 country (excluding the United Kingdom).  This focus will be on the country's constitutional arrangements and opportunities for participation, the nature of recent socioeconomic issues and attempts to revolve them and the international influence of the world power. A focus on a World Issue would put in the spotlight a contemporary significant conflict or issue which extends beyond the borders of a single country and has had impacts regionally or globally.  Examples of areas of study in this area would be terrorism or the Syrian Civil War.  A study of a world issue would focus on the causes of, the impacts of and attempts to resolve the issue. All schools in Scotland follow the 3-18 Curriculum for Excellence. Modern Studies is not offered as a discrete subject at primary school level, rather, it is delivered within the integrated Social Studies curricular area (which also encompasses history and geography themes).  In the early, first and second stages (P1-P7); pupils are introduced to social studies key themes and are encouraged to develop analytical and evaluative skills. Each school has the freedom to develop a course to suit the needs and interests of both pupils and teachers within the parameters of the Social Studies Experiences and Outcomes. Modern Studies is offered at National 3, 4 & 5 levels and at Higher and Advanced Higher.  There is scope for a great deal of personalisation and choice across the NQ levels within the Course Assessment Specification. There are three areas of study and within these areas, teachers have the opportunity to teach a number of combinations of topic; these are: At Advanced Higher level, there is a greater emphasis on depth of knowledge and so, one area of study is chosen from: Political Issues OR Law and Order OR Social Inequality.  At each level above National 3, there also exists the requirement for pupils to complete an independent research project under the supervision of their teacher.  This project makes up some of the final overall award. Modern Studies does not exist as a separate subject at University level though it is a sound basis for further study of a range of subjects from which Modern Studies is composed, such as Crime and the Law, Politics, International Relations, Sociology, Criminology, Economics, Social Policy and Public Policy. Education in Scotland 