Unifight (or Universal Fight) is a competitive training system with military applications.  The competition is formed of two consecutive stages: the first stage is an obstacle course with close quarters battle - any missed obstacle disqualifies the contestant; the second stage is a bout of full contact hand to hand combat. In the last 10-20 years in the development of martial arts there fundamentally new trend - the emergence of new species based on the integration and aggregation from other sports. For example, in the middle of the 1990s in Russia appeared Unifight (Unifight) - a comprehensive view including the consistent application of exercises on an obstacle course, shooting airguns, sporting knives and hand-to-hand fight in the ring. This sport, originally emerged as a military application, has become quite popular not only in the power structures of various countries, but in the world. The members of the International Amateur Federation Unifight are 32 countries, held 13 World Championships, which were attended by athletes from 35 countries worldwide. Since 2008, every year regularly conducted nationwide and international competitions on "Unifight" among children 10-11 and 12-13 years old (light- unifight). It allows you to reach regular training and competitions are a significant part of children, adolescents and youth, introduce them to healthy lifestyles, improve their active recreation, to distract from the outdoor elements. Also annually, the championships of Russia, Europe and World among boys and girls 14-15, 16-17 years (according to light - and the classic Unifight), Championship of Russia, Europe and the World Juniors and Juniors 18-20 years (according to the rules Light - Unifight and classic Unifight), European, Asian and World Championships among men and women (according to light - and classic Unifight). Novikov Sergei is the President of the International Amateur Federation "Unifight" and the International Amateur Federation "Winter Unifight", Olympic judo champion. Unifight is not a fighting style.  It is a method of training and control where all that matters is the application of notions and skills learned in a full-contact system, under circumstances of stress and effort. Unifight  consists of two consecutive stages of physical challenge:  In the first stage, competitors complete the obstacle course on parallel tracks. The first contestant to complete the course is the winner of the first stage and is awarded 1 point. If a contestant fails to overcome any of the obstacles on the third try, then he/she is disqualified. One minute after completing the first stage, the winner is called into the ring for the one-on-one combat in the second stage.  The number of rounds in the second stage is set according to age categories (children, youth, seniors, boys, girls) and contestants’ skills. The duration of the rounds is set according to the competition level and the level of training the contestants have achieved, as defined in the rules and regulations).  The obstacle course must include 10 elements. These elements must involve force and resistance tasks, mandatory official itineraries, and weapon handling challenges. The elements are defined by the competition's rules and regulations, and must be completed in accordance with those rules and regulations. The obstacle course is 60 m in length and includes the following elements: The steps for completing the obstacle course are: The finish line is located next to the ring used in the second stage. (Internationally known champion Sergei Kharitonov appears in the pictures above.) The fight in the ring consists of unarmed combat between two fighters using techniques and elements from other full contact sports within the limits set by the rules and regulations. At the end of the combat, the winner is the contestant who has prevailed in the most rounds, by KO, or (in the case of the adversary having been choked or having broken an arm or a leg) by forfeit of the adversary.  Practitioners of any full-contact fighting sport, (judo, sambo, boxing, kickboxing, savate, jujutsu, wrestling, BJJ, Muay Thai, MMA), regardless of style, can participate in Universal Fight.  