 This article lists inventions and discoveries made by scientists with Pakistani nationality within Pakistan and outside the country, as well as those made in the territorial area of what is now Pakistan prior to the independence of Pakistan in 1947. Pakistan was the seat of ancient learning and some consider Taxila to be an early university       or centre of higher education,  others do not consider it a university in the modern sense,       in contrast to the later Nalanda University.    Takshashila is described in some detail in later Jātaka tales, written in Sri Lanka around the 5th century CE.  Generally, a student entered Taxila at the age of sixteen. The Vedas and the Eighteen Arts, which included skills such as archery, hunting, and elephant lore, were taught, in addition to its law school, medical school, and school of military science.  "Thus the various centres of learning in different parts of the country became affiliated, as it were, to the educational centre, or the central university, of Taxila which exercised a kind of intellectual suzerainty over the wide world of letters in India." "In the early centuries the centre of Buddhist scholarship was the University of Taxila". "Kautilya was also a Professor of Politics and Economics at Taxila University. Taxila University is one of the oldest known universities in the world and it was the chief learning centre in ancient India." "This shows that Taxila was a seat not of elementary, but higher, education, of colleges or a university as distinguished from schools." "It may be observed at the outset that Taxila did not possess any colleges or university in the modern sense of the term." "We come across several Jātaka stories about the students and teachers of Takshaśilā, but not a single episode even remotely suggests that the different 'world-renowned' teachers living in that city belonged to a particular college or university of the modern type." "Taxila, besides being a provincial seat, was also a centre of learning. It was not a university town with lecture halls and residential quarters, such as have been found at Nalanda in the Indian state of Bihar." 