  Helen King is Professor Emerita of Classical Studies at the Open University.  She was previously Professor of the History of Classical Medicine and Head of the Department of Classics at the University of Reading.  King was born in 1957. For King going to university or doing a PhD wasn't inevitable, and she had little notion of what doctoral research involved.  Nevertheless, she completed her first degree in Ancient History and Social Anthropology at University College London. She was awarded her doctorate in 1985 for a PhD on menstruation in ancient Greece supervised by Sally Humphreys.   Her thesis was entitled From 'parthenos' to 'gyne': the Dynamics of Category.  Having completed her doctorate, King held research fellowships at the universities of Cambridge and Newcastle, taught at the Liverpool Institute of Higher Education for eight years, and moved to Reading on a Wellcome Trust University Award in 1996. From 2008 she was also Visiting Professor at the Peninsula Medical School in Truro. She moved to the Open University to assume the role of Professor of Classical Studies in 2011. She retired in January 2017 and took up the position of Robert E. and Susan T. Rydell Visiting Professor 2017–2018 at Gustavus Adolphus College, St Peter, MN.  King was a Women's Studies Area Advisor to the Oxford Classical Dictionary (1996). She has been a Fellow at the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Studies (2001), a Landsdowne Visiting Lecturer at the University of Victoria, British Columbia (2002), a Visiting Professor at the University of Texas at Austin (2005), a Käthe Leichter Visiting Professor in Women's Studies and Gender Studies at the University of Vienna (2014)  and Provost's Distinguished Women Lecturer, Notre Dame, IN (2016).  King has appeared on History Cold Case, Tony Robinson's Gods & Monsters, and Harlots, Housewives & Heroines: A 17th Century History for Girls.  She has contributed to two episodes of In Our Time (radio series) on BBC Radio 4, speaking on Galen  and The Hippocratic Oath.  With the publication of her book Hippocrates' Woman: Reading the Female Body in Ancient Greece (1998), King established herself as the leading authority on the practice and theory of ancient medicine as relating to women and how it continues to influence thought to the present day. She has published on the myths of Tithonos,  on mermaids,  and on the myth/fable of Agnodice, "the first midwife".  She has investigated how this story was used to give authority to women in medical roles in various historical periods.  King was a member of the General Synod of the Church of England from 1985 to 1993 and, as part of the 'Historical' thematic working group, is contributing to the Church's proposed teaching document on human sexuality.  