Biotechcellence is a national level technical symposium born from the co-operative efforts of Department of Biotechnology (DBT) and Association of Bio-technologists of Anna University. The symposium aims to highlight the advancements in Biotechnology in the Medical, Industrial and Agricultural fields that have taken place over the years. It serves as a platform for students to exhibit their ideas, opinions and research ideas. It also provides an opportunity for the participants to interact with prominent personalities associated with Biotechnology and its related fields. The Centre for Biotechnology (CBT)   was established in 1987 in Anna University, supported by the Department of Biotechnology, Delhi and the University Grants Commission, Delhi, with the following objectives: CBT was one of the first departments to offer Industrial Biotechnology (IBT) as a professional course, and later began courses in Pharmaceutical and Food Technology as added specializations. Over the years, CBT has made many valuable contributions in the world of Biotechnology and its allied fields. Biotechcellence was started in the year 1994 by the Association of Biotechnologists,  Anna University. Ever since its start, Biotechcellence has been the epicenter for the exchange of facts and information in the field of Biotechnology and allied areas. Biotechcellence has hosted many notable people of both science and industry backgrounds. Some famous people to have attended Biotechcellence are James Watson, Jules Hoffmann and Dr.Madhan Babu,  Cambridge University. The event has also been graced with the presence of distinguished personalities such as : Biotechcellence 2017, the 23rd edition of Biotechcellence, will be organized on March 9,10,11 of 2017   at Anna University. It consists of the symposium, events and workshops. The symposium serves as a platform for the students to exhibit their talents. The following events   will be held as a part of Biotechcellence 2017: The Workshops   which are a part of Biotechcellence 2017 are: 