Ex Ordo is an abstract and paper management system for research or academic conference and symposia. Their web application automates the process of collecting and peer reviewing abstracts and papers. The tool is cloud-based, offering an online platform to allow all the persons involved in the conference to get involved directly. The conference management system uses an built-in intelligence, creating automated tasks for each user involved in a conference – organisers, authors and reviewers – to guide them through the process of submitting, reviewing and accepting papers and abstracts.  Ex Ordo was founded in 2011 by Paul Killoran and Dermot Lally. The founders of the company started developing technology for academic conferences when Paul Killoran was still an engineering student at NUI Galway. He came up with the idea of creating a system to manage the research material for academic conferences to help one of his lecturers organise a conference.  Realising how much conference Chairs needed efficient tools to manage their conference, they decided to develop their technology further and incorporated in 2011. They have offices in Galway, Boston and London. Ex Ordo support research conferences in Europe, the USA, South America, Asia and Australia   and in all academic fields. They are a preferred partner of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE),  which sponsors more than 1,400 annual conferences, workshops and meetings worldwide.  Ex Ordo system allows Chairs to manage all the stages of the abstract management process: call for papers, submissions, peer-review, acceptance, author notification, registration, programme and putting together the proceedings . They also have a team of mentors who provides one-to-one guidance to chairs at key decision times. They also have a "team of academic advisers [who] provide one to one mentorship at key milestones when critical decisions need to be made. Ex Ordo is that little voice in an academic’s ear making sure that they never fail."   Winner of Kauffman FastTrac META Group Europe Entrepreneurs Award in 2011.  This award is promoted by META Group and the EU BIC Network (EBN) and is aiming at selecting EU entrepreneurs, having recently established a high-growth potential start up or holders of and innovative business idea in the creative industry.  Awarded Best New Web Application 2011 and Best Practice 2011 awarded by the Realex Fire Web Awards which recognise people who do great things on the web.  Ex Ordo is backed by Enterprise Ireland.  