 International Agriculture Students Symposium (IASS) is a symposium about agriculture. The purpose of this Symposium is to provide a platform for students from round the world to share latest agricultural information and enable the integration of the most up–to–date results, technologies and solutions to ensure food safety as well as the welfare of mankind.  Agriculture has been known as the foundation of civilizations. It plays a vital role in the survival of mankind. The world today is facing various challenges such as food shortage and the steep increase of fuel price. Recent advances in breeding, biotechnology, bio-fuel research, germplasm management, agronomy and others provide agricultural countries and their farmers with great opportunity to use diverse research solutions to overcome the challenges they face. Besides that, to encourage networking collaboration among universities and students. Agriculture is the foundation of civilizations. It plays a vital role in the survival of mankind. The world today facing various challenges such as food crisis and an increase in waste products. Recent advances in crop breeding, biotechnology, bio-fuel research, germplasm management, agronomy and others provide agriculturists with great opportunities to develop diverse solutions to overcome the challenges in this sector. The purpose of this symposium is to provide a platform for students from around the world to share their idea and experience in agriculture. Besides that, the meeting of young minds can enhance networking and collaboration among students and universities. Objectives : 1. Promote sharing of ideas and experiences among students in agriculture across the globe 2. Promote collaboration and international networking among agriculture students around the world 3. Promote understanding of agriculture heritage and international culture among the students from participating countriesAgriculture is the foundation of civilizations. It plays a vital role in the survival of mankind. The world today facing various challenges such as food crisis and an increase in waste products. Recent advances in crop breeding, biotechnology, bio-fuel research, germplasm management, agronomy and others provide agriculturists with great opportunities to develop diverse solutions to overcome the challenges in this sector. The purpose of this symposium is to provide a platform for students from around the world to share their idea and experience in agriculture. Besides that, the meeting of young minds can enhance networking and collaboration among students and universities. Objectives : 1. Promote sharing of ideas and experiences among students in agriculture across the globe 2. Promote collaboration and international networking among agriculture students around the world 3. Promote understanding of agriculture heritage and international culture among the students from participating countries 