  Microcosmographia Academica ("A Study of a Tiny Academic World" in Latin) is a short pamphlet on university politics written by F. M. Cornford and published in 1908. It has acquired a small cult following as a pessimistic view of academic politics presented in a readable and lively style, and is best known for its discussion of such principles as "The (Thin End of the) Wedge" and "The Dangerous Precedent": The book is also known for Cornford's definition, in the preface to a later edition, of propaganda as: "that branch of the art of lying which consists in very nearly deceiving your friends without quite deceiving your enemies".  Although written for an audience familiar with the procedures of the University of Cambridge at the turn of the twentieth century, it could apply to any political system and is similar to the British television comedy Yes Minister; some of the dialogue in the "Doing the Honours" episode closely follows its text. Christopher Hitchens quotes several parts and reflects upon this essay in his book Letters to a Young Contrarian, introducing it to the reader by quoting the above Principles of Wedge and Dangerous Precedent. “F.M. Cornford [was] a witty Cambridge academic of the Edwardian period who had become used to every possible High Table euphemism and Senior Common Room obfuscation. He anatomised them all in his 1908 treatise, Microcosmographia Academia. The passage I’ll give you is from chapter 7, entitled “Arguments”: There is only one argument for doing something; the rest arguments for doing nothing.  Since the stone-axe fell into disuse at the close of the neolithic age, two other arguments of universal application have been added to the rhetorical armoury by the ingenuity of mankind. [...]"  Gordon Johnson included it in his 2008 book University Politics: F. M. Cornford's Cambridge and his Advice to the Young Academic Politician about the politics of the University of Cambridge, preceded by a description of the background against which Cornford was writing. 