Ngiwal is one of the sixteen states of Palau. It has a population of 223 (census 2005) and an area of 26 km². The administrative center is Ngerkeai. Ngiwal is a small village on the east side of Babeldaob.  Residents are mainly fishermen or work for the state.  There are 3 small family-owned stores, an elementary school, and a public library in Ngiwal. The library has a large collection of children's books in English, a copy of all the Palauan books available, and a small number of books in Japanese and Spanish. The village is known for its beautiful beaches, although since a paved road was built too close to Honeymoon Beach, the sand has eroded considerably.  To reach Ngiwal village directly by boat, one should come at high tide.  There is another dock for arrival at any tide, but it is located a few miles south of the village. The village is also known for the numerous kingkang (calamansi) trees. The layout of the houses and the village itself was modeled after a small town in Japan. According to Palauan legend, the most beautiful woman was from Ngiwal.  Her name was Surech, and when the chief heard of her beauty he asked to see Surech's face.  Afraid the chief would want to marry her, she asked her boyfriend to cut off her head and send it in a basket to the chief. (He complied.) Ngiwal is also home of the most treasured warrior, Ngirngemelas. Ngiwal is rich in  history that date back to the days before the Japanese and Americans.  People from this state are often stereotyped as '7 eat, 9 soup'[clarification needed] and they take pride in it. Legends say that Ngiwal is Uab's stomach, and for that reason, people from this state tend to have a big appetites.  The state dish is a soup, pumpkin, rice, and coconut milk. The Ministry of Education operates public schools. Ngaraard Elementary School in Ngaraard served Ngiwal.  Palau High School in Koror is the country's only public high school, so children from this community go there.  Coordinates: 7°33′N 134°37′E﻿ / ﻿7.550°N 134.617°E﻿ / 7.550; 134.617 