A fashion week is a fashion industry event, lasting approximately one week, wherein fashion designers, brands or "houses" display their latest collections in runway fashion shows to buyers and the media. These events influence trends for the current and upcoming seasons. The most prominent fashion weeks are held in the fashion capitals of the world, with the "Big  Four" receiving the majority of press coverage being New York, London, Milan, and Paris. While the fashion scene turns more multipolar in the 21st century, other centers like Mumbai, Beirut, Berlin, Dubai, Los Angeles, Madrid, Monaco, Rome, São Paulo, Shanghai, New Delhi, Copenhagen, Sibiu and Tokyo host important fashion weeks.  The concept of fashion week (Semaine des défilés (fr)) began in Paris, when marketers would hire women to wear couture items in public places, from racetracks to salons.  These parades (parade is "défilé in French) gradually began to become social events of their own. (Indeed, in French, runways shows are still called "défilés de mode" -- literally "fashion parades" -- today.)  The first Paris fashion week began in 1973.  In 1903, a New York City shop called Ehrich Brothers put on what is thought to have been the country’s first fashion show to lure middle-class women into the store.  By 1910, many big department stores were holding shows of their own. It is likely that American retailers saw  what were called "fashion parades" in couture salons, and decided to use the idea. These "parades" were an effective way to promote stores, and improved their status. By the 1920s, the fashion show had been used by retailers up and down the country. They were staged, and often held in the shop’s restaurant during lunch or teatime. These shows were usually more  theatrical than those of today, heavily based upon a single theme, and accompanied with a narrative commentary. The shows were hugely popular, enticing crowds in their thousands – crowds so large, that stores in New York in the fifties had to obtain a license to have live models. In 1943, the first-ever "fashion week," New York Fashion Week, was held, with one main purpose: to give fashion buyers alternatives to French fashion during World War II, when workers in the fashion industry were unable to travel to Paris.   Until 1994, shows were held in different locations, such as hotels, or lofts. From 1994 to 2009, the event was held in a tent at Bryant Park, behind the New York Public Library.  Lincoln Center was the Fashion Week venue from 2010 to 2015,  after which it moved to Clarkson Square, an events venue in SoHo.  Although there are many notable fashion weeks around the world, only four are known as the "Big Four": Paris, Milan, London and New York.     Paris began holding couture shows in 1945,  Milan Fashion Week was founded by the Italian Chamber of Commerce in 1958,  Paris Fashion Week was further organized in 1973 under the French Fashion Federation,  and London Fashion Week was founded by the British Fashion Council in 1984.   Although these key organizations still organize the main shows, there are independent events and producers in all cities, as well.    There are primarily two kinds of shows: womenswear and menswear. There are also shows particular to each location. For example, most haute couture shows are held in Paris, while most bridal shows are held in New York. Paris' haute couture shows take place in Paris in January and July. (Due to rules set down by the Chambre Syndicale de la Haute Couture, haute couture can only be shown in Paris.)  More and more designers have shown inter-seasonal collections between the traditional Autumn/Winter and Spring/Summer seasons. These collections are usually more commercial than the main season collections and help shorten the customer's wait for new season clothes. The inter-seasonal collections are Resort/Cruise (before Spring/Summer) and Pre-Fall (before Autumn/Winter). There is no fixed schedule for these shows in any of the major fashion capitals but they typically happen three months after the main season shows. Some designers show their inter-seasonal collections outside their home city. For example, Karl Lagerfeld has shown his Resort and Pre-Fall collections for Chanel in cities such as Moscow, Los Angeles, and Monte Carlo instead of Paris. Many designers also put on presentations as opposed to traditional shows during Resort and Pre-Fall either to cut down costs or because they feel the clothes can be better understood in this medium. Some fashion weeks can be genre-specific, such as  Miami Fashion Week (swimwear), Rio Summer (swimwear),  the haute couture shows in Paris (one-of-a-kind designer originals), Indonesia Islamic Fashion Week (Moslem Fashion), Festive Wear at Bangalore Fashion Week and Bridal Fashion Week, while Portland (Oregon, USA) Fashion Week shows some eco-friendly designers. Bread and Butter Berlin hosts the leading fashion show for everyday fashion. Fashion week happens twice a year in the major fashion capitals of the world: New York, London, Milan, and Paris (in that order).  Traditionally, fashion weeks were held several months in advance of the season to allow the press and buyers a chance to preview fashion designs for the following season. In February and March, designers showcased their autumn and winter collections. In September and October, designers showcased their spring and summer collections.  This timing was largely created to follow the (then slower) "retail cycle." In other words, it allowed time for retailers to purchase and incorporate the designers into their retail marketing.  However, as customer expectations have increased, the retail cycle has increased. As a result, in 2016, designers started moving to "in-season shows."  In other words, shows have begun to feature garments that are available for sale immediately, online or in stores.   The other move has been to "see now, buy now" shows, often featuring clickable video, where looks are available online immediately following, or even during the show.  "See now, buy now" experiences have included shows from Tom Ford, Nicole Miller, and TOMMY.  The advent of "see now, buy now" shopping has also come about in response to so-called "fast fashion" retailers, who copy designs from the runway and bring them to retail faster than traditional design houses.    In spite of the call to rethink the runways, so far the French Federation of Fashion (Fédération française de la couture) has opposed the change.  