Museolog is a web-driven software system for cataloging museum information. It is an advanced tool for museum records management, based on the international standards. It was developed by EUROCLID within the UNESCO HeritageNet project, and localized by the non-governmental organization, Open Systems. Using this software, initial functions of input and editing of museum catalogues are provided what has been described as "a modern intuitive graphical interface using forms and menus." Museolog is free software released under the GNU GPL.  Museolog allows the user to create a record across several interactive sessions. It is also possible to save non-validated, incomplete records for future completion. Access to the database is regulated by a system of managing access rights, to various levels of functionaries in the museum. It is also possible manage object movements (when an object is moved from one place to another within the museum, or on loan to an external place), and restoration work. To track movement, a 'movement sheet' is printed. This software allows the user to print a list of all objects on loan, including details like origin and destination place. When restoration work is undertaken, the type of work (e.g. cleaning), the physical method used, and digital photos taken before and after can be recorded. Searching and selecting records is also possible, from the catalogue, through the use of Boolean queries. Retrieved records are shown as a short-list of titles; clicking on any would show the full record. Selected records are printable, with any relevant images inserted in the document. In keeping with current methods of photographing museum exhibits, digital images are indexed in the database. These images are archived, using recordable CD-roms. CDs are then numbered and indexed in the database, making retrieval easy of all museum objects. Users can save the current state of the database on a CD-R; there is the possibility of rebuilding this when needed due to any possible hardware or software crash. Data from the database can also be exported in XML format, making it transferable to other databases or website. This software also allows for managing thesauri and authority lists. Users can load, browse, edit and export thesauri and terminology resources, thus allowing for cooperative terminology definition and exchanges. As of July 7, 2007 the versions that were available were 4.5-6 for Linux and 4.6 for Windows, both released in mid-2005. 