This list of impact craters on Earth contains a selection of the 190 confirmed craters given in the Earth Impact Database.  To keep the lists manageable, only the largest craters within a time period are included. The complete list is divided into separate articles by geographical region. These features were caused by the collision of meteors (consisting of large fragments of asteroids) or comets (consisting of ice, dust particles and rocky fragments) with the Earth. For eroded or buried craters, the stated diameter typically refers to the best available estimate of the original rim diameter, and may not correspond to present surface features. Time units are either in thousands (ka) or millions (Ma) of years. Less than ten thousand years old, and with a diameter of 0.1 km (100 meters) or more. The EID lists only 7 or 8 such craters, and the largest in the last 100,000 years (100 ka) is the 4.5 km Rio Cuarto crater in Argentina.  However, there is some uncertainty regarding its origins  and age, with some sources giving it as < 10 ka   while the EID gives a broader < 100 ka.  The Kaali impacts (c. 2000 BC) during the Iron Age may have influenced Estonian and Finnish mythology,  the Campo del Cielo (c. 2000 BC) could be in the legends of some Native American tribes,   while Henbury (c. 2200 BC) has figured in Australian Aboriginal oral traditions.  For the Rio Cuarto craters, 2002 research suggests they may actually be aeolian structures.  The EID gives a size of about 50 meters for Campo del Cielo, but other sources quote 100 meters.  From between 10 thousand years to 1 million years ago, and with a diameter of 1 km or more. The largest in the last one million years is the 14-km Zhamanshin crater in Kazakhstan and has been described as being capable of producing a nuclear-like winter.  However, the currently unknown source of the enormous Australasian strewnfield (c. 780 ka) could be a crater about 100 km across.   From between 1 and 10 million years ago, and with a diameter of 5 km or more. If uncertainties regarding its age are resolved, then the largest in the last 10 million years would be the 52-km Karakul crater which is listed in EID with an age of less than 5 Ma, or the Pliocene. The large but apparently craterless Eltanin impact (2.5 Ma) into the Pacific Ocean has been suggested as contributing to the glaciations and cooling during the Pliocene.  Craters with a diameter of 20 km or more are all older than 10 Ma, with the exception of Karakul whose age is uncertain. There are more than forty such craters. The largest two within the last hundred million years have been linked to two extinction events: Chicxulub for the Cretaceous–Paleogene and the Popigai impact for the Eocene–Oligocene extinction event.  The largest unconfirmed craters 200 km or more are significant not only for their size, but also for the possible coeval events associated with them. For example, the Wilkes Land crater has been connected to the massive Permian–Triassic extinction event.  The sortable table has been arranged by diameter. As of  2017[update], the Earth Impact Database (EID) contains 190 confirmed craters. The table below is arranged by the continent's percentage of the Earth's land area, and where Asian and Russian craters are grouped together per EID convention. The global distribution of known impact structures apparently shows a surprising asymmetry,  with the small but well-funded European continent having a large percentage of confirmed craters. It is suggested this situation is an artifact, highlighting the importance of intensifying research in less studied areas like Antarctica, South America and elsewhere.  