Australian feminist art timeline lists exhibitions, artists, artworks and milestones that have contributed to discussion and development of feminist art in Australia. The timeline focuses on the impact of feminism on Australian contemporary art. It was initiated by Daine Singer for The View From Here: 19 Perspectives on Feminism, an exhibition and publishing project held at West Space as part of the 2010 Next Wave Festival.  1967 Exhibition: Vivienne Binns, Watters Gallery, Sydney. The exhibition of paintings and sculptures showing symbolic representations of genitalia was considered outrageous at the time.  1967 Artwork: Vivienne Binns, Vag dens, synthetic polymer paint and enamel on composition board. Collection of the National Gallery of Australia, Canberra.  1967 Performance: Yoko Ono and Juno Gemes, The Scream, Ono covered seated Gemes in bandages from ankle to crown while Ono performed a crescendo of screams. This performance was sabotaged by male owners of the Club. <International Times> Jay Landesman Kingly Street Gallery and Perfumed Garden, London, UK.  1967 Performance: Juno Gemes and Lawrence Bourke, The Carnivorous Nature of Love, performance with female store mannequin,  belly filled with offal. The Model was disemboweled to a recitation of Spencerian Sonnet. Joan Littlewood's Stratford East Theatre, East London, UK. 24 Hours of Performance Art Event.  1967 Performance: Juno Gemes, Charles Marovitz, David Curtis, Women dancers, The Plight of Erogenous UFO Multi Media Venue, 100 Tottenham Court Road, London, UK. Weekly multimedia serial performed over a six-week period. Elements included performance, film projection, dry ice music by The Soft Machine, colour projection by Mark Boyle, elements varied each performance.  1967 Artwork: Bottoms, Director: Yoko Ono, Assistants Robin Rudnick, Juno Gemes, Cinematographer Tim Rudnick. 300 participants filmed and sound recorded during a three-month period 1968 Performance: The Human Performance Art Group, The Body Eats a Peach Pact Theatre 10 Cunningham Street, Sydney, NSW; La Mama, Melbourne, VIC; Tribe, Brisbane, QLD. Multi Media Performance Group: Laurel Fox, Gillian Jones, Julia Salle, Juno Gemes, Michael Glasheen, Stephen Jones, Brian Thompson, Mick Glasheen, Jack Myers, Tom Barber, Ken Beatty, Jack Jacobson, Garry Shead, Peter Kingston, Andrish St Clare, Clem Gorman, James Ricketson, Albie Thoms, Ubu Films, Roger Fogg Foley-mixed media, performance choreographed, paint, furniture installation, geodesic wood structure, kinetic light installation, steel and wire sculpture, film, sound collage.  1969 Uluru Desert Research Room, Juno Gemes, Michael Glasheen, The Yellow House, Sydney, NSW. Preparation and research for six months in Central Australian Desert, consultation and filming with Pitdjandara, Loritcha, Arrenete Elders and families on stories embedded in Uluru. Women artist/participants in The Yellow House: Little Nell, Antionette Starowitz and Juno Gemes,   1970 Germaine Greer publishes The Female Eunuch  1974 Women's Art Movement (Feminist art movement) formed in Sydney by Babara Hall and others 1974 Exhibition: A Room of One's Own: Three Women Artists Ewing Gallery, University of Melbourne, co-curated by Kiffy Rubbo, Lynne Cooke and Janine Burke Artists: Lesley Dumbrell, Julie Irving, Ann Newmarch 1974 Exhibition: Women Photographers, Pram Factory, Carlton, VIC, included work by Ponch Hawkes 1974 Exhibition: Women in the Community, Bondi Pavilion, Bondi, NSW, organised by the Sydney Women's Art Movement 1975 International Women's Year 1975 Women's Art Register established in Melbourne. The founders were painters Erica McGilchrist and Lesley Dumbrell and directors of Ewing Gallery and George Paton Galleries, University of Melbourne Kiffy Rubbo and Meredith Rogers. 1975 American feminist writer Lucy R. Lippard conducts Australian lecture tour 1975 First Festival of Women's Culture, Bondi Pavilion, Bondi, NSW 1975 Exhibition: Art and the Creative Woman, Royal South Australian Society of Arts Gallery, Adelaide, SA, organised by the Royal South Australian Society of Arts (RSASA) with entries from fellows of the society and other women artists from across Australia. 1975 Exhibition: Australian Women Artists: 1840–1940, Ewing Gallery and George Paton Galleries, University of Melbourne; Art Gallery of NSW; Newcastle Region Art Gallery; Art Gallery of South Australia, curated by Janine Burke. 1975 Exhibition: Ethnic Handicrafts Exhibition, Australia Hotel and Uniting Church, Fitzroy, VIC, organised by social workers, exhibited over 500 handicrafts by migrant women living in Australia 1975 Exhibition: Fantasy and Reality, Wentworth Building, Sydney University, Sydney, NSW, organised by the Sydney Women's Art Movement, included work by Jude Adams, Jenny Barber, Frances Budden, Marie McMahon, Mandy Martin and Toni Robertson 1975 Exhibition: Five Women Artists, Queensland Art Gallery, Brisbane, Qld, exhibited work by Anne Alison-Greene, Bessie Gibson, Vida Lahey, Daphne Mayo and Margaret Olley 1975 Exhibition: It's Great to be an Australian Woman, Women's House, Brisbane, QLD, organised by the Women's Community Aid Association. 1975 Exhibition: Queensland Women Artists' Mixed Media Show, Hogarth Galleries, Sydney, NSW, exhibited sculptures, painting and prints from 36 Australian artists including Jude Adams, Jenny Barber, Frances Budden, Pamela Harris, Ann Newmarch and Toni Robertson 1975 Exhibition: Six Australian Women Photographers, Australian Centre for Photography, Sydney, NSW; National Gallery of Victoria, Melbourne, VIC 1975 Exhibition: Three Women Photographers, Ewing and George Paton Gallery, Melbourne, VIC, Micky Allan, Virginia Coventry and Sue Ford 1975 Exhibition: Women in Art, Western Australian Institute of Technology, Perth, WA, organised as part of International Women's Year 1975 Artwork: Ann Newmarch Vietnam Madonna 1975 Refractory Girl: a women's studies journal published a special issue on 'women in the visual arts' 1975 Hecate: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Women's Liberation established, edited by Carole Ferrier (1975–present) 1975 Women's Studies Resource Centre established, Adelaide, South Australia 1976 Women's Art Forum established in Melbourne as an offshoot of the Women's Art Register to concentrate more on discussion evenings, artists talks and professional development sessions rather than managing the Register's slide collection  1976 Launch of Melbourne-based art journal LIP A Journal of Women in the Visual Arts (1975–1983). 1976 Women's Art Movement established, Adelaide, South Australia  1976 Jude Adams taught the first Australian feminist art course,'Women and Art: The Artist as She', at the Workers Educational Association and then at Alexander Mackie College of Advanced Education, Sydney, NSW 1976 Ann Stephen taught,'Women and Art', at Preston Institute of Technology, Preston, VIC 1976 Dag Printing formed, screenprinting collective, Wendy Black, Angela Gee and Evelyn Vynhal 1978 Artwork: Ann Newmarch, Women hold up half the sky! 1978 1978 Exhibition: The Women's Show, Experimental Art Foundation, Adelaide 1978–80 Performance: Lyndal Jones, The At Home Series, performances in the series held at La Mama Theatre, Melbourne, George Paton Gallery, University of Melbourne, RMIT, Melbourne, 110 Chambers Street, New York 1979 Germaine Greer publishes The Obstacle Race: The Fortunes of Women Painters and Their Work  1979 Anarchist Feminist Poster Collective formed by Sally O’Wheel and Megan Schlunke, Adelaide, VIC, other contributors included Karen Elliot, Marie Morrissey, Barbary O'Brien 1979 Blatant Image formed, Sydney, NSW, photographic subgroup of the Sydney Women's Art Movement, included Sandy Edwards, Helen Grace, Victoria Middleton and Lynn Silvermann 1979 Mathilda Graphics formed, Sydney, NSW, women's creative and commercial collective offering services in photography, illustration, typesetting, etc. 1979 Women's Warehouse Screenprinting Collective formed, Sydney, NSW, contributors included Jan Fieldsend, Marla Guppy and Anne Sheridan (Beard) 1979 Registry of Women Artists founded, Canberra, ACT, members included Carol Ambrus and Cathy Walters 1979 Exhibition: The D'Oyley Show, Australian Domestic Needleworkers' Group, Watters Gallery, Sydney 1979–1980 Artwork: Lyn Finch, Cherie Bradshaw and Michael Calaghan Prostitution is the rental of the body, Marriage is the sale, screenprinted poster 1980 Artwork: Davida Allen painted her sexual fantasy pictures of actor Sam Neill. While the paintings followed in the tradition of the Burt Reynolds nude centrefold in Cosmopolitan in 1972, in 1980s Australia the artist raised eyebrows for depicting a man as a sex object. 1980 Performance: Bonita Ely, Bread Line, Anzart, Christchurch, New Zealand  1980 Performance: Bonita Ely, Murray River Punch, George Paton and Ewing Gallery, Melbourne University. Women at Work, a festival of women's performance art. 1980 Performance: Jill Orr, Split- Fragile Relationships, George Paton and Ewing Gallery, Melbourne University. Women at Work, a festival of women's performance art. 1980 Women at Work : a week of women's performance, June 1980. George Paton and Ewing Gallery, Melbourne University. Artists included Jill Orr and Bonita Ely.  1982 Betty Churcher appointed Dean of the School of Art and Design at Melbourne's Phillip Institute of Technology, she is the first female head of an Australian tertiary institution.  1982 Christine Westwood and Sue Hill, Women in Theatre Project – a year-long initiative at Belvoir Street Theatre to create opportunity for women directors, play writers, designers and visual artists and creatives in Australia. New plays were written and performed, the project was documented by Juno Gemes, Sandy Edwards, Maree Cunningham. Goodburra Projects was formed creating three documentaries including: Representing Aboriginal Women in Film and Theatre an interview with Justine Saunders interviewed by Juno Gemes produced by Goodburra Doco Collective.  1982 Rosalie Gascoigne is the first female artist to represent Australia at the Venice Biennale 1982 NSW Women and Arts Festival, October 1982, included more than 1,000 events throughout New South Wales and initiated a national research project about women in the arts. A Women’s Arts Fellowship was awarded to an outstanding female artist/arts worker by the NSW Government for the next few years. 1983 Janine Burke's Joy Hester published. 1984 Artwork: Julie Rrap, Persona and Shadows (series), 1984, photographic collage 1985 Project: Coordinated by Carolyn Lewens and five photographers from Lewen's TAFE women's photography course, Prahran Neighbourhood House women's photography project, 1985, photographic panels documenting the activities of women at the Neighbourhood House under certain themes including child-care, after school activities, home environments and porttraits.  1986 Publication: Australian Women Photographers 1840–1960, Barbara Hall and Jenni Mather 1986 The Women's Mural "Bomboniere to Barbed Wire" located on Smith Street was painted by artists Megan Evans and Eve Glenn. The mural is 50 metres long and 12 metres high and features cacophony of local women’s images celebrating the cultural diversity of the Northcote area. "The artwork served as a reminder to many of what the area was about: community, creativity and women working together to create a great place to live."  1987 Betty Churcher appointed Director of the Art Gallery of Western Australia, she is the first female director of a state art gallery.  1987 Exhibition: Feminist Narratives, George Paton Gallery, curated by Juliana Engberg. Artists: Pat Brassington, Debra Dawes, Leah MacKinnon, Andrea Paton, Ann Wulf.  1988 Exhibition: Judy Chicago (American) The Dinner Party (1979), Royal Exhibition Building, Melbourne.  Celebratory dinner hosted by the Women's Art Register in honour of Judy Chicago at the Royal Exhibition Building  1988 Artwork: The First Supper by Susan Dorothea White. 1989 Artwork: Something More by Tracey Moffatt. 1990 Betty Churcher appointed director of the National Gallery of Australia (1990–1997), she is the first female director of the gallery.  1991 Exhibition: Frames of Reference: Aspects of Feminism and Art, Artspace, Sydney, curated by Sally Couacaud. Artists: Kathy Temin, Susan Norrie, Vivienne Binns, Rebecca Cummins, Anne MacDonald  Featuring the artwork of Dolly Nampijinpa Daniels and several other collaborators.  1991 Event: At least it’s gone to a good home: Women collecting and producing art at the University of Sydney 1971–1991, Tin Sheds Gallery, University of Sydney (13 September-5 October).  Curators: Susan Best, Brownyn Hanna, Therese Kenyon and Joan Kerr. Part of Dissonance: Feminism and the Arts.  1991 Manifesto: VNS Matrix (Virginia Barratt, Francesca da Rimini, Juliane Pierce, Josephine Starrs), Cyberfeminist Manifesto for the 21st Century, Adelaide.  The manifesto was distributed on street posters around Adelaide. VNS Matrix was an artist collective founded in Adelaide and active 1991–1997. VNS Matrix is pronounced 'Venus Matrix'.  1992 Exhibition: Feminisms: An Exhibition of 27 Women Artists, PICA, Perth, curated by Nikki Miller. 1992 Caroline Chisholm's likeness on the Australian 5 dollar note replaced by portrait of Queen Elizabeth II. 1994 Exhibition: The Women's Show, Sutton Gallery, Melbourne 1994 WandA (Women and Arts) established in Brisbane by founding members Edwina Bartleme, Brona Keenan, Tracey Benson, Rosz Craig 1995  Exhibition WWWO : Wollongong Worlds Women Online, first national Australian online women's group exhibition, featuring the first or early digital works from 30 women including Francis Dyson and Mez Breeze. Curators Melinda Rackham,  Louise Manner, Ali Smith, Sandy Indlekofer-O’Sullivan.  1995 National Women's Art Exhibition, simultaneous exhibitions in over 147 galleries, museums and libraries.   1995 Exhibition: VNS Matrix: ALL NEW GEN, (VNS Matrix: Virginia Barratt, Francesca da Rimini, Juliane Pierce, Josephine Starrs), ACCA, Melbourne. Part of the National Women's Art Exhibition. 1995 Exhibition: In the Company of Women: 100 years of Australian women's art from the Cruthers Collection, PICA, Perth, curated by Sarah Miller. Part of the National Women's Art Exhibition. 1995 Exhibition: Bur-ran-gur ang (court out): Women and the law, Lawrence Wilson Art Gallery, Perth, curated by Annette Pedersen. Part of the National Women's Art Exhibition. 1995 Exhibition: Out of the Void: Mad and Bad Women, Queensland Art Gallery, Brisbane, touring Queensland. Part of the National Women's Art Exhibition. 1995 Exhibition: Girls Girls Girls, Annandale Galleries, Sydney, also Orange Regional Gallery. Women's show to mark the 20th Anniversary of the United Nations, Year of the Woman. 1995 Beyond the Picket Fence: Australian women's art in the National Library of Australia, Part of the National Women's Art Exhibition, National Library of Australia  1996  Lynne Cooke, first female artistic director of the Biennale of Sydney 1996 Manifesto: VNS Matrix (Virginia Barratt, Francesca da Rimini, Juliane Pierce, Josephine Starrs) Bitch Mutant Manifesto, Adelaide. 1996  Exhibition: Women Hold Up Half the Sky: the Orientation of Art in the Post-War Pacific, Monash University Gallery, Melbourne, curated by Roger Butler. Artists: Micky Allan, Vivienne Binns, Kate Daw, eX de Medici, Diena Georgetti, Joan Grounds, Helga Groves, Indulkana Community, Emily Kame Kngwarreye, Narell Jubelin, Maningrida Arts, Banduk Marika, Ann Newmarch, Margaret Preston, Thancoupie, Kelly Thompson, Utopia Batik, Toni Warburton, Judy Watson, Robin White  1996 Exhibition: Inside the Visible, Boston: ICA/ MIT: Kanaal Art Foundation, and Touring to Whitechapel, London, and PICA, Perth, Australia, curated by Catherine de Zegher (USA)  1997  Ann Newmarch first living female artist to be given a Retrospective exhibition at the Art Gallery of South Australia The Personal is Political in 1997. 1997  Exhibition: Difficult Territory: a postfeminist project, Artspace Sydney, curated by Kristen Elsby  1999  Guerrilla Girls brought to Melbourne by RedPlanet for screenprinting workshops and lectures.  1999 Australian feminist art historians Joan Kerr & Jo Holder publish Past present : the national women's art anthology  2003 Germaine Greer publishes The Beautiful Boy. 2004 Artwork: Mary Lou Pavlovic Liar! Public Art, Melbourne 2004 Death of Gabrielle Pizzi, widely admired dealer in contemporary aboriginal art. 2004 Death of Joan Kerr (1938–2004), Australian art historian 2004 Exhibition: Genetics Women's Art Register members exhibition, Horti Hall, Melbourne. 2006 Exhibition: Feminist Actions, Spacement, Melbourne, curated by Veronica Tello. Artists: Andrew Atchison, Pia de Bruyn, Sue Dodd, Sarah Lynch, Alex Martinis Roe, Ali Sanderson, Jessie Scott 2007 Exhibition: Bird Girls, Margaret Lawrence Gallery, VCA, curated by Kate Daw and Vikki McInnes. Artists: Fiona Abicare, Jessie Angwin, Cate Consandine, Danielle Freakley, Kate Just, Simone Slee, Andrea Tu 2007 Forum: Feminism Never Happened, Gertrude Contemporary Art Spaces, Melbourne. Panelists included: Julie Rrap, Alex Martinus Roe, Ann Marsh, Lily Hibberd, Felicity Coleman, Lyndall Walker, Emily Cormack 2007-8 Exhibition: Julie Rrap: Body Double, MCA, Sydney, curated by Victoria Lynn  2007-8 Exhibition: Girl Parade, ACP, Sydney, curated by Bec Dean. Artists: Anoush Abrar (Iran) & Aimée Hoving (Netherlands), Bianca Barling (SA), Anthea Behm (NSW), Brown Council (NSW), Kelli Connell (USA), Pilar Mata Duppont & Tarryn Gill (WA), Karina Grundy (SA), EJ Major (UK), Belinda Mason (NSW), Tatjana Plitt (VIC), Narinda Reeders (VIC), Tomoko Sawada (JAPAN) and Justene Williams (NSW). 2008 Exhibition: Utopia: The Genius of Emily Kame Kngwarreye developed by the National Museum of Australia and shown at the National Museum of Art in Osaka, Japan. 2008 Exhibition: Lauren Berkowitz/ Starlie Geikie, Neon Parc, Melbourne, curated by Rebecca Coates.  2008 Exhibition: A Time Like This, VCA Margaret Lawrence Gallery, Melbourne. Curated by Samantha Comte, Jirra Lulla Harvey, Kate Rhodes and Meredith Turnbull. Artists: Louisa Bufardeci, Bindi Cole, Lorraine Connelly-Northey, Eliza Hutchison, Wietske Maas, Kate Smith, Salote Tawale, Annie Wu. 2008 Exhibition: Emily Floyd, Temple of the Female Eunuch, Anna Schwartz Gallery, Melbourne. 2008 Exhibition: Girls, Girls, Girls, Carlton Hotel, Melbourne, curated by Lyndal Walker and Nat Thomas.  2008 Australian feminist academic Elizabeth Grosz publishes Chaos, Territory, Art: Deleuze and the Framing of the Earth.  2008 Essay: On Rage by Germaine Greer (academic, social commentator and collector of Aboriginal art).  2008 Nicole Kidman names her child after arts patron Sunday Reed (1905–1981). 2008 CoUNTess blog launched.  Blog compiles and reviews gender equality in the Australian art world.   2008 Despoina Media Coven (DMC) a feminist group based in Hobart founded by Nancy Mauro-Flude. Formed initially as a curatorial premise, a mail list for discussion and a hackspace aimed at removing the strict barriers between software users and developers to enable the ‘uninitiated’ artist into using free software; a largely male user base. It advocates home-brewed methods for collective gain (think of self-organized digital art literacy circles). Associates are not fixed but expand and contract in response to each project.   2010 Exhibition: A Different Temporality: Aspects of Australian Feminist Art Practice 1975–1985, Monash University, Melbourne  2010 Exhibition: Feminism Never Happened, IMA, Brisbane. Artists: Del Kathryn Barton, Pat Brassington, Kirsty Bruce, Jacqueline Fraser, Anastasia Klose, Fiona Lowry, Fiona Pardington, Yvonne Todd, and Jemima Wyman   2010 Exhibition: The View From Here: 19 Perspectives on Feminism, West Space, Melbourne, 14 May 2010 – 29 May 2010. Curated by Clare Rae and Victoria Bennett. Artists: Jessie Angwin, Kiera Brew Kurec, Brown Council, Madeleine Donovan, Mariam Haji, Hannah Raisin, Jessie Scott, Hayley Forward and Jessica Olivieri with the Parachutes for Ladies. Writers: Emilie Zoey Baker, Laura Castagnini, Tamsin Green, Anna Greer, Rachel Fuller, Jo Latham, Dunja Rmandic, Daine Singer, Nella Themelios.  2010 Death of Eva Breuer, at the time one of the major dealers of secondary market Australian paintings. Breuer was one of the few dealers stocking works by notable, lesser known twentieth century female Australian artists: Bessie Davidson, Margaret Cilento, Janet Cumbrae Stewart, Margo Lewers, Jean Bellette, Dorrit Black, Lina Bryans, Nora Heysen, Mirka Mora, Florence Rodway, Jane Sutherland. 2010 Event: The Feminist Salon Group, The Envelope Residency, The West Wing, West Space Project Site, Melbourne, 24 May 2010 – 29 May 2010. Coordinated by Caroline Phillips and Sarah Lynch. A week-long residency with artists and writers who engaged with a text by Luce Irigaray. the Activities included performance, film, visual art, sound, reading, discussion and a lecture by Dr. Louise Burchill. Participants: Sharon Billinge, Dr. Louise Burchill, Victoria Duckett, Catherine Evans, Janice Gobey, Kate Hodgetts, Kate Just, Anastasia Klose, Angie de Latour, Sarah Lynch, Valentina Palonen, Caroline Phillips, Hannah Raisin, Caroline Thew,  Inez de Vega and Jane Whitfid.  2010 Exhibition: "Holding Pattern", George Paton Gallery, Melbourne. Artist: Caroline Phillips. 2010 Exhibition: "Twined: Weaving and Abstraction", Cross Art Projects, Sydney. Artists:Robyn Djunginy and Karen Mills. Curated by Fiona McDonald.  2011 Exhibition: "Twining: Weaving and Abstraction, Dawes / Djunginy / Mills / MacDonald", 24hr Art, Northern Territory Centre for Contemporary Art, Darwin. Artists: Debra Dawes, Robyn Djunginy, Fiona MacDonald and Karen Mills. Co-Curators: Jo Holder and Fiona MacDonald with Karen Mills.  2011 Exhibition: Kate Just, Venus Was Her Name, Kunsthalle Krems, Austria, 16/10/2011 – 04/03/2012. VENUS WAS HER NAME was a solo exhibition at the Kunsthalle in Krems, Austria from 2011–12, which was later presented in 2013 Daine Singer gallery in Melbourne.  2012 Exhibition: No Added Sugar, Casula Powerhouse Arts Centre, NSW  Artists: Asiya Sian Davidson, Crooked Rib Art, Fatima Killeen, Idil Abdullahi, Marwa Charmand, Mehwish Iqbal, Resala Alazzawi and Zeina Iaali, and creative writing by Eugenia Flynn. 2012 Exhibition: Contemporary Australia: Women, Queensland Art Gallery: Gallery of Modern Art, Brisbane, 21 April – 22 July 2012. Artists: Amata painters: senior artists, Tjampawa Katie Kawiny; Wawiriya Burton; Ruby Tjangawa Williamson; Iluwanti Ken; Tjungkara Ken; Paniny Mick, Rebecca Baumann, Lauren Brincat, Brown Council, Kirsty Bruce, Bindi Cole, Agatha Gothe-Snape, Marie Hagerty, Fiona Hall, Natalya Hughes, Ruth Hutchinson, Deborah Kelly, Justine Khamara, Anastasia Klose, Gabriella Mangano and Silvana Mangano, Jennifer Mills, Kate Mitchell, Rose Nolan Jess Olivieri and Hayley Forward with Parachutes for Ladies, Therese Ritchie, Sandra Selig, Noël Skrzypczak, Sally Smart, Soda_Jerk, Wakartu Cory Surprise, Hiromi Tango, Monika Tichacek, Jenny Watson, Judy Watson, Louise Weaver, Justene Williams, Gosia Wlodarczak and Judith Wright. Curated by Julie Ewington.  2012 Event: Guerrilla Girls public lecture and workshop at the Victorian College of the Arts in Melbourne. Part of a wider discursive project about humour in feminist art curated by Laura Castagnini and Vikki McInnes through the NAVA Curatorial Mentorship Initiative.  2012 Exhibition: Feminage – The logic of Feminist Collage, The Cross Art Projects, Sydney. Artists: Karla Dickens, Elizabeth Gower, Emily Hunt, Mehwish Iqbal, Deborah Kelly, Fiona MacDonald, Paula do Prado, Sangeeta Sandrasegar, Sally Smart, Tai Snaith, Nancy Spero, Jemima Wyman. Curator: Jo Holder with assistant curator Sofia Freeman  2012 Exhibition: The Baker's Dozen, curated by Lorna Grear, UTS Gallery, The University of Technology, Sydney 2012 Exhibition: SEXES, Performance Space, Carriageworks, Sydney. Artists:  Christian Thompson, Cigdem Aydemir, Eric Bridgeman, Jessica Olivieri and the Parachutes for Ladies, John Meade, Julie Rrap, LEVEL, Liam Benson, Luke Parker & Sangeeta Sandrasegar, Marley Dawson, Natalya Hughes, Paul Knight, Philip Brophy, The Kingpins, Tarryn Gill & Pilar Mata Dupont, Tracey Moffatt & Gary Hillberg, Trevor Fry. Curated by Bec Dean, Deborah Kelly and Jeff Khan. Exhibition accompanied by multi-disciplinary program of dance, performance, lectures, film and parties, and extensive catalogue. 2012 Event: A Dinner Party: setting the table. Curated by Victoria Duckett and Caroline Phillips. A collaborative feminist residency at West Space, Melbourne including workshops, film programs, forums and exhibition of feminist art archive. Participants included Kate Just, Jon Dale, Danni Zuvela, Marcia Jane, Virginia Fraser, Kate MacNeill, Stephanie Alexander, Lyndal Walker, Victoria Bennett, Anne Marsh, Catherine Deveney, Laura Castagnini and Inez de Vega. 2013 Event: The f Word – Regional Feminist Art Forum, La Trobe Visual Art Centre, Bendigo. Curated by Caroline Phillips. Panel including Juliette Peers, Filomena Coppola and Virginia Fraser, and workshop facilitated by Inez de Vega. Accompanied by extensive catalogue including The f Word forums, workshops and two exhibitions.  2013 Exhibition: BACKFLIP: Feminism and Humour in Contemporary Art, Margaret Lawrence Gallery, Victorian College of the Arts, Melbourne. Artists: Catherine Bell, Melanie Bonajo, Brown Council, Catherine or Kate, Patty Chang, Guerrilla Girls, Hotham Street Ladies, Alice Lang, Louise Lawler, Adelle Mills, Tracey Moffatt, Nat & Ali, Frances (Budden) Phoenix, Pushpamala N, Hannah Raisin, Pipilotti Rist, Mika Rottenberg, Christian Thompson and Paul Yore. Curated by Laura Castagnini. Exhibition accompanied by extensive publication, a program of panel discussions and performances, and the on site VCA Video Lounge; an archive of funny feminist videos made by former students during their time at the VCA School of Art. 2013 Exhibition: Ponch Hawkes, "Our Mums and Us" and "These Women Have Just Run 26 Miles" at Monash Gallery of Art, curated by Stephen Zagala 2013 Contemporary Art and Feminism (CAF)  launched, 30 October, Sydney College of the Arts. An independent platform for art, scholarship and activism, instigated by Catriona Moore, Jacqueline Millner, and Jo Holder. 2013 Exhibition: Kate Just, Venus Was Her Name, Daine Singer gallery, Melbourne, 4 March – 20 April 2013.  2013 Performance: Casey Jenkins, Casting Off My Womb, in exhibition Cunts... And Other Conversations, Darwin Visual Arts Association, 18 October – 9 November 2013,   2013 Exhibition: JANIS I, ALASKA Projects, Sydney. This exhibition marked the launch of Kelly Doley's JANIS, a project focusing on female art practice, promoting curatorial, writing and art projects.  Exhibition included work by artists: Sarah Contos, Kelly Doley, Hannah Furmage, Zoe Robertson, Marian Tubbs and Justene Williams. Alongside the exhibition a publication featured the writing of Diana Smith and Amanda Rowell. 2013 Panel: JANIS I: Feminism in Contemporary Art: If Not Why Not?, Artspace, Sydney, March 23, 2013. In 'If Not, Why Not?' an intergenerational selection of artists, curators and academics come together to talk about the misconceptions, meaning and relevance of feminism in contemporary art today. Speakers include Julie Rrap (artist), Catriona Moore (Academic ArtHistTh and author of Dissonance: Feminism and the Arts 1970–1990), Natalya Hughes (artist), Anna Davis (curator MCA), Jess Olivieri (Parachutes for Ladies). Chaired by Kelly Doley (Brown Council).  2013 Exhibition: JANIS II,  The Commercial and MCLEMOI Gallery, Sydney. Co-curated by Kelly Doley and Amanda Rowell included a diverse range of painting, sculpture and performance from emerging and mid-career artists as well as two deceased artists. JANIS II artists included Bonita Bub, Jenny Christmann, Sarah Goffman, Gail Haistings and Sarah Rodigari. According to art critic Andrew Frost the exhibition produced a palpable wave through the Sydney art world.  2014 Exhibition: Katherine Hattam, Consciousness Raising, Daine Singer Gallery, Melbourne. Catalogue with texts by Ellen Koshland, Victoria Hattam, Jenny Little, Harriet Morgan, Hannah Piterman, Ann Snitow, Kate Reeves, Suzanne Spunner, Margaret Bowland and Hilary McPhee.  2014 Conference: Curating Feminism A Contemporary Art and Feminism event co-hosted by Sydney College of the Arts, Art Gallery New South Wales and MCA. Exhibition, masterclasses, conference and Wikithon, Keynotes: Michael Birchall: Activism & Art: for the de-proletarianized petty bourgeoisie; Dr Maura Reilly: Curatorial Activism: Towards an Ethics of Curating. Co-ordinating Curator: Jacqueline Millner 2014 Event: Technopia Tours Feminist Art Bus. Presented by Kim Donaldson and Caroline Phillips. A collaborative event between Technopia Tours and The f Word, a workshop on wheels in Melbourne, Australia, celebrating IWD 2014. Speakers and performers included Laura Castagnini, Ebony Gulliver, Susan Hewitt, Kate Just, Dot Kett, Lyndal Jones, Vicki Kinai, Penelope Lee, Justine Makdessi, Elvis Richardson, Kate Robertson, Nat Thomas, Kalinda Vary and Inez de Vega. Accompanied by extensive catalogue including The f Word forums, workshops and two exhibitions. 2014 Exhibition: The f Word, Sale. Gippsland Art Gallery, Sale. July 19 – September 7, 2014. Artists: Catherine Bell, Penny Byrne, Filomena Coppola, Kate Just, Jill Orr, Clare Rae and Elvis Richardson. Curated by Caroline Phillips. Accompanied by extensive catalogue including The f Word forums, workshops and two exhibitions.  2014 Exhibition: The f Word, Ararat. Ararat Regional Art Gallery, Ararat. August 28 – October 12, 2014. Artists: Kate Beynon, Karen Buczynski-Lee, Destiny Deacon, Laurene Dietrich, Eliza-Jane Gilchrist, Janice Gobey, Georgia MacGuire, Robyn Massey, Caroline Phillips, Louise Saxton, Inez de Vega and Lyndal Walker. Curated by Caroline Phillips. Accompanied by extensive catalogue including The f Word forums, workshops and two exhibitions.  2014 Exhibition: Topologies of Sexual Difference. In conjunction with the Luce Irigaray Circle Conference, Melbourne, Australia, Wednesday 10 to Friday 12 December 2014. George Paton Gallery, Melbourne. Hosted by The Victorian College of the Arts, University of Melbourne and The Communication, Politics and Culture Research Centre at RMIT. Co-ordinated by Dr.Louise Burchill and Caroline Phillips. Artists: Cherelyn Brearley, Janet Burchill, Virginia Fraser, Helen Johnson, Marina Kassianidou, Utako Shindo Kanai, Danni McCarthy, Joanne Makas, Alex Martinis Roe, Caroline Phillips, Kerrie Poliness, Elizabeth Presa, Julieanna Preston, Grace Pundyk, Tania Smith, Jacqueline Taylor, Terry Taylor, Alison Thomson. 2014 Exhibition: Re-raising Consciousness, TCB Art Inc, Melbourne. Curated by Katherine Hattam, Fayen D'Evie and Harriet Morgan 2014 Photography Meets Feminism: Australian women photographers 1970s–80s A Monash Gallery of Art travelling exhibition, also showing at the Newcastle Art Gallery, Bundoora Homestead Art Centre, Grafton Regional Gallery. 2015 Future Feminist Archive Symposium. Presented by Contemporary Art and Feminism & the Art Gallery of NSW Research Library Archives. This symposium brought together artists, archivists, filmmakers, curators and art historians to discuss ways to recover lost Feminist archives and to imagine the new. Keynote lecture by Julie Ewington and presentations by Soda_Jerk, Jess Olivieri, Judy Watson and Joyce Watson,  Margot Nash, Martha Ansara, Jeni Thornley, Natalie Krikowa and others. 2015 Exhibition: Future Feminist Archive Exhibition, SCA Galleries, Sydney College of the Arts, Rozelle. Exhibition includes ‘Daughter Mothers’ (Judy Watson, Sue Pedley, Toni Warburton, Alison Clouston); ‘Artist Archive’ (Jane Polkinghorne and Anne Kay); Feminist Film Archives from the 1970s; and the Parramatta Female Factory Memory Precinct Project. 2015 Live Performance: Being Dead (Don Quixote), MKA: Theatre of New Writing. Kerith Manderson-Galvin's production and performance re-worked the Cervantes classic from a queer, feminist showgirl perspective. January 2015.   2015 Exhibition: Notes Towards a Future Feminist Archive, Affiliated Text, Sydney, curated by Bronia Iwanczak and Lynne Barwick. Artists: Ann Finnegan, Anna Gibbs, Anne Kay, Barbara Campbell, Bec Dean, Bianca Hester, Biljana Jancic, Bronwyn Platten, Carla Cescon, Caroline Phillips, Catherine Bell, Chantal Grech, Cherine Fahd, Christine Dean, Clare Milledge, Cleo Gardiner, Deborah Kelly, Debra Phillips, Deej Fabyc, Elizabeth Day, Elizabeth Pulie, Eugenia Raskopoulos, Fiona MacDonald, Gillian Lavery, Heidi Abraham, Helen Grace, India Zegan, Jacky Redgate, Jacqueline Drinkall, Jane Polkinghorne, Jenny Brown, Josephine Starrs, Josie Cavallaro, Julianne Pierce, Julie Rrap, Kathryn Ryan, Lena Obergfell, Lisa Andrew, Lisa Jones, Loma Bridge, Michele Elliot, Nell, Nicole Ellis, Nola Farman, Pam Brown, Philipa Veitch, Raquel Ormella, Sally Clarke, Sara Givins, Sue Callanan, Susan Charlton, Susan Joy Krieg, Suzan Woodruff, Tina Havelock Stevens, Vesna Trobec, Virginia Barratt and Zanny Begg. 2015 Exhibition: Relatedness, Melbourne's Living Museum of the West, Maribrynong. Artists: Catherine Johnstone and Caroline Phillips. April 4 to April 19, 2015. 2015 Exhibition: Come In Lovers, We're Doing Witchcraft, Metanoia Theatre, Brunswick Mechanics Institute. Expen$$$ive Super Group comprising Kerith Manderson-Galvin, Emilia Athanasiadis and Casey Jenkins (a.k.a. Teen-Supreme Brynne, Fancy-Bitch Brynne and Shameless Brynne), production and performance of three music-free video clips exploring the performance of femininity. May 5 to May 8, 2015.  2015 Festival: AS IF: 40 Years and Beyond -Celebrating the Women's Art Register, Multi-venue curated festival of feminist visual art events across Melbourne, celebrating the 40th anniversary of the Women's Art Register.  Festival Producer, Sally Northfield.  11 August-7 November 2015. Exhibitions Included: AS IF: Stuck up", Richmond Library Gallery, 11 Aug – 30 Oct 2015, Curated by Miso (Stanislava Pinchuk). AS IF: small print,Mailbox Art Space 30 September- 31 October 2015, Curated by Danielle Hakim and Emily Castle.  Artists Violetta Del Conte Race, Kelly Doley, Agatha Gothe Snape, Katherine Hattam, Olivia Hittmann, Anastasia Klose, Ruth O'Leary, Jaime Powell with Cheralyn Lim and Elvis Richardson alongside a selection of artists held in the Women's Art Register collection. AS IF: When and now,  Queen Victoria Women's Centre, 30 September- 30 October, Curated by Gail Stiffe and Rosemary Mangiamele. Members exhibition. AS IF: Artmaking in Tandem: Embracing Distance,  City Library Gallery, 2 – 29 October. A collaboration between artistic women who are newly settled in Melbourne and artist Rosa Tato. AS IF: Echoes from the Women’s Art Register,  West Space, 1 October – 7 November, Curated projection program by Juliette Peers and Caroline Phillips, co-curated by Melbourne-based emerging artists Emily Castle, Danielle Hakim, Stephanie Leigh and Kalinda Vary. AS IF: Echoing Workshop – Slide Night at the Graham Cornish room, level 2, Union House, University of Melbourne. Tuesday, October 13, 6pm-8.30pm. Facilitators Danica Chappell, Ross Coulter, Danielle Hakim, Clare Rae. Speakers/Artists, Ross Coulter, Eleanor Butt, Anne Marsh, Elizabeth Gower, Danielle Hakim, Clare Rae and Jill Orr. AS IF: Echoing Workshop- Echoes from London, West Space, Saturday 7 November, 5-6pm performance by Holly Ingleton, curated and facilitated by Laura Castagnini. AS IF: Echoing Workshop – Art+Feminism Wikipedia Edit-a-thon, Saturday 31 October, from 11am at the State Library of Victoria facilitated by Juliette Peers and Caroline Phillips. AS IF: WAR Sliders City Library Gallery 2 – 29 October projection featuring one work from each of the 918 artists in the Women's Art Register Collection. AS IF: Public Art Walks, guided by artists to women's public art in the city of Melbourne Walk 1 with Penelope Lee, Sunday 4 October, 11am-1pm Walk 2 with Gina Kalabishis, Sunday 11th Oct, 11am-1pm Walk 3 with Rosa Tato (led by Penelope Lee), Sunday 18 October, 11am-1pm Walk 4 with Maree Clarke,25 October 11am-1pm' 2015 Forum and workshops: f generation: feminism, art, progressions. Mudfest/University of Melbourne Student Union Arts Festival, Melbourne. August 22, 2015. Co-ordinated by Veronica Caven Aldous, Juliette Peers and Caroline Phillips. Artists and Panellists: Veronica Caven Aldous, Allison Ballantyne, Sasha Chong, Lucy Curtis, Tonie Field, Elizabeth Gower, Juliette Peers and Trashbags. 2015 Exhibition: f generation: feminism, art, progressions. George Paton Gallery, Melbourne. October 7–16, 2014. Curated by Veronica Caven Aldous, Juliette Peers and Caroline Phillips. Artists: Veronica Caven Aldous, Penny Algar, Micky Allan, Art/Mums Collective (Clare Rae, Clare Needham, Nina Ross, Tai Snaith, Jessie Scott, Hannah Tai, Claudia Phares),Lynne Barwick, Dianne Beevers, Anne Bennett, Kate Beynon, Julia Boros, Karen Buczynski-Lee, Sandy Caldow, Paulina Campos, Valerie Carew (CAN), Tracey-Mae Chambers (CAN), Liz Coates, Filomena Coppola, Cunt/Tampon/ary Art Collective (CAN), Laurene Dietrich, Kim Donaldson, Jaye Early, Katherine Edwards, Catherine Evans, Amanda Fewell, Tal Fitzpatrick, Juno Gemes and Aku Kadogo, Elizabeth Gertsakis, Janice Gobey, hannah goldstein, Siobhán Hannigan, Anna Helme, Simone Hine, Hotham Street Ladies, Elin Howe, Casey Jenkins, Rosa Jones (IRE), Kate Just, Deborah Kelly, Therese Kenyan, Jessica Kritzer, Katya Grokhovsky, KTH Stockholm (SWE), Irena Kuzminsky and Jan Nelson, Jennifer Lade, Stephanie Leigh, Danielle McCarthy, Joanne Makas, Carol Mark (CAN), Anne Marsh, Bon Mott, Lynn Mowson, nattysolo.com, Michelle Neal, Sally Northfield, Pam Patterson (CAN), Juliette Peers, Caroline Phillips, Jane Polkinghorne, Paula do Prado, Julieanna Preston (NZ), Rebekah Pryor, Grace Pundyk, Leena Raudvee (CAN), Jenna Reid (CAN), Maria Richardson, Kate Robertson, Meredith Rogers, Lynx Sainte-Marie (CAN), Jocelynne Scutt (UK), Tania Smith, Gail Stiffe, Nina Siska, Sunday School (Kelly Doley and Diana Smith), Tasha Smith (NZ), Jacqueline Taylor (UK), Alison Thomson, Siân Torrington (NZ), Jane Trengove and Susan Long, Maxienne Tritton-Young, Victorian Women’s Trust, WIA Projects (CAN), Linda Wilkin, Women’s Art Register, Su Yang (CHI), India Zegan, Ann Zomer and Lucy Parker. 2015 FavourEconomy: Volume 1, 2015–2016 commenced generating favours coinciding with the 2015–2016 financial year. FavourEconomy audio archive consists of recordings shared by women who work in the arts. FavourEconomy operates as a platform where women* can share their knowledge and experience as a favour. The word favour is used to promote a culture of collegial and supportive communication and information sharing – creating value of a different kind. FavourEconomy is led by Claire Field, Alex Pedley and Bronwyn Treacy. 2016 FavourEconomy: Volume 1. 2015–2016 launched at Frontyard Projects Sydney on June 30, 2016. The inaugural volume of the project was published on the FavourEconomy website the following day July 1, 2016. FavourEconomy Volume 1. 2015–2016 was led by Claire Field Alex Pedley & Bronwyn Treacy. FavourEconomy Volume 1. 2015 2016 contributors: Nicole Barakat, Heather Burness, Kate Brown, Julieanne Campbell, Cindy Yuen-Zhe Chen, Anzara Clark, Dagmar Cook, Selena de Carvalho, Linda Dement, Briony Downes, Julia Drouhin, Michele Elliot, Claire Field, Caren Florance, Michaela Gleave, Helen Jones, Danica Knezevic, Janis Lander, Birgitta Magnusson-Reid, Valda Marshall, Nancy Mauro-Flude, Gail May, Mish Meijers, Emily Millichip, Laimah Osman, Brigita Ozolins, Alex Pedley, Gaele Sobott, Pip Stafford, Lyndal Thorne, Pam Thorne, Bronwyn Treacy, Sarah Vandepeer, Tricky Walsh, Yvette Watt & Tian Zhang. 2016 FavourEconomy: Volume 2. 2016–2017 commenced generating favours coinciding with the 2016–2017 financial year. 2017 Exhibition: Hidden Agenda, Trocadero Art Space, 22 February – March 11, 2017. Curated by Casey Jenkins of Craft Cartel. An exploration of hidden and suppressed gender worlds, featuring 30+ female & gender-queer visual artists, activists & performers from 4 continents performing both live & by proxy. 2017 Ladies Cocktail Night, October 7, 2017 FLASH exhibition to raise money for a women's community shelter being established in the South East suburbs of Sydney. Curated by Aisha Kovacs. Guest speakers and a performance by Pradeepti Sen. Artists exhibiting include: Serina Bajin, Kit, Naomi, Vashti, Krystal and more. 2017 FavourEconomy: Volume 2. 2016–2017 launched at Airspace Projects Sydney, coinciding with an exhibition of both Volumes 1 & 2 as an immersive sound installation. FavourEconomy: Volume 2, 2016–2017 was led by Claire Field & Bronwyn Treacy. FavourEconomy Volume 2. 2016 - 2017 contributors: Eva Heiky Olga Abbinga, Elizabeth Barsham, Carolyn Cardinet, Michelle Cawthorn, Stella Chen, Charmaine Cole, Rebecca Conroy, Lottie Consalvo, Yvette Coppersmith, Penny Coss, Elisabeth Cummings, Amanda Davies, Paula do Prado, Julie Dowling, Hayley Megan French, Ann Fuata, Rebecca Gallo, Shanequa Gay, Jane Giblin, Janice Gobey, Katya Grokhovsky, Jo Holder, Alana Hunt, Wina Jie, Lea Kannar-Lichtenberger, Nicole Kelly, Anna Magdalena Laerkesen, Anita Larkin, Carla Liesch, Sue Manchoulas, Catriona Moore, Dahne Julian Molony, Laimah Osman, Caroline Phillips, Kate Power, Laura Purcell, Penny Ryan, Nuha Saad, Mia Salsjo, Esther Shohet, Sian Torrington, Cora-Allan Wickliffe, Linda Wilken, Ana Young & Tianli Zu. 2017  FavourEconomy: Volume 3. 2017–2018 commenced generating favours coinciding with the 2017–2018 financial year. 2017 FavourEconomy:Stations exhibition at George Paton Gallery, curated by project co-founders Claire Field and Bronwyn Treacy, with Alex Pedley managing audience engagement and public programs. FavourEconomy:Stations presented the audio recordings from Volume 1 & 2 of the project (over 80 audio favours) played on random through multiple headsets placed on 24 chairs. Each chair (seat work) was conceived by a FavourEconomy contributor as a symbolic representation of themselves, their art practice, or simply a chair they would like the audience to sit on whilst listening to the FavourEconomy archive. Seat works by: Carolyn Cardinet, Stella Chen, Charmaine Cole, Elizabeth Barsham, Amanda Davies, Linda Dement, Julie Dowling, Claire Field, Janice Gobey, Katya Grokhovsky, Alana Hunt, Wina Jie, Lea Kannar-Lichtenberger, Sue Manchoulas, Nancy Mauro-Flude, Mish Meijers, Dahne Julian Molony, Alex Pedley, Caroline Phillips, Nuha Saad, Bronwyn Treacy, Cora-Allan Wickliffe, Linda Wilken, Ana Young and Tian Zhang. Coinciding with the FavourEconomy:Stations exhibition. Linda Dement and  Nancy Mauro-Flude performed Awry Signals: A Eulogy for the Stellar [Girls] and Katya Grokhovsky live streamed her performance Practicing art while female from New York.  2017  Against the Odds; Women in Art Forum hosted by the Women's Art Register. A gathering of diverse and cross-generational local women artists to explore issues of place, community, gender and practice within contemporary art. Themes for discussion included the challenges of establishing a career as a woman artist, and changing Australian demographics and evolving cultural communities as drivers of art practice and experience. The program included panel discussions, question time and a feminist souk. Special guests included The Social Studio, Melbourne Artists for Asylum Seekers, Sisterworks, Triple F Collective, Kim Donaldson, Nat Thomas, CoUNTess, Kate Just, Dianne Beevers] and Elizabeth Gertsakis. 2018  Conspicuous Presence, curated by the Women's Art Register for Trocadero Artspace Guest Curator Program. Gallery 1 - an exhibition of five women artists of colour Sofi Basseghi, Georgia MacGuire, Ema Shin, Khi-Lee Thorpe, Su Yang. Gallery 2 - archival display from the Women's Art Register. Public program including artist talks and an Art+Feminism Wikipedia Edit-a-thon.   