Cracking Art is an art movement known for the creation of urban installations characterized by the presence of giant animals made of recyclable and colored plastic.  Cracking Art movement was born in 1993 in Biella. It was founded by Omar Ronda, Alex Angi, Renzo Nucara, Carlo Rizzetti, Marco Veronese and Vittorio Valente who left the group almost immediately replaced by Kicco. In 2001 Alessandro Pianca has been part of the group for one year. In 2003 William Sweetlove joined the movement. In 2008, Omar Ronda, the founder, abandoned the project in order to follow his personal career. Cracking Art movement is currently formed by six artists: Alex Angi, Renzo Nucara, Marco Veronese, William Sweetlove and Kicco. The common aim is to change the history of art through a strong social and environmental commitment that, combined with an innovative use of plastic materials, evokes the close relationship between natural and artificial reality. The name "Cracking Art" comes from the verb "to crack" which indicates the state of being split, broken, crashed. Moreover, the catalytic cracking is the name that stands for the chemical reaction occurring when the raw crude oil is converted into plastic. This is the reason why for the movement "cracking" represents the moment when something natural becomes artificial, the most important instant that for the artists of the movement should be represented through art. The concept of Regeneration enlivens the artistic history of the movement since its origins. The plastic, chosen material of the movement, has the eternal property of being crushed and reshaped into other sculptures. The artworks are designed to inspire sensibility in recycling plastic for the environment while leaving a significant artistic value to the world we live in. Recycling plastic means to subtract toxic destruction which devastates nature, as well as creating plastic artworks means to communicate through an universal language while paying strong attention to the planet.  The aim is to connect common reasoning to individual meditation, creating installations with animals that appear unexpectedly in everyday places. The astonishment of meeting an ordinary subject transformed into something extraordinary through its super size, color and shape catches people attention and invites them to see urban life and cities in a different way.  