This is a list of educational institutions in the Philippines arranged according to the dates of their foundation. It comprises the list of the oldest schools in the Philippines sorted in various categories, and gives an overview of the development of education and higher learning in the Philippines. To be included in this list, an institution must satisfy a traditional definition of a formal educational institution at the time of its founding. Chronologically, an educational institution can only be included in the top ten in a certain category only if no other school has been proven, with reliable sources, to be older. Moreover, an addendum shall be attached in a category where an entry is disputed or defunct; this addendum shall consist of the next undisputed or still operating educational institution. The oldest universities, colleges, vocational schools and the first modern public education system in Asia were created during the Spanish colonial period. The earliest schools were founded by Spanish Catholic missionaries. By the time Spain was replaced by the United States as the colonial power, Filipinos were among the most educated subjects in all of Asia.    Disputed Note: The University of San Carlos traces its roots to the Colegio de San Ildefonso founded by the Spanish Jesuits fathers Antonio Sedeno, Pedro Chirino and Antonio Pereira in 1595, thus claiming to be the oldest still existing school in Asia.  USC celebrated its quadricentennial in 1995.  However, this claim is opposed by the Pontifical and Royal University of Santo Tomas,   which argues that USC only took over the facility of the former Colegio de San Ildefonso and that there is no 'visible' and 'clear' link between San Carlos and San Ildefonso.   Notable scholars including Dr. Jose Victor Torres, professor of history at the De La Salle University,   Fr. Aloysius Cartagenas STD, professor at the Seminario Mayor de San Carlos of Cebu   and Fr. Fidel Villarroel, OP, eminent historian and former archivist of Santo Tomas    have also questioned San Carlos' claim of tracing its roots to the 16th Century Colegio de San Ildefonso.  '' A claim in the first ten is disputed; accordingly, an addendum with the next undisputed claim is listed here.   Still in operation   Defunct   Established as a School for Girls Two among the first ten oldest schools for girls are already defunct; accordingly, an addendum with the next oldest girls' school is listed in regards with the top 10 oldest schools for girls in continuous operation. Note: Centro Escolar University was established as Centro Escolar de Señoritas by Doña Librada Avelino and Doña Carmen de Luna in 1907 to cater the young women of Manila. The university is still continuously operating, but now as a co-educational institution.   Still in operation   Defunct   Disputed   Still in operation   Defunct   Disputed Three among the first ten educational institutions with the oldest University charter is already defunct; accordingly, an addendum with the next schools with the oldest University charter is listed in regards with the top 10 oldest that are still in continuous operation.   Still in operation   Defunct   Disputed   Still in operation   Defunct   Disputed Two among the first ten oldest law schools is already defunct; accordingly, an addendum with the next oldest law school is listed in regards with the top 10 oldest law schools in continuous operation.   Still in operation   Defunct   Disputed   Still in operation   Defunct   Disputed   Still in operation   Defunct   Disputed   Still in operation   Defunct   Disputed   Still in operation   Defunct   Disputed 