The III Corps was a corps of the Republic of Korea Army that was formed on October 16, 1950.  and initially consisted of 2nd, 5th and 8th Infantry Division.  It was Command by Major General Yu Jae Hung. The 2d Division, minus the 3d Battalion, 23d Infantry, which was aiding the 1st Cavalry Division in its defense of Taegu and the 3d Battalion, and the 9th Infantry, which was guarding the airfield at Pohang-dong, had a river defense line of almost 36 miles. A North Korean attack against this line was listed in 3-2 reports as an imminent probability. One of the primary missions of Task Force Manchu, scheduled to make a raid in force on August 31, 1950, was to obtain this information. However, the raiding party itself was struck in its assembly area and surrounded by enemy forces which crossed the river at 10 o’clock at night. The overwhelming masses of North Koreans, pressing forward regardless of heavy losses, overran many positions in the 9th and 23d Infantry sectors on the line extending from the southern tip of the 2d Division sector. The 38th Infantry was successful in holding the defensive line in its northern sector with its 1st and 2d Battalions against lighter attacks but pulled back the 2d Battalion, which flanked the 23d Infantry, in order to maintain contact. The main effort of the opposing enemy was directed at the 23d and 9th Infantry Regiments which were protecting the towns of Changnyeong and Yongsan. To ensure the maximum defensive effort, all available reserves, this included technical and service personnel and the 2d Engineer, were committed. By the noon of September 1, 1950, the situation had gone up to become critical. A gap in the central division line, approximately six miles in length, there was visible. The front battalions had suffered a heavy amount of losses and were very disorganized. Along with that, all wire circuits between Yongsan and Changnyeong were disrupted making communication difficult and at some times, impossible. The 1st and 2d Battalions of the 9th Infantry and the 2d Battalion of the 23d Infantry ad lost 50 percent of their combat effectiveness. The 1st Battalion of the 23d Infantry was completely surrounded and was being supplied by airdrop. On September 2, 1950, the enemy force limited its activities to regrouping and replenishing of supplies. To strengthen the defenses in the Yongsan area and guard against a possible enemy drive toward Miryang, the 1st Provisional Marine Brigade, which was attached to the 2d Division on September 3, was directed to advance through Yongsan and assist in driving the enemy back. The Marine Brigade and 9th Infantry blunted the North Korean attack on the 3d and then force the enemy back between 1,500 and 2,000 yards. During the period from the 5th to the 10th of September, the activity of the enemy force indicated that the plan of piercing the Naktong River defense line had not been abandoned by the enemy. On September 14, 1950, the 2d Division published its Operation Order No. 5. The Eighth Army was launching a major attack along the Taegu-Kumchon-Taijon-Suwon axis. The 2d was to concentrate its forces for a penetration of the enemy lines. The stage was set for the next phase of the 2d Infantry Division combat operations, the breakthrough near Sadung and the exploitation of the successful operation.  Before General Walker's death in an automobile accident, he had attempted to strengthen the UN defense of the 38th parallel. The ROK III Corps defended the 38th parallel north of Gapyeong (Kapyong) and Chuncheon, the II Corps was placed in the center, and the I Corps was deployed on the east coast. By January 1, 1951 they had been broken down by constant guerrilla attacks and all out infantry assaults. They were sent into full retreat. Their sector was handed over to Us X Corps. During The Second Spring Offensive they took heavy casualties at Namjon on May 16, 1951. The People's Volunteer Army of China with three field armies and over 700,000 men heavily outnumbered the defending III Corps. The attack was initially successful but was halted by May 20, 1951. At the time of the offensive the Corp consisted of the 3rd and 9th Infantry Division which withdrew leaving behind their heavy equipment, they scatter and fled south on foot through the Pangdae Mountain. On May 25, 1951 III Corps was disbanded by order of General Van Fleet and reassigned 3rd and 9th Infantry Division to The ROK I Corp and the US X Corp respectively.  On May 1953 III Corps was reformed under Major General Kang Mun Bong and deployed to Kwandae to trained under US X Corps. In October 1953 when X Corps withdrew, III Corps assumed the responsibility of defending along the east and central front from Pukhan River to the Punchbowl.   