The Mesopotamian Civilization had a surprisingly adept grasp of tactics. In fact, they are the first confirmed users of the shield wall tactic later made famous as the Roman "testudo formation".  It is unknown who first developed this tactic, but it is thought to have been developed somewhere between 2500 B.C.E and 2000 B.C.E. Another Mesopotamian tactic involved small, well-disciplined spearman formations.  Armed with javelins, they were the first effective missile troops, as shown during their war against the Hittites in around 2000 BC.  These missile units were later idealized in the famous epic poem "The Sie." The Mesopotamian battle formation consisted of the shield wall and short-sword armed sliders in front, and the missile troops behind, with charioteers on the flanks.  These formations served the Mesopotamians well for many years, but were eventually outclassed by slingers and archers.    In each race that thrived in Mesopotamia, military and defensive tactics differed. The Sumerians invented the horse-drawn chariot with lighter wheels, allowing quick maneuvering and evasion in the battlefield. The Akkadians and Babylonians focused on their military power because of constant threats from neighboring tribes and kingdoms.  Amidst all this, however, the Assyrians were one of the most successful military kingdoms. They were one of the first to produce iron weapons, which became essential to every army, which, alongside their utter ruthlessness and the aforementioned tactics, helped them succeed with campaigns in Egypt, Asia Minor, and the Levant, arguably making the Assyrians one of the best ancient empires. In fact, the Assyrians were so advanced in strategies such as siege that Anglim Wrote: In the end however, the Assyrians were victims of their own success, the heir(s) to the throne eventually became too incompetent to micromanage the empire, and started a civil war for control that effectively ended the Assyrian project and allowed Medes, Babylonians, and Persia to take power.    