  "Qadam Qadam Badhaye Ja" (Hindi: क़दम क़दम बढ़ाये जा) was the regimental quick march of the Subhas Chandra Bose's Indian National Army.  Written by Pt. Vanshidhar Shukla and composed by  Ram Singh Thakuri, it was banned in India after World War II as "seditious", which was subsequently lifted in August 1947. The song has since become a patriotic song in India, and has been re-interpreted by various Indian musicians including C. Ramachandra and A.R. Rahman. The song  is currently the regimental quickmarch of the Indian Army.   क़दम क़दम बढ़ाये जा ख़ुशी के गीत गाये जा ये ज़िंदगी है क़ौम की  तू क़ौम पे लुटाये जा  तू शेर-ए-हिन्द आगे बढ़ मरने से तू कभी न डर उड़ा के दुश्मनों का सर जोश-ए-वतन बढ़ाये जा  क़दम क़दम बढ़ाये जा ख़ुशी के गीत गाये जा ये ज़िंदगी है क़ौम की तू क़ौम पे लुटाये जा  हिम्मत तेरी बढ़ती रहे ख़ुदा तेरी सुनता रहे जो सामने तेरे खड़े तू ख़ाक़ में मिलाये जा  क़दम क़दम बढ़ाये जा ख़ुशी के गीत गाये जा ये ज़िंदगी है क़ौम की तू क़ौम पे लुटाये जा  चलो दिल्ली पुकार के क़ौमी-निशाँ संभाल के लाल क़िले पे गाड़ के लहराये जा लहराये जा  क़दम क़दम बढ़ाये जा ख़ुशी के गीत गाये जा ये ज़िंदगी है क़ौम की तू क़ौम पे लुटाये जा Qadam Qadam baṛāye jā khushi kē gīt gāē jā yē zīndagi hai qâum kī tū qâum pē lūtāē jā  tū shēr-ē-hind āgē baṛ marnē sē tū kabhī nā daṛ Ūṛākē dushmanō kā  saṛ jōsh-ē-vatan baṛāē jā  Qadam Qadam baṛāye jā khushi kē gīt gāē jā yē zīndagi hai qâum kī tū qâum pē lūtāē jā  himmat tēri baṛtī rahē khuda tērī suntā rahē jō sāmnē tērē khaṛē tū khāq mē milāē jā  Qadam Qadam baṛāye jā khushi kē gīt gāē jā yē zndagi hai qâum kī tū qâum pē lūtāē jā  Chalō Dillī pūkār kē qâumi-nishāñ sam.bhāl kē Lāl qilē pē gāṛ kē lehrāē jā lehrāē jā  Qadam qadam baṛāye jā khushi kē geet gāē jā yē zindagi hai qâum kī tū qâum pē lūtāē jā Keep stepping forward Singing songs of happiness  This life belongs to our Nation Keep laying it down for her  March forward You the Tiger of India never ever be afraid to die By Blowing away the enemy's head Raise the spirits of your nation  Keep stepping forward Singing songs of happiness  This life belongs to our Nation Keep laying it down for her  Let your courage be ever increasing May The Lord always hear you As for those who stand in your way Keep trampling them to dust and ashes  Keep stepping forward Singing songs of happiness  This life belongs to our Nation Keep laying it down for her  Let "Towards Delhi" be your war-cry And hold the Nation's banner high Plant it on the Red Fort And wave it high, wave it high  Keep stepping forward Singing songs of happiness  This life belongs to our Nation Keep laying it down for her More Poetic lyrics(not official) March, March on forward  With pleasure-songs onward. Life belongs to the land. You Better die than Backward.(Refrain) Indian tigers, spring ahead Save thy nation than thy head. Striking terror among enemies To thee is feather-bed. Thy valor is again free Thy Almighty graces thee.  Thy Enemy at the front  Sinks down on his knee. "To Delhi" be thy Battle Cry, hoisting thy standard high. Fluttering atop the Lalquila Let it fly, let it fly.  