Anti-Dutch sentiment, also known as Dutchphobia,  is a spectrum of negative feelings, fears and dislikes towards Netherlands, Dutch people and Dutch culture. Historically, dislike or hatred toward the Netherlands (often known as "Holland"), the Dutch people and their culture has arisen from the colonization undertaken by the Netherlands, and from the roles it has played in European wars. This sentiment is reflected in various expressions that have entered the English language. Most of present-day Indonesia was a Dutch colony – the Dutch East Indies – from 1800 until the Japanese invasion during World War II. After the defeat of the Japanese, when the Dutch attempted to reassert control, anti-Dutch feeling developed among the native population, encompassing anything associated with the Dutch.   The outcome was the Indonesian National Revolution, culminating in 1949 in the independence of Indonesia. In South Africa, following the Boer War (1899-1902) between the British government and settlers of Dutch descent, anti-Dutch sentiments were present within the English-speaking population  and were identified with the Unionist Party.  A growing nationalist movement gave rise to anti-Dutch sentiment during the 1950s in the then colony of Surinam.  Suriname became self-governing in 1954 and fully independent in 1975. From the Anglo-Dutch Wars of the 17th to 19th centuries date expressions conveying varying degrees of hostility or mockery towards the Dutch, such as "Dutch courage", "Dutch uncle", "Going Dutch", "Dutch treat", "Double Dutch" and "I'm a Dutchman". Anti-Dutch feeling grew up in England during the three wars against the Dutch Republic between 1652 and 1674, and continued during and after the reign of William of Orange.   The neutrality maintained by the Netherlands during the First World War evoked unfavourable comment in Britain, epitomised by a remark in Punch: Holland is a low country, in fact it is such a very low country that it is no wonder that it is dammed all round.During World War II, German occupiers in Belgium were promoting the use of Dutch language in communities of French-speakers, which lead to strong Dutchphobia among those people.  