 Anti-Vietnamese sentiment involves hostility or hatred that is directed towards Vietnamese people, or the state of Vietnam. Anti-Vietnamese sentiment dates back in Cambodia since the Khmer Empire, as Cambodia was constantly invaded by the Vietnamese Nguyễn lords. The Khmer inhabited Mekong Delta started to become inundated with Vietnamese and in response the Vietnamese were subjected to Cambodian retaliation.  After the Vietnamese successfully conquered Champa as part of the Vietnamese territory, the Vietnamese then moved to conquer Khmer in Mekong Delta. Following the beginning of French Cochinchina with the arrival of European troops and missionary, the Cambodians told Catholic European envoys that the Vietnamese persecution against Catholics justified retaliatory attacks launched against the Vietnamese colonists in Cambodia.  In 1978, under the administration of Democratic Kampuchea, especially when Cambodian socialists began to rebel in the eastern zone of Cambodia, Pol Pot ordered his armies to exterminate 1.5 million eastern Cambodians which branded as "Cambodian with Vietnamese minds" along with the 50 million Vietnamese in the area.  This led to a war with the Vietnamese when the Vietnamese began to retaliate over the inhumane genocide and subsequently overthrow the Khmer Rouge from power.  The King of Cambodia Norodom Sihanouk at the time also plead to United States President Lyndon B. Johnson for American forces to liberate Cambodia from the Viet Cong but to no avail.  Until the modern times, anti-Vietnamese sentiment continue to flare in Cambodia due to fear from Cambodians for what they believed that Vietnam will take over their land one day with some Cambodian opposition politicians continue to playing up the issue to justify their hatred against the Vietnamese.  That was shown by attacks against Vietnamese resulting in the rape and murder of several Vietnamese in the country, as anti-Vietnamese anger has been too difficult to counter in Cambodia with an activist against racism even from the Cambodia ethnicity itself was given a death threat if he tried to interfere.  On 16 February 2014, an ethnic Vietnamese in Cambodia, Tran Van Chien, was beaten to death by Cambodian mobs after a minor accident with the Cambodians.  In March 2015, an 8-year-old Vietnamese girl, Ngo Ngoc Phut, was kidnapped and killed in Vietnam before her body been thrown into the side of Cambodian border near a casino as her mother who work in the Cambodian casino could not come up with a US$300 ransom.  On 3 December, an ethnic Vietnamese fisherman was hacked to death by a pair of Cambodian assailants, armed with a machete and a pistol, but the suspects did not steal any property on the victim.  On 29 March 2016, a 15-year-old Vietnamese girl in Phnom Penh who was selling flowers in the capital was abducted, raped and murdered by a Cambodian man who had just finished a drinking session.  As Mainland China has dominated Vietnam for a very indefinite of time, there has been a long unease sentiment towards China among Vietnamese community with more anti-Chinese sentiment is evident than anti-Vietnamese sentiment in China.  Many Vietnamese girls who lived in northern Vietnam have been trafficked to China and sold into marriage for Chinese men.  Recent tensions in the South China Sea have caused more hatred towards Chinese among the Vietnamese community. As a retaliation, a Chinese restaurant in Beijing refused to served foods to Vietnamese, Filipino and Japanese customers, the three countries being among China's loudest opponents in its territorial disputes.   Hatred towards foreigners especially to non-white people began to rise in Russia as they were blamed for the country 10 years of failed reforms in which living standards plummeted.  Prior to the Chechen–Russian conflict, especially when Russian authorities blamed the Chechen Muslims Jihadist as responsible in the Russian apartment bombings, this has fuelled more hatred towards immigrants in the country.  Prior to this, Russian skinheads began to be formed with some of the group members joining to take revenge for their family members that had been killed during the bomb attacks, though some other Russians joined the group because they are just "bored" and want to bully people.  Following the attack against Vietnamese in Russia as they also been included on Russian skinhead target list on immigrants, a protest was held by Vietnamese community in the country especially after the murder of 20-year old Vietnamese student, Vu Anh Tuan on 13 October 2004 with the protestor said: We came to study in this country, which we thought was a friend of Vietnam. We do not have drunken fights, we do not steal, we do not sell drugs and we have the right to protection from bandits.  Despite the protest for protection from Russian authorities, Vietnamese people continue to be attacked as on 25 December 2004, two Vietnamese students at the Moscow Energy Institute, Nguyen Tuan Anh and Nguyen Hoang Anh suffered severe injuries and were subsequently hospitalised after they had been assaulted by a group of strangers with knives and clubs on the way back to their dormitory.  On 13 March 2005, three Russians stabbed a 45-year-old Vietnamese man named Quan to death in front of his home in Moscow.  On 22 March 2008, a 35-year old Vietnamese woman who worked at a Moscow market stabbed to death in an apparent race-hate killing.  On 9 January 2009, a group of strangers in Moscow stabbed a 21-year-old Vietnamese student named Tang Quoc Binh resulting to his death on the next day.  Amid continuous attacks against Vietnamese students and workers, around 600 Vietnamese were rounded up in August 2013 in the city of Moscow and placed in poor conditions tents while waiting to be deported from Russia.  Tension and hatred between Vietnamese immigrants and white fishermen rose up in Galveston Bay, Texas in 1981, and was intensified by the Ku Klux Klan following an invitation from the American fishermen to threatening and intimidating the Vietnamese to leave, which resulted in attacks on Vietnamese boats.  Vietnamese business owners, along with Korean Americans were disproportionately targeted during the Rodney King Riots. 