  Phillip Bennett OBE (born 24 October 1948) is a former Welsh international rugby union fly half from 1969 to 1978. His flair and range of tricks, including his famous sidestep and swerve, meant he was a firm favourite with crowds. Born in Felinfoel, Carmarthenshire, Bennett made his Wales debut on 22 March 1969 against France in Paris at the age of 20 when he became the first Welsh substitute in international rugby, replacing an injured Gerald Davies.  Initially, Bennett played in a number of positions including fullback and centre, but settled in the fly-half position in 1972. He succeeded the legendary Barry John in that position. Bennett's form meant that he joined the British Lions on their famous tour to South Africa in 1974, scoring 103 points. His 50-yard try against South Africa at Pretoria on that tour was a career highlight. Even so, a place in the Wales side was not guaranteed. In 1975 he was dropped for Aberavon RFC's John Bevan and only replaced an injured Bevan in the third game at the Murrayfield Test. He played a pivotal role in the final game of that season vs Ireland at Cardiff Arms Park, in a record 32-4 victory.  In 1976 Bevan picked up an injury and Bennett was recalled. Following the injury to the then Welsh captain Mervyn Davies, Bennett took over this role, which resulted in him becoming captain of the British Lions on the 1977 Tour. In August 1977 the British Lions made a stopover in Fiji on the way home from their tour of New Zealand. Fiji beat them 25–21 at Buckhurst Park, Suva. In 1977 Phil Bennett's pre-game pep talk before facing England produced a memorable, anti-English quote: Look what these bastards have done to Wales. They've taken our coal, our water, our steel. They buy our homes and live in them for a fortnight every year. What have they given us? Absolutely nothing. We've been exploited, raped, controlled and punished by the English – and that's who you are playing this afternoon. Bennett retired from international rugby union in 1978, having won a total of 29 caps. He signed off in classic style, scoring two tries vs France at the Arms Park in a 16-7 victory. The win ensured Wales won their third Grand Slam of the 1970s, and their second in three seasons.  He played his club rugby at Llanelli RFC, where he played 16 seasons. He also played 20 times for the Barbarians, including the famous game against the All Blacks in January 1973. In that game he was the catalyst for the Gareth Edwards' try early in the game that connoisseurs of the game still regard as the finest ever scored. Gathering a bobbling ball that had been kicked high over his head and into his own 22, Phil beat four players with his trade mark sidestep before passing to John (JPR) Williams to launch the move. Cliff Morgan's now legendary commentary of the try describes it thus: Kirkpatrick to Williams. This is great stuff. Phil Bennett covering, chased by Alistair Scown. Brilliant! Oh, that's brilliant! John Williams, Brian Williams, Pullin, John Dawes. Great dummy! David, Tom David, the half-way line. Brilliant by Quinnell. This is Gareth Edwards. A dramatic start. What a score! Oh that fellow Edwards. This had shortly followed another defining moment in his career when, through an exceptional tactical kicking performance, he helped his beloved Llanelli to a 9–3 victory over the same touring All Blacks in October 1972. His autobiography is entitled Everywhere for Wales, and he now commentates on the game for television. In November 2005 Phil Bennett was admitted into the International Rugby Hall of Fame and in 2007 to the Welsh Sports Hall of Fame. Note 2: Matthew Mullineux decided that after losing the first test that he should withdraw from further test matches, handing on field captaincy to Frank Stout, but remained tour captain. Note 3: David Bedell-Sivright was injured during the first test. Teddy Morgan took over captaincy on the field but Bedell-Sivright remained tour captain. Note 4: The team that John Raphael captained was not selected by the four Home Nations governing body, but had been organised by Oxford University and billed as the English Rugby Union team. However, it was denoted as the Combined British team by its Argentine hosts because it also included three Scots. Note 5: Jack Jones captained the first test only, but Tommy Smyth remained the tour captain. Note 6: Bleddyn Williams captained in the third and fourth tests v New Zealand and the first test v Australia. Note 7: Cliff Morgan captained in the third test. Note 8: Michael Owen captained the Lions in the first tour game, the test vs. Argentina in Cardiff. Brian O'Driscoll was injured at the beginning of the first test. Martin Corry and Gareth Thomas took over captaincy on the field but O'Driscoll remained tour captain. Note 9: Sam Warburton was injured in the second test and ruled out of the third. Alun Wyn Jones replaced him as captain for the third test. 