The following is a list of libraries in Australia. The legislative libraries are commonly known in Australia as parliamentary libraries.   Amongst this group of libraries are some of the oldest libraries in Australia.   The Parliamentary Library in New South Wales is the oldest and was established in 1840.    The most recent parliamentary library to be established in 1989 is the ACT Legislative Assembly Library.   Local libraries are united behind common goals and ambitions, share best practice and provide universal free access to information, knowledge and ideas. They are supported by every state and territory in Australia and are often managed within Local Government areas. The public libraries in New South Wales are operated by local councils, in some cases cooperatively as "regional libraries".   There are 89 library services which operate more than 350 public libraries across the state.  Public libraries in Queensland are operated by local government councils. Local government areas with a population below 15,000 provide public library services through Rural Libraries Queensland (formerly the Country Lending Service), a service provided by the State Library of Queensland.  The Queensland public library services and the suburbs and localities they via local libraries, mobile libraries and Indigenous Knowledge Centres are: Public libraries in South Australia are operated by local councils and most of them are part of the One Card Network, operated by Libraries of SA, a state government department.  Community libraries, found in rural and remote areas, are joint-use libraries (school and public) and are usually located in towns too small to support both a public library and a school library.  List derived from Libraries of SA.  (See also Mechanics Institutes of Australia). Ballan mechanics institute Bruthen Mechanics Institute Charlton Mechanics Institute Elmhurts Mechanics Institute Great Western Mechanics Institute Hamilton Mechanics Institute Healesville Mechanics Institute.JPG Inglewood Mechanics Institute.JPG Leongatha Mechanics Institute.JPG Lilydale Mechanics Institute.jpg Matong Mechanics Institute Building Institute Moonambel.jpg Mechanics Institute Murrumburrah Mechanics-institute-geelong Mornington Mechanics Institute Morongla Mechanics Institute Old Mill Theater Prahran mechanics institute Rushworth Mechanics Institute Stratford Mechanics Institute Williamstown Institute Winiam Mechanics Institute Woodend Mechanics Institute Yandoit Mechanics Institute Ardlethan School of Arts Barham Public Hall Batlow Literary Institute Berrigan CWA Federation Birganbigil School of Arts Site Brocklesby School of Arts Hall Coolamon School of Arts Finley School of Arts Wagga School of Arts Ganmain Literary Institute GongGong School of Arts Gundagai Literary Institute Henty School of Arts Jerilderie Mechanics Institute Monument Jerilderie Mechanics Institute Site Junee Library Walla Walla Literary Institute Matong Mechanics Institute Rand School of Arts Savernake School of Arts Tumut School of Arts Womboots School of Arts Curramulka Institute Edithburgh Institute PinePointMemorialInstitute Port Vincent Institute Stansbury Memorial Institute Balaklava Institute Hall Beachport Institute Birdwood, Institute CadellInstitute Cambrai Institute Cobdogla Institute Coonalpyn Institute Dublin Institute (South Australia) Farrell Flat Institute Freeling Institute Hamley bridge Institute Owen Institute Karoonda Institute Macclesfield Morgan Institute Mount Gambier Institute Owen Institute Pinnaroo Institute Ramco Institute Saddleworth Institute Terowie Institute Waikerie institute Notable schools of arts in Queensland include: 