Latham Island, known locally as Fungu Kizimkazi, Fungu Mbaraka is a small, relatively isolated island in the Zanzibar Archipelago, Tanzania which is historical under the Government of Zanzibar since 1898. The island has several local names in addition to Fungu Kizimkazi, the most Notable of which are Fungu la Mbarak after the Arab who had the right to collect wreckage there in the reign of seyid Barghash who was the (Sultan of Zanzibar), Shungu Mbili and Shan jove. The island was featured on an early sixteenth century Portuguese map (Ingrams, n.d) but it derives its present name from the East Indian man Latham which rediscovered it in 1758.  The island was annexed to Zanzibar on 19 October 1898 when British First Minister Sir Lloyd Mathews under the order of the Sultan of Zanzibar visited the island, planted the Zanzibar Flag, and declared it to be under the administration of Zanzibar. Lloyd Mathews arrived on the island on 18 October 1898 with the warship HHS Barawa alongside Captain Arthur Agnew, Zanzibar Port Officer, and Dr. Alfred Andrew Spurrier, a Medical Officer. Following the Plantation of Zanzibar Flag on 19 October 1898, 21-gun salutes were performed as a military honor and the island was officially annexed to the Sultan's authority. An iron house[definition needed] was built; its corner stone was laid and written with "LATHAM ISLAND, FUNGU KIZIMKAZI UNDER ZANZIBAR SOVEREIGNTY". Latham Island is a flat coral island located 60 km (37 mi) south-east of Unguja and 66 km (41 mi) east of Dar es Salaam. It is roughly 300 metres (980 ft) long and 300 metres (980 ft) wide, and has an area of 0.03 square kilometres (0.01 sq mi). The island is surrounded by a fringing reef and is oceanic, as it lies off the continental shelf and is surrounded by deep water.   The island is an important breeding ground for various bird species, namely the masked booby, greater crested tern, sooty tern and the brown noddy. Latham is also thought to be of importance for nesting turtles.  