  The Gupta era is a historical calendar era that begins from 318–319 CE. It was used by the Gupta emperors, as well as their vassals and their successors in present-day northern India and Nepal. It is identical to the Vallabhi era (or Valabhi era), which was used in the Saurashtra region of western India, although regional differences lead to a slightly different calculation for the conversion of Vallabhi era years to Common Era (CE). The Gupta era is now believed to have been started by the Gupta kings, although there have been several debates over its origin in the past. The 11th century Persian writer Al-Biruni, who described the Guptas as "wicked", incorrectly stated that the Gupta era marked the end of the Gupta dynasty. He dated the beginning of the Gupta era to the year 241 of the Shaka era, that is, 318–319 CE. Al-Biruni's claim later led to debates about the era's origin among the 19th century historians.  John Faithfull Fleet analysed the Gupta inscriptions, and realised that they were dated to years of a particular calendar era. He believed that the era was founded by king Jayadeva of the Lichchhavi dynasty (relatives of the Guptas), and was later adopted by the Guptas.  Later discoveries and analysis indicate that the era was actually founded by the Guptas, and was known after them. For example:  Georg Bühler concluded that the Gupta era was started by Chandragupta I in 318–319 CE, to mark his coronation. This is the most prevalant theory about the era's origin now.  However, this cannot be said with certainty, and the era may have been started by his predecessors or his son Samudragupta as well.  Some other theories trace the origin of the era to 3rd century CE or earlier, but this view is now discredited: the 7th century inscription of Shashanka is dated to the 300th year of the Gupta era, and proves that the Gupta era started in the 4th century.  The Gupta era was used in northern India, western India and parts of eastern India until the end of the Gupta dynasty in the 6th century CE.  Apart from the Gupta rulers, the Gupta era was also used by their vassals and successors, such as: According to the calculations of John Faithfull Fleet, the Gupta era began on the first day of the shukla paksha (bright fortnight) of the Chaitra month. Depending on regional conventions, the process of converting the Gupta era years to Common Era (CE) years is different:  