  The Translational Research Institute (TRI) is Australia’s first translational medical research institute dedicated to translating scientific discoveries into applications for medical practice.  Located in Woolloongabba, in inner-city Brisbane, Queensland, TRI is supported by a grant from the Australian Government ($140 million); and funding from the Queensland Government ($107 million); Queensland University of Technology ($25 million); and The University of Queensland ($10 million)  to combine clinical and translational research to advance progress from laboratory discovery to application in patient care.   TRI is a Pty Ltd. company with four shareholders: Queensland Health,  the Queensland University of Technology,  The University of Queensland  and Mater Medical Research.  In 2004 a proposal was submitted to the Queensland Government for the development and construction of TRI. In 2007 this progressed to project design.  Five years on and A$354 million in funding from the Australian and Queensland Governments, UQ and QUT, TRI became operational and four institutes came together. TRI was established in January 2013 and officially opened in October of the same year by the Governor-General Dame Quentin Bryce.  Over 800 researchers and clinicians from TRI’s four shareholders undertake medical research and clinical studies into cancer; inflammation and infection; obesity and diabetes; kidney disease and liver disease; and bone and joint disorders.  TRI research aims to: Some of TRI's researchers include: Located on the Princess Alexandra (PA) Hospital campus, the seven-story TRI building incorporates four floors of state-of-the art laboratories; and facilities for research support, administration and teaching. TRI’s core facilities  include: Co-located with TRI are the following facilities: The TRI building was designed by Wilson Architects + Donovan Hill and was built by Watpac, completed in 2012 at the total cost of $354 million.  The facility features eight levels: four levels of laboratories, administration and teaching facilities, an auditorium and conference rooms, staff amenities and an "outdoor room" atrium area. TRI is a 32,000 square metres (340,000 sq ft) building. It stands on the grounds of the Princess Alexandra Hospital in Brisbane on the former site of the Vision Australia building, of which the red clay bricks were salvaged and reused as the base of TRI.  The building received several architectural and design awards.     