The Life Healthcare Esidimeni Scandal involved the deaths of 143 people   at psychiatric facilities in the Gauteng province of South Africa from causes including starvation and neglect. It is named for Life Esidimeni, the private healthcare provider from which patients were removed by the state. The incident has been called "the greatest cause of human rights violation" in democratic South Africa.  In October 2015, the Gauteng department of health terminated an outsourced care contract with Life Esidimeni in order to save money and give effect to a policy to "deinstitutionalise" psychiatric patients. Some 1 300 patients were transferred to the care of their families, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), and other hospitals. The process was subsequently found to have been a total shambles. In September 2016, Gauteng health head Qedani Mahlangu first reported that several of the transferred patients had died.  Later investigation revealed many attempts to warn the health department of the consequences of transferring patients to NGOs incapable of providing the specialised care they required. These warnings were ignored, and in one instance the department was found to have misled a court in order to prevent it from being interdicted.  By October 2017, post-mortem examinations had been conducted on only 26 of the deceased.  According to death certificates patients died of causes including hypothermia and dehydration, although many certificates listed natural causes.  Family members of deceased patients reported seeing patients walking around naked , that one NGO gave the same standard set of medication to every patient , and that bodies were badly decomposed.  A report into events requested by the Minister of Health was finally released on 1 February 2017, after it was delayed by Mahlangu who wanted time to peruse the document, as well as an extension of time to provide feedback.  The report concluded that: The Report was the culmination of the Ombudman's investigation and interrogations as well consideration of the Ministerial Advisory Committee on Mental Health Report.  