Bruno Gröning (May 30, 1906 in Danzig – January 26, 1959 in Paris) was a German mystic who gave lectures on faith healings. He was active in Germany in the 1940s and 1950s after World War II. Gröning claimed that his ideas were not a new teaching or religion, but rather an ancient knowledge that had been lost, saying that people had forgotten "the most important thing," that there is a Higher Power or Force that is available to help people. At the center of his teachings was the importance of love, both for God and for others, saying "A human being is a creature of Love. What’s created in love can live only in Love. Love is God!"  Gröning regarded health (rather than illness and disease) as the natural state of all living things and asserted that one can maintain health and heal from illness by absorption of a Divine life force that he called "Heilstrom," which translates into English as "Healing Wave" or "Healing Stream." To connect with and receive this energy, Gröning taught a technique he called "einstellen" (German for "tuning in"). He said that human beings were like batteries that used energy. To maintain health, a person needed to daily renew themselves by tuning into the healing wave.  The practice of einstellen consists of sitting in an upright position with arms and legs uncrossed, and palms facing upwards. He stated that it was very important for the back to be straight and to not have any kind of backrest if possible. Inwardly the practice consists of having the wish to receive the heilstrom, having faith that healing is possible, and then focusing on the body, observing the sensations and feelings thereof. He told people to "take on health" and that in this one regard, in regard to healing that it was permissible, even necessary to be selfish in a manner, that is, to focus on oneself. Gröning claimed that when one tunes into the healing stream, healings can occur spontaneously or slowly, depending on variables such as the quantity of life force flowing through the body, accelerated during "einstellen." Sometimes the symptoms may worsen or increased pain is experienced, before a healing occurs. Gröning called this occurrence "Regelungen" (German for "regulation",) and stated that it is sometimes a necessary part of the healing process.  Gröning emphasized the importance of not thinking about negative things, especially dwelling on an illness one was hoping to heal, in maintaining a positive attitude and having faith, especially the faith that healing was possible. Gröning said that, “Thoughts are energies which will come true! If now you take up the firm intent in your mind to regain your health and the belief that this is possible, with God’s help, you have built up the right mental attitude for healing to begin.” In his teachings, he emphasized that negative thinking and dwelling on problems interferes with the healing process. Mr. Gröning often stated that people needed to "Trust and believe--the Divine Power helps and heals." He went so far as to say that the act of having faith in the Divine, or in healing, is an essential part of the healing process. Gröning's concept of himself was that he was an "appointed person", given the task and capacity to help people by God. He spoke of himself also as a "mediator" and a "transformer", in terms of his role and ability to help people connect with the healing stream. He never took credit for the healings, saying that he was only an instrument and servant of God and that it was God who accomplished healing, not himself. He said often that he was calling humanity to the "Great Reversal" or "Great Turnaround" - to live a life connected to the divine and to live in harmony with nature. "The sole purpose of my deeds and workings is to guide all people on this earth once again onto the right path, onto the divine path. This is the great reversal."  The particular religion people followed was not considered important by Gröning; rather, what was important was that people had a type of spiritual or religious orientation, saying "To be connected with God, that is all." Gröning spoke of God as the father of all people, who sends help and healing through the "Healing Stream" regardless of their religion or nationality. He encouraged people to strengthen their connection with whatever faith or denomination they adhered to, and to practice their faith or religion with more diligence, saying "It makes absolutely no difference how the person finds God; the main thing is, that he finds God!“  Bruno Gröning had no formal medical training.  After working as a carpenter and pursuing some other occupations, he was conscripted during World War II. After being drafted, he stated that he would not kill another human being, and came close to being executed for this stance at a court martial. Later, Bruno Gröning was made a prisoner of war in Russia; he argued with his captors for better conditions in the prison.   Gröning came to public attention in 1949. In Herford, the father of a young boy named Dieter Hulsmann, claimed that Bruno Gröning had healed his son of muscular dystrophy, and told many people of his belief. News of this story circulated and soon crowds gathered in front of the Hulsmann residence, seeking healing.  Soon newspapers began covering the story, which drew larger crowds of up to 5,000 people. As he traveled around Germany, Austria and Switzerland he would often draw similar size and larger crowds. In September 1949, up to 30,000 people daily came to the city of Rosenheim to see him. Once again, newspapers ran stories about him, even printing entire special editions about the gatherings there. Gröning died at the age of 52. The death certificate states the cause of death as "stomach cancer." Media coverage of Bruno Gröning was mixed, with contradictory reports. Some called Gröning a "miracle doctor", others "charlatan." Gröning faced many legal challenges. In many towns he was forbidden to heal or speak to people. Reasons for this varied. One charge brought against him was that he was practicing medicine without a license. At other times officials were concerned about the large crowds that gathered.  He went on trial twice. He was unable to take part in the second trial because he was undergoing surgery at the time. Various groups continue to promulgate Bruno Gröning's teaching, including the "Circle of Information", the "Bruno Groening Trust", the Bruno Groening Friends, the "Association for the Advancement in Germany of Spiritual and Natural - Psychological Foundations for Living", "Help and Healing Sessions", the Association for Natural Spiritual Living,", the "Bruno Gröning Circle of Friends." and Help and Healing Sessions. The Association for the Advancement was founded in 1958 by Bruno Gröning to replace the "Gröning Association." The "Circle of Friends" was founded in 1979 by Grete Hausler, an Austrian school teacher who worked closely with Gröning. "The Circle of Information" was created by Thomas Busse, who has written a number of books about Gröning and directed the documentary film "The Gröning Phenomena." Help and Healing Sessions is an association of independent Bruno Groening groups and hosts online meetings. To date the Circle of Friends is the largest organization. It has produced two movies, The Miracle Apostle, and The Bruno Groening Phenomena. 