The Sanctuary of Oropa (Italian: santuario di Oropa), is a group of Roman Catholic buildings and structures in the municipality of Biella, Italy. It is located at a height of 1,159 metres in a small valley of the Alpi Biellesi.  According to legend, a black wooden statue of the Virgin Mary carved by Saint Luke was found in Jerusalem by Saint Eusebius of Vercelli and carried to Oropa in the 4th century AD  and placed into a small niche in a big boulder. Around that niche housing the statue in the Middle Ages was built first a church, which during the early 17th century was replaced with what is known today as the Ancient Basilica. In the following two centuries several other buildings were added to the complex, including the royal apartments of the House of Savoy, a big library and the Royal Gate, a masterpiece designed by the architect Filippo Juvarra in the 18th century.  The last building added to the sanctuary was the Upper Basilica, a monumental church built between 1885 and 1960 due the large number of pilgrims visiting Oropa.  Its dome is 80 metres high and the church can hold 3000 people.  In 1617, the construction of the Sacro Monte di Oropa (literally Sacred Mount of Oropa) was built not far from the sanctuary. It is a devotional  path now composed of twelve chapels (plus another seven nearby) containing groups of statues representing scenes from the story of the Virgin Mary's life. Near the Sacro Monte in the 19th century was built a new graveyard, where the noble families of the Biellese territory built their family tombs. Some graves have free masons symbols, such as Quintino Sella's one. The statue of the black Madonna has always been venerated and to the Virgin of Oropa are attributed miracles and protections. The town of Biella made a vow during the 17th-century plague and it wasn't infected. Following  this grace, the town does a pilgrimage every year to the sanctuary in order to thank the Virgin Mary. People during the centuries made ex-voto (for grace) pictures to thank the Virgin Mary. All of these pictures are still preserved in the sanctuary in the 'ex voto gallery'. The oldest picture dates back to 1522 and was made by painter Bernardino Lanino. The popular belief says that the wooden statue has some peculiar characteristics: Around 800,000 pilgrims and one-hundred pilgrimages visit the sanctuary each year.  The evocative and ancient pilgrimage from Fontainemore to Oropa takes place every five years. The mountain area surrounding the sanctuary is included in a regional park of 1,518.28 ha (code: EUAP0882) named Riserva Naturale Speciale del Sacro Monte di Oropa.  The Sanctuary has been the end of a stage of the Giro d'Italia six times.  Media related to Sacro Monte (Oropa) at Wikimedia Commons 