New Normal is a term in business and economics that refers to financial conditions following the financial crisis of 2007-2008 and the aftermath of the 2008–2012 global recession. The term has since been used in a variety of other contexts to imply that something which was previously abnormal has become commonplace. The term arose from the context of cautioning the belief of economists and policy makers that industrial economies would revert to their most recent means post the 2007-2008 financial crisis.   The January 29, 2009 Philadelphia City Paper quoted Paul Glover (activist) referring to the need for "new normals" in community development, when introducing his cover story "Prepare for the Best." External link below: "Gotta Find a Better Way" paragraph 3 The 2010 Per Jacobsson lecture delivered by the head of PIMCO, Mohamed A. El-Erian, was titled "Navigating the New Normal in Industrial Countries". In the lecture El-Erian stated that "Our use of the term was an attempt to move the discussion beyond the notion that the crisis was a mere flesh wound...instead the crisis cut to the bone. It was the inevitable result of an extraordinary, multiyear period which was anything but normal".  The term has subsequently been used by ABC News,  BBC News,  the New York Times, and formed part of a question by Candy Crowley, the moderator of the Second U.S. presidential debate of 2012.  Since 2012, China's economy has shown a marked slowdown, with growth rates declining from double digit levels (before the 2007-2009 financial crisis) to around 7% in 2014. In 2014, a statement by Xi Jinping - General Secretary of the Communist Party of China - indicated that China was entering a 'new normal' (Chinese: 新常态).  This term was subsequently popularised by the press and came to refer to expectations of 7% growth rates in China for the foreseeable future. It was indicative of the Chinese government's anticipation of moderate but perhaps more stable economic growth in the medium-to-long term. 