The Fijian honours system dates from the granting of dominion status in 1970, when the Fijian Independence Medal was awarded to participants in the Fijian independence celebrations.  Prior to two military coups, which deposed Elizabeth II as Queen of Fiji, ending the Fijian Monarchy, Fiji also had use of the British Honours System. After Fiji was declared a republic, outside the Commonwealth of Nations in October 1987, there was no full honours system until 1995. However, in 1988 the Fiji Republic Medal was established with a military and civil division. The medal was awarded for meritorious and faithful service in the military, disciplined services, or civil service. For Fijian civilians the medal was awarded for outstanding public service to Fiji.  In 1995 with the passage of the Honours and Awards Act, 1995 established the Order of Fiji and a system of civil, military, and awards for the disciplined services.  One recipient was Sir Paul Reeves, a former Governor-General of New Zealand, who was awarded this honour for his work in drafting the 1997 Constitution by the then President, Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara.  Also made a Companion in  1997 was Satya Nandan. Papua New Guinea Prime Minister Sir Michael Somare was made a Companion during a state visit in 2006.  The Order of Fiji was a Commonwealth honour from its re-admittance to the Commonwealth on 20 December 2001  to its second full suspension on 1 September 2009.  from the Commonwealth. The Order of Fiji is the most senior in the Fijian honours system. There are 3 grades plus a Medal, in General and Military division. Recipients of the Order are allowed Post-nominal letters. The seniority within the Order are as followed: The College of Honour oversees the recommendations for the Order of Fiji as well as nominations for Civilian Bravery Awards, referring them to the President of Fiji for approval. Nominations for awards of the uniformed services and the public service are made by the appropriate government minister and submitted to the president for approval.  Some of the other honours of Fiji with their post-nominals are as follows:  