Contains translated material from the corresponding Japanese Wikipedia article. Incomplete; may be expanded with translations from the corresponding Japanese Wikipedia article. The Japanese honours system originated in the 1870s, shortly after the Meiji Restoration, and was modeled on European honours system. The first order, the Imperial Order of Meiji was established in 1875, and was later renamed as the Order of the Rising Sun.  The Grand Cordon of the order is typically awarded to foreign heads of government, chairpersons of prominent international organizations and leading politicians, business leaders and diplomats. Japanese Nobel Laureates were awarded the Grand Cordon of the Order. The second class is typically conferred upon prominent academics, politicians and military officers. The third through sixth classes are ordinarily conferred upon individuals who have made significant contributions to Japan or its culture in varying degrees. The 7th and 8th classes of the Order were abolished in 2003, and the Special First Class of the Order was renamed the Order of the Paulownia Flowers. The Order is typically awarded to middle-grade administrators and diplomats, prominent figures in international affairs, leading businessmen, senior provincial politicians, and scholars and artisans who have made contributions to Japan or have furthered its culture. Prominent academics and university administrators are often conferred with the order. As of November 2017, a total of 117,613 decorations have been conferred upon living Japanese nationals since 2003, when the honours system was overhauled. These include 15 awards of the Order of the Paulownia Flowers, 26,688 awards of the Order of the Rising Sun and 90,899 awards of the Order of the Sacred Treasure. [note 1] Of those decorations, the Order of the Sacred Treasure (77.3% of the total, all classes) is the most commonly conferred decoration, followed by the Order of the Rising Sun (22.7% of the total, all classes). The Order of the Paulownia Flowers is conferred the most rarely, at only 0.128% of the total number of decorations awarded since 2003.   Per class of decoration, excluding the Order of the Chrysanthemum, the breakdown of decorations awarded by level since 2003 is as follows: Since 2003, the most commonly conferred decorations by class and level have been:   For the year 2017, 8183 decorations were conferred in the following numbers upon living Japanese:   