The Order of the Knights of Rizal is the sole order of knighthood in the Philippines. The Order is created to honor and uphold the ideals of Philippine national hero José Rizal. Its ranks and insignia are recognized in the Honors Code of the Philippines as official awards of the Republic and is the Eighth Class Rank in the order of precedence of civilian decorations of the Orders, decorations, and medals of the Philippines.   The Order was established in 1911 by Colonel Antonio C. Torres, who later served as the first Filipino chief of police of Manila.  The Order was granted a legislative charter by President Elpidio Quirino  as a non-sectarian, non-partisan, non-racial civic, patriotic, and cultural organization under Republic Act 646  on June 14, 1951.  The Order's insignia has since been approved to be worn by the Philippine diplomatic corps. Since its founding, the Order has grown to more than 25,000 members belonging to 131 active chapters in the Philippines and 61 active chapters chapters around the world including Australia, Bahrain, Belgium, France, Czech Republic, Germany, Italy, Spain, The Netherlands and the United States.  Its international headquarters is located on Bonifacio Drive in Port Area, Manila. The Order of the Knights of Rizal was first organized out of a group of nine men by Manila Police Chief Colonel Antonio Torres on Rizal Day, December 30, 1911 to commemorate martyrdom of Philippine national hero, Dr. José Rizal. Exactly a year later, a state funeral was held to transfer Rizal's remains from his family's house in Binondo, Manila for a wake in the Ayuntamiento and finally a burial in Luneta where the Order of the Knights of Rizal acted as the honor guards. Since then, the order has led commemorations of Rizal's birth anniversaries and plays a prominent role during Rizal Day ceremonies commemorating his death anniversary.  In 1951, the order pushed for filing a bill in the Philippine Congress to grant the Order of the Knights of Rizal a legislative charter. Senators Enrique Magalona, Lorenzo Sumulong, Esteban Abada, Emiliano Tria Tirona, Camilo Osías, Geronima Pécson, José Avelino and Ramon Torres sponsored the bill in the Senate while Congressman Manuel Zola of Cebu was the principal sponsor in the Congress. The bill was signed into law by Philippine President Elpidio Quirino on June 14, 1951 as Republic Act 646. The Bill constitutes an official recognition of the inestimable value to the nation and the world of Rizal's teachings and the wisdom necessity of inculcating in the minds and hearts of people so they may follow and practice them.  As set forth by Philippine Republic Act 646, the general administration and direction of the affairs of the Order is in the hands of a Supreme Council (Board of Directors) of nine members including the Supreme Commander, Deputy Supreme Commander, Supreme Chancellor, Supreme Pursuivant, Supreme Exchequer, Supreme Archivist, Supreme Auditor, Deputy Supreme Pursuivant and Deputy Supreme Exchequer.  Unlike other orders of the Philippines, the Knights of Rizal is an active order. Membership does not only convey privilege but requires continuous participation in the year-long projects of the Order. Aside from leading or taking an active part in official and diplomatic ceremonies commemorating important dates in Dr. José Rizal's life and the Philippine Independence Day, the Knights of Rizal also focus on Filipino youth across the world such as the annual National Rizal Youth Leadership Institute Conference and the Middle East and Africa Region Inter-School Academic, Talent and Skills Competition held for Philippine schools in the Middle East. Aside from wearing of the Order's decorations during appropriate occasions, a specific prefix also applies. Knights of the Order prefix "Sir" to their forenames and add the relevant post-nominal according to their rank at the end of their names while wives of Knights prefix "Lady" to their first names. These apply to both spoken and written forms of address. 