  God bless you (variants include God bless or bless you ) is a common English expression, used to wish a person blessings in various situations,   especially as a response to a sneeze, and also, when parting or writing a valediction.   This Phrase has been used long time ago in the eastern literature. Somadeva's "Brihatkathamanjari" which it self is based on earlier long lost book, Gunadhya's "Brihatkatha" has a story in  Book 6 (Madanamanchuka lambaka) under the story "Princess and the merchant's son who saved his life". In this story the cursed prince is saved by the merchant's son as the prince is supposed to die after 100 sneezes. Merchant's son who happen to hear the curse, knows the cure too. He has to utter "God bless you" on every sneeze, and thus he saves the prince. The phrase has been used in the Hebrew Bible by Jews (cf. Numbers 6:24), and by Christians, since the time of the early Church as a benediction, as well as a means of bidding a person Godspeed.   Many clergy, when blessing their congregants individually or as a group, use the phrase "God bless you".  National Geographic reports that during the plague of AD 590, "Pope Gregory I ordered unceasing prayer for divine intercession. Part of his command was that anyone sneezing be blessed immediately ("God bless you"), since sneezing was often the first sign that someone was falling ill with the plague."  By AD 750, it became customary to say "God bless you" as a response to one sneezing.  The practice of blessing someone who sneezes dates as far back as at least AD 77, although it is far older than most specific explanations can account for.  Some have offered an explanation suggesting that people once held the folk belief that a person's soul could be thrown from their body when they sneezed,  that sneezing otherwise opened the body to invasion by the Devil or evil spirits,   or that sneezing was the body's effort to force out an invading evil presence.  In these cases, "God bless you" or "bless you" is used as a sort of shield against evil.   The Irish Folk story "Master and Man" by Thomas Crofton Croker, collected by William Butler Yeats, describes this variation.  Moreover, in the past some people may have thought that the heart stops beating during a sneeze, and that the phrase "God bless you" encourages the heart to continue beating.    In some cultures, sneezing is seen as a sign of good fortune or God's beneficence.   As such, alternative responses to sneezing are the French phrase à vos souhaits (meaning "to your wishes"), the German word Gesundheit (meaning "health") sometimes adopted by English speakers, the Irish word sláinte (meaning "good health"), the Spanish salud (also meaning "health"), the Hebrew laBri'ut (colloquial) or liVriut (classic) (both spelled: "לבריאות") (meaning "to health"), the Arabic saha (spelled "صحة", also meaning "health"). In Persian culture, sneezing sometimes is called "sabr =صبر," meaning "to wait or be patient." And when trying to do something or go somewhere and suddenly sneezing, one should stop or sit for a few minutes and then restart. By this act the "bad thing" passes and one will be saved. In Greek culture, sneezing was widely recognized as a divine omen. In Book 17 of Homer’s Odyssey, Penelope speaks to Eumaeus  in private about the suitors feasting in the halls of the king's palace, and how surely Odysseus will return and kill them.  Suddenly her son Telemachus sneezes and Penelope laughed. A sneeze meant the intercession of the gods to make her statement come true.  It was a blessing from the gods, connecting the sneeze to the "God Bless You." 