The National Center for Responsible Gaming (NCRG) is an American nonprofit group, associated with Harvard University, that funds scientific research on gambling addiction.  It was founded in 1996  as a separate 501(c)(3) charitable organization. The group is a wing of the American Gaming Association, the casino industry's main trade group.  The mission of this organization is to help people who suffer from gambling disorders. They do that with scientific research into pathological and youth gambling and encouraging the application of new research findings to improve prevention, diagnostic, intervention and treatment strategies.  The NCRG founded the Institute for Research on Pathological Gambling and Related Disorders (IRPGRD) in 2000. Since the establishment of the organization almost $25 million has been committed to the NCRG.  While housed at an institution affiliated with Harvard, the IRPGRD remains dependent on casino funding, channeled through the NCRG. This arrangement has led some critics to question the independence of the IRPGRD's research.  IRPGRD executive director Christine Reilly told Salon.com that the institute's contract with the NCRG stipulates that the industry not interfere with its work. The NCRG is overseen by four board officers and nine board of directors.  The member board includes representatives from the gaming industry, public health officials as well as regulatory communities. Board Officers: NCRG provides resources that help raise public awareness surrounding gambling disorders, by promoting various ideas within the field of gambling research as well as help deliver resources for those are interested in this issue.  The resources include links for disordered gamblers, treatment providers, the gaming industry, other organizations as well as presentations, speeches and news on responsible gaming and gambling disorders.  Since one of NCRG’s missions is to educate the public about responsible gaming as well as gambling disorders, they provide educational programs surrounding this issue: 