Everworld is a fantasy novel series written by K. A. Applegate and published by Scholastic between 1999 and 2001. It consists of twelve books and a companion music CD titled The Everworld Experience.  The Old-Worlders are people who do not live in Everworld and who live in the old world. Many gods were in the Everworld series.  Nearly all the gods shared similar characteristics such as shape shifting, physical perfection, superhuman strength and immortality. They could only be killed by the weapon of another god such as Thor's hammer Mjolnir or through severe injury. Even then, there is a chance they could heal. Real world weapons however do seem to harm gods. When the Sennites arrived with automatic weapons, they apparently killed Fenrir. Many of the gods had special powers related to their field and some were radically more powerful than others. Nearly all of them were portrayed as being cold and cruel in their attitude toward humans if not outright insane due to their power and long lives and would rather carry on their petty squabbles from ancient times. Most are slow to change or act unless they feel immediately threatened allowing the threat of the Hetwan to grow. The gods in Everworld included: This list is not complete The Vikings are very similar to their real world counterparts, but in many ways are easier to relate to than other groups of people. A mixture of farmers, craftsmen and warriors that glorify battle, but are trustworthy allies.  Among the peoples of Everworld they are easy to get along with and motivate into needed action instead of bickering amongst themselves. They are also the most cosmopolitan of Everworld humans, as they readily accept people of other races into their ranks (African, Asian, etc.) They worshiped Loki for an unknown period of time when he overthrew Odin and other major gods such as Thor and Balder disappeared. The Aztecs, in their Everworld incarnation, are portrayed as an utterly savage and barbaric society. They are first encountered at the end of the first book, Search for Senna. The Aztecs are known by many names in Everworld, including "The Blood-Drinkers," "The Mexica," and "The Heart Eaters." Some groups worship Huitzilopoctli, while others worship Quetzalcoatl. The Coo-Hatch are strange creatures from an alien world who abandoned their gods after their God of the Flame and Goddess of the Ore brought them to Everworld against their will. A majority of the Coo-Hatch seem to be disillusioned by their deities and Everworld and want to go back to their realm. They often ally themselves with whomever they believe can achieve this goal. They have large red eyes with blue pupils, two main arms as well as two smaller arms that have more dexterity and are on the sides of their faces. Their mouths are long and tapered. Juvenile Coo-Hatch are small and flighted with needle-like mouths. The juveniles are very fast fliers, covering a space of 20 feet in the length of a human blink. The Coo-Hatch are also master metal forgers and can create blades sharp enough to cut through any known material; they use this skill to make small, accurate throwing blades and metal tools. In exchange of April's chemistry book, the Coo-Hatch improve Jalil's pocket knife to their quality of metal, giving them a small blade that can cut through anything, the group dubbing it "Excalibur". The Coo-Hatch had no knowledge of guns or explosives prior to the exchange. The Coo-Hatch used the textbook to develop primitive cannons. The Coo-Hatch then aided the Hetwans in almost taking over Mt. Olympus. Later, some of the tribes of the Coo-Hatch team up with the protagonists and develop cannons to use in an assault on the Hetwans (which supposedly takes place after the series end). Their one true desire is to go back to their forges on their home world, which they cannot do without a gateway like Senna or her mother. Though this plot was not built upon later in the series, Senna's mother was sought out to send them back to their world. The Hetwan are large, sentient insectoid aliens that seem to exist as a collective hive rather than as a group of individuals. Male Hetwan consist of two arms, a pair of wings, fly-like eyes, and three constantly moving claws near their mouths. The claws are used to grasp a tube that is then used to project the Hetwan's acidic saliva. They continue moving at a slower pace after death. Female Hetwan are flying translucent sacks of organs. They travel in packs, where, upon encountering male Hetwan, they are savagely torn apart, thus birthing perhaps a dozen Hetwan on the waist of the male. The Hetwan worship Ka Anor, the dread god of terror, and serve his will to devour all the gods in Everworld. Though aliens, the Hetwan have no high-tech weaponry. They do, however, wield devices similar to long straws (nicknamed "Super-Soakers" by the main characters), out of which they shoot a burning, venomous acid.  The Hetwan themselves seem to feel no fear of death or anything.  As repeatedly stated by them they exist merely to serve Ka Anor and are absolutely loyal to him. The Hetwan live in a great city that resembles a giant needle sticking out of a pit (referred to by Chris as "Junkie Dreamland"), with an assortment of strange creatures from their home world. The main characters often fight against the Hetwan. Because Ka Anor intends to eventually kill and consume all of Everworld's gods, most of the peoples of Everworld would be considered enemies of the Hetwan, although they generally seek to appease them out of fear of destruction. Little is known about the Hetwans' life before Everworld, but like all alien species (those not from human mythology), they were brought there from another world (not "our" world) by their particular deity, the dread-god Ka Anor. They then began to conquer everything they came across, while collecting gods for their deity to consume. The Hetwan kingdom in Everworld alternates between perfectly hemispherical hills and gullies, giving a scooped-out appearance. The alien trees make strange musical sounds.  The Hetwan capital, where Ka Anor resides, is a massive tower (dubbed "Junkie Dream Mountain" for its needle-like appearance) in the middle of a lava and glass filled crater.  The only transportation across this gulf is by means of the "Red Wings", giant insects that can carry passengers. The knights are classic men of chivalry. Self-described as "creatures of myth and legend", their main pastimes seem to be slaying dragons, rescuing young girls, and feasting. Despite witnessing April taking out several trolls, the knights still believe that women should act "womanly"—no fighting, allowing themselves to be looked over and pampered. They are very brave and value honor highly. The knights met in the series were all surviving members of the Knights of the Round Table such as Galahad.  While they had not aged since entering Everworld they lack the immortality of many other beings.  Merlin is often allied with these beings. The eunuchs in Everworld are male warriors with big, muscular bodies but with high-pitched voices; this is because they were castrated before they reached puberty. The symbol on their breastplates is a bloody dagger with two red diamonds. They always say "jewels" when referring to testicles. The eunuchs guard the City of Hel (known only as "Her City"), kidnapping men to inhabit it as Hel's personal harem. (Why Hel's harem requires eunuchs is never explained, but perhaps indicates that her powers over or interest in castrated males is reduced or nonexistent.) The fairies share some characteristics with the wood nymphs. Like nymphs, they are about four feet tall and rather thin. Fairies can move quickly when necessary, though not as quickly as nymphs can. Unlike the fairies commonly portrayed, they do not have wings. Their typical attire is a leather tunic and a tight helmet, and their main weapons are arrows and swords. Different colored tunics signify different jobs within Fairy Land; for example, a fairy wearing a dark blue tunic is part of the fairy version of the IRS and goes around making notes on the various stands within the city, while a fairy in a black tunic is part of the police force. Fairies in Everworld, also called "leprechauns", are known for their cupidity---Fairy Land, which is very pristine and clean compared to other parts of Everworld, serves as a kind of economic center for the entire world. It has a King and Queen; though it is unclear who has official power, the Queen is portrayed as the brains of the two. In the books, the Greeks are battling the Hetwan to keep Ka Anor from conquering Mount Olympus.  They live in the land surrounding the Everworld equivalent of Mt. Olympus.  They worship Zeus along with the other Olympian gods such as, Ares, Hera, and Athena.  Among the gods of Everworld, Olympus is implied to be one of the most powerful places due to the large number of gods living there. Athena is one of the few gods who not only acts in a sane manner, but also aides the protagonists in their quest. The Egyptians are a reactionary race living along the Nile. Due to centuries of ritual and inbreeding the Egyptian culture became weak. The Amazons, led by Pretty Little Flower used this to their advantage and proceeded to subjugate and loot Egypt. This ended when the crocodile god Sobek freed the capital and killed Pretty Little Flower, becoming Lord of all Egypt. The rest of the Egyptian gods had become living statues due to their long lives and dedication to ritual. Dwarves are a mountain dwelling race. Dwarves stand about four feet tall with extremely stocky builds. Most dwarves have long hair and beards. They are generally seen with chainmail and some sort of weapon. While most dwarves seen are men, often women are mistaken for men, due to their masculine appearance. They are skilled in both mining and blacksmithing. The dwarves are led by King Baldwin, who resides in his capital of Daggermouth. Beneath Daggermouth is a mining complex known as the Five Hills, each of which produce a different kind of metal. They are known to have close relations to the Vikings, as is evidenced by their metalwork in Viking ships, as well as their reverence for Thor and Baldur. Mermaids are ruled by Neptune. In the book, there are Mermen as well. The Mermen act as guards and are part of Neptune's army. The Mermaids swim around topless, and much to Christopher's delight, their hair rarely manages to cover their nudity.  They live underwater in the Roman version of Atlantis. A technologically advanced race living under the Everworld's ocean. They are led by Jean-Claude LeMieux, who serves as mayor of the city.  There is Roman and a Greek version of the city. In the books, the Irish have embraced technology faster than any other people; in one of their cities, they have electricity and cable cars. This is believed to come to some degree from the telegraph that the main characters brought to Everworld, but also from the goddess Brigid. Their knowledge also may have come from the Druids, who are ordered by colors; the "yellow" druids being those in the study of electricity and technology. The lands of the Irish are protected by the Fiannans, a special order of knights.  They are ruled by a number of kings who are ruled by a high king.  Merlin is closely allied with them and they attribute his wisdom to maintaining peace in their land for over two hundred years. The Sennites are a group of white supremacists Senna brought over from the real world. With modern weapons, they are a force to be reckoned with. At the beginning of the final book, Entertain the End, with Senna dead, David and the others wonder if the Sennites might forge an alliance with Ka Anor; this forces the four to make a deal with the gods in order to stem the threat. 