Alan William Landsburg (May 10, 1933 – August 13, 2014) was an American television writer, producer, and director. He was the founder and CEO of the Landsburg Company and was involved in producing over fifty movies of the week. He had over 2000 hours of television production experience.  Alan Landsburg was born on May 10, 1933, in White Plains, New York.   His father was Harry Landsburg and his mother, Fannie (Koslowe) Landsburg.  He graduated from New York University with a degree in Communications.  He was immediately drafted due to the Korean War and was assigned to the Army Radio Network as a writer-director.   Drawing upon his experience at the Army Radio Network, he embarked upon a career in writing and directing television programs in Manhattan, later relocating to California in the 1960s.  From the early-1960s to the mid-70's, he established himself as a documentary producer. His film, Kennedy, The First Thousand Days received a standing ovation at the 1964 Democratic National Convention.   Along with David Wolper, he pioneered the television documentary series format.   His credits include: In 1980, he created one of the first reality shows, That's Incredible!.   He was also a prolific executive producer of made-for-television movies, many of which were based on true stories and tackled important social issues.  Of note are: His late wife, Linda Otto, produced and/or directed many of these socially relevant docudramas. In 1970, he founded his own production company, Alan Landsburg Productions,  which later merged into the Reeves Entertainment Group. The situation comedies Gimme a Break and Kate & Allie were produced under these companies' banners.  In 1985, he formed The Landsburg Company.  He retired from the television business in 2001 and pursued his love of horse racing full-time.  He owned, raced, and bred more than four hundred thoroughbreds from 1976 to 2014.  A founding director of the Thoroughbred Owners of California,  he was the co-author of Handbook for Thoroughbred Owners of California.  In 2002, he served as a commissioner and chairman of the California Horse Racing Board.  He also served on the Board of Directors of the National Thoroughbred Racing Association.  He married Sally (Breit) Landsburg.  They had three children: Valerie Landsburg, Shana Landsburg, Michael Landsburg.  They divorced. He later remarried to Linda Otto, a producer of docudramas who died in 2004.   They resided in Beverly Hills, California.  He died on August 13, 2014.  