  Graham S. Phillips  (born 1953)   is a British author.  Phillips has a background working as a reporter for BBC radio, and he was the Founding Editor (1979) of Strange Phenomena magazine.  He has made a number of controversial claims concerning the Arthurian legend, such as the discovery of a small stone cup that he proposes was the original Holy Grail,  the identification of a Roman ruin as the "historical Camelot",  and the discovery of what he suggests is King Arthur's grave.  He has also investigated various biblical mysteries, again presenting some controversial theories, such as an alternative location for Mount Sinai at Petra in Jordan,  an Egyptian staff in a British museum as the staff of Moses,  and a grave on the British island of Anglesey as the tomb of the Virgin Mary.  Phillips has worked twice with British TV personality Tony Robinson and appeared in his documentaries Robin Hood: Fact or Fiction (2003)  and The Real Da Vinci Code (2005),  and with historian Michael Wood: In Search of Myths and Heroes: King Arthur (2005).  He has made two guest appearances on Britain's Channel Four Richard & Judy show: The Templars and the Ark of the Covenant (2004),  and King Arthur: The True Story (2005).  His investigations featured in two documentaries on the National Geographic Channel: The Hunt for the Lost Ark (2005)  and Is it Real?: King Arthur (2007).  Phillips's search for the lost Ark was the subject of an episode of the Travel Channel and History Channel's Legend Hunters  series (The Ark of the Covenant, 2007 ) as was his investigation into the Grail legend (The Holy Grail, 2004 ). Phillips's search for the Holy Grail formed part of the Lucasfilm documentary Indiana Jones and the Ultimate Quest about real-life Indiana Jones type researchers which accompanied the release of the movie Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull in 2008.  His research into the Grail and Camelot legend featured in the Travel Channel's Weird Travels 2006 series (Weird Travels: The Quest for the Holy Grail).   And his investigations into the secret life of William Shakespeare and the Grail legend formed part of the Discovery Channel's Puzzles of the Past 2001 series (Master Spies  and Holy Relics ). 