 Yuri Dmitrievich Petukhov (Russian: Ю́рий Дми́триевич Петухо́в) (May 17, 1951 – February 1, 2009) Russian sci-fi writer, philosopher, publisher, non-academic explorer in world history and philology. Petukhov was born in Moscow. From 1969 to 1971, he served in the Soviet army in Hungary. From 1972 to 1985, he worked in a military-related scientific institute. In 1983 he published his first book (in the realistic genre, about life of motor-rifle troops) Two Springs from Now (Russian: «Через две весны»).  In 1990 and 1991, he published the novels Massacre (Russian: «Бойня») and Satanic Potion (Russian: «Сатанинское Зелье»), which by his own words opened a "new genre" of Russian literature—"super-new black wave" or "literature of sverkhrealism". In August 1991, he stated that World War III has happened and new world partition is going on.   In his autobiographical essay "Black House" (Russian: «Чёрный дом», 1994)  he gives his evidence of the events of the autumn of 1993 in Moscow, how he was marching through Krymsky Bridge to Moscow City Hall, moved to Ostankino TV center and got there under severe shooting, and saw crowds admiring the White House shelling which was shocking for him. In his opinion, march of October 3[ru]  was Russian people's uprising against Anglo-American colonial regime, but the victory was lost due to indecision of White House defenders' leaders.Petukhov died in February 2009 when visiting his parents' graves.  Most of well-known Petukhov's editions of the 1990s were published in his own publishing house "Metagalaktika". Bondarenko remembers that all his author's fee and publisher's profit he spent on publishing newspapers and magazines.  Petukhov published: In 1990s Petukhov's editions were rather widespread and well-sold. In 1991, critic Vladimir Gopman in his article Cat at TV-set, or "Poor Men's" Fantastics (Russian: Кот перед телевизором, или Фантастика «для бедных») compared reader of Petukhov and some other writers who appeared in Soviet Union at this time with the eponymous animal which is not very selective in art. He attested Petukhov as able promoter but bad writer, and his publicistics he connected with chauvinistic Soviet groups.  Vl. Gakov's "Encyclopedia of Fantastics" says: "Petukhov has become known mainly not for his multiple novels and stories, which have no special literature merits, but for Petukhov's pathological desire to make espatage on public with obtrusive propaganda of own 'geniality': multiple interviews with himself, advertising posters and pamphlets, declarations in press."  Writers V. Bondarenkoru  and V. Lichutin, on other side, estimate Petukhov highly.  Petukhov developed a theory of pseudohistory (Russian: фолк-хистори) and pseudophilology, which stated that all real people are come from Ruses and all languages are developed from Russian. His best known work on this topic is 3-volumed History of Ruses (Russian: История русов). The whole series of books about what he called "true history" (Russian: Подлинная история) was published by his own publishing house Metagalaktika. Petukhov stated that all best-known historical science is nothing but result of geopolitical ambitions and "town fantasies" of Romano-German historists.  As an example of his views, he said[where?] that the Mongol conquest was nothing but a great myth created by Catholic priests; Mongolian Horde were just kind of Cossaks returning from East, and Batu Khan was Alexandr Nevsky.  Petukhov stated that Europe and America were created by Russians and should be repossessed. All Soviet and Russian leaders, except Stalin, were according to him traitors and degenerates; in a last work of him New World Order (Russian: Новый мировой порядок) he accused America of starting World War III by exploding Chernobyl and forecasted to Russia a victory in the final battle.  Yuri Petukhov declared himself to be Orthodoxal Christian, but in his books there are many neo-pagan and ufological motives. For example, he said that Jesus Christ was born in family of Ruses to whom Jerusalem used to belong.  Brochure "Devil and his present lying miracles and lying prophets" (ca. 1993), published by Danilov monastery under blessing of Alexy II,  editions of Petukhov (newspaper Voice of the Universe, libraries of Galaktika and Metagalaktika, book Prediction etc.) are described as containing blasphemy and falsifications, inacceptable and leading believers who will read them into hell. The Encyclopedia of Beings from Space (Russian: Энциклопедия космических существ) included dozens of pictures of different monsters, which appeared in newspaper Voice of the Universe in 1991; each picture was accompanied by text displaying characteristics of the monster. The pentalogy Star Revenge (Russian: «Звёздная месть», 1990–1995) is the best known of Petukhov's works. It is set primarily in the 25th to 33rd centuries. This book, as example of "patriotic" fiction, contains much of politic suggestions.  The author's Encyclopedia of Star Revenge wasn't finished or published. The 1993 song Звёздная месть by group Железный поток was loosely based on themes from the novel. The 2010 amateur film "Зоряна помста" (Ukrainian for "Star Revenge") by study "УПВ Арт Груп" (Kyiv) has minor connections with Petukhov's plot, it mostly parodies Western sci-fi action films (including Star Wars, Dune and Tremors). On July 20, 2006, a procurature of Central district of Volgograd initiated complex examination of Petukhov's works by group of psychologists, politologists and linguists. They concluded that the texts propagand ideas of burning racial, national and religious dissention, cult of force and violence, xenophobia. В прокуратуру Москвы были направлены материалы на предмет наличия состава преступления.  February 5, 2007 Perovsky court of Moscow made a precedent of prohibition of artistic books. Law "About defence to extremistic activity" (Russian: «О противодействии экстремистской деятельности») was applied to Petukhov's books. Books "World War IV" («Четвертая Мировая») and "Genocide" («Геноцид») confirmed to be extremistic,prohibited and due to be taken out and be destroyed. Petukhov claimed a cassation in higher instance.   Russian Wikiquote has quotations related to: Петухов, Юрий Дмитриевич 