Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Adventures is a comic book series published from August 1988 to October 1995 by Archie Comics. It is mainly based on the stories of the mutant turtles Donatello, Leonardo, Michaelangelo, Raphael, and their rat sensei Splinter. It is set in a separate reality from other TMNT stories. The initial storylines were close adaptations of the TMNT 1987 TV series, but by the fifth issue the creators handed the series over to Ryan Brown and Stephen Murphy. In their hands the comic immediately diverged from the cartoon series into unique new story arcs, often incorporating social, environmentalist, and animal-rights themes. It also introduced several new characters of various races and backgrounds, including humans, mutants, aliens, and other anthropomorphic creatures. Additionally, the series added new layers to established players such as April O'Neil, who began training with a katana, and the Shredder, who gradually revealed a sense of honor. The stories were often seen as 'deeper' and more 'serious' than the cartoon. As the new tales and characters were explored, original antagonists Krang, Bebop and Rocksteady were eventually phased out early, making later appearances during stories involving alien worlds. Shredder would remain a recurring adversary. The series ran for 72 issues; in addition, there were numerous annuals, specials and miniseries. In celebration of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles' 25th Anniversary, Archie Comics released a 104-page, full-color trade paperback collection of the first three issues in 2009, which was the adaptation of the original animated show's miniseries "Heroes in a Half Shell". Mirage Studios also printed a trade for the 25th anniversary, titled Future Tense reprinting Mighty Mutanimals #7 and TMNT Adventures #42–44 and #62–66 in July 2009. Future Tense was released to coincide with a planned release of the storyline from Mirage entitled Forever War, but this eventually was canceled. Heroes in a Half Shell: Mini-series #1–3 Issues #1–4 Issues #5–11 Issues #12–13 Issues #14–18 Issues #19–20 Issues #21–25 Issues #26–27 Mightnight Sun: Issues #28–30 Issues #31–36 Issue #37 Issues #38-39 Issues #40–41 The Future Shark Trilogy: Issues #42–44  Mutations: Issue #45 Issue #46 Issue #47 Black Hole Trilogy: Issues #48–50 The Sons of Silence abduct Donatello and communicate with him telepathically. Sarnath is found in the same limbo that they are in, technically located within the black hole. The Turnstone is present, which was thought to have been put out of existence (Reference back to Issue #13). Donatello begins to communicate with the Turnstone. The Armada, which includes the Nova Posse, Cudley, and some more old friends, prepare to battle against Emperor Mazool, who wants to rule the rest of Dimension X. The Armada moves in and attacks as the black hole begins to double in size with no sign of stopping.  Terracide: Issues #55–57 Early Years: Issue #58 Blind Sight: Issues #59–60 Issue #61 Cyber Samurai Mutant Ninja Turtles: Issues #62–66 Moon Eyes Saga: Issues #67–70 The Early Years: Issues #71–72 Archie Comics also released several spin-offs of the main Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Adventures title. Mighty Mutanimals featured a team made up of the Turtles' mutated animal allies.  Other spin-offs included miniseries such as April O'Neil, which gave the Turtles' ally the lead role, and comics starring characters like Merdude and Leatherhead.  One one-shot depicted the Turtles meeting Archie Andrews.  Three audioplay adaptations were produced by Radio Arts Productions, Inc. and released on audio cassette by Random House.  Published from 1988–1991, they feature an uncredited voice cast. These books include the three-part Heroes in a Half-Shell! story which was merged into one five-chapter book title Heroes in a Half-Shell!: The Complete Adventure!. The second book is Return of the Shredder, and the final book, Intergalactic Wrestling and Other Adventures, includes the stories Of Turtles and Stones and Mary Bones, Intergalactic Wrestling and Wild Things. 