The Rosetta Project is a global collaboration of language specialists and native speakers working to develop a contemporary version of the historic Rosetta Stone to last from 2000 to 12,000 AD; it is run by the Long Now Foundation. Its goal is a meaningful survey and near permanent archive of 1,500 languages. Some of these languages have fewer than one thousand speakers left. Others are considered to be dying out because government centralization and globalization are increasing the prevalence of English and other major languages. The intention is to create a unique platform for comparative linguistic research and education, as well as a functional linguistic tool that might help in the recovery or revitalisation of lost languages in the future.   The project is creating this broad language archive through an open contribution, open review process similar to the strategy that created the original Oxford English Dictionary.  The resulting archive will be publicly available in three different media: a HD-Rosetta micro-etched nickel alloy disc three inches (7.62 cm) across with a 2,000 year life expectancy; a single volume monumental reference book; and a growing online archive.  Fifty to ninety percent of the world's languages are predicted to disappear in the next century, many with little or no significant documentation.  Much linguistic description, especially the description of languages with few speakers, remains hidden in personal research files or poorly preserved in under-funded archives. As part of the effort to secure this critical legacy of linguistic diversity, the Long Now Foundation plans a broad online survey and near-permanent physical archive of 1,500 of the approximately 7,000 human languages. The project has three overlapping goals: The 1,500-language  corpus expands on the parallel-text structure of the original Rosetta Stone through archiving ten descriptive components for each of the 1,500 selected languages. The goal is an open source "Linux of Linguistics"—an effort of collaborative online scholarship drawing on the expertise and contributions of thousands of academic specialists and native speakers around the world. The project is also organising formal archive research groups at Stanford, Yale, Berkeley, the American Library of Congress, and the American Summer Institute of Linguistics (and its offices in Dallas). The resulting Rosetta archives are publicly available in three different media: A "Version 1.0" of the HD-Rosetta disc was completed on November 3, 2008.  The disc contains over 13,000 pages of information using over 1,500 languages,  which can be read after magnifying by 650 times with a microscope. In early 2017, the Rosetta Wearable Disk was released.  It was developed using a similar manufacturing process as the first edition of the Rosetta Disk, the main difference being that the final archive is about 2 cm in diameter, thus enabling wearing as an ornament on the human body. One side has instructions in eight different languages and scripts (Bahasa Indonesia, English, Hindi, Mandarin, Modern Standard Arabic, Spanish, Swahili, and Russian), and the other an archive of over 1000 human languages assembled in 2016. By November 2017, the initial run of 100 disks had all been sold, but new releases are planned.    