This list contains fictional chemical elements, materials, isotopes or subatomic particles that either a) play a major role in a notable work of fiction, b) are common to several unrelated works, or c) are discussed in detail by independent sources. In the MMORPG Final Fantasy XIV, Aether is one of the principle elements of life and magic in the world. In the "Wages of Fire" episode of Big Guy and Rusty the Boy Robot, it is revealed that the BGY-11 is powered by a Cobalt Thorium G power core. A different version of collapsium appeared in Wil McCarthy's novel The Collapsium.  McCarthy's collapsium is composed of black holes and can be used to warp space and time in accordance with the wishes of its inventor.  Inerton is used mostly in the hulls of futuristic airships, serving as both armor and as a lifting body, as well as in special belts worn by the characters which allow them to leap great distances by counterbalancing the weight of their bodies. In ancient Egypt a Thanagarian spaceship made of Nth metal crash-landed, only to be discovered by Prince Khufu and his betrothed, Chay-ara. Constant exposure to Nth metal forced Khufu and Chay-ara into a cycle of reincarnation. In the 20th century, they were incarnated as Carter Hall and Shiera Saunders, the original Hawkman and Hawkgirl. As Hawkman and Hawkgirl, they wore Nth metal belts, made with the help of the Thanagarian Paran Katar, father of Katar Hol, when he was visiting Earth. Many years later, Carter and Shiera's son, Hector Hall, made a suit of armor of Nth metal and took the name Silver Scarab as a founding member of Infinity Inc. The suit provided him with protection from attacks, let him lift great weights, and allowed him to fly and project solar energy blasts. The current Hawkman and Hawkgirl continue to wear Nth metal. Much later in the DC timeline, members of the Legion of Super Heroes wear "flight rings" made of an alloy of Nth metal called valorium. The mercenary Deathstroke wears armor composed of Nth metal. It is created momentarily (called a moment of Truth), by annihilating a Truthiton  (a proto-proton) with a pseudo electron (a fiction),  after which it degenerates  releasing 2000 neutrinos and then, imploding into nothingness "leaving behind not a particle of Truth". Unobtanium is also the mineral being sought on Pandora by brute-force mining methods in the film Avatar. Promethium is a metal alloy that comes in two quite different isotopes, "depleted" and "volatile" promethium. Promethium's properties make it highly coveted by various public and clandestine interests. Key among which is that it's virtually indestructible with self restorative properties. The mercenary Deathstroke, for example, uses a suit of the volatile variety which could mend itself after being damaged.  Both young heroes Victor Stone's bionic chassis and Roy Harper's body armor were made of the depleted variety. Dayton believed Promethium alloys could make most anything coated in them impervious to destruction or abrasion. Even theorizing that it could impart its matter regenerative abilities to organic anatomy down the line of its testing. Depleted promethium The most common isotope of promethium was the inert element that was easier to sell and managed on a grander scale. By itself it was extremely durable, Ronnie Raymond once commented even Superman couldn't break it even with his strength.  When Depleted Promethium is alloyed with other dense metals such as Kevlar or molybdenum-steel, it forms a near-invulnerable metal polymer. The supervillain Prometheus gained his powers after getting dunked in a solution of titanium/vanadium alloy infused with promethium while working at Kord Industries as a foremen in its smelting plant. Retaining a metallic epidermal layer with the ability to heat up his body several degrees Celsius able to burn at a touch.  Volatile promethium The rarest manifest of Promethium is its radioactive isotope, capable of absorbing and generating its own energy in near limitless quantities. Useful as a self-sustaining power source for many gadgets and facilities when properly utilized. The only drawback being that "volatile promethium" has dangerous mutagenic properties which can either be used to mutate living beings into hideous monstrosities or trigger the latent metagene resting within the DNA of others. The latter is proven true when due to Deathstroke the Terminator's use of promethium forged weaponry and equipment; e.i. his armor, sword and possibly his gun staff made from volatile promethium. Which he can use these without worry due to his healing factor, had triggered latent superpower capabilities within his children Rose and Joseph Wilson.  Its use and proliferation also had a hand in creating the super-villain team known as The Hybrid, as each of them gained their powers from infusions of the irradiated material.   