Coordinates: 43°48′14″N 79°22′19″W﻿ / ﻿43.8039°N 79.37186°W﻿ / 43.8039; -79.37186 The Canadian Memorial Chiropractic College (CMCC) is a non-profit, private higher education institution in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Founded in 1945, CMCC is a not-for-profit corporation and is a registered charity. It receives no direct government funding and relies on tuition and membership fees, and community and alumni donations to fund its operations. CMCC's Doctor of Chiropractic program, a post-secondary professional educational program, is accredited by the Council on Chiropractic Education Canada of the Federation of Canadian Chiropractic Regulatory and Educational Accrediting Boards.  CMCC's undergraduate program is a second entry baccalaureate honours degree program. It is offered to qualified applicants who have completed at least three years of university level education prior to admission. The curriculum consists of four years of study, 4,200+ hours. The first two years of study emphasize foundational courses in the biological sciences (anatomy, pathology, physiology, microbiology, etc.), whereas the final two years include professional courses in chiropractic studies, psychomotor skills, clinical education, business, jurisprudence, ethics, research, professionalism, etc. Year IV involves two six-month internships in CMCC community-based clinics. With the Gross Anatomy Laboratory, CMCC is one of only 10 educational institutions designated as a school of anatomy under the authority of the Anatomy Act of the Province of Ontario.  CMCC's Graduate Studies program offers advanced study in clinical skills, research, teaching, learning and leadership. The Chiropractic Residency Programs include Diagnostic Imaging, Clinical and Sports Sciences.  As of September 2017, the Work Disability Prevention program is now offered in collaboration with the University of Ontario Institute of Technology (UOIT).  The foundation of CMCC's research agenda includes special research centres – one which studies the biomechanics of treatment and outcome, and another to study implications on health policy and patient access to treatment. In 2012, in collaboration with the University of Ontario Institute of Technology (UOIT), CMCC opened the Centre for Disability Prevention and Rehabilitation.  Research informs the undergraduate curriculum, contributes to the body of chiropractic knowledge, elevates the quality of CMCC's education program, and improves patient care.  The completion of a research-related literature synthesis is a requirement of the Doctor of Chiropractic program. An elective research project is available to those students who have special interest or are considering a research track in their career.   The CMCC campus has research laboratories, including a Biomechanics and Elastography Laboratory, a Tissue Testing Laboratory, a Materials Fabrication Laboratory, a Neurophysiology Laboratory, and a Cellular and Molecular Biology and Histology Laboratory. In 2001, CMCC established the McMorland Family Research Chair in Mechanobiology, the research chair position in an independent chiropractic institution.  The Division of Clinical Education offers clinical services for the Greater Toronto Area (GTA). Five clinics are available to the public. Since 2012, CMCC has had an expanded presence at the Family Health Team clinic, part of the Department of Family and Community Medicine at Toronto's St. Michael's Hospital.     