The organization announced in 2017 that it will establish three new schools: Dunecrest American School in Dubai (opening 2018), Fairgreen International School in Dubai (opening 2018) and American International School in Bahrain (opening in 2019). Esol Education (formerly knows as ESOL - Educational Services Overseas Limited), is an organization in the field of primary and secondary education, specialized in establishing and managing American and British international schools. Esol Education currently owns and operates 9 schools. Across its schools, Esol Education has a total enrollment of close to 10,000 students. 7,000+ enrollment in UAE with 1,000+ teachers 4 Schools and more new to come Esol Education was founded by Walid Abushakra. Mr. Abushakra was joined by his sons, Tammam Abushakra and Bassam Abushakra, who oversee the operations of the company.  They are supported by a leadership team composed of educators from leading school bodies and education councils around the world. The American International School in Egypt (AISE) was established in 1990. Soon thereafter, Esol Education assumed operation of the American International School in Cyprus (AISC) and founded the American International School in Abu Dhabi (AISA) in 1995. The organization also established and operated a number of small schools in Saudi Arabia during this period. The Universal College in Aley, Lebanon (UCA) joined the fold in 2000, with ESOL restoring its war-damaged campus and reopening the historic school for the first time since the Lebanese Civil War had forced its closure in 1982. Around the same time, ESOL participated in the establishment of the American International School in Gaza (AISG). In 2005, ESOL’s success with AISA opened the opportunity in the United Arab Emirates as the doors of its first two schools in Dubai opened, the Universal American School in Dubai (UAS) and the Deira International School (DIS). The opening of the Cairo English School followed in 2006, and AISE's West Campus opened in 2009 in the Cairo's western suburbs. Most recently in 2013, ESOL assumed the ownership and management of Inspire Children’s Nursery in Dubai, which marks ESOL Education’s first venture into the growing early education sector. AISA was the first school in Abu Dhabi to be authorized to offer the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program (IB DP) and the first to be authorized to offer the IB Primary Years Program (IBPYP). Located at the Al Barari/Living Legends, Dunecrest American School will be opening in September 2018.   Opening in 2018. Fairgreen International School is Dubai's first sustainability-focused school.       The Fairgreen campus will be powered by renewable energy, recycle all its water for agricultural use, implements waste separation and wind energy generation. The school's approach to learning will focus on environmental, community and economic sustainability.  The American International School in Egypt opened its doors to its first 240 students in 1990. Today, AIS Egypt has two campuses, with a combined student population of over 2000 students.  Inaugurated under the Pyramids in August 2009, AISEW serves the local and international community in Cairo. CES provides British based international education and also delivers a tailored curriculum, offering Arabic, Egyptian Social Studies and Religion to its Egyptian students. Situated on a 16,000 m2 area of Nicosia. UCA is a college preparatory school in Aley, Lebanon. It is located above Beirut on Mount Lebanon. It is approved to operate by the Lebanese Ministry of Education, offering the Lebanese Baccalaureate and/or American Diploma. UCA was reopened in 2000. American International School in Abu Dhabi American International School in Egypt - Main Cairo English School American International School in Cyprus Universal College - Aley, Lebanon 