JEI Learning Center is an individualized, supplemental education franchise.  A low student-to-teacher ratio allows only 5 students per instructor, ensuring that each student receives enough personal attention. The curriculum offers JEI Self-Learning Method, a self-paced, individualized program designed to help pre-kindergarten to 9th grade students in learning math and language concepts step-by-step, aligned with Common Core State Standards. JEI Learning Center provides a diagnostic test and track record system that pinpoints fundamental strengths and weaknesses in subject comprehension.  Using these results, specialized workbooks are assigned that focus on a scientific study method to address each student’s needs.  Established in 1977 by educator and entrepreneur, Sung Hoon Park, JEI Learning Center was founded in Seoul, Korea.  Sung Hoon Park and a team of education researchers developed the JEI Self Learning Method, an individually paced, step-by-step learning program, for students who need supplementary education in mathematics and language concepts.  After decades of successful operation in South Korea,  in 1992, Sung Hoon Park brought the JEI Method to the United States, followed by Canada, UAE, Hong Kong, China, Australia, and New Zealand, consisting of over 500 locations worldwide.  JEI Math offers a comprehensive program for pre-K through 9th grade. There are approximately 36 weekly workbooks per grade level, and each weekly workbook consists of 32 pages. At the end of each weekly workbook is an interim test. JEI Math curriculum is aligned with Common Core State Standards.  JEI English is designed to build a strong foundation in grammar, vocabulary, and reading skills. Curriculum is aligned to the National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE) Standards.  JEI Reading & Writing is a literature-based program focused on comprehension as well as writing. Accompanied with full novel reading list, the curriculum is targeted for advanced level students or for those needing an extra challenge.  JEI Problem Solving Math develops critical and analytical skills, with math problems presented in styles similar to those found in Math Olympiad. Curriculum focuses on word problems and critical thinking-related questions.  JEI's diagnostic system comprehensively analyzes each student's test results and assigns them an individualized learning program. JEI Learning Center provides the Individual Progress Prescription Report (IPPR), a detailed computer analysis of a student's learning needs and performance during the curriculum.   In 2014, Entrepreneur (magazine) and Business Insider ranked JEI Learning Center #191 in the Franchise 500® and #119 in America's Top Global.  In 2015, JEI Learning Center ranked #198 in the Franchise 500® and #45 in America's Top Global.  