Sokikom (so-kee-kom) is the only collaborative math program where elementary students help each other learn through a team-based game. Based in San Jose, CA, Sokikom was founded in 2008 by Snehal Patel.  Sokikom’s online math games are rooted in the nationally recognized standards of the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics Curriculum Focal Points for Grades PreK-8  and align to the Common Core Standards for grades k-5. Sokikom is designed as an adaptive learning experience: students progress through math content at their own pace based on performance.  The learning games can be played alone in single player mode, or online in social, multiplayer games. Sokikom's classroom management system allows teachers to reinforce positive behaviors in the classroom. Using a computer, tablet, or mobile device, teachers can award "Class Cash" to students individual virtual accounts. Students can then use these rewards in an online store to purchase items for their character/avatar.  Sokikom has won multiple awards for its math games and its business successes. Sokikom received a 2011 BESSIE Award from ComputED Gazette, recognizing Sokikom’s multiplayer math games in the category Best for Early Elementary Students.  Sokikom was further recognized in the category Best Gaming & Adaptive Learning Company at the 2011 Education Innovation Summit at SkySong, the Arizona State University Scottsdale Innovation Center,  and was honored with a 2011 Success Award from the Arizona Small Business Development Center Network (AZSBDC) for its contribution to the Arizona economy.   The Association of Educational Publishers presented Sokikom with a Distinguished Achievement Award in the category of Mathematics Curriculum.  Bon Crowder of MathIsNotAFourLetterword wrote: "I’ve seen these in action with this game. I’m a hands-on kind of mom and teacher, and I’m very much into attaching math to anything we can. If your kids lean toward video games, Sokikom‘s a great one to use!"  Dr. Stevanne Auerbach, aka "Dr. Toy," named the games to her Best Vacation Children's Products list.  Sokikom links parts of the words “social” and “communal” with two k’s, which when backed against one another, look similar to the mathematical symbol for a natural join. Sokikom means joining “social” and “community” to improve learning.  The company was initially funded by grants from the Institute of Education Sciences, which is the main research arm of the U.S. Department of Education.,  and is currently funded by private investors. 