Taaleem,  which means 'education' in Arabic, is one of the largest education providers in the Middle East. Taaleem’s  main activity is the development and management of early childhood, primary and secondary schools. Each education project offers international curricula including British, American, the International Baccalaureate, the International Primary Curriculum and a multi-lingual early childhood programme, the International Curriculum for Languages and Creative Arts  (ICLCA). Taaleem, formerly known as Beacon Education was founded in Dubai, United Arab Emirates in 2004. Taaleem opened its first three schools and one pre-school in 2005, offering the American and British Curriculum, the International Baccalaureate Programme and International Curriculum for Languages and Creative Arts. In 2007 National Bonds Corporation,  which is 100% owned by The Investment Corporation of Dubai, the investment arm of Dubai government, established Madaares to open and operate high quality schools in the region. In 2008, National Bonds and Madaares  launched Taaleem. Taaleem’s main activities include investment in, development and operation of K-12 schools, and other supporting initiatives. The holding company, Madaares Private Joint Stock Company (PJSC), owns 100% of Taaleem PJSC and Taaleem Management LLC (previously known as Beacon Management LLC). The company is governed by a nine-member Board of Directors chaired by H.E. Abdulrahman Al Saleh, Director General of the Department Of Finance, Government of Dubai. In 2013, Taaleem appointed Rosamund Marshall   as new Chief Executive Officer, taking over from Ziad Azzam,  one of the founders of Beacon Education and now a member of the Board of Directors. Taaleem owns nine private schools including pre-schools in Dubai and one private school in the United Arab Emirates’ capital Abu Dhabi. The 11th school, offering the National Curriculum for England, is set to open in Dubai in September 2015 as per the company’s announcements. List of Taaleem Schools Taaleem schools are either members of or have achieved full accreditation by the Council of International Schools (CIS) and/or The New England Association of Schools and Colleges  (NEASC). All Taaleem International Baccalaureate Schools are IB World Schools and are either authorised for any of the four IB programmes or in the process of being authorised. In 2009 Taaleem teamed up with the International Baccalaureate (IB) to offer Primary Years Programme and Middle Years Programme professional development workshops in Dubai in cooperation with the IB, which are accessible to educators from all over the world. The International Baccalaureate is an international educational foundation headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland and founded in 1968, offering four educational programmes for children aged 3–19. In 2012, Taaleem launched the Taaleem Poetry Award  as part of the Emirates International Literature Festival,  an annual event in Dubai held under the patronage of His Highness Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, The Vice-President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai. 