In-home tutoring is a form of tutoring that occurs in the home.  Tutoring is receiving guidance or instruction by a tutor.  Most often the tutoring relates to an academic subject or test preparation.  This is in contrast to tutoring centers or tutoring provided through after-school programs.  The service most often involves one-on-one attention provided to the pupil; otherwise, is called small group tuition, in which the tutor and a small number of pupils gather at one of their homes for tutoring. In home tutoring, services dispatch a qualified tutor directly to the client with no need to drive or go  anywhere. Children get an individualized program. Not a predetermined one that all children of that age use, but one that is specifically designed for the child's unique needs. A tutor can address any special needs and work to ensure that the pupil is getting help in those areas that need the most attention. Due to the class size, a pupil may keep his doubt within himself to avoid any embarrassment in front of his classmates. Hence, a pupil would be more open towards his tutor than his school teacher. In home-based tutoring, we do not need to drive or go anywhere. A tutor can address any special needs and work to ensure that the pupil is getting help in those areas that need the most attention. You can also set your goals and objectives,it improves oral capacity to recite in class, develops capacity to think more with reasonable thoughts, and motivates myself when taking  the exams. With the large variety of tutoring companies, a prospective client should be careful when choosing a company. Some companies[who?] use substandard tutors and with little regard to the actual achievement of the pupil. One way to ensure that the student receives the proper training is to get tutored by professionals or students who have gone through the material thoroughly and know what they are doing. In the US, parents can take advantage of the No child left behind act to qualify for free tutoring for their child.  A company must be registered as a supplementary educational services (SES) provider.  The child must meet state qualifications that often involve attendance of a failing no child left behind school and poor grades.  When the child is qualified, the US government will pay for the tutoring. 