Line Friends (stylized as LINE FRIENDS) are featured characters based on the stickers from messaging app Line. It was released in 2011 by Line Corporation, a Japanese subsidiary of the South Korean internet search giant Naver Corporation. These characters are used in various products, animation, game, cafe, hotel and theme park. The brand is currently managed by its subsidiary Line Friends Corporation since 2015.    The original characters were created by Kang Byeongmok, also known as "Mogi" in 2011.    Apart from its online store, physical stores have been opened in New York City (Times Square), Seoul, Tokyo (Harajuku), Bangkok (Siam Square), Shanghai, Los Angeles (Hollywood) and Hong Kong.   BT21 is the first presentation from Friends Creators, a project formed to create new characters for the Line Friends series. A South Korean boyband BTS is the first artist of this project, and the main theme of this project is to show connection between BTS and Line Friends in terms of popularity in the world. It comprises 8 special characters by South Korean boyband BTS.  The character designs are based on the members of the group.  Videos of BTS designing BT21 are uploaded in BT21 YouTube Channel.  On March 25, 2018, BT21 released a promotional video via their YouTube channel for a new project with Line Friends called PUZZLE STAR BT21, a puzzle game for mobile devices.  The game was released on April 2nd and reached 1 million downloads within two days.  On April 27, Mediheal announced a collaboration with BT21 via their Twitter  that launched on June 1, 2018.   BT21 collaborated with Converse, and on July 27, 2018, Converse launched a new version of Chuck Taylor All Star series on which BT21 characters are drawn. This special edition is available in offline stores in South Korea, China, Taiwan and HongKong as well as in online store.   On July 27, the first day of selling, all products were sold out within 10 minutes, 30 minutes, and 1 hour and half in Naver (corporation) online store, in Converse (shoe company) online store, and in Line Friends online store respectively. Also, on the same day, more than 100 people were waiting in line to get shoes from offline stores in South Korea.  On July 27, 2018, Hunt Innerwear released BT21XHunter Innerwear collaboration pajamas. These are available in both online and offline stores in South Korea.    BT21 stickers are available in not only Naver and Line but also Facebook and Facebook messenger  Each member of BTS(band) wore each one's character costume and performed the song "Go Go" from Love Yourself: Her at 2018 BTS Prom Party . This performance is also known as BT21's debut performance . BTS members also uploaded their pictures wearing BT21 pajamas on BTS official Twitter . Two anime series, LINE OFFLINE and LINE TOWN, were produced in 2013, picturing the Line Friends as employees for the fictional Line Corporation.   Line Offline is an animated series created by Shogakukan Productions, based on salaryman characters working at "Line Corporation". All 114 episodes last about three minutes. The series was aired from January 8, 2013, to October 1, 2013.  The episodes of Line Offline are not connected to each other. The idea behind the series is to represent the ordinary life of company employees (in this case Line's employees, that's why the series is called "Line Offline"), in which every small problem could lead to weird and funny situations that require some effort in order to restore the status quo. Most characters from Line Offline are part of Line's universe (the characters who are shown in the animated series are also Line Friends, and they can be seen by users in Line Messaging App and used as emoticons). 