Art Authority LLC works with museum professionals, artists, and art authorities to make art accessible, through both digital technology and museum-quality print reproductions.  Art Authority obtains licensing and pays royalties and copyrights to expand awareness for the fine arts and to financially support museums. Through the Art Authority app, a media viewing software application for Apple's iOS and Macintosh, Art Authority LLC connects art lovers to a comprehensive digital database of art and museums. The top-selling application provides a virtual museum interface in which users can access a large collection of classic western paintings and sculptures by over a thousand artists.  A special K-12 edition for the iPad displays only age-appropriate images.  Quality art reproductions are distributed worldwide through 1000museums.com allowing art lovers to decorate their spaces with their favorite art pieces. 1000museums.com has a variety of artwork from across history, including illustrations and posters from the Library of Congress and famous artworks by noted artists. Art Authority LLC acquired 1000museums.com 2016 to further combine technology and art reproductions, increasing access the to artwork and museums.  Art Authority is created and maintained by Open Door Networks  and Project A.  A partnership with Bridgeman Art Library to enable users to order reproductions of works from the app was announced on May 30, 2012  and implemented as Prints on Demand on September 25, 2012.  A key aspect of Art Authority is its database of 100,000 works of art, over 1,500 artists and over 900 museums and other art locations. This database is utilized by apps such as Art Alert,  The Art Channel  on Apple TV and Web sites such as the Art Authority community site.  The app was upgraded for the iPad (3rd generation) retina display concurrently with the release of that iPad, and included on a number of "Best retina-ready app" lists.   "Exploring Art with Art Authority," an e-book companion to the Art Authority app line, available through the iBookstore, was introduced on April 18, 2012.  Access to videos for many of the app's major works was added in December, 2013.  The iPad version of the app has been used, among other places, in Seton Hill University art history classes since 2010.  Art Authority was one of seven applications shown by senior VP Phil Schiller in Apple's January 19, 2012 education-focused special event at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City.  The K12 version was selected as one of five "Real-World Learning" apps by Apple on June 25, 2015, at which time Apple also made available a free iBook-based set of "Lesson Ideas" for the app.  In August 2016, Art Authority announced that it had acquired art website 1000museums.com.  1000museums.com is a website that aims to connect people with museums across the globe through the selling of archival reproduction prints  both in-store and online. As stated on their website, 1000museums.com's goal is to "build the most robust community of art and cultural institutions in the world, broadening their engagement with culture-seekers near and far."  Museums the website has partnered with include the Louvre, the Guggenheim Museum, and the Van Gogh Museum.  