D.C. Heath and Company was an American publishing company located at 125 Spring Street in Lexington, Massachusetts, specializing in textbooks.   The company was founded in Boston by Daniel Collamore Heath in 1885.  D.C. Heath and Company was owned by Raytheon from 1966 to 1995. When Raytheon exited the textbook market, it sold the company to Houghton Mifflin.   D.C. Heath started a small division of software editors to supplement the textbooks in the early 80's. However, the editors strived to make the software packages not dependent on the books. What impressed me was no compromising on quality just to support the texts. There were the test banks that allowed teachers to pick and choose questions for their quizzes and tests. However, development was further supported to empower teachers to create their own questions including a formula editor, tagging items by objectives, and including custom graphics in the question as well as in the answer key. All this was for the venerable Apple 2 then later Windows and Macintoshes. Many titles were commissioned for the areas of science, math, reading, social studies, and modern languages. These were not the mundane read and answer questions, but highly interactive original programs. D.C. Heath gave this group their own identity, Collamore Educational Publishing. Huge credit must be give to the software managing editor and the director of the division. They stated their vision and then let the editors make things happen. The editors were involved in all facets of the publishing process including contracts, development, design, publishing, marketing, and sales. The schools were just transitioning from the one computer classroom to the computer lab. In 1988 most of the software was being supported by William K. Bradford Publishing Company composed initially by D. C. Heath / Collamore personnel.    Publications-(note: There are far more titles than are listed here)  2. Software initial addition by Hal Wexler, software editor, 1984-1988 then transitioned to William K. Bradford Publishing Company. 