edu-sharing is an open source e-learning integration solution. The core of the system is a repository for the co-operative creation, management and usage of objects such as: files, links, instances of integrated tools and courses of connected learning management systems such as Moodle. Different edu-sharing repositories can be connected to each other as well as to other repositories or repository networks through open interfaces. This enables the exchange of content and educational know-how across the borders of systems and organizations.  edu-sharing is mainly targeting educational applications. In this context it is used to: Content can be managed using a web-based user interface or via WebDAV. The system offers different search options such as a faceted search. edu-sharing supports arbitrary metadata sets such as LOM and Dublin Core. For the usage of content stored in the repository in an educational scenario, the system offers interfaces to systems such as Moodle, ILIAS, OLAT and MediaWiki. A novel rendering service enables the usage of content that is not naively supported by learning management systems. Examples for such content items are: SCORM-courses, QTI-compliant tests and drills, audio and video files or courses of specific learning management systems. To facilitate the re-use of content, users may attach licenses (e.g. Creative Commons) to their content. Compared to other repository systems for learning content, edu-sharing offers some outstanding features: The edu-sharing network is coordinated by the edu-sharing association, which is based in Weimar, Germany. The association also runs offices in Chongqing, China, and Krems, Austria. The association was founded in February 2010 by key members of the DFG-funded project and competence center in e-learning, CampusContent,    supporters from IT industry who are involved in the project’s technology development, and members of the system's user community. The association's mission is to drive the future development of the open source software through a growing network of stakeholders, including IT-service providers, content owners from various domains, educational experts, and content and methodology users. As part of the yearly summit, the members of the association vote for the community roadmap, which accounts for 25% of the total roadmap votes. The edu-sharing technology is the outcome of the project “CampusContent” that was initiated and directed by Bernd Krämer at FernUniversität in Hagen. CampusContent received a major grant from the DFG from 2004 to 2009. Originally, CampusContent targeted academic education and promoted the idea of open educational resources. Early during the funding period, however, schools raised an increasing need for technology supporting the sharing and re-use of educational content and codified teaching know-how, which explains why the technology was widely used in schools before substantial applications in universities were seen.  To emphasize the widening of the technology's target population, the founders of edu-sharing.net decided to further promote the technology under the name edu-sharing. The edu-sharing repository is based on the Alfresco document management system. The GUI uses Google Web Toolkit and Angular JS. The rendering service has been developed in PHP.  