Loudclass is a tablet-based classroom management platform developed by Chungdahm Learning in Seoul, South Korea. It consists of 3 interconnected elements: a desktop PC-based authoring client, an Android tablet-based classroom management app, and a cloud-based administrative web console bridging them. With over 28,000 individually paying users, it is the largest solution of its kind in Korea. In 2013, Chungdahm launched its tablet-based Chungdahm 3.o curriculum. To support the initiative, the company developed in-house the Android-based classroom management system Chungdahm Smart Learning Platform (CSLP)  and the PC-based authoring tool authoring tool CREO Author . The 3.o curriculum rolled out over the course of 18 months to Chungdahm's 90 locations and 28,000 students  in South Korea, during which time CSLP and CREO were packaged for global distribution and rebranded as Loudclass . Loudclass pilot programs have been announced for schools in Kyrgyzstan  and Thailand . Loudclass runs in an instructor-led, 1:1 tablet-based classroom environment with optional internet access . Each student is given their own tablet with Loudclass installed. Tablet sharing is supported between classes (e.g. the tablets are assigned to a single classroom, with a single tablet used by several different students over the course of different classes) but it is recommended that within a given class, each student have their own tablet . The instructor tablet running a teacher-specific version of the app, with specialized functionality to manage and support the class. A Wi-Fi access point is required to support communication between the student and teacher tablets throughout the class. While the Wi-Fi is mandatory, it is not necessary for it to be connected to the internet since all processing occurs directly on the teacher's tablet . An optional but recommended feature is that the classroom have a projector or monitor to display the teacher's tablet screen using mirroring technology such as Miracast . Loudclass consists of 3 standalone components: Loudclass Author for creating instructional content, Loudclass Cloud for web-based administration, and Loudclass Interactive for real-time classroom management. Loudclass Author is used prior to class to create instructional content.  It runs as a standalone desktop app installed on the author's PC. A new "book" is created by loading either static images, a PDF, or PPT file, which forms the background images of each page. From there, instructional content is overlaid on the image, elements including problem-solving activities such as multiple choice and matching questions, free text entry, and multimedia support of embedded image, audio, and video files . In addition, the developer can leave instructional 'hints,' cuing the teacher to conduct certain exercises, surveys, or discussions at various points in the textbook. Textbook authoring can be conducted either by designated content developers, or directly by teachers. Loudclass Cloud serves as an administrative portal for managing rosters of students, teachers, textbooks and classes . The administration process is typically run once at the start of the term, and only revisited when an incremental change occurs to one of the above rosters.  Behind the scenes, Loudclass Cloud serves as an online storage and delivery mechanism of textbooks to the tablet. The client is accessible via web browser. Loudclass Interactive is the Android-tablet based classroom management tool and flagship of the Loudclass platform . There are different versions of the app for students and teachers, with one instance of the teacher app serving as a hub for multiple students connected over the same Wi-Fi network. A consequence of Wi-Fi-based connectivity is that a class running Loudclass Interactive does not require internet access. All processing takes place on the teacher's tablet, with communication taking place over the local Wi-Fi network.   