Gambling is the wagering of money or something of value (referred to as "the stakes") on an event with an uncertain outcome with the primary intent of winning money or material goods. Gambling thus requires three elements be present:  consideration, chance and prize. The outcome of the wager is often immediate, such as a single roll of dice, a spin of a roulette wheel, or a horse crossing the finish line, but longer time frames are also common, allowing wagers on the outcome of a future sports contest or even an entire sports season. The term "gaming" in this context typically refers to instances in which the activity has been specifically permitted by law. The two words are not mutually exclusive; i.e., a "gaming" company offers (legal) "gambling" activities to the public and may be regulated by one of many gaming control boards, for example, the Nevada Gaming Control Board. However, this distinction is not universally observed in the English-speaking world. For instance, in the United Kingdom, the regulator of gambling activities is called the Gambling Commission (not the Gaming Commission). The word gaming is used more frequently since the rise of computer and video games to describe activities that do not necessarily involve wagering, especially online gaming, with the new usage still not having displaced the old usage as the primary definition in common dictionaries. Do you have a question about Gambling that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. For editor resources and to collaborate with other editors on improving Wikipedia's Gambling-related articles, see WikiProject Gambling. Tokyo Racecourse in Tokyo, Japan. "Players and courtesans under a tent" by Cornelis de Vos A pachinko parlor in Tokyo, Japan Max Kaur (et) and religious leaders, protest against gambling, Tallinn, Estonia The Caesars Palace main fountain. The statue is a copy of the ancient Winged Victory of Samothrace. Mahjong tiles. Gamblers in the Ship of Fools, 1494 A gambling stand in Paris Caravaggio, The Cardsharps, c. 1594 The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 