The role of women in the Enlightenment is often debated and frequently overlooked. Women during this era were not considered of equal status to men, and much of their work and effort was suppressed.  Salons, coffeehouses, debating societies, academic competitions and print all became avenues for women to socialize, learn and discuss enlightenment ideas. These avenues furthered their roles in society and created stepping stones for future progress.   Salons were a forum in which elite, well-educated women might continue their learning in a place of civil conversation, while governing the political discourse and a place where people of all social orders could interact.  Salons of France were assembled by a small number of elite women who were concerned with education and promoting philosophies of the Enlightenment.  Salons were hosted in a private home or a hotel dining room. There was a meal, and discourse took place afterwards. During the meal, the focus would be on the discourse between patrons rather than the dining.   The salons had a hierarchical social structure where social ranks were upheld but under different rules of conversation designed to limit misunderstandings and conflict. Participants were often people from different societal ranks, allowing the commoners to interact with people with a higher status. Many people used fashionable opinions to move up social ladders.   Within the hierarchy of the salons, women assumed a role of governance. Thus, allowing impactful, philosophic discourse to flourish. Initially an institution of recreation, salons became an active institution of Enlightenment.  Suzanne Necker, wife to Louis XVI's financial minister, is an example of how the salon's topics are likely to have had a bearing on official government policy.  Some believe that the salons actually reinforced or only made the gender and societal differences bearable.  The salons allowed people of varying social classes to converse but never as equals. Women in salons were active in ways similar to women in traditional court society as protectorates, or socially active as their presence is said to encourage civil activity and politeness.  Additionally, salons were often not used for educational purposes, rather as a way to socialize and entertain.  A coffeehouse was a place where English virtuosi would gather to converse and educate in a civilized setting.  People of all levels of knowledge gathered to share and debate information and interests. Coffeehouses brought people together to learn, but they were not associated with any university or institution. As informal practices of education, coffeehouses were often condemned and deemed improper by male scholars who were accustomed to completely male-dominated institutions.  Coffeehouses where women were involved, like the one run by Moll King, were said to degrade traditional, virtuosic, male-run coffeehouses. King's fashionable coffeehouse operated into late hours of the night and catered to clientele very different from the virtuosi.  Her coffeehouse shows that Enlightenment women were not always simply the timid sex, governors of polite conversation, or protectorates of aspiring artists.  Debating societies were popular gatherings that included both education and recreation through state and social affairs.  A hall was rented and attendees were charged an admission fee to discuss various topics in the public sphere. Debating societies were initially male-dominated, but they developed into mixed-gender organizations and women-only events.    Unlike in salons, women were able to participate as equals, not as governors or protectors. At the end of 1780, there were four known women-only debating societies: La Belle Assemblee, the Female Parliament, the Carlisle House Debates for Ladies only, and the Female Congress.  The topics often dealt with questions of male and female relations, marriage, courtship, and whether women should be allowed to partake in the political culture.  Though women were asked to partake in debating societies, there were stipulations as to which societies they could be a part of and when they were permitted to attend. Women were only allowed to participate when no  alcohol was present.  Although women attended and participated in debating societies, they were often accused of not holding valid arguments and acting simply as puppets.  Women were more involved in publishing their writings than previously thought. In order to publish work during most of the Enlightenment, a married woman had to have written consent from her husband. As the Old Regime began to fail, women became more prolific in their publications. Publishers were no longer concerned about a husband's consent, and a more commercial attitude was adopted, publishing books that were going to sell. With the new economic outlook of the Enlightenment, female writers were granted more opportunity in the print sphere.  The opening up of the publishing world made it easier for women to make a living off of the profession. Writing was an ideal occupation as it was mentally fulfilling, could be done anywhere and was adaptable to life's circumstances.  Many women who wrote did not depend on the money and often wrote for charities. Topics they chose often defied the gender roles of the day as there were few boundaries of self-expression.  Some historians, such as Pieretti and John Iverson, say participation of women in academic competitions peaked during the time of King Louis XIV and slowly tapered off. Others, like Robert Darnton, fail to mention them at all. Jeremy Caradonna presents evidence to the contrary, showing that 49 of the over 2000 prize competitions were won by women. This number is a little misleading, however, because many of the women won on more than one occasion.  The idea that women only won because the prize competitions were completely anonymous is dispelled by Caradonna as well.   Questions shifted from men-centric interests to questions regarding women's rights and education, encouraging female participation. The Academy of Besançon was one to receive many female entries during the two years the competition was open. One of the members of the Academy released a pamphlet reprimanding misogynist opinions.  Though there were many women who participated, only winning a prize competition ensured publication. 