The American Institute of Biological Sciences (AIBS) is a non-profit scientific association that is dedicated to advancing biological research and education. The American Institute of Biological Sciences is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) scientific association dedicated to advancing biological research and education for the welfare of society. AIBS works to ensure that the public, legislators, funders, and the community of biologists have access to and use information that will guide them in making informed decisions about matters that require biological knowledge. Founded in 1947 as a part of the National Academy of Sciences, AIBS became an independent, member-governed organization in the 1950s. Today, AIBS has nearly 160 member organizations and is headquartered in McLean, VA, with a Public Policy Office in Washington, DC. Its approximately 40 staff work to achieve its mission by publishing the peer-reviewed journal BioScience and the education Web site ActionBioScience.org, providing scientific peer-review and advisory services to government agencies and other clients, and collaborating with scientific organizations to advance public policy, education, and the public understanding of science. AIBS provides scientific peer-review and advisory services to government agencies and other clients; publishes the peer-reviewed journal BioScience and the education Web site ActionBioScience.org; and collaborates with scientific organizations to advance public policy, education, and the public understanding of science. Scientific Peer Advisory and Review Services (SPARS) is a division of the non-profit entity, American Institute of Biological Sciences (AIBS), which is dedicated to biological research and education. SPARS is focused on the objective evaluation of potential research grant applications, ongoing medical research programs, and progress reports for numerous granting agencies, foundations, and research institutes; addressing advances in basic biology, clinical medicine, technology, and wildlife and environmental concerns. Performing peer review and related scientific services since 1963, AIBS SPARS is one of the longest-serving independent scientific review service providers in the nation. The staff at AIBS SPARS consists of scientists, administrators, IT professionals, writers, and editors. SPARS works with the scientific community to match eminent, relevant scientists to highly specialized biomedical research applications. Reviewers are vetted for conflicts of interest and confidentiality is ensured to maintain the fidelity of the process. Processes include: developing request for proposals (RFPs), developing proposal receipt and tracking mechanisms, establishing review procedures, orchestrating online reviews, meetings, and teleconferences and delivering edited critiques. Many types of reviews have been implemented, including: consortia development, training and education programs, innovation awards, technology development awards, basic science and clinical trial awards. The AIBS Public Policy Office works at the interface of science and public policy. The office, staffed by science policy and public affairs professionals, works to promote the use of biological sciences knowledge in our nation’s public policy and to develop and advance science policy that serves the needs of the scientific research and education communities, particularly the biological sciences. Issues addressed by the policy office are:  funding for the biological sciences, scientific collections, science education, scientific integrity, and research and government agencies. AIBS is dedicated to improving biological science literacy at all levels of formal and informal education. AIBS works toward meeting this goal through a number of initiatives: recognizing teaching professionals, collaborating with other organizations, disseminating information, publishing teaching resources to improve biology education, and encouraging students to pursue careers in biology. AIBS also supports innovative programs that connect science to the public and that encourage a true appreciation of the value of the biological sciences to society. AIBS is committed to the effective communication of high-quality information about biology, both within the profession and to students, educators, and the greater public. To this end, it publishes the highly cited monthly journal BioScience and continually expands the content of its free, online, educational resource ActionBioScience.org. BioScience provides peer-reviewed synthetic overviews of current biological research, together with articles about biology education, history, and the profession generally. It is strong in environmental and interdisciplinary science as well as integrative biology. ActionBioScience.org — an award-winning, bilingual Web site—connects the general public to societal issues that are informed by biological science through peer-reviewed articles, interviews, and other resources. 