The winners of the Second Annual Latin Grammy Awards were announced during a press conference on Tuesday, October 30, 2001 at the Conga Room in Los Angeles, California.  The conference, which was broadcast live on the internet, was hosted by Jimmy Smits and Paul Rodriguez. Alejandro Sanz was the big winner winning four awards including Album of the Year. Juanes won three awards including Best New Artist. Prior to the date of the event, the Latin Grammys were moved from Miami to Los Angeles due to protests by Cuban exiles for allowing musicians living in Cuba to perform.  The awards were to have been presented at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles, CA with a CBS national telecast on Tuesday, September 11, 2001. It was to be hosted by Jimmy Smits and Christina Aguilera. The telecast was cancelled because of the terrorist attacks that morning in New York City, Washington, D.C., and Shanksville, Pennsylvania.  After many discussions about rescheduling the ceremony, The Latin Recording Academy determined it would be impossible to do so. Instead, the winners were announced at a press conference on October 30 at the Conga Room. The cancellation of the event cost the organizers an estimate of two million dollars in losses.  Alejandro Sanz — "El Alma Al Aire" Alejandro Sanz — El Alma Al Aire Alejandro Sanz — "El Alma Al Aire" Juanes Christina Aguilera — Mi Reflejo Alejandro Sanz — El Alma Al Aire Armando Manzanero — Duetos Nestor Torres — This Side of Paradise Sindicato Argentino del Hip Hop — Un Paso a la Eternidad Juanes — Fíjate Bien Aterciopelados — Gozo Poderoso Juanes — "Fijate Bien" Tito Puente and Eddie Palmieri — Obra Maestra Chichí Peralta — ...De Vuelta al Barrio Celia Cruz — Siempre Viviré Kike Santander — "Júrame (Merengue)" (Gisselle) Pedro Fernández — Yo No Fuí Banda el Recodo — Contigo Por Siempre Grupo Limite — Por Encima De Todo Jimmy González & El Grupo Mazz — Quien Iba A Pensar Ramón Ayala y Sus Bravos Del Norte — Quémame Los Ojos/Amigos Del Alma Jose Vaca Flores — "Borracho Te Recuerdo" (Vicente Fernández) El All-Stars de La Rumba Cubana — La Rumba Soy Yo Carlos Franzetti — Tango Fatal Vicente Amigo — Ciudad de las Ideas Paquito D'Rivera Quintet — Live at the Blue Note Marisa Monte — Memorias, Crônicas e Declarações de Amor Rita Lee — 3001 Zeca Pagodinho — Agua da Minha Sede Caetano Veloso — Noites do Norte Pena Branca — Semente Caipira Gilberto Gil — As Canções de Eu Tu Eles Raimundinho do Accordion, Targino Gondim and Manuca — "Esperando na Janela" (Gilberto Gil) Miliki — Cómo Estan Ustedes? Carlos Alvarez, Plácido Domingo, Jane Henschel and Ana Maria Martinez — Albeniz: Merlin Marcelo Anez, Gustavo Celis, Gordon Chinn, Charles Dye, Javier Garza, Mike Gouzauski, Sebastian Krys, Freddy Pinero, Jr., Eric Schilling, Joel Someilan, Ron Taylor, J. C. Ulloa and Robb Williams — Arrasando (Thalía) K. C. Porter Ricky Martin — "She Bangs" 