 United We Stand: What More Can I Give was a benefit concert led by Michael Jackson  held on October 21, 2001 at RFK Stadium in Washington, D.C.  The concert was the third major concert held in tribute to the victims of the September 11 attacks. The other two were held in New York City. After he completed his 30th-anniversary special concert tour with his brothers at Madison Square Garden, Jackson was originally supposed to attend a meeting at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001, but overslept and did not attend. He organized the benefit concert as a response. The concert was a half-day-long spectacle beginning in the early afternoon and lasting well into the night. Performers ranged from music icons including Mariah Carey, James Brown, Al Green, Mary J. Blige, Carole King, Rod Stewart, Bette Midler, America, and Huey Lewis to starting stars of that time including Jennifer Lopez, Destiny's Child, P. Diddy, the Goo Goo Dolls, Train, Backstreet Boys, Britney Spears, Usher, Pink, and NSYNC.  Each performer did a brief set usually amounting to about five songs apiece. In order, the performances were: Backstreet Boys, Krystal Harris, Huey Lewis and the News, James Brown, Jennifer Lopez, Billy Gilman, O-Town, Usher, Christina Milian, Carole King, Al Green, Christina Aguilera, Pink, Bette Midler, CeCe Peniston, Aerosmith, America, P. Diddy (with Faith Evans singing backup in the choir), NSYNC, Janet Jackson, Destiny's Child, Rod Stewart, Goo Goo Dolls, Train, Britney Spears, Mariah Carey, Mary J. Blige and Michael Jackson, who performed "Man in the Mirror". Then everyone joined together, including Toni Braxton, MC Hammer and Mýa, for closing the show by performing "What More Can I Give". Notable appearances were given by Aerosmith, who performed at the festival as well as a scheduled concert in Indianapolis on the same night, while both Destiny's Child and the Goo Goo Dolls had performed the previous night at The Concert for New York City.  The event was plagued with problems, such as guests that did not show up (including Mick Jagger, Kiss, Ricky Martin, Aaron Carter and MC Hammer), faulty sound equipment, and concessionaires running out of food and beverages.  The event was televised, in an edited format, on ABC several days after the concert. During the telecast, there was no mention of Jackson's name and he was always filmed with the rest of the singers in the background; this was because Jackson signed a contract with CBS (the former owner of his record label) over the 30th Anniversary Special to not appear under his name in any other program; the airing of "Man in the Mirror" at an awards ceremony was also canceled. John Stamos hosted the event, and appearances were also made by celebrities including Kevin Spacey along with political figures such as the mayor of Washington, D.C..       