Jung Won Kim  (President)   Global China Connection or GCC (Mandarin Chinese: 全球中国联接) is a student-run 501(c)(3) non-profit organization for university students and young professionals of all nationalities to engage China’s emergence in the world. GCC connects future leaders from all nations and assists them in developing the skills and friendships necessary to succeed both in China and internationally. GCC is today present in more than sixty top universities in North America, Asia, Europe, and Oceania, including Harvard University, Yale University, Princeton University, University of Pennsylvania, New York University, Columbia University, Cornell University.  With its geographic reach, GCC connect thousands of students, recent-graduates, and professionals that are interested in China. Every year, GCC hosts hundreds of local, regional, national, and international events. GCC's main activities include hosting delegations of university students, China-focused social and professional events, and annual summits in China and the United States. The official languages of GCC are English and Mandarin Chinese. Global China Connection was founded in 2008 at Columbia University with a motto "Building relationships that will change the world".  GCC's structure is divided into two components: GCC Central Management and Chapter Network. GCC Central Management manages overall communication and strategic activities, directs the network, and coordinates most of the organization's larger international events. The Chapter Network consists of individual GCC university chapters. Each chapter is governed by their own presidents and executive boards. At the top level, GCC is governed by a board of trustees (highly distinguished GCC members) and senior advisers (highly distinguished individuals outside of GCC). GCC events connect companies, social organizations, and individuals through annual conferences as well as smaller scale forums. The organization hosts two major conferences each year, generally in New York City (spring) and Beijing (summer).  Conferences contain discussion on subjects such as politics, economics, international relations, business, journalism, and culture related to China. Smaller conferences and events are also hosted by chapters within GCC.  Previous speakers at GCC conferences include: The smaller forums are based on subjects such as China's sustainable development/environmental protection challenges; the stimulus packages passed by China and the U.S.; the current state of the American media; U.S.-China relations; and China's developing capital markets. GCC hosts and leads numerous student delegations in both the United States and China.  GCC generally collaborates with student association partners such as the Western Returned Scholars Association, the Students International Communication Association of Peking University (SICA), as well as student government groups, in managing these events. GCC delegations have visited companies such as J.P. Morgan Chase, Ernst & Young, Pricewaterhouse Coopers, Microsoft, The New York Times, Baidu, and Lenovo. Global China Connection's partners include: 