An annotated bibliography is a bibliography that gives a summary of each of the entries.  The purpose of annotations is to provide the reader with a summary and an evaluation of each source. Each summary should be a concise exposition of the source's central idea(s) and give the reader a general idea of the source's content.   The following are the main components of an annotated bibliography. It is important to note that not all fields shown below must be used at once in an annotated bibliography. The fields may vary depending on the type of annotated bibliography and special instructions from the instructor in case the bibliography is part of a school assignment. Annotations may be written with different goals in mind. There are three types of annotations, depending on what might be most important for your reader or according to your professor’s instructions.It is impossible to describe a standard procedure for all types of annotations because one annotation does not fit all purposes. In order to know the best type of annotation, it is prudent to consult your instructor or follow the instructions. For example, if the assignment states that your annotative bibliography should give evidence proving an analytical understanding of the sources you have used, then you are supposed to write an analytical annotated bibliography which includes evaluation of the sources you are using. The three types of annotated bibliographies are; summary annotations, critical annotations and a combination of the former two. Summary annotations Summary annotations are further classified into informative and indicative annotations. The following are the main features of summary annotations: Informative Annotations This type of annotation is a summary of the source. An informative annotation should include the thesis of the work, arguments or hypothesis, proofs and a conclusion.  Informative annotations provide a straight summary of the source material. They summarise all relevant information about the author and the main points of the work. To write an informative annotation, begin by writing the thesis; then develop it with the argument or hypothesis, list the proofs, and state the conclusion Indicative annotated bibliographies Indicative annotations do not provide actual information from the source. They provide overall information about what kinds of questions or issues are addressed by the work, for example, through chapter titles. In the indicative entry, there is no attempt to give actual data such as hypotheses, proofs, etc. This type of annotation assesses the source's strengths and weaknesses, in terms of usefulness and quality.  Evaluative annotated bibliographies do more than just summarising, they provide critical appraisals.  They evaluate the source or author critically to find any biases, lack of evidence, objectives, etc. They show how the work may or may not be useful for a particular field of study or audience. They explain how researching this material assisted your own project. Most annotated bibliographies contain combination annotations. This type of annotation will summarize or describe the topic, and then evaluate the source's usefulness and a summary. Usually also includes a detailed analysis on the reason the article was written.  Annotated bibliographies contain two main sections; the bibliographic information section and the annotations section. Since the formats may slightly vary from one institution to another and amongst scholars and researchers depending on the regulations, courses and materials being annotated, it is imperative to ask for specific guidelines. The bibliographic information There are also bibliography annotations that combine all three types (MLA, APA and Chicago style). When deciding on the style for your annotated bibliography, consider its purpose and the instructions given to you by your supervisor. Regardless of the formatting style required at your institution, all annotated bibliography pieces need to follow the same rule: the author’s last name should be the only part that is flush left, while the rest of the text requires to be indented.  The bibliographic information is written before the annotation using the suitable referencing style. The information is normally identified using a hanging indent. Generally, though, the bibliographic information of the source (the title, author, publisher, date, etc.) is written in either MLA or APA format. The annotations The annotations for each source are written in paragraph form. The lengths of the annotations can vary significantly from a couple of sentences to a couple of pages. The length of the annotation should be between 100 to 200 words. When writing summaries of sources, the annotations may not be very long. However, when writing an extensive analysis of each source, more space may be needed. A few sentences of general summary followed by several sentences of how you can fit the work into your larger paper or project can serve you well when you go to draft. Sample entry of an APA style annotated bibliography: Murray's book offers an in-depth look at the history of libraries since ancient times. He incorporates beautiful illustrations, quotations, and descriptions of numerous libraries worldwide. This book states the history of the evolution of the book from era to era. It also serves as a primary source of information for research in library history. This is a good book that should be of interest to book lovers and librarians.   