Dying to Survive is a 2018 Chinese comedy-drama film  directed by Wen Muye in his feature film debut. The film is based on the real-life story of Lu Yong (陆勇), a Chinese leukemia patient who smuggled cheap but unproven cancer medicine from India for 1,000 Chinese cancer sufferers in 2004.   Dying to Survive stars Xu Zheng in the lead role, who also co-produced the film with Ning Hao. An aphrodisiac peddler, Cheng Yong is in financial trouble. His store has not been making profits for a long time and his father urgently needs a large sum of money for brain surgery. One day a man wearing thick layers of surgical masks comes to his shop. He asks Cheng to bring a cheap drug from India in return for a large sum of money. The Swedish drug Geliening is very expensive in China, due to patent protection, causing many patients to not be able to afford the treatments, but, a very inexpensive generic version of it is available in India. Desperate for money, Cheng agrees to risk smuggling the drug into China. As more CML patients buy drugs from him, Cheng becomes rich. His motivation starts to change after he witnesses devastated patients whose family has been pushed into poverty by costly cancer treatments, walk away with hope for the future. At the same time, Chinese law enforcement agencies notices the availability of the contraband Geliening and vows to crackdown on the unlicensed generic drug as the originator company of the drug begins to sue the Indian government for infringing its patent. On opening day, the film topped the Chinese box office and grossed $49.71 million, including preview screenings.  By the end of its opening weekend, the film had grossed $199.58 million,  the fourth biggest opening weekend ever in China.  As of September 15, 2018, the film has grossed $453 million, becoming the year's third highest-grossing film at the Chinese box office.  Pang-Chieh Ho of SupChina wrote that Dying to Survive "might be China's best movie of the year".  The film sparked debate about the cost of medical care among Chinese people. Even Chinese Premier Li Keqiang cited the film in an appeal to regulators to "speed up price cuts for cancer drugs" and "reduce the burden on families".  