  Soorma (transl. Warrior; Hindi pronunciation: [suːɾmaː]) is a 2018 Indian biographical sports drama film based on the life of hockey player Sandeep Singh, directed by Shaad Ali and produced by Sony Pictures Networks India and C.S. Films.  The film stars Diljit Dosanjh and Tapsee Pannu in lead roles  and it was theatrical released on 13 July 2018 to mixed reviews from critics.  The official trailer of the film was released on 11 June 2018.  Soorma tells the story of the international hockey player Sandeep Singh, played by Diljit Dosanjh, who was paralyzed and used a wheelchair for two years after an accidental gunshot injured him in 2006.  The film’s tagline is "The Greatest Comeback Story of the Hockey Legend Sandeep Singh". Fighting against all odds, Sandeep got back on his feet and made a comeback to international hockey in 2008. India won the 2009 Sultan Azlan Shah Cup under his captaincy and went on to qualify for the 2012 Olympics. The story also mentions the contribution of his brother in his life who stood like a pillar of constant support during these hard times and also shows his girlfriend who left him, so that he would be able to focus on recovering and doing well for himself.   In November 2014, Chitrangda Singh purchased the rights to make a biopic on the life of former India Hockey captain Sandeep Singh.   In July 2017, it was reported that Chitrangda Singh would be collaborating with Sony Pictures Networks to produce the film in which Diljit Dosanjh would be playing the lead role.  For the role of Sandeep Singh, the first preference of the producers was Ranveer Singh but the actor refused to do the film on being offered the role in the year 2016 citing lack of dates.  Initially, for the role of Harpreet, the makers of the film had finalized Ileana D'Cruz but the actress opted out of the project as the filming dates were clashing with another film of hers that she was doing with Rajkumar Gupta.  In September 2017, it was reported that Taapsee Pannu had been signed to play the romantic lead opposite Diljit Dosanjh in the film.   The principal photography of the film began in Shahabad in November 2017.  The next schedule of the filming process took place in Chandigarh in December 2017.   For the final schedule of filming, which involved shooting the hockey matches, the production unit moved to Belgrade in Serbia where shooting continued for 10 days before coming to an end on 24 December 2017.    The Hockey sequences in the film were choreographed by Sandeep Singh and his brother Bikramjit Singh.  The music of the movie is composed by Shankar–Ehsaan–Loy with lyrics by Gulzar.   Contestants of the Talent Hunt show Rising Star, Hemant Brijwasi   and Akhtar Brothers were offered a song by Shankar Mahadevan and Diljit Dosanjh for the movie.   On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, Soorma has an approval score of 83% on the basis of 6 reviews with an average rating of 6.2 out of 10.  Soorma received mixed reviews from critics.  Subhash K Jha of Business Standard says, "After extolling a gangster, Bollywood salutes a true hero" and gave it 4.5 stars out of 5.  Ronak Kotecha of The Times of India rated the film 3.5/5 stars stating that It is a story told with its heart in the right place, and on that count it scores.  Divya Pal of News18 gave the film a rating of 2 out of 5 saying that the film is well intentioned but lacks depth.  Rohit Vats of Hindustan Times gave the film a rating of 2 out of 5 saying that the film lacks the firepower to create a strong impact even though it does have praise worthy performances given by Vijay Raaz, Angad Bedi and Satish Kaushik.  Saibal Chatterjee of NDTV criticized the film saying that Soorma is "a hockey film sans genuine impetus" and gave it a rating of 2 out of 5.  Shubhra Gupta of The Indian Express gave the film a rating of 2.5 out of 5 and praised Diljit Dosanjh for his portrayal of Sandeep Singh but felt that the film falls short of becoming a sports film that would leave a lasting impact.  Taran Adarsh of Bollywood Hungama gave the film two and a half stars out of five and writes, "Soorma is laced with a promising plot but the weak execution hampers the impact".  Soorma had opened a weak collection on Box office it collected ₹3.20 crores (net) on its first day in India,on its second day it jumped over 57.81% and collected over ₹5.05 crores and its 2 days total collection is now ₹8.25 crore. After 2nd day on 3rd day it increases and marked up to ₹5.60 crores. On the 4th day film collected ₹2 crores and on 5th day ₹1.94 crores making Soorma total ₹17.79 crores. On 6th day it collected ₹1.77 crores. End of the first week of Soorma is up to ₹21.21 crores and after day 7 on day 8 Soorma collected ₹1.65 crores and on day 9 it decreases and only collected ₹85 lakhs but on its 10th day it increases and marked ₹1.60 crores and on 11th day it collected well on Box office and marked up to ₹2.10 crores approximately. From day 12th-15th day it collected ₹2.45 crores.  