In the United States, each state has an adopted set of academic standards for education that help define the curriculum for that state. Most states adopted a common set of standards under the Common Core State Standards initiative. The following is a list of academic standards for each state. The state of Alabama adopted the use of Common Core Standards. The state of Alaska, through the Alaska Department of Education, adopted the Alaska Standards, accessible online. The state of Arizona adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Arkansas adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of California adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Colorado adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Connecticut adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Delaware adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Florida adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Georgia adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Hawaii adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Idaho adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Illinois adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Indiana adopted the Indiana Academic Standards, accessible online. The state of Iowa adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Kansas adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Kentucky adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Louisiana adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Maine adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Maryland adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Massachusetts adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Michigan adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The State of Minnesota adopted the Minnesota Academic Standards, formerly known as the Minnesota Graduation Standards, accessible online. The state of Mississippi adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Missouri adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Montana adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Nebraska adopted the Nebraska Academic Standards, accessible online. The state of Nevada adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of New Hampshire adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of New Jersey adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of New Mexico adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of New York adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of North Carolina adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of North Dakota adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Ohio adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Oklahoma adopted the Oklahoma Academic Standards, accessible online. The state of Oregon adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Pennsylvania adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Rhode Island adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. South Carolina adopted the South Carolina Academic Standards, accessible online. The state of South Dakota adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Tennessee adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The State of Texas, through the Texas Education Administration, adopted the Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills (TEKS), available online The state of Utah adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Vermont adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The Commonwealth of Virginia adopted the Standards of Learning The state of Washington adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of West Virginia adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Wisconsin adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The state of Wyoming adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The District of Columbia adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. Puerto Rico adopted the Puerto Rico Core Standards. Guam adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. American Samoa adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The U.S. Virgin Islands adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. The Northern Mariana Islands adopted the use of the Common Core Standards. 