Detransitioning is the process of changing one's gender presentation and/or sex characteristics back to one's assigned sex, following an earlier transgender transition.  Detransitioning is also termed retransitioning.  Some people detransition after feeling that transitioning caused more problems than it solved, citing reasons including inability to bond with people,  concern regarding the health implications of high doses of hormones,  the way in which people responded to a trans man,  a constant, low level of groin pain,  and sexual inability.  A person, who subsequently detransitioned, said that he struggled with gender identity after eight years of living as a woman, with no lasting peace, and a worsening of "gender confusion".  In September 2017, the Australian 60 Minutes television program featured a 12-year-old who transitioned as a girl and two years later detransitioned.  A review of more than 100 international medical studies of post-operative transsexuals by the University of Birmingham found no robust scientific evidence that sex reassignment surgery is clinically effective.   However, some studies find that sex reassignment surgery improves the quality of life of most of those who undergo it.    Genital reconstructive surgeon Miroslav Dordevic said that some transgender people regret having undergone the procedure and want to detransition. He said that this is particularly so for transgender women over 30,   and that there is a "taboo" in talking about issues relating to "regret".  In August 2017, the Philadelphia-based Mazzoni Center's Trans Health Conference, which is an annual meeting of transgender people, advocates, and health care providers, canceled a panel discussion on detransitioning.  The conference organisers said, "When a topic becomes controversial, such as this one has turned on social media, there is a duty to make sure that the debate does not get out of control at the conference itself. After several days of considerations and reviewing feedback, the planning committee voted that the workshops, while valid, cannot be presented at the conference as planned".  In September 2017, Bath Spa University  refused permission for James Caspian, a counsellor who specialises in transgender therapy, to undertake research relating to people who had decided to reverse their gender reassignment operations. Caspian alleged that the reason for the refusal was that it was, "a potentially politically incorrect piece of research [which] carries a risk to the university".   It is asserted that there is a lack of legal, medical and psychological assistance for those seeking to detransition.  Category:LGBT culture 