School-related gender-based violence (SRGBV) can be defined as acts or threats of sexual, physical or psychological violence happening in and around schools. This type of violence is due to gender norms and stereotypes. It can include verbal abuse, bullying, sexual abuse, harassment and other types of violence. SRGBV is widely spread around the world and is common in many societies. Millions of children and families suffer from this type of violence. Incidents related to SRGBV has been reported in all countries and regions of the world.  Many governments and organizations around the world are working towards getting reliable information regarding SRGBV, as it has been proved to be an urgent matter that should be solved. Based on all the data related to SRGBV around the world collected, it is important to try to find solutions in order to tackle this problematic.  For instance, UNICEF's report Hidden in Plain Sight included the largest collection of data relating to violence against children. As aforementioned, this report proofs how physical and sexual abuse takes place at schools.  The most common types of abuse include: Social beliefs influence gender relations in all countries of the world. In this sense, the root of violence against children depends on social construction and how the populations behave vis-a-vis gender-related issues. Some of the root issues include: Being exposed or having experienced SRGBV can have critical impacts on children's development. Especially in terms of mental and physical well-being, including children's health (HIV and early pregnancy). It has been demonstrated that victims of violence are more likely to accept aggressive types of behaviors or be violent themselves after suffering from violence.  This creates a vicious circle in which violence becomes wrongly acceptable. SRGBV can have negative and long-term consequences for the future of young people, as it forges their adult personalities.  Addressing SRGBV raises important challenges and is very complex. The concept is not understood by many and is considered sensitive for many. Actors from the education sector, governments and policy-makers and individuals attending schools face several challenges regarding SRGBV. These include:  Reporting on SRGBV situations around the world has become especially difficult since social and cultural norms do not promote this practice. Moreover, implicitly they discourage it. Many actors from society including teachers; school directors and policy-makers still avoid talking to children openly about gender; violence and sex. They fear promoting sensitive materials to children because of the taboo present in society. Work, time and patience are required to overcome set-ideas promoted by parents within their communities. It is necessary to start real and honest dialogues with children in order to create guaranty real and long-lasting results.  Gender inequalities refer to the devaluation and discrimination of women an girls in a society. This results on giving more power to men and boys, while demeaning women and girls. For instance, a study in Ethiopia highlighted that even though 93 per cent of male students recognized violence against girls to be illegal, about 33 per cent thought it is acceptable for male students to have what they want, and appeal to their charm or force to get. 21 per cent recognized behaving this way.   Capacity constraints in education systems, are also responsible for slowing down the progress related to preventing SRGBV. One of the most important challenges is the training of teachers with the tools and sensitivity to teach curriculum against violence and promote gender equality. In order for real change to happen, it is necessary to introduce these new tools slowly, analyzing who is the best to communicate these elements and what skills and knowledge are needed. What's more, having enough resources will be very important to implement change.  Another factor that limits the progress related to stopping SRGBV is weak coordination and unreliable monitoring mechanisms. These render difficult the collaboration between ministries of education, police, social services, child protection and more. This is important because if this collaboration is not fluent, it will be difficult to stop SRGBV. A renewal in the organization's cultural landscape will be needed to overcome challenges, including bureaucracy that disrupts the flow of knowledge sharing.  Limited access to quality services, including child protection an social services among others (often absent) are due to the quality of services. This particularly concerns fragile communities.  In the majority of countries, there is currently no legislation that protects children from violence at school, meaning not much can be done when it happens. However, it is the case that some countries have recently introduced legislations specifically for schools. This said, legislation related aspects have become a real challenge. As to stop SRGBV, perpetrators must be punished.  Emerging, but limited, evidence base on what works, although this is an area that is receiving increasing attention. The few evaluations of SRGBV interventions that currently exist vary greatly in methodology, rigour, scale and scope. This makes it difficult to identify best practice and draw conclusions about effective strategies that can be transferred to other settings. There is also a growing body of promising practices and existing knowledge that has not yet been fully documented.  As previously mentioned, many challenges slow down the reporting and impact on the quality of providing reliable data regarding certain types of violence. This implies data is incomplete in contexts such as sexual orientation, race/ethnicity, and disability among others. This is important as all of these contexts are important to fight against SRGBV. According to a recent study by USAID, to tackle SRGBV it is necessary to rely on large-scale studies which include findings that can be compared across countries; studies showing different forms of SRGBV, connections between behavior change and a discrepancy between research and practice. It is necessary to invest in strong data management system tools which divide data and will make it easier for people to analyze it.   Governments should demonstrate leadership at the national level by: In order to render schools safer, it is important to adopt whole-school approaches that will create better environments for children. Also different types of stakeholders at the school level  should become engaged at local communities and government. There are three specific strategies: At the education sector level, students should be taught in a certain way and certain topics. In order to prevent SRGBV, it is important to:  SRGBV being a very complex issue, it is necessary to involve many and several types of stakeholders. Thus it is about creating partnerships in order to tackle SRGBV: 