The Flint Adolescent Study (FAS) is a longitudinal interview study of risk and promotive factors associated with alcohol, tobacco and other drug use across a lifetime. The study is led by Marc A. Zimmerman, Ph.D., Director of the Prevention Research Center and the Michigan Youth Violence Prevention Center at the University of Michigan School of Public Health. Hsing-Fang Hsieh, PhD, Research Investigator at the UM School of Public Health is the Project Director. Data is collected by the Michigan Public Health Institute. The Flint Adolescent Study and Flint Adolescent Study-Generation 2 are funded by the National Institute on Drug Abuse. In 1994, a cohort of 850 youth was recruited from the Flint Community Schools. A sample of predominantly African American youth was followed for 4 years in high school (1994-1998), 4 years after high school as they experienced the transition to young adulthood (1999-2003), and another 4 years during their late twenties as they experienced middle adult transition (2008-2012). The original goal of the study was to explore the promotive factors associated with school dropout and alcohol, tobacco, and other drug (ATOD) use across their four high school years. Over the years, additional risk and promotive factors and health outcomes were explored including: Now in their 30’s, FAS participants are parents to over 400 children aged 5–16 years old. The Flint Adolescent Study – Generation 2 expands on the scope of the original study to explore how parenting factors are associated with children’s alcohol and drug use and other risk factors. The specific aim of FAS Gen 2 is to understand the inter-generational transmission of risk for ATOD use the original FAS sample. Applying a socio-ecological developmental framework with a resiliency perspective, family, neighborhood environments, and past and current behaviors are being studied, along with the attitudes and experiences of parents and how they influence their parenting attitudes and behaviors over time. The study is also examining how these factors may influence substance use in their children (G2). 