 The descendants of the Bounty mutineers and their Tahitian consorts include the modern-day Pitcairn Islanders as well as a little less than half of the population of Norfolk Island. Their descendants also live in New Zealand, Australia, and the United States. Because of the scarcity of people on the island, many of the mutineers' children and grandchildren intermarried, with some marrying cousins and second cousins. Occasionally a new person would arrive on the island bringing with them a new surname (like the American Samuel Russell Warren, whose descendants still live on the island today). Fletcher Christian by Mauatua (a.k.a. Maimiti, a.k.a. Mi'Mitti, a.k.a. Mainmast, a.k.a. Isabella, also consort of Ned Young) Ned Young by Mauatua (also consort of Fletcher Christian) Ned Young by Toofaiti, a.k.a. Hutia, a.k.a. Nancy John Adams by Vahineatua, a.k.a. Bal'hadi, a.k.a. Prudence, consort of John Mills John Adams by Teio, a.k.a. Mary, consort of William McCoy John Mills by Vahineatua consort of John Adams William McCoy by Teio, a.k.a. Mary Matthew Quintal by Tevarua, a.k.a. Sarah Matthew Quintal by Teraura, a.k.a. Susan, consort of Ned Young and Thursday October Christian Thursday October Christian son of Fletcher Christian by Teraura (also consort of Ned Young) Matthew Quintal son of Matthew Quintal by Elizabeth Mills daughter of John Mills Daniel McCoy son of William McCoy by Sarah Quintal daughter of Matthew Quintal Charles Christian son of Fletcher Christian by Sarah (Mar 1789 – 7 Mar 1826) daughter of Teio Dorothy (Dolly) Young by John Buffett an English sailor Arthur Quintal son of Matthew Quintal by Catherine McCoy daughter of William McCoy by Mary Christian granddaughter of Fletcher Christian George Young son of Ned Young by Hannah Adams daughter of John Adams Edward Young son of Ned Young by Polly Christian granddaughter of Fletcher Christian Rachel Adams daughter of John Adams by John Evans an English sailor William Young son of Ned Young by Elizabeth Mills daughter of John Mills Edward Quintal son of Matthew Quintal by Dinah Adams daughter of John Adams George Adams son of John Adams by Polly Young daughter of Ned Young The majority of the many rulers of the Pitcairn Islands have been descendants of the Bounty mutineers, till this day. In 1935 - in the wake of their successful American blockbuster movie Mutiny on the Bounty, which premiered that year - the MGM Studios also shot a short documentary with the title "Pitcairn Island Today" (a Eugene H. Roth production, narrated by Carey Wilson).   It tells the story of some of the descendants of the Bounty mutineers, who were natives of Pitcairn and inhabitants of the only village of the island, Adamstown. The list of descendants mentioned and presented in this MGM documentary includes: On top of those, three more people are mentioned in the MGM documentary: Andrew Warren (grandson of a whaler who came to Pitcairn around 1875, thus being no descendant of the mutineers), as well as Dora Warren and Roy Clark, whose exact direct descent from the mutineers (or lack of such) remains unclear, when judging only from the information that the documentary reveals. A 1962 documentary, Pitcairn People (directed by Peter Newington, narrated by Patrick Wymark), was produced by the British Petroleum Company. It featured many of the island residents of that time. Another documentary, Miracle on Pitcairn Island, was produced in the 1960s by the General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists (filmed and written by Eric Were, narrated by Neal C. Wilson). It featured many of the same residents. 