Piled Higher and Deeper (also known as PhD Comics),  is a newspaper and webcomic strip written and drawn by Jorge Cham that follows the lives of several grad students.  First published in the fall of 1997 when Cham was a grad student himself at Stanford University, the strip deals with issues of life in graduate school, including the difficulties of scientific research, the perils of procrastination, the complex student–supervisor relationship and the perpetual search for free food. Cham continued the strip as an Instructor in mechanical engineering at Caltech, and now draws and gives talks about the strip full-time. Originally, the strip was drawn in crude black-and-white, eventually became grayscale, and finally became color in June 2004. Piled Higher and Deeper introduced its main characters early in its run, and their personalities have remained fairly constant during the strip's several years of publication. In the strip's first few seasons, the characters were clearly Stanford University students, though the number of school-specific references and jokes has decreased since. The title of the comic comes from an old joke about becoming a Ph.D., which explains that if one knows what "B.S." stands for (in this context, "bullshit"), then "M.S." stands for "More of the Same" (or "More Shit"), and "Ph.D." stands for "Piled Higher and Deeper". One of Cham's recurring themes is to re-cast an item of popular culture in the grad-school milieu. Upon several occasions, the strip has included spoofs of popular movies, like The Thesis (The Matrix),  Raiders of the Lost Dissertation (Raiders of the Lost Ark),  I, Grad Student (a mixture of the book and movie I, Robot),  and Summer days ("Summer Nights" ). In addition, Cham has parodied television programs like The Jerry Springer Show, among others. Jorge Cham has also parodied Newton's laws of motion as Newton's 3 Laws of Graduation.  According to the strip these laws of graduation were superseded by Einstein's Special Theory of Research Inactivity, much as Newton's actual laws were superseded by Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity. Another series of strips takes up the modern debate about the proper use of the term "irony".  The strip has also included several adaptations of Shakespeare as well as several propaganda posters. Captions for the latter include "This man does research for you!", "When you procrastinate... Someone is watching!" and "Women in grad school... Support your local female geek." Cham has also released two song parodies, purportedly sung by Tajel, in MP3 format: "Closer to fine"  (cf. Indigo Girls) and "Who will grade your work"  (Who Will Save Your Soul). Five PhD comic books have been published so far. The first book, Piled Higher and Deeper: A Graduate Comic Strip Collection (2002), contains production sketches and an afterword by Prof. Smith in addition to the comic strips. The second volume, Life is Tough and then You Graduate, was published in April 2005. It contains six strips not published online that explain what happened in Mike's thesis defense. It also has a foreword by Karl Marx, behind-the-scenes author notes and a graduate school board game. The third book, Scooped!, which was released in May 2007, also contains "Tales from the Road", a series of comics that detail Cham's experiences whilst giving his Power of Procrastination tour. The fourth book, Academic Stimulus Package, was released March 2009. This volume is printed in full color. The fifth book, Adventures in Thesisland, was released April 2012. This volume is also printed in full color. The introduction is an excerpt from the screenplay of the PHD Movie. In March 2011, Jorge Cham started filming a movie based on the comic series.  The film production is a collaboration between Cham and a theater group at the California Institute of Technology. In fall 2011, the film was released on selected academic campuses.  A trailer of the movie is available on the Piled Higher and Deeper website as of June 8, 2011.  After about a year of various campus screenings around the world, the movie became available for purchase on DVD or streaming on April 15, 2012.  The sequel to the movie was shot in the Caltech campus and was released later in 2015. For the first time in India, it was screened in IIT Madras on 8 April 2016 as part of their Research Scholars Day-2016.  