Isakki or Isakkai is a  Hindu Goddess of South India. She is generally considered one of the Village Goddesses, like Māri, the goddess of epidemics.  She is commonly referred as Isakki Amman (Tamil for "Mother"), and  is related to goddess Nīli.  Isakki is commonly worshipped in the Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli and Salem districts of Tamil Nadu. The name Isakki has its origins as Yakshi. Yakshis are said to be bloodthirsty female tree spirits. She is also connected to Goddess Nili that appears in the Silapathikaaram. This is the earliest reference to yakshi in Tamil. It refers to a ‘Poongkann Iyakki’, that is, a Yakshi with eyes soft as flowers. Isakki also corresponds to Jain Yakshi, Ambika. The worship of Isakki Amman is popular to this day in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu especially in Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, and Salem districts.   She corresponds to the Jain yakshi Ambika, who is always represented with one or two children.   Unlike the temples of the Vedic deities, temples dedicated to Isakki are usually humble shrines. These are lined with a cactus-like plant known as paalkallu in Tamil. When broken, these cacti ooze a milk-like sap, which is considered to be a sign of the goddess Isakki. Isakki temples also usually have a Banyan or bo tree close to the shrine. Small wooden cribs and pieces of women's saris are tied to the branches and the aerial roots of the spreading tree. These are offerings given by village women who wish to have children. Isakki Amman is associated with popular festivals that involve cooking food at the shrine and the dedication of large terracotta figures of the goddess (3 to 4 ft in height) painted in garish colors. Isakki shrines have many of these broken large figures of the goddess strewn close to them in different states of ruin.[clarification needed] These figures are sometimes smeared with a liquid made from mixing lime, water and turmeric, which ritually represents blood. This liquid is a substitute for certain blood sacrifices that took place in the past.  Isakki is usually portrayed as a young woman wearing a red dress. She is holding a child on one hand and a trident in the other. She is sometimes represented as standing on a man who lies on the ground.  The most common legend associated with Isakki is as follows:  Ambika, a housewife, was leading a peaceful family life with her husband Somasharman and their two male children.  One day the "dharpan"[clarification needed] ritual had to be performed for the ancestors of their family and all the items were duly prepared. However, while Somasharman was away to bathe in the river, Ambika offered food to a starving sage who begged for it. Somasharman became enraged that the food for the ritual offering had been served to the sage before the necessary rites & pujas, and he chased Ambika and her children away from home. Ambika wandered until she found a calm place to rest. Realising his foolishness later, Somasharman went in search of his wife and children but, fearing him, Ambika gave up her life. After her unfortunate death, it is believed that she took the form of a Yakshini, although she still wanted to take care of her growing children.  Later, with the grace of God,[which?] she was able to regain her human life for the benefit of her offspring. In doing so, Ambika became Isakki Another lesser-known Yakshi is Mangalathu Chiruthevi, also known as Kanjirottu Yakshi. She was born into a Padamangalam Nair tharavad by name Mangalathu at Kanjiracode in South Travancore. She was a ravishingly beautiful courtesan who had an intimate relationship with Raman Thampi, son of King Rama Varma and rival of Anizhom Thirunal Marthanda Varma.  Mangalathu Chiruthevi was infatuated with one of her servants, Kunjuraman. Kunjuraman, a Pondan Nair (palanquin-bearer), was a fair, tall, well-built and handsome young man. She and her brother Govindan used to ride on Kunjuraman's back to nearby places. A predatory sadist, Chiruthevi enjoyed torturing Kunjuraman physically and mentally. She did everything possible to separate him from his wife. In course of time, the unmarried Govindan and Kunjuraman became bosom friends. They often shared the same room. Chiruthevi was not quite comfortable with the growing fondness of her brother for her lover, but she did not act. Chiruthevi hatched a plot and liquidated Kunjuraman's wife. Once Govindan was traveling on Kunjuraman's back when the former revealed the details of the plot. Days later, Kunjuraman strangled Chiruthevi to death when they were sharing a bed. Govindan winked at the crime and protected his beloved friend. Chiruthevi was reborn as a vengeful Yakshi to a couple at Kanjiracode. She grew into a bewitching beauty within moments of her birth. Though she seduced many men and drank their blood, her heart was set on the handsome Kunjuraman. She told him that she was willing to pardon him if he married her. Kunjuraman flatly refused. The Yakshi channeled all her energies in tormenting him. Devastated, Kunjuraman sought the assistance of Mangalathu Govindan, who was a great upasaka of Lord Balarama. Govindan was for a compromise. He said that the Yakshi could have Kunjuraman for a year provided she conform to three conditions: One, she must agree to be installed at a temple after one year. Two, after many years the temple will be destroyed and she must then seek refuge in (saranagati) Lord Narasimha for attaining moksham. Three, she must pray for Govindan and his relationship with Kunjuraman not only in their current birth but also in their subsequent births. The Yakshi swore upon 'ponnum vilakkum' that she would abide by all the three conditions, thus the compromise formula worked.  A year later, the Yakshi was installed at a Temple which later came to be owned by Kanjiracottu Valiaveedu.  The Temple does not exist anymore. Sundara Lakshmi, an accomplished dancer, and consort of HH Swathi Thirunal Rama Varma, was an ardent devotee of Kanjirottu Yakshi Amma. After taking refuge in Lord Narasimha of Thekkedom, the Yakshi is now believed to be residing in Kallara B of Sri Padmanabhaswamy Temple.  The enchanting and ferocious forms of this Yakshi are painted on the south-west part of Sri Padmanabha's shrine. 