Dasan and Vijayan (or Ramadasan and Vijayan) are two fictional character duo, the protagonists in the Nadodikkattu film series. The comical characters were created by the duo Siddique–Lal and are portrayed by Mohanlal (Dasan) and Sreenivasan (Vijayan). Dasan and Vijayan are detectives by profession working in the Crime Investigation Department (CID) in Tamil Nadu Police, India. The characters first appeared in the 1987 black comedy film Nadodikkattu and later in its sequels Pattanapravesham (1988), and Akkare Akkare Akkare (1990).  The first two films in the series was directed by Sathyan Anthikad and the later by Priyadarshan, the trilogy was scripted by Sreenivasan. Since the release of Nadodikkattu, the characters have achieved a cult status in the popular culture of Kerala, along with some other characters in the film, such as Anandan Nambiar (Thilakan), Gafoorka (Mamukkoya), Pavanai (Captain Raju), Prabhakaran (Karamana Janardanan Nair) and several dialogues in the film has become catchphrases. The characters was first introduced as an unemployed youth. The characters were created by Siddique–Lal in a story they wrote.  Dasan is shown as more educated than Vijayan, and enjoys teasing Vijayan about the same. The chemistry of Mohanlal-Sreenivasan combo in the film was widely acclaimed, since then they have united for such roles in many films that followed. The series began with Nadodikkattu in 1987, directed by Sathyan Anthikad, he directed its sequel Pattanapravesham in the following year, in 1990, Priyadarshan continued the series with his directorial Akkare Akkare Akkare.  Nadodikkattu was significant in increasing the demand for comedy films in Malayalam.  About its cult following, Anthikad says "the secret of the duo still being alive in the Malayali's consciousness may be because it's a story of two unemployed youngsters told using a humorous narrative. Unemployment was one of the biggest issues and migration to greener pastures was typical of Malayali experience. This has continued to the current decade. So, the audience has no problem relating to Dasan and Vijayan,".  In the film directed by Sathyan Anthikad, Dasan and Vijayan are two unemployed youth struggling to meet the two ends of life. Upon release, the film was widely acclaimed and was a commercial success.  After the events of Nadodikkattu, Dasan and Vijayan who are now detectives in police, are enlisted to investigate a homicide in Kerala. Both clueless in their job, gets in the middle of drug trafficking gang. A new threat follows them when Anandan Nambiar escapes from jail. The film directed by Anthikad was a critical and commercial success.  The films shows Dasan and Vijayan investigating a missing gold crown stolen from India to the United States. The film was directed by Priyadarshan and unlike previous films, this film is set in the United States and most part of the film was shot in Houston, Texas, and Los Angeles. Other characters were played by M. G. Soman, Mukesh, Maniyanpilla Raju, Parvathy, Nedumudi Venu, Sukumari, Jagadish, and K. P. A. C. Lalitha. The film is noted for its dialogues and humour.  In 2016, Vineeth Sreenivasan said, he is interested in bringing back the duo in his directorial and is looking for story ideas.  