Percy Nilegård is a fictional character played by Johan Rheborg, and one of the primary staples of the Swedish comedy-group Killinggänget.  A vain, snobbish, and possibly insane capitalist with a noticeable underbite, he does almost everything to earn money while also promoting his own ideas of good taste which usually involve a lack of judgment paired with conservative and racist view of society. Beyond his racism Nilegård also has a very ignorant view of the world in general, including subjects he claims to be interested in (for example telling viewers that Regalskeppet Vasa sailed to America). Percy's trademark is his tendency to insert (sometimes poorly worded) English words and phrases into his speech ("Swenglish"), primarily phrases which are management concept- or corporate bullshit-related. Percy is the producer of a talent-spot show hosted by Glenn Killing where he makes frequent appearances. There he promotes both his own brand of toothpaste called "Niledent", and hosts a short segment called "the guide to the bettre Sweden" (sic) where he guides the viewer to his vision of Sweden, including what is "good" art and the significance of subway color-codes on social classes. Percy owns a small radio-station located above a fire-department with Glenn as the primary radio-host. In his quest to get rich he tries numerous schemes including airing advertisements for companies and asking them for payments afterwards, a concept which he calls "marketing by not asking any questions first" and which meets with little success. He also runs a mock charity-drive for poor children in Rinkeby. The fire-department chief also develops a crush on him, courting him in various manners. Percy is not happy when he finally reveals his feelings. Having left Glenn behind, Percy goes into psychotherapy where he meets Dr J Tull (played by the same actor as Glenn) who listens to the tale of how he - along with his new side-kick Tommy Bohlin - exploited the new boss of an old family-run brewery. Percy runs a travel-agency for lonely men who travel abroad to meet potential wives. He takes them to a shoddy hotel in Tallinn, Estonia where things get complicated. Now in a sorry financial state, Percy and his new partner make an appearance on stage for a small musical performance. In return, Glenn offers them a hot meal. Percy usually drives or travels in American cars, including a 4-door Cadillac, a Buick Electra station-wagon, a Chevrolet Van and - in one case - a Lincoln Limo. 