Uuno Turhapuro is a Finnish comedy character created by Spede Pasanen and played by Vesa-Matti Loiri. Originally appeared in Spede Show during 1971–1973, the character gained popularity through the Uuno Turhapuro films. Uuno is a ragged man, characterised by his tattered, sleeveless shirt, sparse row of teeth and untidy face, perhaps depicting a Finnish stereotype of loser. His wife Elisabeth Turhapuro (played by Marjatta Raita) is the daughter of rich industrialist Councillor Tuura (Tapio Hämäläinen). In the beginning of the first film, in the couple's wedding, Uuno is tidy and cleanly, but gets ragged and lazy immediately after getting married to a rich woman. Uuno's main pastime is lying on the couch, overeating, and getting his hands on his father-in-law's money. His biggest virtue is his gift of gab that he uses in settling marital problems, cadging free hot dogs from the stand and seducing other women. The conventional plot of the films is based on the tension between Uuno and his father-in-law: the mining executive Councillor Tuura, disgusted by his dirty son-in-law, faces constant misfortune on his career, when Uuno pops up in the wrong places. When Tuura, just appointed as defence minister, orders Uuno into the army (Uuno Turhapuro armeijan leivissä), he becomes major in a couple of days. When Tuura takes part in the presidential election (Uuno Turhapuro - herra Helsingin herra), Uuno becomes President of Finland by accident. Uuno's regular helpers are his auto mechanic friends Härski-Hartikainen (Spede Pasanen) and Sörsselssön (Simo Salminen). The films also contain numerous cameo appearances by Finnish politicians and celebrities, often as themselves. A total of twenty Uuno Turhapuro films were made during 1973–2004. Originally there were plans for only one film, but due to its success, the film got 19 sequels. The two latest Uuno films are directed, produced and written by Ere Kokkonen. The most popular Uuno film is Uuno Turhapuro armeijan leivissä (1984), seen by more than 700,000 people in the theatres - an impressive figure in a country of 4.9 million inhabitants.  It remains Finland's most seen domestic film made since 1968.  