  Chinchwad is an area in Pune in Maharashtra, India. It is well known for its Posh localities, Peth Areas & a visionary urban planned infrastructure unlike the Central Pune. The main and the most spoken language of the city is Marathi. Chinchwad is at a height of 570 m (1,870 ft) above sea level on the western margin of the Deccan plateau. It lies at 18° 37" North latitude and 73° 48" East longitude. Chinchpawad is situated on the Pavna river which is a tributary of the Bhima River.  {See Morya Gosavi} During the historic times Junnar has famed for stone quarries. The historic Shaniwar Wada fort at the central seat of Maratha Empire at Pune was completed in 1732 by the famed Peshwa Bajirao I, at a total cost of Rs. 16,110, from the stone taken from the quarries of  city has ancient temples like Moraya Gosavi temple at the banks of Pavana river. Ganesh Chaturthi is celebrated with lot of rigour and joy. Dasara is also one of the important festivals. Not only Ganesh Chaturthi, every Chaturthi there is a celebration at Morya Gosavi  temple.  Morya Gosavi temple is a famous place in Chinchwad. {See also Chinchwad railway station} {See also Pune Suburban Railway} Chinchwad is well connected by road, rail and air. The nearest airport is Pune Airport , with the Maharashtra government planning to set up a new airport near Chakan.  Pune - Lonavla suburban local trains run through this area. The railway station for this area is Chinchwad Railway Station. Old Mumbai–Pune Highway has been widened to four lanes, which has improved connectivity to Pune and reduced travel time to less than 30 minutes.  It has a State Transport Bus stand Pimpri-Chinchwad Bus Stand at Vallabhnagar. Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (formed by merger of PCMT and PMT) operates the public transport system in this area. The Maharashtra government has proposed metro connectivity to Chinchwad under the Pune Metro project. A Rainbow BRTS system is also under expansion in this area. The freeway is been designed on Old Mumbai–Pune Highway which streamlines the traffic in the cities of Pimpri, Chinchwad, Akurdi, Nigdi. 