Pimpri is a suburb of Pune in the Pune Metropolitan Area in the state of Maharashtra, India. The main language spoken in the town is Marathi. It is one of the busiest business hubs in the country famous for its Clothing and eateries. Well versed with religious spots for all religions, Pimpri is an example of Unity in Diversity of the country and depicts a true Indian spirit. People are known for their helping hand and charity for various religious and other occasions. Mata Vaishnav Devi Temple, a replica of original in Katra is one of the most visited places. People from various parts of the country come to visit religious places by which Pimpri is surrounded. Langar is organised by various social groups on weekly / monthly / yearly basis. Cheti ChandMela is celebrated on a huge scale, where, celebrities from Bollywood are called upon. Pimpri is also famous for education with historical schools Jai Hind School and Junior College Hindustan Antibiotics and Dr. DY Patil School and College,  over here. High quality hospitals are also present over here two of them are YCM Hospital and DY Patil Hospital. Gurunanak Jayanti, Chalio, Bahrana Sahib, Navratra, Diwali, Ganesh Chaturthi, Diwali, Shiv Jayanti, Ambedkar Jayanti and Eid-e-Milad are celebrated with lot of rigor and joy, Dussehra is also one of the important festival. All industries are closed during that time. There are many industries based in Pimpri. These include Tata Motors, Mercedes Benz, Bajaj Auto, Force Motors, Eaton, times of india, Etc. Pimpri is well connected by road, rail and air. The nearest airport is Pune Airport, with the Maharashtra government planning to set up a new airport near Chakan.  Pune - Lonavla suburban local trains run through this area. The railway station for this area is Pimpri Railway Station. Old Mumbai–Pune Highway has been widened to four lanes, which has improved connectivity to Pune and reduced travel time to less than 30 minutes. It has a State Transport Bus stand Pimpri-Chinchwad Bus Stand at Vallabhnagar. Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited(formed by merger of PCMT and PMT) operates the public transport system in this area. The Maharashtra government has proposed metro connectivity to Pimpri under the Pune Metro project. A Rainbow BRTS system is also under expansion in this area. The freeway is been designed on Old Mumbai–Pune Highway which streamlines the traffic in the cities of Pimpri, Chinchwad, Akurdi, Nigdi. Pimpri comes under Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. This corporation is situated on the Old Mumbai–Pune Highway in the heart of Pimpri. It was established in 1982 covering an area of about 87 square kilometers. Schools 