Thomas David "Tom" Waldhauser (born December 16, 1953) is a United States Marine Corps general who is the Commander of United States Africa Command. He previously served as Director for Joint Force Development, J7 on the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Commanding General, I Marine Expeditionary Force, and Commanding General, U.S. Marine Corps Forces Central Command. Waldhauser is an alumnus of Bemidji State University.  General Waldhauser was born in South St. Paul, Minnesota, and is a graduate of Bemidji State University . He was commissioned in 1976 as an infantry officer through Platoon Leaders Class program via Officer Candidates School. His company grade assignments included platoon and company commander billets with both the 1st and 2nd Marine Divisions; Commanding Officer of the Marine Detachment aboard the USS Long Beach (CGN-9); and staff of the Commander of Amphibious Squadron Seven. As a field grade officer, General Waldhauser was a Battalion Landing Team Operations Officer and served on the faculty of the Amphibious Warfare School. During the Amphibious Warfare School tour, he deployed to the staff of the Commander, U.S. Marine Corps Central Command (Forward) during Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm.  General Waldhauser also served on the II Marine Expeditionary Force staff. He was the Battalion Landing Team Commander of 3rd Battalion, 2nd Marine Regiment. He also had duty at Headquarters, U.S. Marine Corps, and the Pentagon with the Joint Staff Combating Terrorism Directorate (J-34). As a Colonel, General Waldhauser assumed command of the 15th MEU (SOC) in 2000. During this tour, the 15th MEU (SOC) participated in combat operations in Southern Afghanistan for Operation Enduring Freedom and in Iraq for Operation Iraqi Freedom. Appointed to the rank of Brigadier General in 2003, his initial assignments as a General Officer were Commanding General, Marine Corps Warfighting Laboratory, and Deputy Commander, Marine Corps Combat Development Command. From 2006-2007, he served as Chief of Staff, US Special Operations Command, in Tampa, Florida. As a Major General, he commanded the First Marine Division from September 2007 until July 2009. Promoted to Lieutenant General in 2009, General Waldhauser served as the Deputy Commandant for Plans Policies, and Operations during 2009-2010. From October 2010 through September 2012, he served as the Commanding General, I Marine Expeditionary Force, and Commanding General, United States Marine Forces Central Command. Lieutenant General Waldhauser served as the Senior Military Assistant to the Secretary of Defense from October 2012 through September 2013. General Waldhauser was promoted on 18 July 2016 and became the Commander of US Africa Command in Stuttgart, Germany. General Waldhauser has attended U.S. Army Ranger School, Jumpmaster School, Amphibious Warfare School, Marine Corps Command and Staff College.   General Waldhauser's decorations and medals include: AfricaGen Thomas D. Waldhauser CentralGEN Joseph Votel EuropeanGEN Curtis Scaparrotti NorthernGen Terrence J. O'Shaughnessy Indo-PacificADM Philip S. Davidson SouthernADM Kurt W. Tidd 