The Summer Reading Challenge is the UK's biggest reading challenge for children aged four to eleven. It was started in 1999 and is run annually by The Reading Agency with the public library network (98% of UK libraries take part), featuring different themes per year. The aim is to get children to read six or more books from the library during the summer holidays. Everyone who signs up can keep track of the books they read and receive encouragement to keep reading throughout the holidays. It's free to join and every child who completes the Challenge receives a certificate. Many libraries offer other rewards such as medals and stickers. Materials are available in large print with supplementary information in Braille. In an Impact Research study for the Summer Reading Challenge, the United Kingdom Literacy Association (UKLA) found that the Challenge contributed to stemming the 'summer holiday dip' in children's reading achievement. The child first asks for registration at the library desk with their library card in their hand. They then receive the Summer Reading Challenge Sheet where they track their progress and add stickers to complete the challenge. They read 2 books at a time FROM THE LIBRARY, record them on their sheet then show the sheet to the librarian where they get 3 stickers to put on their sheet (one often being a scratch-n'-sniff). After they have collected all the stickers and read their 6 books, they receive a medal and a certificate.  In Wales, most items are available in bilingual Welsh-English versions. In Scotland, the Summer Reading Challenge is sponsored by Tesco Bank. The Summer Reading Challenge is also run beyond UK, in Eire and  through the British Council’s teaching and learning services . An interactive website for children is available year-round. Here they can create a profile, chat about books, and get help on what to read next  via the digital Book Sorter . This Book Sorter functionality already offers over 300,000 peer to peer children’s book recommendations in child-friendly categories, added by children themselves, who have read these titles in a Summer Reading Challenge or other activity.  Libraries work closely with schools, and each year library staff promote the Challenge to schools in the summer term. Invitations are provided for children to take home to encourage families to take part. For young people (aged 13 to 24) there is the opportunity to volunteer in libraries during the Summer Reading Challenge each year to support younger children taking part.  This volunteering provides a quality workplace experience for young people in libraries, inspires them to think about future careers and increases their employability as they gain useful life skills and confidence. 8,000 young people are expected to volunteer in the 2015 Summer Reading Challenge. Many go on to volunteer to support other library initiatives throughout the year.  