A low sodium diet is a diet that includes no more than 1,500 to 2,400 mg of sodium per day.  The human minimum requirement for sodium in the diet is about 500 mg per day,  which is typically less than one-sixth as much as many diets "seasoned to taste". For certain people with salt-sensitive blood pressure or diseases such as Ménière's disease, this extra intake may cause a negative effect on health. A low sodium diet has a useful effect to reduce blood pressure, both in people with hypertension and in people with normal blood pressure.  Taken together, a low salt diet (median of approximately 4.4 g/day - approx 1800 mg Sodium) in hypertensive people resulted in a decrease in systolic blood pressure by 4.2 mmHg, and in diastolic blood pressure by 2.1 mmHg.  Advising people to eat a low salt diet, however, is of unclear effect in either hypertensive or normal tensive people.  In 2012, the British Journal Heart published an article claiming that a low salt diet appears to increase the risk of death in those with congestive heart failure,  but the article was retracted in 2013.  The article was retracted by the journal when it was found the two of the studies cited contained duplicate data that could not be verified.  Sodium occurs naturally in most foods. The most common form of sodium is sodium chloride, which is table salt. Milk, beets, and celery also naturally contain sodium, as does drinking water, although the amount varies depending on the source. Sodium is also added to various food products. Some of these added forms are monosodium glutamate, sodium nitrite, sodium saccharin, baking soda (sodium bicarbonate), and sodium benzoate. Because large amounts of salts are given out by regenerative water softeners, over 60 cities in Southern California have banned them because of elevated salt levels in ground water reclamation projects. Water labeled as "drinking water" in supermarkets contains natural sodium since it is usually only filtered with a carbon filter and will contain any sodium present in the source water.  Condiments and seasonings such as Worcestershire sauce, soy sauce, onion salt, garlic salt, and bouillon cubes contain sodium. Processed meats, such as bacon, sausage, and ham, and canned soups and vegetables are all examples of foods that contain added sodium. Fast foods are generally very high in sodium.  Also, processed foods such as potato chips, frozen dinners and cured meats have high sodium content. Unprocessed, fresh foods, such as fresh fruits, most vegetables, beef, poultry, fish and unprocessed grains are low in sodium. The availability of low sodium foods is increasing. Low sodium products and low or no sodium labeled versions can be found in stores. Many low sodium products are available online. Other foods that are low in sodium include: 