The Mediterranean Diet Foundation (Fundación Dieta Mediterránea, F.D.M.)  is a non-profit organization based in Barcelona that aims to promote the study, investigation and dissemination of the benefits of the Mediterranean diet. Its mission is to promote investigation of the health, historical, cultural and gastronomical aspects of the Mediterranean diet. Another of the Foundation’s objectives is the dissemination of scientific findings about the diet and the promotion of its healthful use among different population groups. A group of companies from the food and agriculture sector wished to alert the public of the risks of abandoning healthy eating patterns, especially for children. They decided to create the Association for the Advancement of the Mediterranean Diet in 1995, with the mission of encouraging the consumption of traditional Mediterranean products. The ADDM, jointly with other institutions such as the Barcelona City Council, created the Foundation in 1996. The Mediterranean Diet Foundation is registered under the Spanish Agriculture, Food and Environment Ministry (Ministerio de Agricultura, Alimentación y Medio Ambiente), with the Registry Number 6/2006.  The FDM team includes Lluís Serra Majem (President),   Francisco Sensat Alemany (Vice-president), Joan Castells Gómez (Director), Anna Bach  and Blanca Roman (Science Coordinators) and Isabel Bertomeu (Nutritionist). The FDM Scientific Secretariat is located in the Parc Científic of Barcelona, a science park that houses different research groups and organizations, both independent and affiliated with the University of Barcelona. The scientific committee consists of 23 recognized international investigators from 12 different Mediterranean and non-Mediterranean countries. It advises the Foundation on scientific matters and is presided over by the President of the Foundation, Lluís Serra Majem, Professor of Preventative Medicine and Public Health at the University of Las Palmas in Gran Canaria.  The FDM has been involved in a variety of activities, including: 