 Prozis is an internet-based Portuguese company that pertains to the OSIT group and is active in the sports nutrition retail sector.  The company is based in Esposende and is one of the biggest sports nutrition store in Europe, with over 800,000 registered and active customers across more than 100 markets.  In 2015, it employed over 230 people and had a revenue of more than 45 million euros.   Prozis was founded in 2006 by Miguel Milhão. Besides selling sports supplements online, it also produces them on a large scale at its production facility in Póvoa de Lanhoso, in which an amount of 5 million euros was invested.  Prozis is a partner of the ATRP (Associação de Trail Running de Portugal, the Portuguese Trail Running Association)  and became a sponsor of the Portuguese Trail Running Championships as of 2016, as a naming partner.  The championships are made up of four competitions, of which three are national champion ships and one is the Portuguese Cup. In turn, these competitions are divided over 24 events, and over 100,000 athletes are expected to participate.  In this discipline only, Prozis already invested approximately 1 million euros  . Prozis is also the official nutrition supplier of European football clubs such as Valencia CF in Spain,   AS Monaco FC in France,   and several clubs in Portugal: Sport Lisboa e Benfica,  Sporting Clube de Portugal,  Sporting Clube de Braga,  Vitória Sport Clube,  Futebol Clube Paços de Ferreira,  Rio Ave F.C., Clube de Futebol Os Belenenses,  Grupo Desportivo de Chaves,  Sporting Clube Olhanense,  Clube Desportivo das Aves,   S.C. Freamunde,  Varzim Sport Club,  Vitória Futebol Clube (Setúbal),  Futebol Clube Famalicão  and Académica.  It also sponsors the sports careers of Portuguese surfers such as António Rodrigues, Carol Henrique and Miguel Blanco.  Since January 2017 Prozis is the official nutrition supplier of Lega Basket Serie A (LBA)  and the title-sponsor for the 2017 Italian Supercup.  Prozis was one of the brands that received, in Portugal, the "Escolha do Consumidor 2016" (Consumer's Choice) award in the area of health and well-being, more specifically in the category "Sports Supplements".   For its success in exports, Prozis was also awarded the "Prémio Exportadora Revelação" (Exports Revelation Award), destined to distinguish and promote the success of companies that strive for export and international business. This prize was an initiative of Novo Banco and Jornal de Negócios in a partnership with IGNIOS, who together created the 2016 edition of the Export and Internationalization awards.  