GTX Corp (OTCMKTS:GTXO) is a technology licensee that develops miniaturized Global Positioning System (GPS) tracking technology for a wide variety of consumer branded products. GTX Corp is a holding company that owns and operates two subsidiaries engaged in the IoT and  wearable technology business. Global Trek Xploration (GTX) was founded in 2002 and became publicly traded in 2008. The Company is headquartered in Los Angeles, California, with a European distribution and fulfillment center in Ireland / U.K.  GTX Corp also utilizes international re-sellers/distributors in Canada, Mexico, Australia, Nepal, Italy, Switzerland, Austria, Sweden, Norway, The Netherlands, Finland, Baltics and Russia, that service customers in over 20 countries. GTX Corp is committed to pioneering, creating and delivering Smart, Mobile and Wearable IoT Technology. Empowering the global community and keeping you connected to who and what matters most with GPS tracking and recovery location-based services. GTX Corp (GTXO) is a pioneer in wearable technology and enterprise GPS real-time personal location-based services. GTX is known for its lifestyle enhancing and award-winning patented GPS Smart Shoe, blockbuster Smartphone GPS Tracking App, and innovative GPS SmartSole. GTX Corp also owns and operates LOCiMOBILE, Inc which develops applications for smart phones and tablets and Code Amber Alertag. The Company has a comprehensive intellectual property strategy and owns an extensive portfolio of patents, patents pending, registered trademarks, copy rights and URL’s, and was recently featured in a 38-page research piece which outlines the value proposition of the Company’s IP portfolio. GTX Corp is a wearable technology companies with 3 lines of GPS equipped tracking technology - Stand Alone devices, Embedded tracking devices, and a Tracking App. Each of these technologies are connected to and report to the GTX tracking platform and information is accessible through an Online Monitoring Portal and Smart Locator app. GTX Corp is known to make the GPS location-reporting platform which consists of a module that measures 2.20 × 1.36 inches. It is made to combine GPS satellite tracking and cellular transmission in a chipset with secure access to a back-end portal. The Take-Along VL2000 model is equipped features such as GSM/GPRS for data and voice SOS alert notifications, locate-on-demand, and a sleep mode with motion sensor for up to 14 days battery life. The Prime Lite model is a robust device, small enough to embed in a host of consumer or enterprise products for quick and easy tracking. GPS tracking insoles utilize an invisible wandering assisted technology. The patented GPS SmartSole™ feature a miniaturized GPS tracking device implanted in the insoles and powered by a rechargeable battery with a 2-3 day single charge. The GPS SmartSole™ sends signals to a central monitoring website showing the exact location of the wearer/device using a combination of satellite and cellular technology. After activating and setting up a tracking account with GTX Corp, you will be able to monitor the person wearing the GPS SmartSole™, using a computer, tablet or smartphone. Track My Workforce application for computer, tablet, and/or smartphone, allows employers to easily track and monitor their employees, drivers, and sales reps by having them download a simple Android or Apple app on their smartphones or tablets. Currently, GTX Corp GTX owns a patent portfolio consisting of over 80 patents worldwide. GTX makes and sells products and services that help find people and things through a comprehensive tracking platform which is protected by an extensive IP portfolio including the ‘286’ patent issued last year, which is not just restricted to footwear but has far broader implications. The ‘286’ patent effects ANY tracking device, from embedded devices as in the case of the GPS SmartSole®, to other products like a GPS watch, and further to the ubiquitous stand alone, hand held wireless GPS trackers. 