The Chukwu octuplets were the first set of octuplets live-born in the United States in recorded history. The birth happened in 1998. The six girls and two boys were born in December 1998 at St. Luke's Episcopal Hospital in Houston, Texas.  Their parents — mother, Nkem Chukwu (then 27) and father, Iyke Louis Udobi (then 41) — are both Nigerian-born American citizens.  All weighed under two pounds at the time of birth.  The first born, Ebuka, was delivered on December 8, 15 weeks premature. The remaining 7 octuplets were born by Caesarean section on December 20, 13 weeks premature. The smallest of the octuplets, Odera, died on December 27, a week after birth (she was the lightest of the 8 babies, weighing just over 300 grams (10 oz).  The obstetrician was Brian Kirshon, a well-known physician practicing in Houston. The seven remaining octuplets celebrated their 10th birthday in Houston on December 20, 2008, in the company of volunteers who helped in their early years. The five girls and two boys are reported to be "normal, active and bright fourth-graders."  The babies were named as follows: Early January 2009, Nkem Chukwu and her husband Iyke Louis Udobi, appeared January 27, 2009 for the first time in 10 years on national TV on ABC's Good Morning America in a pre-recorded segment where they commented on the birth of the new Suleman octuplets. The next day, January 28, 2009, the whole family along with grandmother Janet Chukwu appeared on NBC's The Today Show  which was the first time the octuplets appeared on national television since their first birthdays. Later that day they were whisked to the Associated Press (AP) World Headquarters for a TV interview for the world newswires.  On Monday February 2, they also appeared on the Larry King Live show in a segment titled "Octuplet Outrage" focusing on the worldwide coverage generated by Nadya Suleman's 14 children, and the ethical and medical controversy.  On February 9, 2009, Nkem and Iyke Chukwu appeared on Radio One's talk show The Mo'Nique show.  They also appeared Sunday February 15, 2009 on a local TV segment on KHOU-TV, Houston, Texas on a family update.  They also appeared on CNN's AC360 on February 18, 2009. The family Publicist, Kemi Omololu-Olunloyo,  told media that Nkem Chukwu only wanted to address the health and well being of the Suleman octuplets rather than the controversy about the number of children Suleman had. Nkem Chukwu later addressed the Nadya Suleman octuplet row with Randi Kaye of CNN's Anderson Cooper 360 show on February 18, 2009.  On February 2, 2009, Nkem Chukwu released the statement: The Chukwu octuplets embarked on a world tour themed "Promoting Healthy Families." The tour, which began in mid-2009 and included the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, England and the parents' native Nigeria, included visits to TV talk shows, health clinics, summer camps and supermarket seminars on large families for the children, and speaking engagements at prenatal and postnatal clinics for Nkem.  In a March 18, 2009 interview in The Daily Sentinel, Iyke Louis and Nkem stated said that they did not intend to have so many children, but accepted the children as a gift from God. Several projects are in the works for the Chukwus, including a book, magazine deals and even a possible documentary.[dead link]  