OutDaughtered is an American reality series on TLC starring Adam and Danielle Busby, parents of the only all-girl quintuplets in the U.S. They also have a seven-year-old daughter, Blayke Louise.  The series first aired on May 10, 2016.  The series was renewed for a second season. The second season premiered on November 15, 2016.  The series was renewed for a third season on January 17, 2017.  The Busby family consists of parents Adam "Buzz" Busby  (born June 10, 1982), and Danielle Michelle Busby (born December 23, 1983). They were married July 22, 2006.  Danielle delivered the quintuplets via C-section on April 8, 2015, at 28 weeks.  Their weights and heights ranged from 2lbs, 13.4 inches (Hazel Grace) to 2lbs, 6 ounces and 14.4 inches (Olivia Marie) .  They spent the first few months of their lives in the NICU at the Woman's Hospital of Texas.  The first two quintuplets to go home from the NICU, Parker and Hazel, were discharged in early June, 2015, a few days apart.  Olivia and Riley were discharged together. The last quintuplet to be released, Ava, was discharged on July 6, 2015.   Ava & Olivia are identical twins; Hazel, Riley, and Parker are fraternal triplets. Their personalities were described, in 2017, as the following:  Blayke is the "best big sister in the world" and has the best laugh. She loves everything pink and girly. She also loves to spin and swing.  Ava, the first born and heaviest quint, is a "Mommy's girl", frequently attached to Danielle's leg or wanting Danielle to pick her up. She's considered the “sweet twin” and tends to sit back and observe the world around her.  Olivia is a goofball who loves to laugh. She frequently dances around and gives cute looks, but will cause trouble.     Hazel, the smallest quint, is both the "fiery redhead" and the "sweetest quint". While innocent, a cuddler, and perfectly happy in her own world, she has a temper and can definitely "pitch a fit". She inherits that from Adam.   Riley is a "cutest little troublemaker". She's most like Adam in personality. She demands attention, has no fear, is smart, confident, and bossy. While she antagonizes and picks on all her sisters, she has a particularly noticeable rivalry with Olivia.  Parker, is the "daddy's girl"  the last born, yet the tallest quint, is the leader and "spokeswoman" of the quintuplets. She's often the one to show her sisters the "right way" of doing something. She's the most talkative and quickest to say 'no'. She's also the sporty one and called the "pooper spreader" by Danielle, often creating a large mess.  Adam and Danielle have struggled with infertility, ultimately becoming pregnant both times by intrauterine insemination.  During their first infertility journey, infertility was attributed to Adam’s testosterone levels, sperm count, and sperm motility being low; and to Danielle's irregular ovulation.  Adam was placed on Clomid, which helped his sperm counts, but his sperm motility remained low.  Danielle was also placed on Clomid to help her produce eggs and ovulate regularly.  They went through 5 cycles (5 months) of intrauterine insemination on Clomid before discussing in vitro fertilization as an option.   Instead of in vitro fertilization, they opted to switch Danielle to Femara and attempted intrauterine insemination again, ultimately becoming pregnant with Blayke.  During their second journey of infertility, Adam's testosterone levels, sperm count, and sperm motility were considered normal, thus, no infertility treatment were necessary for Adam.  However, Danielle was placed back on Femara to help with egg production and ovulation.  On the fourth cycle of intrauterine insemination, Danielle became pregnant with the quintuplets.      The quintuplets were born prematurely, at 28 weeks, and spent several months in the NICU.  Ava was the last quintuplet to be released from the NICU due to a series of acid-reflux episodes.  She went home on July 6, 2015.    Shortly after birth, a heart murmur was detected in all five girls, which was treated with medication.   Hazel's eye condition, congenital nystagmus, has been chronicled through the series.  The condition causes Hazel to have uncontrolled eye movements and hold her head at unusual angles to compensate for her lack of clear vision.  In 2016, Hazel underwent eye surgery in an attempt to improve her condition.   In 2017, Hazel was diagnosed as having an astigmatism in her left eye, which may ultimately be responsible for it occasionally turn in as a result of being underdeveloped. She was prescribed glasses to help with her left eye far-sightedness with the hope that her vision will improve as her eye develops.     Adam has opened up, both privately and publicly, about his struggle with postpartum depression.  While it was a process to reach a point of acceptance, Adam has now accepted professional help for his sake, and the sake of his family and relationship with Danielle. 