ASDAN (Award Scheme Development and Accreditation Network) is a British education charity and awarding organisation, headquartered in Bristol. It provides flexible and engaging programmes and qualifications that help young people develop skills for learning, work and life. It began as a research project of the University of the West of England in the 1980s, and was formally established as an educational charity in 1991. Today, ASDAN provides support to thousands of registered centres (mostly schools and colleges) throughout the United Kingdom and internationally, publishes more than two hundred resource titles, supervises the moderation procedures for all its courses, and develops new curriculum programmes, resources and qualifications in response to the needs of the profession.  The stated purpose of the charity is this: "The advancement of education, by providing opportunities for all learners to develop their personal and social attributes and levels of achievement through ASDAN awards and resources, and the relief of poverty, where poverty inhibits such opportunities for learners."  The charity has a relief of poverty fund which provides grants to registered centres to do things differently, especially where this helps to increase educational opportunity and alleviate the effects of deprivation and poverty, both in this country and overseas.  ASDAN programmes and qualifications are widely recognised by educators for providing an engaging curriculum that empowers students through personalised learning and choice. Their courses motivate and enhance learners' confidence, self esteem and resilience. In addition, learners develop core skills in teamwork, communication, problem solving, research and self management.   They accredit skills for learning, employment and life, focusing on personal skills development, PSHE, work related learning, foundation learning, volunteering and special educational needs. Its flagship course is Certificate of Personal Effectiveness (CoPE),  which is a nationally recognised qualification. It can be studied in Years 10 and 11 (Scottish S4 and S5), or in post 16 education, either within the whole school PSHE programme or within the option system. It aims to develop skills and knowledge in areas such as communication, citizenship and community, beliefs and values, the environment, health and fitness, and independent living, among other things.   CoPE Level 3 offers a tariff of 16 UCAS points towards university admission. 