 Bhumi is one of India's largest independent youth volunteer non-profit organisations.  Bhumi as a platform enables over 12,000 volunteers in more than 12 cities across India for causes like education, environment, animals, community welfare etc.  Bhumi capitalises on the volunteering force of Indian youth, playing a catalyst directing India and the youth towards a better tomorrow.  Bhumi has established itself as a front-ranking charity organisation that helps poor children to realise their potential, raise their aspirations and recognise their achievements in various fields.  Bhumi is also the winner of the ‘Leader in Volunteer Engagement Award 2013’ at the iVolunteer Awards.  Bhumi was started in 2006 by a few students and young professionals in the Indian city of Chennai. With a passion to do something for the nation, a bunch of young people got together to volunteer to teach children at an orphanage in Chennai. The experience was an eye-opener about the status of the education system in the country. This motivated the co-founders to start Bhumi on August 15, 2006.  BHUMI Volunteers are primarily college students and young professional working voluntarily to provide education support in children's homes and community centres.   The methodology of teaching is mostly informal which incorporates the idea of "learn while you play". Bhumi has two core areas of work - Education and Civic Projects Ignite is Bhumi's supplementary education programme for under-privileged children. The programme is delivered during the weekends by trained volunteers of Bhumi. Over 10,000 children are benefiting from the programme in 2015 across 12 Indian cities. The programme consists of English, Mathematics, Science, computers, mentoring, arts, sports and life skills support.  Kanini meaning computer in some Indian languages including Tamil, is Bhumi's computer literacy programme for children. Kanini has a well-structured syllabus with courses that cater to children’s varying requirements, interests and aptitudes. The basic course package consists of introduction to the Computer, basic software and hardware, Microsoft Office tools and the Internet. The Speak Out programme provides quality English and soft-skills education to underprivileged children. The programme builds the communication ability and confidence of children so that they can stand at par with the rest of the world. Lakshya is a mentorship programme which pairs underprivileged children with volunteers who act as their mentors and role models. Mentors meet mentees every week and assist them with school work, listen to their problems and support them in challenges they encounter. In the process, mentors instill self-confidence and the ability to solve one’s own problem in the children. e-Lakshya is a mentorship programme which pairs underprivileged children in rural India with Bhumi volunteers across the world who act as their mentors and role models. Mentors interact with mentees through the internet at Bhumi facilitated sessions. Little Einsteins - Mathematics is an activity based learning programme that focuses on the conceptual understanding and learning. The programme taps the curiosity of children and eliminates the fear of the subject by widening the spectrum of their knowledge. Little Einsteins -Science is an experiment based programme that teaches the fundamental concepts of science through experimentation, observation and conceptual understanding. The programme helps students understand concepts by doing experiments and helps eliminate the fear of Science. Yantra is an exciting hands-on programme that helps children learn scientific concepts by building their own robots. The programme helps children develop interest in the STEM fields (Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics)   Nakshatra, is Bhumi's talent development programme. Nakshatra consists of an Annual inter-orphanage art, sports and science talent Fest to bring out the children’s creative talents held across India   and a year long talent development programme in arts, sports at shelter homes. The event has been held annually since 2009    .  Over 6,000 children participate in Nakshatra every year  Nakshatra, is a two-day talent fest held every year has an array of competitive activities to ensure that children of all age groups from orphanages participate and gain immensely by competing against their peers. The 50 different arts and cultural competitions- including flower arrangement, pot painting, clay modelling, elocution, solo / group dance and song etc. and athletic and sporting competitions like sprint, high jump, shot put, volleyball, chess etc. are structured for various age groups to facilitate maximum participation. The event is peppered with entertainment, games and a science exhibition to keep the children busy even while they were not competing. Catalyse consists of Bhumi’s civic projects that engage volunteers in causes like animal welfare, community welfare, disability,  environment,  health etc. The programmes consisting of one-off and regular volunteering activities engage over 5,000 volunteers each year in over 15 cities across India. Bhumi Supports the Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives of companies like Cognizant Technological Solutions, Dassault Systemes  etc. 