[editorializing] Confession inscriptions of Lydia and Phrygia are Roman-era Koine Greek religious steles from these historical regions of Anatolia (then part of Asia and Galatia  provinces), dating mostly to the 2nd and 3rd centuries. The new element that appears, the public confession of sin and the redemption through offerings (lytra), unknown to traditional Greek religion, has made scholars to name this social phenomenon as oriental. The religious thought and the use of vernacular Koine Greek, full of innovative orthography,syntax and grammar, suggests that they may also represent something at the root of religion in Phrygia and Lydia.  Marijana Ricl has argued that the practice of confession is a reminiscence of Hittite religion. According to Schnabel E.J  it was a counter-move prompted by the increasing success of the Christian missionaries.  Indeed, beside the scheme of confession/redemption, phraseology and terms remind of Greek New Testament: hamartia (sin), parakletos (advocator), doulos tou theou (slave of god), kyrios (master), basileus (king). Another point for discussion is the punishment of sexual transgressions, which further relates the inscriptions to Christianity and the concept of chastity in Hellenistic philosophy and religion; in contrast to the previous perception of sexuality inside the religion (Hieros gamos, Sacred prostitution, Aphrodite Pandemos). Some indicating names or epithets of deities engaged in the inscriptions are: Men (Axiottenos, Artemidoros),  Meter  (mother), Zeus (Aithrios, Keraunios, Soter), Apollo, Hypsistos, Anaitis, Attis, Dionysos, Hades, Herakles, Sabazios, Batenos, Nemesis, Asclepius, Tyrannos, Basileus, Theos Strapton and Bronton, Hecate, Artemis etc. ἔτους τκʹ, μηνὸς Πανήμου βιʹ κατὰ τὸ ἐφρενωθεὶς ὑπὸ τῶν {²crescent, a pair of eyes}² θεῶν ὑπὸ τοῦ Διὸς κὲ τοῦ Μηνὸς μεγάλου Ἀρτεμιδώρου· ἐκολασόμην τὰ ὄματα τὸν Θεόδωρον  κατὰ τὰς ἁμαρτίας, ἃς ἐπύησεν·συνεγενόμην τῇ πεδίσχῃ τοῦ Ἁπλοκόμα,τῇ Τροφίμῃ, τῇ γυναικὶ τῇ Εὐτύχηδος εἰς τὸ πλετώριν· ἀπαίρι τὴν πρώτην ἁμαρτίαν προβάτῳ,  πέρδεικι, ἀσφάλακι· δευτέρα ἁμαρτία· ἀλλὰ δοῦλος ὢν τῶν θεῶν τῶν ἐν Νονου συνεγενόμην τῇ Ἀριάγνῃ τῇ μοναυλίᾳ· ’παίρι χύρῳ, θείννῳ ἐχθύει· τῇ τρίτῇ    ἁμαρτίᾳ συνεγενόμην Ἀρεθούσῃ μοναυλίᾳ· ’παίρι ὄρνειθει, στρουθῷ, περιστερᾷ,  κύ(πρῳ) κρειθοπύρων, πρόχῳ οἴνου· κύπρον πυρῶν καθαρὸς τοῖς εἱεροῖς, πρόχον αʹ· ἔσχα παράκλητον τὸν Δείαν· "εἴδαι, κατὰ τὰ πυήματα πεπηρώκιν, νῦν δὲ εἱλαζομένου αὐτοῦ τοὺς θεοὺς κὲ στηλογραφοῦντος  ἀνερύσετον τὰς ἁμαρτίας"· ἠρωτημαίνος  ὑπὸ τῆς συνκλήτου·  "εἵλεος εἶμαι ἀναστανομένης τῆς στήλλην μου, ᾗ ἡμέρᾳ ὥρισα· ἀνύξαις τὴν φυλακήν, ἐξαφίω  τὸν κατάδικον διὰ ἐνιαυτοῦ κὲ μηνῶν ιʹ περιπατούντων According to George Petzl, a trial of sacred theatre did take place in the sanctuary; Theodoros was convicted and jailed. Zeus was impersonated by a priest. According to Ender Varinlioglu phylake jail is used metaphorically. Blindness was the jail/punishment upon Theodoros in order to be salvated from his licentious sexual activities.  Αὐρήλιος Σωτήρχος Δημοστράτου Μοτεληνός  κολάθιν ἑπὸ  τοῦ  θεοῦ· παραγέλων πᾶσι  μηδὲ ἄναγον  ἀναβῆτε πὶ  τὸ χωρίον  ἐπροκήσι  ἢ κηνσετε τὸν ὄρχις ·  ἐγὼ Γέα ἐκηνησάμην  ἐπὶ τὸ χωρίον. Aurelios Soterchos son of Demostratos  from  Motella Because I was punished by the God, I send a message to all· Do not enter the place  impure, after committing perjury  or having sex.  I had sex with Gea (Gaia) inside the place. 