 Operation Fiery Vigil was the emergency evacuation of all non-essential military and United States Department of Defense civilian personnel and their dependents from Clark Air Base and U.S. Naval Base Subic Bay during the June 1991 volcanic eruption of Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines. This noncombatant evacuation operation (NEO) resulted in the transfer of roughly 20,000 people from Clark Air Base and U.S. Naval Base Subic Bay back to CONUS, by way of Cebu, Philippines. The Commanding General, 13th USAF, was in command of the Joint Task Force.  The 1991 Plinian/Ultra-Plinian eruption of Mount Pinatubo was the second largest terrestrial eruption of the 20th century (surpassed only by the 1912 eruption of Novarupta), and the largest eruption in living memory. The eruption produced high-speed pyroclastic flows, giant lahars, and a cloud of volcanic ash hundreds of miles across.  20 million tons of sulfur dioxide  and roughly 11 cubic kilometers (2.6 cu mi) of tephra   are estimated to have been ejected in total, which corresponds to a Volcanic Explosivity Index (VEI) of 6.  By contrast, roughly 4 km3 of material was ejected in the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens; this corresponds to a VEI of 5.  Very few of the estimated 20,000  who left the base ever returned. The vast majority were evacuated to Andersen Air Force Base, Guam and processed for return to the continental United States. This figure includes approximately 5,000 who were evacuated to Cebu City on the USS Midway (CV-41), USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN-72), USS Long Beach (CGN-9), USS Peleliu (LHA-5), USS Arkansas (CGN-41), USS Gary (FFG-51), USS Rodney M. Davis (FFG-60), USS Lake Champlain (CG-57) and seventeen other U.S. Navy ships of the task force. Mount Pinatubo, shortly before the eruption on June 15, 1991. Military and civilian personnel collecting supplies during the evacuation of Clark Air Base. Mount Pinatubo is visible in the background on the upper left corner of the photo. Dependents board a CH-53 of HMH-772 on the flight deck of USS Midway (CV-41). USS Midway and USS Abraham Lincoln taking evacuees from U.S. Naval Base Subic Bay to Cebu. Evacuees in an aircraft hangar at Andersen Air Force Base. 