 This article contains content translated from the existing Japanese Wikipedia article at jp:enra Japanese performing arts company enra (stylized in lowercase Latin letters. ) combines video art with live performance, synchronizing human body motion with computer graphics. Established March 1, 2012, enra is composed of video artist Nobuyuki Hanabusa and eight performers: Tsuyoshi Kaseda, Maki Yokoyama, Saya Watatani, Tachun, Yusaku Mochizuki, Kazunori Ishide, Takako Morimoto, and Aoi Nonaka.   The Tokyo-based performing arts and production company seeks to create the ultimate union between motion graphics and live performance. The intent is to synchronize on-screen images with dance and other forms of live expression. Made up of eight individual performers, enra incorporates martial arts (especially wushu), rhythmic gymnastics, ballet, animation dance, juggling (especially with the diabolo), and club dance into its performances.  Performances by enra consist of a synchronized fusion of motion graphics (video art) and live performance (contemporary dance in a variety of genres) in front of a screen. The group regularly performs all over the world, and has received high praise not only in its native Japan, but also in Europe, North America, East and Southeast Asia, and the Middle East. In Japan, enra performed as a guest of the prime minister of Japan at the official welcoming dinner for the International Olympic Committee (IOC) during its evaluation of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics plan, an event that also served to commemorate the 50-year anniversary of the 1964 Tokyo Olympics.  FILMS, a homage to movies, was performed by enra to open the award ceremony at the 68th Festival de Cannes, where the group also walked the red carpet.  In March 2016, enra kicked off its 2016 Japan tour with a public performance at Kitazawa Town Hall in Shimokitazawa, Tokyo. enra walked the red carpet a second time at the Lunas del Auditorio ceremony at the National Auditorium in Mexico City in October 2016, where they performed as a special guest. According to the Mainichi Shimbun, "The group's name is derived from the smoke-like shape-shifting Japanese yōkai spirit, Enenra".【グループ名は、煙のようにさまざまな形に姿を変える日本の妖怪「煙々羅」にちなんだ。】   