The Expert Group Meeting (EGM): prevention of violence against women and girls was convened as part of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women's multi-year programme of work for 2010-2014. The "Elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls" forms a priority theme for its fifty-seventh session in 2013 (CSW57). The meeting took place in Bangkok, Thailand 17–20 September 2012 and was organised by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women), in collaboration with the following organisations: EGM note 2 The report reflects the shared discussion and analysis of the major issues, gaps and challenges identified at the EGM and presents key findings and recommendations. It was intended to build on the individual papers on specific issues provided by experts prior to the meeting, and the background paper prepared by the rapporteur.  It provides inputs for the reports of the Secretary-General to the CSW and widely disseminated in preparation to the fifty-seventh session of CSW (CSW57). EGM notes 3 to 5 The EGM brought together a diverse group of people from different backgrounds and regions including academics, practitioners, representatives from women’s organisations and staff members of the United Nations system. The experts elected a drafting committee (including two co-chairs) which was tasked to draft the report of the meeting, P miconclusions and recommendations. The following experts were elected to the drafting committee: EGM note 6 Experts noted that violence against women and girls is defined as ‘any act of gender-based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual or psychological harm or suffering to women [or girls], including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or in private life.’  It exists in multiple, interrelated and sometimes recurring forms, and is a manifestation of historically unequal power relations between men and women.  EGM note 7 Experts stressed that we are at a critical moment where international bodies, nation states and civil society can and must come together to solidify commitments to ending violence against women and girls, as fragile and – in many places – deteriorating economic conditions, persistent environmental degradation, internal conflicts and wars, all contribute to the exacerbation of violence against women and girls, and violations of their rights. EGM note 8 Experts noted that the impacts of the global financial crisis, the economic pressures on Governments to reduce funding to social services and programmes, and the ongoing resource constraints faced by conflict-affected and developing countries, all risk limiting or reducing the investment States will make in preventing and responding to violence against women and girls. EGM note 9 However, they highlighted the enormous costs violence against women and girls entails to States and societies as a whole, in terms of reduced human capital, decreased productivity, exacerbated social inequalities, lowered overall educational outcomes, and broad strains on public services. Violence diminishes women’s and girls’ ability to gain an education, earn a living and participate in public life, and live a life free of fear. It has significant health impacts, including psychological consequences, physical injuries, sexual/reproductive health issues and death.  In war-affected settings, violence against women and girls inhibits efforts towards peace-building and sustainable recovery, contributing to the risk of resurgent conflict. In development settings, it hinders progress towards achievement of several of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), including those relating to education, HIV/AIDS, maternal health and child mortality.  It has intergenerational impacts, given that women use disproportionately more of their income toward supporting their families, and because violence diminishes their ability to fully participate in their societies (for example in politics, work or education) they are less able to invest in their children’s futures. One study in Chile found that women’s lost earnings alone as a result of domestic violence cost US$1.56 billion or more than 2 percent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product.  EGM note 10 Violence against women and girls therefore entails massive costs to the State, and has a dragging effect on all other social and economic development efforts, particularly in humanitarian and development contexts. It is only by lowering the incidence of violence against women and girls, preventing recurrence, and responding effectively to existing violence to minimise ongoing impacts, that the overall costs of such violence to any economy will be reduced.  Experts noted that, in the face of such evidence, prevention is not only possible, but central to the social and economic advancement of developed and developing countries alike. It was reiterated that all States have not only a responsibility to significantly strengthen their planning and budgeting efforts for prevention of violence against women and girls, but that doing so will contribute to positive social and economic outcomes. EGM note 11 Experts brought together experiences from across developing and developed countries, and from humanitarian contexts (arising from conflict and natural disasters), demonstrating that violence against women and girls could be prevented regardless of political, social and economic conditions. Levels of violence against women and girls vary across countries that with similar economic status or political systems – a variation that can be attributed to different laws, policies, practices, norms, behaviours and attitudes that contribute to, justify or excuse violence against women and girls. Such factors must be targeted to prevent and reduce violence within and across all settings. EGM note 12 Across developing and developed countries alike, more comprehensive, multi-sectoral and sustained approaches were recognised as necessary to achieve such change, with investments commensurate to the enormous scale of the abuse and its impacts. While the allocation of more resources to prevention remained high on the priority list for experts, political will was also identified as a key factor. It was noted that organisations and communities in some developing countries have led the way in testing and expanding new models for prevention, however experts did not believe any State was currently meeting its full normative obligations in this area. EGM note 13 Experts reiterated that violence against women and girls is a pervasive and systematic human rights violation, caused by – and reinforcing – gender inequality and entrenched discrimination. While most violence against women and girls is committed by non-State actors or individuals (usually men known to the victims/survivors, often husbands/intimate partners or other family members), experts were adamant that laws, policies and practices emanating from the State – as well as from traditional or customary practices – could also result in direct violence against women and girls, fail to respond to it, or create an environment where such violence was tolerated, excused or justified. EGM note 14 To this end, experts noted that the prevention of violence against women and girls could not be achieved without the full implementation of the existing legal obligation on States – under the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) to ‘take all appropriate measures to modify the social and cultural patterns of conduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the elimination of prejudices and customary and all other practices which are based on the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and women,’  along with the more detailed obligations relating to the elimination of violence against women and girls outlined in the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action (BPfA).   Experts emphasised, as central to the latter, the obligation on States to ‘refrain from invoking any custom, tradition or religious consideration to avoid their obligations’  to eliminate violence against women and girls. EGM note 15 A key message from experts was that the call for greater efforts to prevent violence against women and girls is not a ‘new demand,’ but well supported by international legal and normative frameworks. What is new is the emergence, in recent years, of an unprecedented evidence and practice base that provides concrete guidance on the application of proven and effective strategies, and makes prevention of violence against women and girls a tangible and measurable goal. We now know that to effectively prevent violence against women and girls, efforts must go beyond simple awareness-raising projects and instead work to actively (and measurably) transform discriminatory and violence-supportive attitudes and behaviours, community norms, institutional practices and systems, laws and policies, and society as a whole. EGM note 16 Experts noted that this holistic and comprehensive approach to prevention has the potential to create numerous benefits for communities beyond reductions in violence, because it also addresses the discrimination, inequality and other violence-supportive practices and behaviours that contribute to a range of social ills. Prevention of violence against women and girls is ultimately about building relationships, communities and organisations that are equal, non-violent and respectful of all individuals. It results in the creation of more peaceful, egalitarian and productive societies where women and girls live free from the discrimination, harassment, violence and fear of violence that can block them from reaching their full human potential. EGM note 17 The focus of the meeting (and this report) was on prevention of violence against women and girls before it occurs, that is, by identifying and addressing its underlying causes and promoting shifts in the social environment that ultimately reduce the number of new incidents of violence against women and girls. EGM note 18 Experts noted that prevention of violence against women and girls remains a poorly understood concept across sectors and stakeholders. Prevention is often conflated with early intervention or the response to existing violence, or else limited to awareness raising or social marketing campaigns. Simplistic analyses and programmes aimed at single-cause factors such as alcohol abuse, or placing the responsibility to prevent violence on women and girls themselves (such as self-defence programmes) can in some cases do more harm than good, and are not uncommon. Cynical perceptions that violence against women and girls is somehow an inevitable part of society, and that efforts to prevent it are well-intentioned but ultimately ineffective, are also widespread. There is therefore a need to build not only evidence, but shared understandings of the complexity and causes of violence against women and girls, and of how it can be effectively prevented. EGM note 19 Experts recognised that this transformative agenda engages all levels of the socio-political system, from policy and legislative development, to the development and delivery of programmes and services ‘on the ground’, and the capacity building of the institutions responsible for implementation. Confronting existing social and gendered realities that continue to use arguments based on culture, customs and ‘traditional’ values and practices to justify discrimination and violence against women and girls, and treat them as subordinate and second-class citizens, remains a major challenge in addressing the social and cultural environments that permit violence against women and girls to flourish with impunity. As the Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences has noted: ‘no form of interpersonal violence against women is devoid of structural violence – as in all places, such abuse is underpinned by beliefs about the perpetrator’s right to harm another, based on societal notions of gender and rights.’  EGM note 20 Experts were particularly keen to convey that, in prevention terms, violence against women and girls in the private sphere and/or perpetrated by non-State actors could not be considered as something ‘separate’ from the actions of the State. Experts stressed that violence against women and girls – in every context – can be perpetuated by State decision-making mechanisms, laws, policies and practices when these systematically marginalize women and girls and/or fail to promote their rights. These include not only legal policies and programs that fail to criminalize violence against women and girls or adequately punish it, but also State-sanctioned discrimination, for example: excluding women from political participation (such as assemblies, high-level government positions, and key decision-making bodies like constitutional committees); constitutional language that threatens women’s rights (whether existing or developing in emerging State structures); or discriminatory laws, policies and budgets which disproportionately limit women’s and girls’ rights, neglect their voices and concerns, and fail to promote full substantive, as well as formal, equality between men and women. EGM note 21 State-sanctioned violence and discrimination against women is significantly tied to cultural and social norms that pervade a nation, which are then used to justify, excuse or tolerate violence against women and girls. When laws and policies limit women’s freedoms or deem women as ‘complementary’ instead of ‘equal to’ men, this trickles down to public perception of women and girls and their role in society, and undermines their safety and security within the State. These social and cultural norms are similarly impacted by the respect, or otherwise, of women’s civil and political rights (such as their political participation), and their economic, social and cultural rights (such as their access to work and education). Greater levels of social and economic equality between men and women, for instance, are closely correlated with lower levels of violence against women and girls at the population level. Similarly, greater visibility of women in leadership roles, including in constitution committees, assemblies and high-level posts in government, in peacekeeping troops and in peace-building talks, promotes positive and egalitarian norms and combats gender stereotypes in a way that counters discriminatory and violence-supportive attitudes and the marginalization of women and girls. EGM note 22 Prevention of violence against women and girls is often conceptualised in terms of awareness raising or community mobilisation, and these are important components. Experts reiterated the importance of grassroots community mobilisation in driving attitudinal and behavioural transformation at the local level. However, in light of the above, experts stressed the more expansive and multi-level nature of effective prevention, in particular the critical role of government to create an ‘enabling environment’ through undertaking policy, legislative and budgetary reform to promote gender equality and women’s empowerment, and actively address the multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination and disadvantage that place women and girls at risk of violence. They emphasised the additional role of States in providing support to women’s and other civil society actors, including women, men and youth community and religious leaders and opinion-makers, in their prevention efforts. EGM note 23 Experts further stressed the importance of continued investment in an effective response to existing violence against women and girls – including through improving legislative, police, justice and service systems  – as a fundamental ‘building block’ for prevention, establishing accountability and redress, and protecting women and girls from further violence. Effective response systems are also necessary to ensure support of women and girls who may identify violence in their own lives as a direct result of prevention activity and seek help and redress. Experts acknowledged that a separate stream of work on building an effective multi-sectoral response was being undertaken in preparation for CSW. EGM note 24 Experts recommended that prevention and response strategies be developed and implemented as a holistic and integrated system that upholds the human rights of girls and women to live in societies, communities and families that are free of such violence. However, while essential, experts noted the evidence that an effective response has, in itself, only a limited impact on reducing the number of new incidents of violence. Specific actions to address the foundations of violence – discriminatory and violence-supportive practices, laws, norms, behaviours and attitudes – are also necessary in order to prevent violence against women and girls from happening in the first place, within and across all settings. These are the focus of discussions and recommendations in this Report. EGM note 25 The emphasis on economic growth in the development agenda globally has led to growing inequalities and a reduced focus on redistribution. The rolling economic crises currently gripping almost all of the world’s countries has resulted in increased unemployment and poverty, a shortage of housing, and cutbacks in social spending including subsidies for health and education. These multiple crises have in turn fuelled communal and ethnic tensions, mass migration and displacement, rendering millions homeless and poor, and more vulnerable to trafficking and diverse forms of exploitation. In most communities, this also results in the heightened vulnerability of women and girls to violence and exploitation. EGM note 26 Experts noted the evidence that violence against women and girls is intensified and exacerbated in situations of socio-economic stress, conflict and other crisis situations. In addition to the impact of economic crises described above, global warming and associated rising sea levels and severe weather events, as well as environmental degradation and resource depletion, can all contribute to conditions of social and economic vulnerability, including homelessness and mass migrations. They can also lead to the disaster or crisis situations in which violence against women and girls is known to increase. EGM note 27 As discrimination based on sex and gender continues to dominate social formations even in the 21st century, experts noted that violence against women and girls continues to be perceived as ‘normal’ in many contexts. The pervasive nature of militarization and the growth of all forms of religious fundamentalisms and other forms of extreme nationalism creates cultures where women are reduced to being symbolic ‘bearers’ of their culture and have their mobility and autonomy restricted in many different ways. EGM note 28 Exacerbated by the conditions described above (and even without them) women and girls experience daily harassment, abuse, discrimination and violence across the numerous settings in which they conduct their lives, from workplaces, schools and other educational institutions, community and faith organisations and groups, market places, shops, on public transport, in social settings, online and via social media, during flight and while displaced as a result of conflict and natural disasters, and above all in their homes. EGM note 29 Experts also identified emerging contexts and issues that have an impact on violence against women and girls. For example, experts agreed that the role of new media presents a number of layered and complex challenges, as well as opportunities, for the prevention of violence against women and girls. In the first instance, new media is often a platform for the perpetuation of harmful masculinities and the objectification of women and girls. This can take a number of forms from everyday hyper-sexualised, one-dimensional images of women and girls to hard-core pornography which has moved from the peripheries to the mainstream of the pornography industry. Virtual spaces are also utilised to perpetuate direct attacks on women and girls. This can range from cyber-stalking to the posting of inappropriate images / videos of women. For example, women have increasingly reported incidents of footage of them engaged in sexual activity (filmed both with and without consent) being posted on internet sites without their consent. In a number of cases this has included the posting of footage of actual rapes.  EGM note 30 Violence in the virtual space and the wider issues of how women and girls are objectified in the media has particular implications for girls and younger women, who are much more like to engage with social networking sites, instant messaging, etc. Despite the range of violations, incidents can be hard to prosecute, especially as the internet is not limited to nation spaces. There are also real challenges around balancing the right to freedom of expression with the right to be protected from discrimination.  EGM note 31 Experts also noted with concern the emerging evidence that adolescent girls and young women may also be targeted for sexual violence in the context of serious youth violence (e.g. youth gangs) and/or broader urban violence. They may also be members of gangs themselves and involved in perpetration of violence against other young women and girls within or between gangs. Experts further expressed the concern that adolescent girls and young women were frequently overlooked in policy and programming responses designed for young men, adult women or for children in general, yet the context of their lives may be quite distinct and require specific approaches, particularly given they are the age group at greatest risk of sexual violence.  EGM note 32 In humanitarian crises caused by conflict and/or natural disasters, women and girls are at risk of violence throughout all stages: during crises, during flight from crises, while living in displaced settings, and during and following return. In situations of armed conflict, women and girls can be exposed to violence at the hands of armed actors, including soldiers and military assigned to protect civilians and assist in their safe flight from conflict. They may be recruited into armed groups and serve as sexual slaves to combatants. In some settings women and girls continue to be used as ‘weapons of war,’ subject to sexual assault by all parties to conflict, at times in front of their husbands, children, and other family or community members. EGM note 33 While much attention has been accorded to sexual violence against women and girls during conflict, they suffer many additional forms of violence in humanitarian emergencies, including sexual exploitation, trafficking, early marriage, and intimate partner violence.  Experts noted that all of these forms of violence can be averted or reduced with effective prevention programming from the contingency planning phase through to recovery, and States’ responsibilities to work towards the prevention of this violence are reinforced by a broad normative framework mandating protection of women and girls from sexual and other forms of violence in emergencies. And yet, prevention programming remains weak in virtually every humanitarian setting around the world. EGM note 34 Experts further noted the evidence that while more than 740,000 men, women, and children die each year as a result of armed violence, the majority of these deaths – 490,000 – occur in countries that are not affected by conflict.  The proliferation of small arms increases the vulnerability of women and girls to violence, and exacerbates the seriousness of that violence. This is particularly true in the context of urban/serious youth (e.g. gang) violence (referred to above), but also in the case of violence in the home, where the presence of small arms significantly increases the risk of the victim being killed.  The violent deaths of approximately 66,000 women and girls are attributed to armed violence globally each year.  EGM note 35 Experts were finally keen to emphasise that – even within the same geographic or socio-political setting, ‘context’ was not the same thing for different women and girls. Women and girls often experience multiple and intersecting forms of social disadvantage and discrimination (in addition to that based on gender), and this compounds their individual and collective vulnerability to violence. The Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences, has recently noted that theories on violence have often ‘failed to provide a comprehensive understanding of how various forms of discrimination, beyond a male/female gender binary, contextualize, exacerbate, and correlate to high levels of violence in given societies. The lack of an intersectional approach can lead to the reinforcing of one form of discrimination in attempts to alleviate another.’  Factors such as race, ethnicity, caste, class, age, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, geographic location, disability, HIV status or status as a refugee or internally displaced person, will all influence the forms and nature of violence women and girls may suffer, and the relationship of these factors to prevention is discussed in the ‘Key Findings’ section. EGM note 36 The international community is committed to eliminating violence against women and girls  and has recognised – in various global and regional legal and policy instruments – the important role of prevention towards this end. EGM note 37 Above all, State responsibility for prevention of violence against women and girls through social and behavioural change is supported by the foundational treaty on women’s human rights, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), which establishes signatories’ legal obligation to take ‘all appropriate measures [to] modify the social and cultural patterns of conduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the elimination of prejudices and customary and all other practices which are based on the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and women.’   General Recommendation 19 of the CEDAW Committee defines violence as a form of discrimination against women, and establishes the obligation of States to act with ‘due diligence’ to prevent and respond to violence against women and girls. EGM note 38 The Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women enhanced the definition of violence against women and also included protection of women from violence committed in the private domain as being an obligation of the state.  Responsibilities of the State to prevent violence, abuse and neglect of girls are further supported by the Convention on the Rights of the Child, requiring States parties to ‘take all appropriate legislative, administrative, social and educational measures to protect the child from all forms of physical or mental violence, injury or abuse, neglect or negligent treatment, maltreatment or exploitation, including sexual abuse’ including ‘forms of prevention,’  along with its two Optional Protocols.  EGM note 39 The Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action (BPfA), adopted at the Fourth World Conference on Women in 1995, recognised the complexity of the underlying causes of violence against women and girls, and the need to link prevention and response activities. Paragraph 118 notes that: EGM notes 40 to 51 Other global policy and legislative / normative frameworks that are currently in place. EGM note 52 In conclusion, while the normative framework has clearly developed an obligation for States to take holistic, comprehensive, strategic and well-resourced action to prevent violence against women and girls, and while States have increasingly ratified the relevant treaties and in some cases brought these obligations into their legal frameworks, much work remains to be done before the normative obligations will be fully implemented. Gaps remain in terms of resource allocation, legislative and policy development, and systems and mechanisms for coordinated and sustained action. EGM note 53 In considering the above analysis, experts believed that a significant global shift in perceptions was necessary towards greater recognition of the widespread and systematic nature of violence against women and girls, deserving of more serious attention by States and the international community. Experts returned to and supported the international definition of violence against women and girls in the Declaration, i.e. as a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination against them, that shall mean all acts of gender-based violence that result in, or are likely to result in, physical, sexual, psychological or economic harm or suffering to women and girls, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or in private life.  EGM note 54 However, some experts noted that such violence is not isolated or sporadic, but could be seen as part of a widespread or systematic practice intended to humiliate or degrade an identifiable group. As such, they called for violence against women and girls to be considered a crime against humanity. Others cautioned against linking violence against women and girls to current definitions of crimes against humanity, given the existing limitations of international law and jurisprudence. It was noted that the landmark February 2008 judgement of the Sierra Leone Appeals Chamber of the Special Court in the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council case had set an historic precedent in recognising forced marriage as a distinct category of crimes against humanity in international criminal law.  Experts therefore agreed that calling for violence against women and girls to be recognised as a crime against humanity was intended as an aspirational statement and advocacy goal, one which would expand current definitions and understanding of crimes against humanity – in a way similar to the Sierra Leone case – and help drive a global shift in perceptions towards one that recognises the full seriousness of violence against women and girls, and the urgency with which we must prevent it. EGM note 55 Based on comprehensive discussion at the EGM, review of the papers presented by experts, and an analysis of the global context, normative framework and evidence and practice base, experts agreed on the following key findings. Experts noted the significant development, over recent years, of guidance to States and other stakeholders in the development, implementation and monitoring of policy and programming to prevent violence against women and girls,  and again referred to the papers submitted to the EGM as providing further information on current practice. Rather than reiterate that guidance here, experts have confined their findings below to the emerging issues, and those perceived to be of most critical relevance to CSW. EGM note 56 Experts wished to reiterate, as a finding and central tenet of their recommendations, that prevention of violence against women and girls is a positive endeavour, a precondition for enabling women and men to reach their full potential, and is essential to the creation of healthy, equitable, stable and productive communities, workplaces, schools and universities, faith and cultural institutions, sporting and recreation organisations, and societies as a whole. EGM note 57 Noting recent research highlighting the unique and catalysing impact of women’s organisations on enduring and effective policy development to end violence against women and girls,  experts were unanimous that effective prevention of violence against women and girls was not only often driven by, but required the involvement of women’s organisations, working in partnership with national, provincial and local Governments, communities, civil society groups, donors, the private sector and other non-state actors. EGM note 58 Experts emphasized the importance of moving away from short-term, ad hoc sensitisation and awareness raising activities and towards more comprehensive, longer-term prevention efforts that are grounded in communities and work systematically to change unequal power relations between women and men. Such social norm change requires working with a cross section of the community from women and men, young people, religious and cultural leaders, health care providers, police, government officials, the media and others, over time and in varied ways, to challenge norms that perpetuate violence and emphasize the positive benefits of non-violence, justice and equality for individuals, families and the broader community. Civil society plays an essential role in mobilising communities to rethink the acceptability of violence and supporting positive change. EGM note 59 However, while women’s and other civil society organisations and communities themselves have been at the forefront of developing the practice and evidence base for prevention programming, factors such as time, reach and workforce constraints can prevent many good initiatives from being evaluated, expanded or otherwise scaled-up. Research has also shown that those working to end violence against women and girls can themselves face discrimination, hostility, repudiation and even violence, precisely because they challenge traditional notions of the family and gender that contribute to such violence.  EGM note 60 To maximise the impact and sustainability of such work, therefore, Governments have a key role to play in supporting and creating an enabling environment for women’s organisations and others working to prevent violence against women and girls to continue to drive and innovate prevention programming, safe from violence and discrimination themselves. Governments should also activate their reach and mandate to ensure the scale-up, systematisation and embedding of good practice in laws, policies and through public institutions (e.g. schools, social and health services, media and workplace regulation) for long-term sustainability. EGM note 61 Experts noted that without States taking their full responsibility for sustained, systematic and coordinated policy, programming and investment for prevention, the transformative social development necessary to end violence against women and girls cannot be achieved. Few States worldwide had implemented their obligations to this end. A 2011 review of National Action Plans on Violence against Women found that most policies were limited to responding to existing violence. Those that did contain specific prevention actions largely focussed on raising awareness of new laws or where to access services, with some containing one-off or single-sector prevention activities such as social marketing campaigns or schools-based programmes. Only one identified plan took a long-term, multi-sectoral and holistic approach to prevention, with appropriate institutional support mechanisms and commensurate investment.  EGM note 62 Importantly, one-off, single-sector or small-scale interventions, while they may have some effectiveness for participating individuals, are unable to change the social norms at the community or society level that have a dampening effect on such attitudinal change. Therefore, they can never in themselves decrease prevalence of violence against women and girls across society as a whole. Broad and sustainable change is only achieved when such activities are implemented in a long-term and cumulative way, mutually reinforced across various settings. These should be linked to a prevention framework which is coordinated to ensure that all levels are appropriately engaged, with evaluation and monitoring for continuous improvement. It is particularly essential that all strategies and interventions are supported by policy and legislative reform that promotes gender equality, challenges discrimination, and provides an effective response to existing violence. EGM notes 63 to 102 Other key findings from the EGM. Recommendation 103 Experts stressed the critical importance of women’s organisations, civil society, international institutions, donors and States working together to go beyond ‘ad hoc’ approaches to prevention, and for States to take their responsibility for developing long-term and multi-sectoral strategies so that activity can be coordinated, and evidence built, to achieve real results. With an increased commitment from all actors to such an approach, and corresponding investment, many experts believed violence against women and girls could be ended within a generation. To this end, experts have made recommendations (see below) for a coordinated and target-focussed approach to preventing violence against women and girls, driven by two overarching activities – a Global Implementation Plan – framing the work of international, regional and national institutions (including States) toward the goal of ending violence against women and girls, along with a  Global Advocacy Campaign – driven by women’s and other civil society organisations to create momentum and provide accountability for the above. Recommendation 104 Also, given CSW’s specific mandate with regards to implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action  experts have made further recommendations for immediate implementation, aligned with the BPfA’s strategic objectives of taking integrated measures to prevent and eliminate violence against women, and studying the causes and consequences of violence against women and the effectiveness of preventive measures. While the BPfA objectives cover both prevention of, and response to, violence against women and girls, and experts supported full implementation of all of these, the recommendations below build on those areas focussing on prevention. Recommendation 105 Finally, experts identified recommendations arising from emerging issues or gaps in the evidence and practice base regarding prevention of violence against women and girls in certain contexts and settings. These include recommendations for prevention in settings affected by humanitarian crises such as conflict and natural disasters; contexts of serious urban or youth violence; with regards to representation of women and girls in the context of mass media as well as in new social media; and in the context of the global financial crisis and shifting geopolitics. In addition to the broad recommendations below that are relevant to all settings, special attention has been given to certain contexts and settings in order to highlight specific strategies for prevention related to these particular areas of concern. Experts have also chosen to highlight certain recommendations specific to preventing violence against girls, including adolescent girls, and young women, as a frequently overlooked group worthy of special consideration. Recommendation 106 Experts agreed that while an international legal and normative frame work for preventing violence against women and girls is already in place, there are two major barriers to its implementation. The first is that social and cultural norms and customs are often used as a shroud or excuse for laws, practices and behaviours that are either directly violent and discriminatory towards women and girls, or else contribute to and support violence against them. The BPfA clearly calls on States to ‘refrain from invoking any custom, tradition or religious consideration to avoid their obligations with respect to its elimination as set out in the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women,’  and experts were adamant that this entails an active obligation on States to examine their own laws and policies, and challenge the communities, organisations and individuals in their jurisdictions, to eliminate norms and customs that excuse, justify or tolerate violence against women and girls, and which exist in all societies. Recommendation 107 A second barrier to full implementation of existing obligations is the lack of a coordinated, strategic agenda at international, regional and national levels for modifying ‘the social and cultural patterns of conduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the elimination of prejudices and customary and all other practices which are based on the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and women,’  required by CEDAW. This is an essential precondition and support for the sustainable prevention of violence against women and girls. As noted above, such prejudices, practices and stereotypes are rampant in all societies, expressed as much through channels such as media and popular culture, as through institutions more identifiable as the bearers of custom or ‘tradition’ (e.g. faith institutions). A much greater commitment and level of resourcing is required from all States, along with significantly improved coordination of policy, programming and research at global, regional and national levels towards a shared strategic agenda to eliminate these and so meet the legal obligation under CEDAW. Recommendation 108 To this end, an overarching recommendation from experts was that Member States commit, at CSW in 2013, to develop a Global Implementation Plan to End Violence against Women and Girls, to be launched in 2015, with a particular focus on prevention of violence against women and girls. This Plan should aim to provide vigilance on established international obligations (particularly the overarching BPfA  and CEDAW obligations cited above), and serve as the tool for operationalising these norms into national policy and programming in a coordinated and results-based way. Recommendation 109 The Global Implementation Plan to End Violence against Women and Girls, endorsed and supported by Member States at its launch, would aim to: Recommendation 110 Development of the plan should be linked to the processes defining the post-2015 development agenda, to ensure that the prevention of violence against women and girls is rightly understood as crucial to the meeting of other internationally agreed development goals, and that targets relating to the prevention of (and response to) such violence are explicitly identified and well situated in the post-2015 development framework. Recommendation 111 Development of the plan would require, among other things: Recommendation 112 Development of the plan should include the proactive engagement of new partners (such as the private sector, sporting organisations, religious and cultural leaders, the media and entertainment industry), with a critical eye to the internal structures and methods of operation of such partners to ensure they fully support and in no way undermine the human rights of women and girls. Recommendation 113 Experts further recognised the crucial and catalytic role of women’s organisations and called for them to help build support and momentum for the above. A global ‘movement for prevention’ is needed, engaging a critical mass of individuals, groups and institutions working together to create communities and countries that are safe for women and girls and where their rights are respected. Recommendation 114 Experts’ second overarching recommendation was therefore that women’s organisations, in partnership with other civil society organisations and identified willing international and regional institutions, States and other relevant parties, lead a Global Advocacy Campaign to Prevent Violence against Women and Girls, as a crucial accompaniment to the development of the Implementation Plan above. The Advocacy Campaign could include the creation of plain language communications materials, mechanisms to share information and practice, avenues for capacity development, and advocacy strengthening, for example through the training of male and female youth and veteran activists and leaders to monitor progress of nations on international agreements, produce reports, and represent women’s and girls’ priorities and interests in international fora. The aim of the Advocacy Campaign would be to create momentum for the Implementation Plan, ensure the consistent promotion of evidence-informed, rights-based prevention activity, and hold international, regional and national stakeholders accountable to women and girls. Recommendation 115 While the Global Implementation Plan may take one to two years to develop, there are many areas of work that States have already committed to under the BPfA  Strategic Objective D1 – to take integrated measures to prevent and eliminate violence against women – and upon which they can and should take immediate action. Below are recommendations elaborated by the experts in line with the growing evidence and practice base on prevention, in support of these existing commitments. Recommendation 116 In line with BPfA’s  Paragraph 124(j), calling on Governments to ‘formulate and implement, at all appropriate levels, plans of action to eliminate violence against women,’and Paragraph 124(p)calling for the allocation of ‘adequate resources within the government budget and mobilis[ation of]community resources for activities related to the elimination of violence against women, including resources for the implementation of plans of action at all appropriate levels,’ experts recommend that States work in partnership with funders, international and regional institutions, women’s and civil society organisations and other stakeholders to develop, implement, evaluate and monitor coordinated, multisectoral and sustained prevention strategies, alongside and reinforcing strategies to improve the response to existing violence. Such strategies should Recommendation 117 Experts further recommend that UN agencies mirror what is recognised as good practice for Governments above, and adopt a coordinated, interagency approach to prevent (and respond to) violence against women and girls, with support from the highest political level (i.e. the Secretary General). As part of the Global Implementation Plan, UN agencies should develop a system-wide workplan building on related system-wide initiatives (e.g. the Secretary Generals’ UNiTE Campaign) and through existing coordination mechanisms, to support and promote national implementation of, monitor progress against, and advance the international normative framework. Regional institutions should similarly develop and implement coordinated workplans to support Member States implement regional normative frameworks for prevention of violence against women and girls, monitor progress against these frameworks, and advance the frameworks themselves. Such workplans might include strategies to: Recommendation 118 In line with BPfA’s  Paragraph 124(k) ‘Adopt all appropriate measures, especially in the field of education, to modify the social and cultural patterns of conduct of men and women, and to eliminate prejudices, customary practices and all other practices based on the idea of the inferiority or superiority of either of the sexes and on stereotyped roles for men and women’, experts recommend that States: Recommendation 119 In line with BPfA’s  Paragraph 126(a), calling for the development of ‘programmes and procedures to eliminate sexual harassment and other forms of violence against women in all educational institutions, workplaces and elsewhere,’ experts make a number of recommendations to States, employers, trade unions, community and youth organisations and non-governmental organisations, as appropriate: Recommendation 120 In line with BPfA’s  Paragraph 125(e) calling for the organisation, support and funding of ‘community-based education and training campaigns to raise awareness about violence against women as a violation of women's enjoyment of their human rights and mobilis[ation of] local communities to use appropriate gender-sensitive traditional and innovative methods of conflict resolution,’ experts recommend that States, local authorities, civil society organisations, communities and community organisations, promote gender equal and non-violent relationships, families and communities through new and existing holistic prevention efforts, services, programmes, events and grant/funding initiatives; prioritise prevention of violence against women and girls in grassroots efforts, urban and municipal planning; and implement legislative, regulatory and community-based programming initiatives to prevent violence and harassment of women and girls in private and public spaces. Recommendation 121 In line with BPfA’s  Paragraph 125(f), recognising, supporting and promoting ‘the fundamental role of intermediate institutions, such as primary health-care centres, family-planning centres, existing school health services, mother and baby protection services, centres for migrant families and so forth in the field of information and education related to abuse’ experts recommend that States and partner organisations: Recommendation 122 In line with BPfA’s  Paragraphs 125(d) and (e), supporting ‘initiatives of women's organisations and non-governmental organisations all over the world to raise awareness on the issue of violence against women and to contribute to its elimination,’ and organising, supporting and funding ‘community-based education and training campaigns to raise awareness about violence against women as a violation of women's enjoyment of their human rights and mobilise local communities to use appropriate gender-sensitive traditional and innovative methods of conflict resolution, ’experts recommend that States, including local governments, with community organisations, non-governmental organisations, educational institutions, the public and private sectors, particularly enterprises, and the mass media, as appropriate, develop and implement – in concert with wider strategies above – social marketing, communications and holistic community mobilisation efforts addressing the underlying causes of violence against women and girls, such as through the promotion of positive, respectful and non-violent masculinities; challenging gender stereotypes; raising awareness of the unacceptability of violence; and promoting critical thinking within the community on violence against women and girls as a manifestation of inequality and a violation of women’s human rights. Recommendation 123 In line with BPfA’s  Paragraph 126(d) calling for ‘special measures to eliminate violence against women, particularly those in vulnerable situations, such as young women, refugee, displaced and internally displaced women, women with disabilities and women migrant workers, including enforcing any existing legislation and developing, as appropriate, new legislation for women migrant workers in both sending and receiving countries, ’experts recommend that States, employers, trade unions, community and youth organisations and non-governmental organisations, as appropriate, recognise the multiple vulnerabilities of women and girls to various forms of violence throughout their life cycle, and identify clear prevention activities and budgets for this work. Recommendation 124 In line with UNSCR 1325, experts recommend that States ensure they have and implement action plans on women, peace and security, including comprehensive strategies to address the proliferation of small arms and armed violence, whether in conflict, post - conflict or ‘peacetime’ settings. Such initiatives should specifically include: Recommendation 125 In line with the UN General Assembly Special Session on HIV and AIDS, and the 2010 UN AIDS Agenda for Accelerated Country Action on Women, Girls and HIV  and AIDS, integrate a focus on promoting gender equality, addressing gender based violence and engaging men and boys for gender equality into national AIDS plans.  Recommendation 126 There are also several areas of work that States have already committed to under the BPfA  Strategic Objective D2 – to study the causes and consequences of violence against women and the effectiveness of preventive measures – upon which immediate action can be taken. Below are recommendations elaborated by the experts in support of these existing commitments. Recommendation 127 In line with BPfA’s  Paragraph 129(a) calling on Governments, regional organisations, the United Nations, other international organisations, research institutions, women's and youth organisations and non-governmental organisations, as appropriate, to ‘promote research, collect data and compile statistics, especially concerning domestic violence, relating to the prevalence of different forms of violence against women, and encourage research into the causes, nature, seriousness and consequences of violence against women and the effectiveness of measures implemented to prevent and redress violence against women’, experts make several recommendations: Recommendation 128 States should ensure the systematic collection, disaggregation (by gender, age and other characteristics), analysis and dissemination and use of data, including through supporting civil society organisations, academics and other actors engaged in research, to inform policy and strategy development on prevention. National statistical agencies and relevant ministries such as those of health or justice, should apply internationally agreed upon technical and ethical standards, ensuring consistency of concepts, regularity of data collection, and wide and timely dissemination of data. Government’s national machineries for the advancement of women should be closely associated with such efforts. Collaboration between producers and users of data should be strengthened by having users involved in all stages of data collection and dissemination. Data collection on violence against women and girls should be age-disaggregated and carried out in consultation with a wide range of stakeholders, including advocates and agencies providing services to women and girls, policymakers, legislators and researchers. It is also necessary that data be collected in a way that respects confidentiality and the rights of research participants and does not jeopardize their safety. Recommendation 129 International and national institutions, in partnership with research organisations, academia, and other civil society groups, should work together to identify gaps and improve research and data collection to inform prevention work, particularly in the following areas: Recommendation 130 International and regional institutions, in partnership with research organisations and academia, should examine processes for identifying and establishing intergovernmental agreement on common indicators to measure progress on the prevention of violence against women and girls at the international, national and local levels should be developed. Such indicators should be appropriate to the context and include both impact indicators that measure the reduction in levels of violence as well as indicators that measure short and medium term progress, such as changes in social norms, or organisational and community practices. Recommendation 131 States, donors and international/regional institutions should provide for the regular and comprehensive evaluation of projects and programmes on prevention, with feedback mechanisms for continuous improvement. Evaluative data on the effectiveness of prevention strategies in low and middle income countries should be developed and utilized in order to facilitate the replication, scaling up and institutionalization of the most effective interventions. Evaluations should be sensitive to the long-term and complex nature of the social change required for prevention, seeking to measurer not only reductions in levels of violence (which will only be apparent in the longer-term), but also shorter term indicators of change such as the shifts in attitudes, norms and practices referred to above. Recommendation 132 International and regional institutions, in partnership with research organisations and academia, should work together to develop practical tools and resources to support States and programmers in the elaboration, implementation and monitoring of prevention activity, for example: Recommendation 133 International and regional institutions, civil society organisations, States and research institutions should support the development of ‘learning labs’ to produce new knowledge, design, test and share innovative approaches for the prevention of violence against women and girls. An international research and programming centre/institution for prevention might be envisaged to this end, providing guidance, tools and oversight for the activities described above, and potentially playing a role in the independent monitoring of the Global Implementation Plan. Emerging evidence and practice have highlighted further issues for prevention of violence against women and girls only partially covered by the existing normative framework, and experts have identified specific areas of action responding to these (detailed under the sub-headings below). Recommendation 134 In line with BPfA’s  Paragraph 125(j) calling for awareness raising on ‘the responsibility of the media in promoting non-stereotyped images of women and men, as well as in eliminating patterns of media presentation that generate violence, and encourage those responsible for media content to establish professional guidelines and codes of conduct’ and on ‘the important role of the media in informing and educating people about the causes and effects of violence against women and in stimulating public debate on the topic,’ experts recommend that States, including local governments, community organisations, non-governmental organisations, educational institutions, the public and private sectors, particularly enterprises, and the mass media, as appropriate: Recommendation 135 In addition to the recommendations made in line with BPfA’s  Paragraph 125(j) above, wider and long term action is needed to address the role the media currently plays in contributing to, maintaining and reinforcing, gender stereotypes. Experts recommend that all stakeholders above take immediate interim action to provide children and young people with media literacy skills as a core aspect of school curricula. This should aim to build gender analysis skills to interrogate the status quo (i.e. the objectification of girls and women), critique constructions of gender roles and offer alternative interpretations and framings of the content that they are engaging with on a daily basis. Recommendation 136 In line with BPfA’s  Paragraph 129(d), encouraging ‘the media to examine the impact of gender role stereotypes, including those perpetuated by commercial advertisements which foster gender-based violence and inequalities, and how they are transmitted during the life cycle, and [to]take measures to eliminate these negative images with a view to promoting a violence-free society,’ experts recommend that international/regional organisations, States, research institutions, civil society partners and media organisations, as appropriate: Recommendation 137 Given the likely negative impact of the global financial crisis on levels of violence against women and girls, and the subsequent economic, health and social costs of such increased violence (in terms of reduced productivity, strains on services, etc.), experts recommend that States, international and regional institutions, civil society, the private sector and other stakeholders, should proactively and collaboratively work to protect women’s and girls’ right to live free of violence, in order to ‘stem the tide’ of negative economic, health and social impacts arising from such violence and their subsequent further costs to the State. Recommendation 138 International and regional organisations, donors, development agencies, philanthropics and other non-governmental organisations should ensure that allocations of aid funding in the wake of the crisis support programmes to prevent (and respond to) violence against women and girls and promote women’s human rights. Recommendation 139 International and regional institutions, civil society organisations and established donors should engage emerging middle income countries and new donors in the development of the new Global Implementation Plan to End Violence against Women and Girls and encourage a rights-based approach to aid investment that prioritises prevention of violence against women and girls through this international, target-focussed framework. Recommendation 140 Experts recommend that States, non-governmental organisations, international/regional institutions and other stakeholders as appropriate: Recommendation 141 Experts noted the lack of documented prevention strategies for settings affected by conflict and/or natural disasters, and the consequent improvised, small-scale, and/or issue-specific nature of prevention activities in these settings. They emphasised that it is critical that States – and the humanitarian, peacekeeping, civil society and development actors with whom they engage – institute broad, well-coordinated measures to prevent violence against women and girls in all stages of humanitarian intervention, and ensure that those measures incorporate strategies that reach the most vulnerable, as well as monitoring and evaluation components in order to develop an evidence base for good practice. To this end, experts recommend that States and their humanitarian partners: Recommendation 142 Experts recognised that girls, including adolescent girls, and young women are often excluded from, or ‘squeezed into,’ interventions which are focussed on adult women, on boys and young men, or on children in a gender-neutral way. Experts concluded that an emphasis on prevention work specifically tailored to the needs, experiences and aspirations of girls, adolescent girls and young women is urgently needed; acknowledging the complexities of the current landscape that they are required to negotiate. Experts made the following recommendations to States, women’s and civil society organisations, international and regional institutions, public and private sectors, as appropriate: 