Hans Alfred Herbert Eugen Nieper (23 May 1928 – 21 October 1998) was a controversial German alternative medicine practitioner who devised "Nieper Therapy".   He is best known for his claims to be able to treat cancer, multiple sclerosis, and other serious diseases. In 1986 an FDA release discredited his therapy as ineffective and unsafe. There is, however, no record official record of this FDA release.   Hans Nieper was born in Hanover, Germany on May 23, 1928. His parents - who were both physicians - were Ferdinand Nieper (b. 1887) and Margarete Krauss (b.1898). [unreliable source?] They were married in 1925. Shortly after getting married, Hans' parents began working at the Wahrendorff Psychiatric Hospital (now known as de:Klinikum Wahrendorff) at Sehnde-Ilten, near Hanover. [non-primary source needed] Hans' fascination with science and medicine came long before he was a physician. Coming from a family with an extensive background in medicine, Hans  eventually followed in the family footsteps and became a physician himself. [non-primary source needed] Hans' father Ferdinand Nieper was a son of Herbert Nieper (1848-1939), [unreliable source?] who was the Chief Surgeon at the hospital in Goslar, which was renamed the Dr.-Herbert-Nieper-Krankenhaus  in his honor. In 1879 Hans' grandfather Dr. Herbert Nieper married Karla Marie Johanne Elisabeth Wahrendorff (b. August 21, 1859), who was a daughter of Ferdinand Wahrendorff (1826-1898), [unreliable source?] founder of the Wahrendorff Psychiatric Hospital. As a child and adolescent, Hans spent most of his time at the Wahrendorff Psychiatric Hospital. His parents granted him complete intellectual freedom. As he matured, Hans' parents encouraged him to participate in stimulating conversations about the nature of the mind, the relationship between biology and mentality, and the validity of orthodox medicine, and to ask questions and raise points on his own. These experiences in Hans' early years taught him to think analytically, to question orthodox assumptions, and to explore ideas and thoughts without fear of censure or ridicule. [non-primary source needed] Hans Nieper was educated at the Johann Gutenberg University and the University of Freiberg before earning his medical degree at the University of Hamburg. During his career, he served as Director of the Department of Medicine at the Paracelsus-Klinik am Silbersee (Paracelsus Silbersee Hospital) in Hanover-Langenhagen, and as Director of the German Society for Medical Tumour Treatment.  Nieper was among the first researchers to work with lithium orotate.  Nieper and biochemist Dr. Franz Josef Köhler (1909-1984)   patented Calcium AEP (Calcium 2-aminoethylphosphate), which they believed could be helpful in combating such diseases as juvenile diabetes, gastritis, ulcer, thyroiditis, Myocarditis and Hodgkin's Disease.  However, there is no evidence from reputable clinical trials for the success of the "Nieper Regime" for treating multiple sclerosis utilizing Calcium AEP.  The "Nieper Therapy" approach to cancer also uses Calcium AEP, along with selenium.  It is based in part upon Nieper's belief that cancer is rarer among sharks than other fish, and upon his theory that the lower blood-sodium level of sharks may be the reason. "Nieper Therapy" places among its primary goals the reduction of that sodium in cancer patients.   