Jacob E. Teitelbaum (born April 21, 1952) is an American physician and author with special interests in chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia, and pain management. Teitelbaum was born in Ohio in 1952. His parents, Sabina and David, were Holocaust survivors who emigrated to the United States after World War II. He studied medicine at Ohio State University, graduating in 1977. While in medical school, he developed chronic fatigue syndrome, which forced him to drop out for a year to recover.  Since then, he has focused his medical career on developing effective treatment protocols for chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia, and pain management, authoring numerous research papers, articles, and books on these and other topics. Dr. Teitelbaum travels extensively to educate and support those afflicted with health issues falling within his areas of specialized expertise, frequently participating in interviews   and addressing major medical conferences.  In addition to training other physicians, he focuses on public education and media outreach, and has appeared on Fox News , The Doctor Oz Show , CNN , PBS, NPR, and Good Morning America. He notes that his key goals are to make effective treatment available for everyone with CFS, fibromyalgia, and chronic pain.  In pursuit of this goal, and recognizing that many people cannot afford comprehensive treatment, he developed a free patented software tool that uses the S.H.I.N.E. Protocol to evaluate the causes of energy drain associated with these conditions, and tailors a program to each individual's specific needs.  Teitelbaum treats people internationally who suffer with CFL and fybromyalgia, and lives with his wife Laurie, an NAET practitioner , in Kailua-Kona, Hawaii. Teitelbaum's published randomized placebo-controlled study showed that 91% of people with CFS and fibromyalgia improved, with an average 90% increase in quality of life, by using an integrated protocol to optimize energy production. This has been called the SHINE Protocol, and combines both pharmaceutical and natural treatment options.  The S.H.I.N.E. Protocol optimizes: (S)leep, (H)ormonal function, (I)mmune support, (N)utritional support, and (E)xercise as able.  His treatment protocol has been editorialized in the Journal of the American Academy of Pain Management as "an excellent and powerfully effective part of the standard of practice for treatment of people who suffer from FMS and MPS" (Myofascial pain syndrome).   He has also researched nutritional supplements to help optimize function in those suffering from these illnesses , and developed and published the free app Cures A-Z, available for both iPhone  and Android  devices. Dr. Teitelbaum and his wife oversee the Jacob Teitelbaum Family Foundation, a philanthropic nonprofit organization that has funded forward-thinking external projects and studies since 2000.   It also supports the Heaven on Earth project administered by the website Heaven Now.  On April 18, 2012 the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) sent a warning letter to Teitelbaum advising him to remove medical claims for natural products he carries on his websites because they had not gone through the FDA approval process for medications. The matter was amicably resolved shortly thereafter.  Books: Journal Papers: Textbook Chapters: 