Dr. Rovenia M. Brock, also known as Dr. Ro, is an American nutritionist, lecturer, health reporter, entrepreneur, and author. Dr. Ro is originally from Washington, D.C. and holds a Ph.D. in Nutritional Sciences, with an M.S. degree in Community Nutrition and Broadcast Journalism from Howard University, and a B.S. degree in Foods and Nutrition from Virginia State University. She is most widely known as the host of Heart & Soul, the first national health and fitness television show for African American women which previously aired on BET, and as Medical Correspondent for BET News, Nutrition Contributor for ABC News' Lifetime Live, and Contributing Nutrition Editor to Heart and Soul magazine. She is most recently known as the Nutrition Coach who helped "The View" Co-Host, Sherri Shepherd to lose 41 pounds.  Voted one of the Nation's top five nutritionists by More Magazine, Dr. Ro has been featured on Good Morning America Health, The Dr. Oz Show and the CBS Early Show. Her most recent projects include: Dr. Ro's Fit Kidz, a new TV series for children ages 2–10. "Dr. Ro's Fit Kidz" is set to air on PBS in 2010.She was born in 1956. Brock is nutrition contributor to National Public Radio (NPR) and teamed up with McDonald's to launch the Fruit and Walnut Salad in 2005 and the Chicken Asian salad in 2006.  Brock hosts Livin' Healthy with Dr. Ro, which aired on TV One, and the PBS health and lifestyles series, Health Matters on WHUT-TV, a Howard University PBS affiliate. She formerly hosted Heads Up on Health, a weekly radio segment of the WHUR-FM morning show in Washington, D.C. She has also authored a book, Dr. Ro's Ten Secrets To Livin' Healthy released under the Bantam Books imprint of Random House.  Brock is currently Executive Producer, Creator and Host of "Dr. Ro's Fit Kidz", a new health and fitness children's series that began airing on PBS in 2010. She has hosted and produced a consumer affairs television program and daily radio show At Your Service with Dr. Rovenia Brock. The show aired on PBS, three regional cable channels, and an NPR-member radio station serving the Washington Metropolitan area. Dr. Ro was previously Nutrition Contributor to NPR (National Public Radio) and NBC’s Morning Show in Washington, DC. Currently she frequently appears on Good Morning America Health, The View, the Dr. Oz Show, the CBS Early Show (see "Dr. Ro Joins Early Gets Down 2 Size"), and E! Entertainment. She has appeared on The Today Show, CNN, HLN, MSNBC, NPR, the Michael Baisden Show,  The Queen Latifah Show The Tavis Smiley Show. Now she is Nutrition Coach on Makeover Manor, and hosts Livin' Healthy with Dr. Ro both aired on TV-One. Dr. Ro has written an advice column and has been featured on WebMD and in several national publications including O Magazine, Self, Ebony, and Essence. She was recently profiled in the Spring-Summer 2009 issue of African-American Career World Magazine. Some of Dr. Ro's TV work can be found on YouTube and on her website at www.everythingro.com Brock is a spokesperson and health expert on several national tours, including the Ebony Family Reunion Tour, the Congressional Black Caucus Health Empowerment Tour, the Wells Fargo Enrich Yourself Women's Empowerment Tour, Total You...Mind, Body, and Spirit national tour, the Equal Serves Up a Spoonful media tour, and for Mazola Oils on a national 20 city tour. She speaks at health conventions, women’s empowerment seminars, corporate conferences, and entertainment industry functions throughout the U.S. In late 2005, Brock introduced her first lifestyle boutique, everything Ro, in Bethesda, Maryland, offering the Ro brand of women's active wear, Bath, Body, and Skin Care Therapy products. She is widely sought after for her sage nutrition advice, motivation, and inspiration offered through her Nutrition Coaching Program. Dr. Ro is the Nutrition Director of Dr. Riggins MASC (Medical Aesthetic Skincare) a skincare practice she co-owns with her husband and business partner, Dr. Murray Riggins, Jr., who is an Aesthetic Medicine Physician. Dr. Ro’s Ten Secrets To Livin’ Healthy (2004) 