The Senedd houses the debating chamber and committee rooms for the National Assembly for Wales in Cardiff, Wales. Since the Senedd opened on 1 March 2006, there have been many occasions of the Senedd on television, the most notable being the regular screening of live proceedings from the National Assembly for Wales on S4C2 and also on internet television.   Coverage of the S4C2 screenings are on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays between 9:00 am 6:00 pm when the Assembly is sitting.  In addition, limited screens are shown on the BBC Two Wales programme "am.pm", including First Minister's Questions.  Internet television screenings are shown on the National Assembly's own website www.senedd.tv, which screens approximately 35 hours of content each week in the English and Welsh languages. The service began 15 April 2008.  Coverage of events in the Assembly can also be watched on the BBC Democracy Live website.  The Senedd building was involved in what is called the "Sex and the Senedd" controversy.   An episode of Caerdydd, the S4C Welsh language television programme set in Cardiff, which started when the broadcast of the episode shot a sex scene was filmed in a toilet room of the Senedd, and not in a television studio.    The National Assembly for Wales Commission, who approved filming in the Neuadd area, the corridors of the Senedd and for one scene in the baby-changing room, were not made aware of the nature of the scene.   The Doctor Who episode "The Lazarus Experiment" was filmed in the Senedd,  as was the Doctor Who spin-off programme Torchwood, which used the Senedd in the episode "Meat", where Gwen Cooper and Rhys Williams sit on the steps of the Senedd building.  In March 2015 it emerged that the makers of Spectre, the 24th James Bond film, had requested use of the Senedd's debating chamber for the filming of some scenes, but that this had been declined by Senedd officials, who said the debating chamber was "not a drama studio". Several Welsh politicians, including First Minister Carwyn Jones and Welsh Conservative Party leader Andrew R. T. Davies,  cited the decision as a missed opportunity that would have boosted tourism for Wales.  