 The Eurovision Asia Song Contest (French: Concours Eurovision Asie de la chanson) is a suggested Asia-Pacific counterpart of the Eurovision Song Contest, which has been in production for more than 60 years. The suggested inaugural contest will consist of only one show, and is yet to be scheduled. In March 2016, it was announced that a deal had been signed between the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) and the Australian broadcaster Special Broadcasting Service (SBS), which gave the channel the rights to create a version of the Eurovision Song Contest for countries in Asia to be able to compete in a contest similar to the European version.  The rules and format for the new contest are in the development stages between SBS and their production partner Blink TV. The inaugural contest, which had yet to be given a name, was to be held in Australia in 2017.  Further information was later released in May 2016 regarding the eligibility for the contest, which could see up to sixty-eight countries compete in the contest.  In July 2016 it was announced that four countries had either confirmed or expressed their interest in the inaugural contest, which has been given a preliminary name of Eurovision Asia Song Contest, including then host nation Australia, China, Japan, and South Korea.  In May 2017, it was announced that three countries (Singapore, Hong Kong, and Australia) had placed bids with the interest in hosting the inaugural contest which has been rescheduled to take place sometime in 2018 due to difficulties in organisation and political issues.  The competition was officially confirmed on 18 August 2017 by the EBU.  This is the latest event to be launched by the EBU since the Eurovision Choir of the Year in 2017.  In July 2018, the EBU confirmed that the contest is still in early development process, and it would not take place that year.  Despite initial speculation, the contest will not be limited to Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Union (ABU) members. Blink TV, the production team behind the show, has confirmed that it wants to involve countries from across the Asia-Pacific region regardless of whether the country has a state-run channel with full membership of the ABU.  After the idea had already been adopted in March 2016,  the competition was officially confirmed on 18 August 2017.  The format will closely resemble that of the Eurovision Song Contest. The only difference is that there should be only a live final, instead of including two semi-finals, with up to 20 countries taking part. The following countries have expressed their provisional interest in participating in the contest:  Most of the expense of the contest is covered by commercial sponsors and contributions from the other participating nations. The contest is considered to be a unique opportunity for promoting the host country as a tourist destination. The table below shows a list of cities and venues that have hosted the Eurovision Asia Song Contest, one or more times. Future venues are shown in italics. 