The books listed below have been cited by a variety of notable critics in varying media sources as being among the worst books ever written.  Writing in The New Republic in 2014, Isaac Chotiner named these two books the worst ever written by a great author, describing them as "completely without insight" and "lamely unfunny" respectively, describing them both as "small-minded and mean-spirited."  Written in prison in four months by a literary critic and radical, What Is To Be Done? advocates the creation of small socialist cooperatives based on the Russian peasant commune, but oriented toward industrial production. The author promoted the idea that the intellectual's duty was to educate and lead the laboring masses in Russia along a path to socialism that bypassed capitalism. The book inspired many Bolsheviks, including Vladimir Lenin, who wrote a pamphlet with the same title in 1901. However, it is not a masterwork of prose: Mark Schrad observed in Vodka Politics that "there is no real plotline or tension, and the environment and characters are stagnant. It has been called the worst novel ever written. Chernyshevsky himself even admitted that his novel contains neither talent nor art, but only “truth.”"  Contemporary critics panned it; Adam Weiner observed on Politico that "The czar’s censor had given the novel a pass, reasoning that the dreadful writing style would damage the revolutionary cause."   Published by the author's husband as an anniversary present, Irene Iddesleigh is often described as the worst novel ever written, with purple prose that is circumlocutory to the point of incomprehensibility. It was "popularised" by Barry Pain who called it "a thing that happens once in a million years." Mark Twain called it "one of the greatest unintentionally humorous novels of all time," while the Inklings competed to see who could read one of Ros's works for the longest without laughter (cf. The Eye of Argon below).  In his book Epic Fail, Mark O'Connell wrote "Ros’ prose amounts to a sort of accidental surrealism. There is an intention toward metaphor—a lunge in the general direction of the literary—but an obvious misunderstanding of how such things work (and often, for that matter, how syntax works)."    The Lair of the White Worm is a horror novel revolving around a remote area of England haunted by a gigantic worm. The novel was badly received by historians of the horror genre. H. P. Lovecraft, discussing The Lair of the White Worm in his essay Supernatural Horror in Literature, stated that Stoker "utterly ruins a magnificent idea by a development almost infantile".   Les Daniels criticised the "clumsy style" of the novel, and expressed disappointment that the author of the acclaimed Dracula could also write what Daniels regarded as a poor novel.    The horror critic R.S. Hadji placed The Lair of the White Worm at number twelve in his list of the worst horror novels ever written.   Brian Stableford said "The Lair of the White Worm is one of the most spectacularly incoherent novels ever to reach print".   Autobiography and political treatise written in Landsberg Prison by Adolf Hitler, then the leader of the National Socialist German Workers' Party. Hitler posits a Jewish conspiracy to gain world leadership, speaks of the evils of communism, Marxism, parliamentary democracy, and of the need of the German people to seize Lebensraum ("living space") from the Slavic peoples to the east. When Hitler gained control of Germany in the 1930s, the ideology expounded in Mein Kampf would lead to the Second World War, the Holocaust, and tens of millions of deaths. Mein Kampf has been described by many writers as the "most evil book in history,"     and its publication has been illegal or restricted in many countries since the defeat of Nazism in 1945.  However, contrary to popular belief, it was never illegal in Germany.  Apart from its abhorrent politics, the book itself has been criticised for its writing style; Hitler's fellow fascist dictator Benito Mussolini called it "a boring tome that I have never been able to read" and called Hitler's views "little more than commonplace clichés."  Sally McGrane of The New Yorker wrote "Hitler’s seven-hundred-page screed [...] is so unreadable that, despite its ubiquity during the Third Reich [...] it is unlikely that most Germans actually cracked the book open. It is full of bombastic, hard-to-follow clauses, historical minutiae, and tangled ideological threads, and both neo-Nazis and serious historians tend to avoid it."  Objectivist novel considered by Rand fans to be her magnum opus, but widely criticised for "cardboard characters, over necessarily long speeches [and] absurd plotlines,"   as well as its dubious moral messages, summed up by Salon.com: Nathan Rabin summarized the book: "In Rand’s Atlas Shrugged [...], the richest and most powerful people in the world [...] go on strike because they feel underappreciated. Think about that for a second. They feel underappreciated. They occupy the upper echelon of society, but for Rand, that isn’t not[sic] good enough. Not when there are so many mediocrities and sub-mediocrities pulling them down with their infernal demands to be treated with dignity and compassion." He also suggested that the philosophy of Objectivism can be viewed as an extreme opposite to communism and said "In Rand’s newfangled way of thinking, selfishness, or at least rational self-interest, was no longer a terrible moral failing, but rather a great moral good. It was the mighty engine that powered the world."  Collection of quotations from the then-dictator of the People's Republic of China, published by the People's Liberation Army Daily and expounding Mao Zedong Thought. Named in 2005 by the Libertarian Alliance as the worst book ever written.  Written by twenty-four journalists under the leadership of Mike McGrady as a criticism of contemporary American writing; McGrady believed that any book could succeed commercially if enough sex was thrown in, and to that end constructed a deliberately incoherent, badly written, sexually explicit novel. It indeed became a bestseller, and sales went up even more once the hoax was revealed.    A heroic fantasy novella notorious for purple prose and genre cliché; attempting to read The Eye of Argon out loud without laughing became a popular party game among fantasy readers.   Included on a list of "worst novels by Hollywood actors" by The Guardian. A novelisation of the film Paradise Alley, also written by Stallone.  Included on a list of "worst novels by Hollywood actors" by The Guardian.  A novelisation of the video game Metal Gear (1987), it was described as possibly the worst book ever written by Den of Geek's Luke McKinney: "This must have been a secret plot by Nintendo of America to destroy any interest in reading which may have lurked within loyal players. And this book is so bad it might cause your brain to forget how to read in self-defense."  Post-apocalyptic Evangelical Christian fiction telling the events of the End Times from a premillennial dispensationalist interpretation of the Book of Revelation. Depicts the travails of several survivors who are "left behind" after the Rapture removes all Godly, righteous people from earth.  Left Behind sold millions of copies and spawned twelve sequels, three prequels, four film adaptations and a video game, but received terrible reviews from mainstream critics. In the London Review of Books, John Sutherland wrote "Criticism lacks terms adequate to describe the narrative feebleness of these novels. But then what can the narrator do, other than dutifully transcribe? Whenever Nicolae [the Antichrist] seems to gain ground we know (and the novels constantly remind us) that divine intervention (a plague, a sword-wielding angel, or Rayford and his righteous pals) will confound him. Why does he bother since he can read the Book of Revelation as well as the next superman?"  Fred Clark of Patheos wrote a lengthy analysis of Left Behind and its sequels, calling them "The World's Worst Books" and discussing the Evangelical subculture from which they derive.   In The Escapist, Phil Owen criticised the protagonists: "the Christians generally do not care that much about anyone but folks who have already converted and those nonbelievers who they were already friends with. The souls of billions are at stake, and they're all important, we're told, but even so you never see any of our heroes mourn the death of an unsaved person who is now burning in hell. They might weep for several books in a row about their dead saved friends, but there's a disturbing lack of general anguish about a conflict that has higher stakes than any other in history."  In The Verge, Adi Robertson observed that "With its unpleasant characters, glacial pace, and bizarre preoccupation with phone calls and travel plans, Left Behind may be one of the dullest books [...] to ever hit the bestseller lists."  The novel series has also been criticised from within Evangelical circles, Tyler Wigg-Stevenson writing "Left Behind can lead us to forsake our properly Christian hope in the eschaton in favor of apocalypticism [...] [Pat] Robertson’s blithe lack of concern for the effects of humanity’s sinfulness embodies the premillennial worldview embedded in Left Behind, which holds that the world must sink into depravity before Christ’s return. Since the world cannot be saved or even substantially bettered by human striving, and because the end is coming soon, intervention in systemic problems like the environment or the buildup of nuclear arms is seen as futile at best. At worst, such efforts are perceived as satanic secularism, since they work against the very purposes of the Lord whose second coming awaits utter global degradation. Left Behind is insidiously effective as a vehicle for sin-affirming pessimism: every wound our fallen species suffers simply confirms the Left Behind Christian’s conviction about the world, while simultaneously strengthening the smug satisfaction in the believer’s Rapture before things get too bad to bear."  Included on a list of "worst novels by Hollywood actors" by The Guardian.  A mystery thriller novel following secret societies and the struggle between the Priory of Sion and Opus Dei over the possibility of Mary Magdalene and Jesus having children. Criticised for its many factual inaccuracies, clumsy prose style. Salman Rushdie called it "a novel so bad that it gives bad novels a bad name," while Jodi Picault said "I don't understand the hype over such a poorly written novel - and as an author who does all her own research, I know better than to consider myself an expert in the field I am writing about."  Linguistics professor Geoffrey Pullum said "Brown's writing is not just bad; it is staggeringly, clumsily, thoughtlessly, almost ingeniously bad."   Included on a list of "worst novels by Hollywood actors" by The Guardian.  Written in 1979, Fan-Tan was not published until after Brando's death. It was described by Paul Constant of The Stranger as "The Best Worst Novel Ever", saying that "Every line of every page struggles to be as purply out of control as it can be. The main character picks up and drops accents as though they were funny hats and eats a rooster heart to join a secret pirate society. The book simultaneously repulses and attracts, groaning under the weight of its pretension."  Included on a list of "worst novels by Hollywood actors" by The Guardian.  Included on a list of "worst novels by Hollywood actors" by The Guardian.  A travelogue by controversial French philosopher Bernard-Henri Lévy, The Economist's "Schumpeter" column called American Vertigo "perhaps the worst book on America ever written [...] which compounds its uselessness by mentioning Tocqueville, the author of the best book on America ever written, in its subtitle."  In a scathing review in The New York Times, Garrison Keillor wrote "Bernard-Henri Lévy is a French writer with a spatter-paint prose style and the grandiosity of a college sophomore; he rambled around this country at the behest of The Atlantic Monthly and now has worked up his notes into a sort of book. It is the classic Freaks, Fatties, Fanatics & Faux Culture Excursion beloved of European journalists for the past 50 years."  A self-published science fiction romance novel, described by The Huffington Post as possibly the worst book ever in 2012.    Notorious for its incoherent prose and irrelevant digressions.  An erotic fantasy novel based on a piece of Twilight fan-fiction,  Fifty Shades depicts the BDSM relationship between aloof billionaire Christian Grey and naive student Anastasia Steele.   As with The Da Vinci Code, many articles collected lists of the "worst lines," particularly those in which Anastasia discusses her "inner goddess."  As well as being poorly written, many reviewers criticised the relationship between Christian and Anastasia, which was seen as abusive rather than romantic.    A dystopian young adult novel, Save the Pearls features a post-apocalyptic setting in which pale-skinned "Pearls" and dark-skinned "Coals" are in conflict. The attempt at racial commentary was widely viewed as clumsy and poorly-handled, if not outright racist.     In The Guardian, Imogen Russell Williams panned it for "awful prose with negligible plot", adding "there's no detectable sign of an aesthetic plan to neutralise the racist stereotypes she peddles. In fact, there is barely a detectable sign of any plot; the whole thing is remarkable for repetition, incoherence, and prose which makes EL James look like Hector Hugh Munro."  This sci-fi adventure novel by a widely unknown, amateur German author called Stefan Knapp was released via a small online self-publishing website called united p.c. in 2012 and has gained a small cult following in Germany similar to that of The Room due to its poor grammar, poor storytelling and strange choice of words as well as numerous typos, spelling and formatting mistakes. Its popularity was increased by German blogger Christian Schmidt who published an article about the book on his website klopfers-web.de in which he satirically reviewed it and called it the worst book he had ever read.  German satirical site Der Postilion called it "the probably worst book of all time".  Swiss actor Andreas Storm, who, together with his onstage partner Catherine Störmer, is known for giving comedic shows where they satirically read out especially bad books for entertainment, featured the book in their program and called it "the worst book ever written in German tongue".  Included on a list of "worst novels by Hollywood actors" by The Guardian: Stuart Heritage described it as "Self-conscious to the point of inanity, Actors Anonymous is built on a towering stack on unwarranted pretension that sporadically attempts to undercut itself with a scene where a professor tells Franco that his book isn’t very good. Also includes an oral sex scene in a public bathroom that ends with a character spitting semen on to an unflushed turd."  Novel about an American sprint team written by 1980s popstar Morrissey. The Daily Mail commented, "The thing is polluted by adjectives and adverbs. Sentences stretch so long, they vanish in the curvature of the Earth. American spelling, split infinitives, rank grammar, under-formed characters, rambling polemic, self-indulgent surrealism: these are just some of the editorial achievements. What on earth was Penguin thinking?"  In The Telegraph, Charlotte Runcie wrote "what struck me is just how little these atrocious sex scenes stand out. The rest of the novel is just as overwrought, just as nonsensical, just as poorly conceived, awkwardly expressed and lazily imagined."    Novel by Oscar-winning actor Sean Penn. Described by Cracked.com as "the worst novel in human history," Mark Hill observed that "Penn writes like he's looked up every single word in his thesaurus except "dictionary." He uses unnecessary terms, then provides 70 footnotes to explain the definition of the unnecessary terms, because he assumes that his readers aren't at his level of intelligence. In a way, he isn't wrong." The novel was also criticised for racist and misogynistic content.   In The Guardian, Sian Cain called Bob Honey "repellent and stupid on so many levels."   