Charis Global School is a private National Plus school in Lippo Cikarang, Bekasi City, West Java, Indonesia. Essentially, the school programs are developed into three categories: Early Childhood Program (Nursery 1-2 and Kindergarten 1-2), Primary Program (Grade 1 to 6)  and Secondary Program (Grade 7 to 9).  The school provides an English-medium education system besides Bahasa Indonesia as the language of instruction for Indonesian-based subjects. The student composition is primarily Indonesian but includes other nationalities. There are expatriate students mainly from Korea, Japan, China, Malaysia, and India. Charis Global School was established in 2007 for local and expatriate students living in Lippo Cikarang. The school has grown rapidly after initially opening only a pre-school level that offers the Early Childhood Programs. In 2009, the school started its Primary Program. The school changed its name to Charis Global School from Charis Global International School to comply with the Indonesian government's regulations on prohibiting the use of word "international" in school names.  By 2016, the school had expanded into its Secondary Program. Today the school has a total staff of about 70, out of which, 55 are teaching staff. Charis Global School follows the National Curriculum [better source needed] prescribed by the Indonesian Ministry of Education and Culture in Primary and Secondary levels, and also adopts the Singapore education curriculum  for English-based subjects such as Math, Science, English language as well as Mandarin. The school uses a wide range of teaching and learning methods to promote effective and engaged learning. For example, students are engaged in project-based learning. They also put up presentations to share their learning with their peers. To develop students, the school encourages them to participate in competitions, such as Singapore and Asian Schools Math Olympiads (SASMO),  American Mathematics Olympiads (AMO),  National Science Olympiad (OSN), etc. The school believes in providing quality teaching and has been operating with small class sizes as this allows for instruction to meet the diverse learning needs of students. The school provides extracurricular activities to allow students to pursue interests outside of a standardized academic context such as:  The room facilities including classrooms are mostly air-conditioned. The school provides main facilities for students such as:  Sports activities are conducted inside and outside the school area. For the gymnastic is conducted at the schoolyard. For the other sports activities such as basketball and swimming are conducted at the Sports center Lippo Cikarang. There are a large number of CCTVs in all areas of the school. Charis Global School has following activities as the part of the annual academic calendar:  