Hermelindo Fiaminghi (October 22, 1920 – June 29, 2004) was a Brazilian painter, designer, graphic designer, lithographer, professor, and art critic, known for his geometric works and exploration of color.  Fiaminghi was born in São Paulo, Brazil, the son of Italian immigrants.  From 1936 until 1941, Fiaminghi studied at the Liceu de Artes e Ofícios de São Paulo. While at art school, Fiaminghi took drawing and porcelain painting courses with Giglio as well as courses with Odetto Guersoni, Lothar Charoux, and Waldemar da Costa. Fiaminghi also attended courses in art history held at Da Costa's studio. At the studio he meets many fellow artists, including Clóvis Graciano and Maria Leontina.  In 1942, Fiaminghi began studying with the painter Angelo Simeone at the Associação Paulista de Belas Artes, as well as studying advertising at Associação Paulista de Propaganda and the Instituto de Ciências e Letras Inglesa (Redschow School).  From 1959 to 1966, Fiaminghi attended Alfredo Volpi's studio.  From 1936 to 1939, Fiaminghi worked at Companhia Melhoramentos, where he did book illustration and lithography.  After a job at another lithography company in 1940, Fiaminghi worked at Companhia Lithographica Ypiranga from 1941 to 1944, where he saw the lithographer, Lasar Segall, create his Mangue series, which showed the poverty in the slums of Rio de Janeiro. In 1944 and 1945, he worked at two other lithography companies, Graphicars F. Lanzara and Indústria Gráfica Siqueira Salles Oliveira & Cia, before he started his own company, Graphstudio Ltda.  From 1949 to 1952, after selling his printing business, Faiminghi was hired an advertising art director at Lintas International Advertising S.A., where he worked on the ad account for Gessy-Lever. During this time he spent time painting street scenes in São Paulo with a draftsman named Joaquim Alves who he worked with at Lintas.  In the early 1950s, Fiaminghi began creating works that were abstract art, incorporating elements of constructive art. During this time he joined Grupo Ruptura and created work that is part of the concrete art movement founded by Waldemar Cordeiro.  Fiaminghi did graphic design for posters, illustrating the work of concrete art pioneers Haroldo de Campos, Décio Pignatari, among others.  In the 1960s, Fiaminghi broke with Waldemar Cordeiro and the school of concrete art, and began to explore the use of color, creating works under the term "Corluz," which became the names of many of his exhibition during that time.  