Michael Post (born February 20, 1952) is a German painter,  Object artist and curator. He is an exponent of concrete art. Michael Post studied fine arts at the University of Applied Sciences in Wiesbaden with Professor Robert Preyer from 1972 to 1976 and continued his studies of history of art at the Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz from 1979 to 1980. From 1981 to 1984 he was a member of the staff of the Museum Wiesbaden, where he was responsible for the exhibition Fluxus 62 as technical director. From 1986 to 1988 he was curator of the exhibition series Kunst at IFAGE in Wiesbaden. 2001 he was awarded a scholarship holder a scholarship by the Stiftung Rheinland-Pfalz für Kultur (de) – Künstlerhaus Schloss Balmoral (de). In 2005 he was awarded the 1st prize of the Sculpture Park of the town of Mörfelden-Walldorf. Michael Post is a member of the Arbeitsgemeinschaft bildender Künstler am Mittelrhein ("association of visual artists in the Middle Rhine") (AKM) since 2005, and has also been a member of the advisory board of the Arbeitsgemeinschaft since 2014. Since 2006 he is a member of the advisory board of the Künstlerhaus Schloss Balmoral. Since 2002 Heiner Thiel and Michael Post are working together on exhibition concepts and art installations in public spaces. Michael Post investigates the phenomena of perception in his objects:My own wall objects visualize the interactions between related surfaces; they are based on precise geometric structures..  He uses steel sheets , which are painted either on both sides or on one side with acrylic paint. They are attached to the wall by means of a magnetic device, so that they protrude out of the wall as a wall relief. The perspective and perception of the artwork changes depending on the viewing angle and the lighting conditions. These interactions are intended: Due to internal surface structures, an overall form is created that differs from the classic image formats and enters into a dialogue with the wall surface on which it is placed.  