The International Association for Feminist Economics (IAFFE) is a non-profit international association dedicated to raising awareness and inquiry of feminist economics. It has approximately six hundred members in sixty-four countries.   The association publishes a quarterly journal entitled Feminist Economics.  Since 1998 IAFFE has held NGO special consultative status.  The organization is made up of 'chapters' which conduct panel meetings alongside the meetings of other economic groups such as, the European Association for Evolutionary and Political Economy (EAEPE) and the American Economic Association (AEA). In 1990 Diana Strassmann organized a panel named, Can feminism find a home in economics? Members of the audience were invited specifically, by Jean Shackelford and April Aerni, to join a start-up network for economists which would be overtly feminist in outlook. In 1992 this network became the International Association for Feminist Economics (IAFFE) with Shackleford becoming their first president.  In 1998 IAFFE was made an NGO with special consultative status to the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations (ECOSOC).  By 2003 IAFFE had more than five hundred members from over thirty countries.  The association's president from 2003 to 2004 was Lourdes Benería. Shahra Razavi paid tribute to Benería in a speech at the IAFFE conference in 2012 describing Benería's work as, "not only empirically grounded and conceptually informed, but also contributing to a feminist critique that is systemic and connected to a broader critique of capitalism".  IAFFE was awarded a grant of $1.5 million in 2010 from the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), to continue their work, including the publication of special issues of Feminist Economics.  Since then the association has gone on to number six hundred members in sixty-four countries.  At the same time as IAFFE was setting up, a separate group of women, including Edith Kuiper, in the Netherlands organized a conference on feminist perspectives on economic theory called Out of the Margins. The conference brought many like minded people together who continued to network with one another and be involved in groups and activism, sometimes involving the IAFFE. (Another small group of Dutch economists founded another organization named FENN, the Feminist Economics Network in the Netherlands). In 1998, at a second Amsterdam conference, arrangements were made to hold the first meeting of IAFFE European chapter.  The first official meeting of IAFFE Europe took place in Brussels in November 1998, there were twenty-five participants from ten countries and, as a result of the meeting, an e-mail list was created. Information about futures sessions and a report of the first meeting was sent to those interested, this led to more IAFFE panels (in 1999 and 2000) being organized for meetings of the European Association for Evolutionary and Political Economy (EAEPE).  The European chapter of IAFFE continued to meet and Ailsa McKay, professor of economics at Glasgow Caledonian University, was its chair until her death in March 2014.  The Out of the Margins conference resulted in a network of contacts being formed, one of these networks gradually became the Australian and New Zealand Association for Feminist Economics (ANZAFFE), a chapter of IAFFE. The chapter includes a small feminist economics group in Wellington, New Zealand led by Prue Hyman.  The American chapter of IAFFE hold sessions at the American Economic Association's (AEA) annual meetings.  IAFFE offer a prize scholarship in memory of former associate editor of Feminist Economics (1994–1998), Rhonda Williams. In 2014 the amount awarded was $1,500 to be given out at their summer conference to allow underrepresented groups in IAFFE attend the conference and present a paper. Award winners must demonstrate a commitment to one or more of the following issues: inequalities; interrelationships (racism, sexism, homophobia, and classism); and connections between scholarship and activism. Funding is provided by both Routledge and, Taylor & Francis.  IAFFE takes part in Allied Social Sciences Association's (ASSA) annual conference every year.  It also has its own annual conferences. This is list of who is sitting on the board of IAFFE.  This is a list of presidents of the IAFFE.  