Project Reason is a U.S. 501(c)(3) foundation whose main aims have been variously described as the promotion of scientific knowledge and secular values in society,     and the encouragement of critical thinking and wise public policy through a variety of interrelated projects.  In 2007, Sam Harris co-founded, alongside his wife, the (501(c)3) non-profit foundation called Project Reason. Harris is also chief executive of this organization. Its website describes itself in the following terms: Project Reason is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit foundation devoted to spreading scientific knowledge and secular values in society. The project will draw on the talents of prominent and creative thinkers from a wide range of disciplines—science, law, literature, entertainment, information technology, etc.—to encourage critical thinking and wise public policy. It will convene conferences, produce films, sponsor scientific research and opinion polls, award grants to other non-profit organizations, and offer material support to religious dissidents and public intellectuals—with the purpose of eroding the influence of dogmatism, superstition and bigotry in the world. The organization maintains several projects, as well as an internet forum, that attempt to debunk religion using empirical and rational critiques. The Scripture Project, undertaken under the mantle of Project Reason, stated the following as its goal: Steve Wells, creator of the Skeptics Annotated Bible, Qur'an, and Book of Mormon has generously donated the full contents of his website to Project Reason. Using this as a foundation, we intend to make the Scripture Project the best source for scriptural criticism on the Internet. Vatican Justice, another project undertaken by Project Reason, has the following as its mission statement:  I would like to announce that Project Reason has joined Hitchens and Dawkins (both of whom sit on our advisory board) in an effort to end the "diplomatic immunity" which the Vatican claims protects the Pope from any responsibility. We would greatly appreciate your support in this cause.  All donations are tax-deductible in the United States. One of the most active sub-projects in Project Reason is the Secular Islam sub-project, with several initiatives falling under it. One project within Secular Islam is titled "Modern Developments in Koranic Criticism: Christmas in the Koran" with the following description: This project is being run by foundation advisor Ibn Warraq and takes as its focus the pioneering work in Syriac and Arabic linguistics of Christof Luxenberg. Luxenberg is a native Arab speaker and linguist, living in the West and writing under a pseudonym. Luxenberg's work has given new impetus to the discipline of Koranic studies, largely by revealing that many acknowledged obscurities in the Koran can be clarified by treating certain passages as a poor translations of Syriac into Arabic. The Secular Islam sub-project supports other projects, such as The Institute for Research on Early Islamic History and the Koran, having funded their conferences in 2008, 2012, and 2014. It pledges collaboration with the Ayaan Hirsi Ali Foundation, supports the Ex-Muslims of North America, and the Quilliam Foundation.  The organization listed three trustees: Sam Harris, Annaka Harris, and Jai Lakshman. Advisory board: 