Old Serbia (Serbian: Стара Србија / Stara Srbija) is a Serbian term  used for the territory which according to some Serbian authors formed the core of medieval Serbia.  It included the regions of Raška, Kosovo and Metohija and the northwestern part of Macedonia.  The Slavic population of this territory was referred to as Old Serbians (Serbian: Старосрбијанци / Starosrbijanci).  Vuk Stefanović Karadžić referred to "Old Serbia" as a territory of the Serb people that was part of medieval Serbia prior to the Ottoman conquest.   The term originated in Serbian common speech and was introduced by the refugees of the Great Serb Migrations  who lived in territories of the Habsburg Monarchy.  It re-emerged in the aspirations of liberating these areas during the time of the Serbian Revolution and would later designate the areas to the south not yet liberated by 1833 and 1878. In May 1877 a delegation of Serbs of Old Serbia presented their request to the government of Serbia to 'liberate' and unite Old Serbia with the Principality of Serbia.  They also informed representatives of the Great Powers and Emperor of Russia about their demands.  In the same year the Committee for the Liberation of Old Serbia and Macedonia was founded.  In the 1877 peace after the Serbian-Turkish Wars (1876-1878), the Serbs hoped to gain the Kosovo Vilayet and Sanjak of Novi Pazar to the Lim river.   However, with the Treaty of Berlin they received full sovereignty and made territorial gains around this time, acquiring the districts of Niš, Pirot, Vranje and Toplica (sr).  In 1913 the Sandžak, Kosovo and Metohija and Vardar Macedonia became part of the Kingdom of Serbia, and subsequently organized into the province (pokrajina) of South Serbia. After the conquest of the area the Serbian government pursued a policy of forced Serbianisation which included systematic repression of pro-Bulgarian activists.   The "Old Serbia" bank opened in Skopje in 1923 to dominate and accelerate the economy of the region.  In Serbian historiography, the First Balkan War (1912-1913) is also known as War for Liberation of Old Serbia.  