Overseas The Serb-Montenegrin community in Albania is estimated to number ca. 2,000 to 30,000 people. In the latest census (2011), citizens had the option to declare as "Montenegrins" (366 did so). The population is concentrated in the region of Vraka. The community is bilingual and by majority adhere to Eastern Orthodoxy, while a minority professes Islam. Most of the community arrived in Albania during the Zogist period and between 1938 and 1948.  The community is commonly known as Serbs-Montenegrins (Srbi-crnogorci), "Serbs" (Srbi) or "Montenegrins" (Crnogorci). It has also been called the Serbo-Montenegrin minority (by the Council of Europe)  or simply Serbo-Montenegrins.  According to the Serbian Ministry of Diaspora in 2009, the most vulnerable minority of Europe were the Serbs in Albania, who since Communist Albania have not had their right to the use of the Serbian language or the religious orientation (Serbian Orthodox). During the rule of Enver Hoxha, they were forced to change names but have not been able to reclaim them. [verification needed] The community lives largely on trade with Montenegro.  In the late 19th and 20th century, of the 600-700 people of the Orthodox faith, some 500-600 were Serbo-Montenegrins living in the city of Shkodër.  The area of Vraka had a population of 600-700 Orthodox Slavophones.  During the first World War occupying Austro-Hungarian forces conducted a census (1916-1918) of parts of Albania they held.  Of the area corresponding to the contemporary wider Shkodër region, settlements that listed Slavophone populations with them had the following ethnic and religious demographics:  Linguists Klaus Steinke and Xhelal Ylli consider the overall census results to be first instance of reliable information on the number of households and inhabitants as well as the ethnic and religious composition of these places.  Both linguists however note that the data for Boriç and Rrash-Kullaj are somewhat unclear as the inhabitants are referred to there as both Albanians and Orthodox.  According to the 1928 population census, there were ca. 65,000 Serbs and Montenegrins in Albania, forming around 8% of Albania's total population and the largest of its minorities.   In the Albanian census of 1989, there was no accurate data about the minority population of Vraka.  The scholar Slobodan Šćepanović for 1991 cited demographics of the Vraka area. Omaraj had 79 households, 67 were Orthodox Montenegrin and 11 Albanian; Gril 85 households, 76 Orthodox Montenegrin and 9 Albanian; Boriç i Vogël 75 households, 67 Orthodox Montenegrin and 8 Albanian; Boriç i Madh had 112 families, 86 Muslim Podgoriçani, 6 Orthodox Montenegrin and 20 Albanian families.  The official statistics of the Albanian government (early 1990s) placed the Montenegrin community at 100, as some Albanian government officials stated that those numbers were accurate due to 700 of them leaving Albania during the democratisation process.  The Association of Montenegrins (AM), a social-cultural organisation founded in Vraka claimed some 1,000 members that represented the interests of a community of 2,500 people located in Shkodër and the surrounding area.  AM during that time urged the Albanian government to recognise the Montenegrin and Serb communities in Albania and allow certain linguistic, education, cultural and other rights.  In 1999 the Helsinki Committee for Human rights in Albania conducted surveys of the Shkoder region and estimated that there were some 1800-2000 Serbian-speakers in the area.  In 2000, the Albanian Helsinki Committee estimated that there were ca. 2,000 "Serb–Montenegrin" people in Albania.  In the mid 2000s, scholar Nikolai Genov estimated the minority community of Vraka to number some 2,000 people.  The Morača-Rozafa Association had 4,000 members in 2009, while President Pavle Brajović claimed a number closer to 30,000.  The 2011 census in Albania was boycotted by the national minorities.  According to the Assembly for the Diaspora, the Serb minority in Albania number ca. 30,000 people.  In Shkodër County, the Vraka region is where most of the community live:  According to a 2003 paper, the Serb-Montenegrin community currently inhabited the following villages near Shkodër: Brodica, Bardoš, Griža, Vraka, Koplik, Puka, Vafa, Kamenica, Omara, Veliki Borič, Mali Borič, Gril, Raš, Stari Štoj, Novi Štoj, Dobrač, Golem, Mušan, Bušat, etc.   Smaller communities live outside northern Albania. Several hundred families live in Durrës and Tirana.  There is a significant minority community of Serbs in the town of Fier and in two nearby settlements of Retli Busha and Hamir that migrated there between the early to mid 20th century.    These communities of the Fier area are either Orthodox (estimated by Serb sources to be some 2,000) or declare as Serbs of the Muslim faith and have local cultural associations that work within the community toward Serbian language revitalization efforts.    During the early 2010s linguists Klaus Steinke and Xhelal Ylli seeking to corroborate villages cited in past literature as being Slavic speaking carried out fieldwork in settlements of the area.  Of the Shkodër area exists seven villages with a Slavophone population that speak a Montenegrin dialect.  With short interruptions, the territory that later became a part of Sanjak of Scutari in the Ottoman Empire, belonged to the Slavic medieval feudal states for many centuries.  The South Slavs ("Sklavenoi") began raiding Byzantine territories in the 520s and had conquered Durrës and most of Epirus and Macedonia in 548. According to Emperor Constantine VII (r. 913–959) the early Serbs lived in the former Roman provinces of Dalmatia, Praevalitana and Moesia. During the rule of Časlav Klonimirović (r. 927-960), most of Albania was part of Bulgaria (eastern) and the Byzantine Empire (Dyrrhachium (theme), western maritime). After the Byzantine annexation of Raška, the Serbian principality of Duklja succeeded as the main Serb state and it included much of the land north of Durrës, with Shkodër being an important city. Khan Samuel of Bulgaria (r. 997–1014) had by 997 conquered all of Thessaly, Epirus, Macedonia, and most of modern Albania.  Jovan Vladimir ruled Duklja during the war between Byzantine Emperor Basil II and Samuel. Vladimir allegedly retreated into Koplik when Samuel invaded Duklja, and was subsequently forced to accept Bulgarian vassalage. Vladimir was later slewn by the Bulgars, and received a cult; Shingjon (the feast of St. Jovan Vladimir), which is celebrated by the Albanian Orthodox Christians.  In 1018 Basil II conquered most of the Balkans and established the Archbishopric of Ohrid for the South Slavs. In the 1030s, Stefan Vojislav expelled the last strategos and defeated the Byzantines (1042), then set up Shkodër (Skadar) as his capital.  Constantine Bodin accepted the crusaders of the Crusade of 1101 in Shkodër. After the dynastic struggles in the 12th century, Shkodër became part of the Nemanjić Zeta province. In 1330 Stefan Uroš III appointed his son Stefan Dušan as the "Young King" and ruler of Zeta seated in Shkodër.  According to the study of a Serbian chrysobull dating 1330, northern Albania was populated by Orthodox Serbs and several town names attest to a prominence of Serbs: Trebo polje, Bajbane, Luzane, Gorane, Buljane etc.  During the fall of the Serbian Empire (14th century), Shkodër was taken by the Balšić family of Zeta who surrendered the city to Venice, in order to form protection zone from the Ottoman Empire. During Venetian rule the city adopted the Statutes of Scutari, a civic law written in Venetian, which also contained Albanian elements such as Besa and Gjakmarrja.   Principality of Zeta, a former Ottoman vassal, lost its status as an independent state and was largely incorporated into the Sanjak of Scutari in 1499.  In 1514, this territory was separated from the Sanjak of Scutari and established as a separate sanjak, under the rule of Skenderbeg Crnojević. When he died in 1528, the Sanjak of Montenegro was reincorporated into the Sanjak of Scutari as a unique administrative unit (vilayet) with certain degree of autonomy.  The first Ottoman censuses (1431, 1467 and 1485) show such substantial presence of Slavic toponyms. In 1582, in Ottoman defter "Tahrir defterleri", most of northern Albania had Serb populations; the Sanjak of Scutari had 81,700 Serbs, while Durrës Sandjak had 8,600 Serbs. [verification needed] In the east of the Shkodra lake there were Serb enclaves, also attested in place-names: Zlogora, Brezje, Grnčar, Podgor, Kosmač, Gradič, Dobre, Trnoslav, Gradec, Rumište, Maličevo, Kosovo, Brdence, Poljičani, Popine, and the village Srbin and city of Šklav.   The 1582—1583 Scutari defter show many nahiyah with a total of 709 villages,  of which the following were located within Albania: Montenegrins and Serbs began migrating to Vraka in the late 17th century. From confirmed documents, one of the first families to inhabit the area of Vraka was in 1705 were the Đurčevići from the village of Momče in Kuči. A certain Jerko Đurčević was the only one from his clan in Vraka to convert to Islam. His descendants later became known as the Jerkovići, who are found in the village of Štoj, near Ulcinj. In 1828, a Serbian school was opened in Shkodra, which Nikola Musulin attended. Vuk Stefanović Karadžić was not certain "how far there are Serbs in Albania and Macedonia".  During the Montenegrin–Ottoman War (1876–78), the Montenegrin army managed to capture certain areas and settlements along the border, and incorporated them into the state such as the town of Podgorica that had a significant Slavic Muslim population.  The Muslim population of Podgorica fled  and Slavic Muslims from the town migrated and resettled in Shkodër city and its environs.   From 1878 onward a small Muslim Montenegrin speaking community living near Shkodër exists and are known as Podgoriçani, due to their origins from Podgorica in Montenegro.   In 1909, the Eparchy of Raška–Prizren had 15 protopresbyteriates, the last of which was Skadar, in which the parishes of:  In the late Ottoman period, the French consul of Shkoder noted the sentiments of the people of Vraka wanting to be united with Montenegro, though this was not achievable due to the distance of Vraka from the then border.  In 1918, besides the Serb Orthodox in Scutari, there were communities in different neighbouring villages such as Vraka, Vramenica, Derigniat, etc., as well as several thousands of Slavic Muslims of Montenegrin and Bosnia-Herzegovina origin.  With the establishment of Yugoslavia, almost all of the ethnic Serbs had been united into one state, except for those scattered in Hungary, Romania and a small number in Albania.  In 1920, the following villages had Serb majority or plurality: "Brch, Basits, Vraka, Sterbets, Kadrum" and farming was the chief occupation.  According to Russian consulate Ivan Yastrebov's estimations published in 1874, there were 80.000 Catholic males, 20.000 Orthodox males, and 9.500 Muslim males in the Sanjak of Scutari. The majority of the population spoke the Albanian language. He asserted that the Orthodox, and a number of Catholics and Muslims spoke the Serbian language.  In 1939 there were ca. 4,000 Serbs west of Ohrid, and several villages were inhabited by Serbian refugees.  According to Jovan Erdeljanović, in his book "Stara Crna Gora",[when?] all descendants of Jovan Martinović, who has been mentioned since 1687, have emigrated to Vraka. In the Zog period, the Yugoslav-Albanian borders offered free movement.  In 1921, Albanian government declared that the Greeks were to be registered as a minority, the Orthodox Serbs however were to register themselves as Albanians (thus becoming nationals of Albania) in a two-year period.  In the Albanian census the Greeks numbered 15,000 while Serbs and Bulgarians numbered 200  families. During the time of 1921-1928 the Serb community in Albania was strengthened through efforts of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, which opened several Serbian private schools in 1923-1924 of which the school of Vrake had 72 pupils in 1930, three schools in Shkodra.  An ethnic Serb football team existed in Shkodra that competed in the Albanian league. Two youth organizations (Guslar and Obilich) existed in Shkodra. The formation of Orthodox Autocephalous Church of Albania weakened the Serbs and Greeks in the country. The active 14 churches and Monastery were slowly closed by the Albanian government.  The Serb school in Vrake was destroyed in 1934.  1928 data shows that Albania had 65,000 (7.83%) Serbs and Montenegrins.  Vraka is known for having been the place where poet Millosh Gjergj Nikolla became teacher on 23 April 1933, and it was in this period that he started to write prose sketches and verses.  Following the liberation of the Balkan states, Serbs from Albania began to migrate to Serbia and Montenegro. A period of migration occurred between 1925 and 1934. This wave marked the return of many Montenegrin families to Montenegro, leaving their homes in Vraka behind. Enver Hoxha decided to destroy the Serbian cemeteries and 2 of the Serb temples.  In 1966, the state abolished religion, and in 1968 the state forced parents to name their children with contemporary and revolutionary (Illyrian) names.  The surnames were forcibly changed by the Albanian government, from Slavic into Albanian ones, as part of Albanianization.  After the 1981 student protest in Kosovo, Albanian Serbs complained on harassment and pressure to leave the country.  In 1990 most of the minority community of Vraka went to Montenegro.  The Morača-Rozafa Association was established in 1992.  During the Yugoslav Wars, there were incidents of violence against the Serb-Montenegrin minority in places like Vraka, Boriç i Vogël and Boriç i Madh, where the Albanian government also tried to forcibly take land from them. The Albanian government also planned to forcibly resettle Serb-Montenegrins and Podgoričani from Boriç i Vogël, Boriç i Madh, Vraka and other places.    Many moved to Serbia and Montenegro and were resettled by the government in Kosovo.   During that time with economic problems and tensions arising in areas of the former Yugoslavia, made some 600 of them return home to Albania.  Another wave came with the Kosovo War. Serb-Montenegrins in Albania are adherents of two rellgions: Eastern Orthodoxy and Sunni Islam. The Serbian minority in Scutari had always celebrated its liturgy in Serbian. The Serbian Metropolitan of Scutari participated in the Albanian Synod.  As part of assimilation politics during the rule of communist regime in Albania, Serb-Montenegrins were not allowed to have Serbian names, especially family names ending with the characteristic suffix "ich".   Many Serbs took simple words as surnames: Druri (drvo, tree), Arra (orah, walnut), Guri (kamen, stone), Hekuri (gvožđe, iron), Qershia (trešnja, cherry), Dritarja (prozor, window).  On the small route from Elbasan to Djuhaze[where?] are the remains of 99 Serbian Orthodox buildings. In Shkodra is the Cathedral of Saint Stephen, in Donja the church of Mother Mary.  Many towns with historical Serb population derive their name from the early Middle Ages when Slavs ruled Albania.  According to Jovan Cvijić (1865–1927) apart from the areas of Vraka having Serbs he claimed that the Elbasan and Korça regions contained Serb populated villages.  Cvijić claimed that Serbs had been "Albanized" in Cermenikë, Bulqizë, Mokër and the Malësi highlands while the greatest concentration of Serbs according to him were Islamised ones located in the Gollobordë region in Albania.  There are accounts that various northern Albanian (Malësor) tribes have connection to Serbs. H. Hecquard,  M. Velimirović,  J. Tomić,  concluded that the Kelmendi ancestor originated in Serb territory. K. Jireček and others concluded based on oral tradition that the ancestor of Kastrati, Krsto, was the son of Grča Nenadin, the ancestor of the Kuči.   In a work of Jovan Cvijić it was recorded that in one of the villages (Kamenicë) of the Kastrati region the majority of the population were Orthodox Serbs.  Cvijić also recorded that the Kastrati themselves have a story about their mixed Serbian-Albanian origin.  According to the founding legend of the Kastrati, 300 houses descend from a Delti or Dedli from Drekalovići of Kuči, while 200 houses descend from Slavs who were living on the territory before arrival of Delti.   The following villages are in whole or part occupied by Orthodox Serbs — Brch, Borich, Basits, Vraka, Sterbets, Kadrum. Farming is the chief occupation. In 1939 there were about 4,000 Serbs west of Ohrid, and a few Montenegrins near Scutari. On the left bank of the Rrjoll, between Prroni i thate and Kir valleys, Vrake and several other villages were inhabited by Serbian refugees and gave  ... 