Haunted highways or roads refer to streets, roads or highways which are the subject of folklore and urban legends, including rumors and reports of ghostly apparitions, ghostly figures, phantom hitchhikers, phantom vehicles, repeating or looping highways, or other paranormal phenomena. Annie's Road in New Jersey is supposedly haunted by the ghost of a woman killed on the road many years ago. It is located in Totowa on the first half of Riverview Drive.  Part of Provincial highway no. 9, Bei Yi Highway connects Taipei and Yilan County. The highway used to be a fatal road in Taiwan due to bad road conditions. Lots of ghost money (joss money) along the highway was a common sight in the past. The ghost money was scattered on the highway to appease the spirits. Recently, the highway becomes the most popular heavy motorcycle route in Taipei and frequent fatal accidents continue to mount.  Belchen Tunnel, Switzerland. Sightings of an old woman dressed all in white who supposedly haunts the tunnel.  Boy Scout Lane, Wisconsin, a dead-end road with no outlet. A number of ghost stories and urban legends have become associated with the road, including the fictional deaths of a troop of Boy Scouts. The area has been the subject of several paranormal investigations, and has been a 'haunt' for local youths. However, there are no records of fatalities or mysterious disappearances on or around Boy Scout Lane. Bray Road of Elkhorn is infamously known for being the home of the Beast of Bray Road. Clinton Road in West Milford, Passaic County, New Jersey, is the subject of local folklore that includes alleged sightings of ghosts, strange creatures and gatherings of witches, Satanists and the Ku Klux Klan. Supposedly, if you go to one of the bridges at the reservoir and throw a penny into the water, within a minute it will be thrown back out to or at you by the ghost of a boy who drowned while swimming below or had fallen in while sitting on the edge of the bridge. In some tellings an apparition is seen; in others the ghost pushes the teller into the water if he or she looks over the side of the bridge in order to save him.  The Devil's Washbowl road in Moretown, Vermont is connected to a tale of pig-human hybrid entity known as the "Pigman".  All these Connecticut roads are connected to legends of Melon Heads, Saw Mill and Velvet are commonly referred to by residents as "Dracula Drive". Jamestown Road in Jamestown, Guilford County, North Carolina, is the subject of local folklore regarding a vanishing hitchhiker known as "Lydia".  Mount Misery Road and Sweet Hollow Road in Huntington, New York are both subjects of local folklore, including but not limited to tales of Mary's Grave (supposedly located on a cemetery on Sweet Hollow Road), a ghostly police officer with the back of his head missing, and ghosts from a burned down mental asylum. A616 road, also called Stockbridge Bypass, connects Newark-on-Trent, Nottinghamshire, to the M1 motorway. During its construction, security staff allegedly reported encounters with a ghostly monk believed to have been from the Hunshelf Priory.  According to legend, phantom hitchhikers have been reported since the 1950s on the A38 road between Wellington and Taunton in Somerset. One tale holds that in 1958 a lorry driver named "Harry (or "Harold" in some tellings) Unsworth" saw a hitchiker he'd given a ride to earlier re-appear miles down the road from where he'd dropped him off.  A75 road - a major road in Scotland from Annan to Gretna Green has been called Scotland's "most haunted road" by some authors.   According to one story, in 1957 a truck driver swerved to avoid a couple walking in the road but when he stopped to investigate the pair had "vanished". Other versions of the stories tell of a couple or group of friends driving down the road at night and are constantly plagued and harassed by shadow figures, from an elderly woman to the back end of a semi truck that they nearly hit before braking only for it to disappear. The section of A3 motorway in Croatia between Staro Petrovo Selo and Nova Gradiška is believed to be haunted due to high number of accidents and paranormal encounters. It is a section where singer Toše Proeski and actress Dolores Lambaša lost their lives.    The E8 Expressway, also known as the Kuala Lumpur–Karak Expressway, is reportedly "one of the most haunted highways in the world",  (though there has been no direct evidence of such manifestations). It is claimed that many people driving late at night see strange creatures, lost schoolboy, and Pontianak on this road. There is also sightings of a driverless yellow Volkswagen Beetle that appears from nowhere  Tuen Mun Road, is reportedly one of most deadliest highway in Hong Kong, local said that the ghost caused by accidents that happened in the highway.  A tunnel located in East Jakarta, Indonesia is one of most haunted tunnel in the country which become famous urban legend among locals, many locals believe the tunnel was once a Japanese era mass graves. Many locals reported saw a ghost of woman crossing the road causing drivers to crash. Cikampek–Purwakarta–Padalarang Toll Road is a toll road in West Java province Indonesia, connecting Purwakarta Regency and Bandung. The accident are quite common the road between kilometer 70 and kilometer 100, especially in kilometer 97, the road known "Jalan Tengkorak" or Skull Road by locals N9 road (South Africa). The road between Uniondale and Willowmore, in the semi-desert area of the Karoo, is the subject of a story of the "Uniondale Phantom Hitchhiker", a girl named "Marie Charlotte Roux" who allegedly died in a road accident on a particular stretch of the N9 on April 12, 1968 (Good Friday).   Ranchi Jamshedpur National Highway 33 in Jharkhand is supposedly haunted because 245 people have died there since 2010.  