New Music Economy is a term describing the emergent social, technical, political and economic context of the creative industries. This shift in context has been fueled by concurrent evolution within an ecosystem of interdependent technologies, institutions, and individuals; the result of which impacts the nature of creative property, identity, production, distribution and imagination.  The term New Music Economy is evolving out of new consumer behavior, methods of promotion and sales. Notable changes in the economic stability of the music industry started in the late 1990s with the advent of P2P file sharing. The Long Tail theory is a benchmark in the music industry for new economic concepts. The nuance of infinite shelf space opened up economic opportunity for independent record labels around the world. The term New Music Economy first emerged in 2007. Music Licensing  Bands, artists & labels are able to utilize music licensing for opportunity. Businesses are legally required to pay for the music they use to promote their product. Music has a positive effect on consumer behavior Co-Marketing  Brands and bands joining together to market their product in sync Branding Bands, artists & record labels using digital tools such as widgets, social networks, avatars, and icons Non Traditional Retail Space Selling music in businesses that don't normally sell music Digital Distribution  (For sale and marketing purposes), including music, merchandise, video, concert tickets Internet Specific Content Creating and using content online to drive fans toward exclusive content of economic value to the band/ artist/ label Fan Artist Relationship Management  Creation, moderation and maintenance of fan groups, fan sites and fan activities which includes exchanges of data ranging from email addresses to shared taste in music. Increased interaction between fans and artists/ bands/ labels with the use of blogs, fan clubs, forums, SMS, geo tagging Quality Control Boutique licensing agencies, promotional companies, licensees, record labels and broadcasters focusing on curation & quality Content Management Systems  Content Management Systems (CMS) for bands, labels & artists, building development platforms for artist content and aggregating data for artist usability Legal Structures  Exploration, interpretation and invocation of music law to accommodate real changes in technology (example: DMCA) Live Performance  Bands & artists utilize new tools to book shows, accrue audiences who will attend shows, communicate tour dates to fans, sell tickets to fans, broadcast performances to fans who are unable to attend, provide attendees with immediate recordings of live performances, perform in creative venues ranging from vineyards (Wente Vineyards) to virtual worlds such as Second Life. Incorporation of Attention Economy Principles in Marketing Strategies Monitoring attention of consumers online with new metrics and measurements of consumption, rating systems and time spent 