Nurse-Family Partnership (NFP) is a non-profit organization operating in the United States which arranges for home visits from registered nurses to low-income first-time mothers.  The visits begin during pregnancy and continue for two years following birth. NFP intervention has been associated with improvements in maternal health, child health, and economic security.  NFP is supported through a combination of individual and foundation/corporation donors. Foundations and corporations that support or have supported NFP include the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation,  Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation,  Robert Wood Johnson Foundation,  W.K. Kellogg Foundation,  Kresge Foundation, Johnson & Johnson, and others. Many of NFP's programs are carried out in conjunction with federal, state, and local governments and are funded through various programs of these governments. Funding sources include Medicaid  and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families. Charity evaluator GiveWell reviewed Nurse-Family Partnership in Fall of 2010.  Until November 2011, Nurse-Family Partnership was rated as the top US charity recommended for GiveWell donors. In November 2011, GiveWell changed NFP’s review to outstanding, because they felt that NFP did not have any short-term need for more funding. Nurse-Family Partnership has received two consecutive, four-star rating from Charity Navigator,  the highest possible rating awarded from the U.S.-based charity evaluator. NFP received a rating of 60.37/70 with a financial rating of 56.98/70 and an accountability rating of 66/70.  The Center for High Impact Philanthropy listed the Nurse-Family Partnership as a high-impact opportunity in its holiday giving guide and elsewhere on its website.    The Coalition for Evidence-Based Policy published a detailed review of the evidence of success of the NFP's programs on its website.  GuideStar,  has awarded the Gold participation level to Nurse-Family Partnership for its commitment to data transparency. Great Nonprofits,  awarded Nurse-Family Partnership the Top-Rated Nonprofit award. Nurse-Family Partnership has been covered in media outlets such as Time, The New York Times,   The New Republic,  The Washington Post,   USA Today,  Daily News (New York),  CBS News  and Dallas Morning News.  Nurse-Family Partnership has received favorable coverage in the blogs and opinion pieces of a number of think tanks including the Center for American Progress  and the Brookings Institution.  NFP has also received favorable coverage in MedPage Today.  In the UK the programme is known as the Family Nurse Partnership and has been backed by the NHS to deliver a service to 16,000 of the most disadvantaged new parents in the country.  