Triple P is a parenting intervention with the main goals of increasing the knowledge, skills, and confidence of parents and reducing the prevalence of mental health, emotional, and behavioral problems in children and adolescents. The program was originally specifically tailored for at risk children and parents, but there are now different levels of Triple P designed to work together as a broad, universal, public health approach.  This program is based on principles of community psychology. Triple P, or the "Positive Parenting Program", was created by Matthew R. Sanders and colleagues, in 2001. at the University of Queensland in Australia and evolved from a small “home-based, individually administered training program for parents of disruptive preschool children” into a comprehensive preventive intervention program (p. 506).  This program was inspired by health promotion programs aimed at impacting people at the population level. The overall goal of the program is to enhance the knowledge, skills, and confidence of parents in order to prevent behavioral, emotional, and developmental problems in children and adolescents.  There are five developmental periods that are targeted from infancy to adolescence. At each developmental period, the range of the program can be either broad and target the entire population or it can be specific and target only at-risk children. The program addresses social contexts that influence parents’ daily life: mass media, primary health care services, child care and school systems, work sites, religious organizations, and the broader political system (p. 507).  The multilevel nature of the program is designed to increase efficiency, minimize costs, and ensure dissemination. The design also maximizes usage of existing community resources.  In addition to the program for younger children (Standard Triple P ), there are versions of Triple P for families with specific needs, including parents of adolescents (Teen Triple P ), parents with a child with a disability (Stepping Stones Triple P ) and parents who are separated or divorced (Family Transitions Triple P).  )    Evidence for the effectiveness of intervention programs can be divided into two types. One type is impact studies where the aim of the evaluation is to demonstrate a statistically significant improvement in outcomes on a population, which can be attributed to the intervention. A second type is qualitative studies which aim to illuminate the mechanisms through which program participants can access the resources and help offered in the program to achieve better outcomes. Nowak and Heinrichs (2008) conducted a meta-analysis that analyzed findings of 55 research studies on the Positive Parenting Program and found reliable positive effects of the program across all settings (initial levels of problems and countries) for child behavior problems, parenting behavior, and parental well-being.  Parents’ relationship quality also significantly improved as a result of the program. The findings were unable to establish whether positive child effects were due to an increase in positive behavior or a decrease in problematic behavior.  According to the authors, the results of the meta-analysis indicated the program’s “ability to effect meaningful improvements in parents and children” (p. 114).  Furthermore, Triple P has also been provided to families in the United Kingdom where neglect is a concern. The findings from this service showed that, on average the children who participated in the evaluation experienced improved emotional and behavioural outcomes. However this positive change could not be attributed to Triple P because a control group had not been established.  Qualitative research studies have also illuminated some of the ways in which programs can help individual parents. An evaluation of the Triple P intervention highlighted how many parents were able to improve the way in which they related to their children after having received advice about how to be clear and boundaried with their children, and in some cases after having tried and seen the effects of such approaches for themselves, first-hand, and often for the first time.   