Global Alliance For Preserving the History of WWII in Asia is a non-profit, non-partisan federation of over 40 grassroots organizations dedicated to the remembrance, redress and reconciliation concerning World War II in Asia, also known as the Pacific War.  It is concerned about crimes committed by the Imperial Japanese Army and issues related to them such as the Nanjing Massacre, Unit 731, Comfort women, Prisoners of War and Forced Labor. It aims to bring together such groups electronically, organizationally, and personally. This federation has become increasingly recognized  as the leading organization safeguarding humanity and international justice with relation to World War II in Asia and the Pacific and its aftermath. It is also the first organization of its kind since previous similar groups were only focused on one or some aspects of the war. Global Alliance's mission focuses on bringing about the proper closure of unresolved issues arising from Japan’s aggression that led to World War II in Asia and the Pacific. It seeks justice for victims through punishment of those criminals that were either never put on trial or set free without fulfilling their sentence. Furthermore, it asks war reparations to be given to such victims that have been neglected for over five decades. Besides reparation and redress, members of Global Alliance seek to preserve and disseminate the true story of the war. Revisionist theories have focused on the denial of such massacres as the Rape of Nanjing, and the actual events that took place during the war are largely unknown in Japan and the West. To address this issue, the organization has worked towards building a memorial museum in the U.S. similar to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum to preserve the truth of atrocities during World War II. Finally, Global Alliance advocates expanded coverage of World War II history in the public school textbooks, and has promoted the inclusion of material on the Asian experience of the war. Prevalent focus has been given to the European experience, which was not the only region suffering large losses during the war. The federation believes that historical truth will bring about justice for victims and safeguard humanity from repeating the mistakes of the past. The following beliefs summarize Global Alliance's ideology:  Based on the premise that the Government of Japan has to honor its post-war responsibilities, Global Alliance demands that through legislation enacted by the Diet of Japan, the Government of Japan must: Global Alliance is open to institutional membership, while individuals can join as non-voting supporters.  A newsletter is published by Global Alliance mostly in Chinese but occasionally in trilingual format (English, Japanese, and Chinese). It aims to enhance communication among the federation's members, to provide a record of all their dedicated work. The newsletter includes  activity reports, essays, research results, personal profiles, news clippings and photos, and other documents which are relevant to Global Alliance's cause. It has over 3000 affiliated organizations, schools, libraries, U.S. government and U.N. agencies. There is no subscription fee for this newsletter, and it is supported through donations and volunteerships. 