 CANZUK refers to the personal union and the proposal for increased ties between the nations of Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom.  These include increased trade, foreign policy co-operation and mobility of citizens between the four nations. The idea is supported by various organisations and think tanks, such as CANZUK International and politicians from the four countries. The term CANZUK was first coined by the author William David McIntyre in his 1967 book Colonies Into Commonwealth in the context of a "CANZUK Union", as an acronym for Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom.  More recently, the term has been adopted by the pressure group CANZUK International, formerly the Commonwealth Freedom of Movement Organisation.  In the wake of the 2016 UK European Union membership referendum and the decision made by the UK to leave the European Union, writers such as Andrew Lilico and James C. Bennett, along with academics such as the historian Andrew Roberts have advocated that Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom merge and form a new entity in international politics.   Andrew Roberts suggested that such a bloc could slot into the international order as a third pillar of the west (alongside the United States and the European Union). Beyond this, Roberts argues that due to its territorial scale, geographic scope and advanced economy that it would qualify as a "great power" and potentially a "global power" (or emerging superpower).  Some advocates such as Roberts favour a federal or confederal union. Others, such as Lilico describe the objective as being the creation of a "geopolitical partnership" akin to the European Economic Community.  In the version favoured by Lilico, by the advocacy group CANZUK international and by the Canadian Conservative Party, the proposal would involve the creation of a free-movement zone, a multilateral free trade agreement and a security partnership. The more general concept of deepening trade ties (with or without a multilateral agreement) has many advocates, including figures such as former Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott,  Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau  and British Prime Minister Theresa May.  Other supporters of easier immigration have included Boris Johnson who has made that case for some years.  Canada, Australia and New Zealand are former colonies of the British Empire where people of British ethnic origin came to constitute the majority of the population.  Today, the four CANZUK countries maintain a close affinity of cultural, diplomatic and military ties to one another as a result of this. Outside of the United Kingdom and its Overseas Territories, the largest proportions of people of self-identified ethnic British descent in the world are found in New Zealand (58%),  Australia (43%)  and Canada (32%),  followed by a considerably smaller minority in the United States (12%).  In homage to this, the Australian and New Zealand flags contain the flag of the United Kingdom in their canton, and the UK flag is one of two official flags of Canada. Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom are also Commonwealth countries which share Elizabeth II as constitutional monarch and head of state.  The countries share a number of institutional, linguistic and religious similarities such as the use of the Westminster parliamentary system of government, Common Law, British English terminology and the adoption of secular Christian values.  The CANZUK countries form part of the English-speaking world and share a number of Anglosphere military initiatives with each other including Five Eyes intelligence, ABCANZ Armies and AUSCANNZUKUS, which are concerned with increased military and naval cooperation. Canada and the United Kingdom are allied through the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation while Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom are allied through the Five Power Defence Arrangements. Public relations are extremely warm between the four countries, with consistent evidence that people in Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom regard each other's countries as their country's closest friends and allies in the world.     Below is a table comparing the CANZUK countries.  Data is for 2017. (billions USD)  (USD) (billions USD)  per capita (USD) Index (2018)  Several organisations have been set up that promote, to varying degrees, much closer associations between the CANZUK nations. CANZUK International has, as its stated aim, the desire to establish an area of freedom of movement akin to that which existed before the European Communities Act 1972, or as a mirror to the rights of free movement as seen within the Trans-Tasman Travel Arrangement.  Other organisations are largely voluntary groupings of those who advocate the more specific idea of transnational union, such as "CANZUK Uniting".  In August 2017, Liberal Senator for Victoria, James Paterson, published an opinion-piece in the Australian Financial Review declaring support for CANZUK free trade and free movement, stating "With Australia, New Zealand, and Canada all lining up to sign post-Brexit trade agreements with the UK, we have an opportunity to push for a wide-ranging agreement between all four Commonwealth nations...It's an idea whose time has come."  In February 2017, Canadian Member of Parliament Erin O'Toole adopted CANZUK free trade and free movement as part of his campaign platform for leader of the Canadian Conservative Party.  In a campaign video with Skinner filmed in Vancouver, O'Toole described the CANZUK initiative as "a no brainer", stating that Canada already offers free trade and free mobility with citizens of the United States, and should therefore offer such benefits to "our other closest allies".  In March 2017, the leader of the Conservative Party of Canada Andrew Scheer stated his support for a CANZUK free trade deal at a leadership debate in Vancouver, British Columbia. Scheer stated: "I very much support a trade deal with those countries. Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom have a similar basis of law, they have a common democratic system, they have the same types of legislation and regulations around investment and trade. Those are the types of things we don't enjoy with China". [better source needed] On 18 May 2017, Canadian member of parliament Michael Chong declared support for post-Brexit free movement between the CANZUK countries, saying it was "a good idea to explore a new trade deal with Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom, particularly in light of the Brexit vote".  The main opposition party of Canada, the Conservative Party, adopted CANZUK as official party policy at their 2018 party convention by 215 votes to 7.   In New Zealand, ACT New Zealand has expressed support for a "free-movement zone", with leader David Seymour stating, "Successful nations like Britain and New Zealand shouldn't be putting up walls and shutting off from each other when it's the exchange of ideas that has made our nations so prosperous. Brexit provides new options as Britain pivots away from European immigration. Let's approach Britain with a proposal for a two-way free movement agreement".  In April 2018 Simon Bridges MP, Opposition leader in New Zealand, announced his support for CANZUK.  In November 2014, then Mayor of London  Boris Johnson expressed support for establishing "mobility zones" between Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom, stating "The UK, Australia, Canada and New Zealand share the same head of state, the same language and the same common-law legal system. Critically, they are all highly economically developed democracies and there is also a distinct common culture and familial bond between them".  Although the UK is in the process of leaving the EU, trade agreements between the UK and other CANZUK countries are not legally credible until the UK's departure.  Critics such as Nick Cohen have suggested that CANZUK is a 'fantasy' and that the project would not make sense as a geopolitical construct in the 21st Century, here he emphasises the gradual separation that has occurred between each of the states in both legal and political culture since the end of the British Empire.  It has been argued that geographical separation limits the value of any such union, in keeping with the mainstream economic opinion that considers the 'distance and the size of trading partners matter more than historical links in determining trading relationships between countries'.  An editorial in Canada's The Globe and Mail, which described CANZUK as "a silly name", pointed out that those Commonwealth countries with which advocates of Brexit were most enamoured were "ex-Dominions where white people predominate", and that even if it were broadened to include populous countries like Nigeria and India, the group had "nowhere near the latent appetite for trade with Britain that would make the scheme credible".  In academia, Duncan Bell criticises contemporary 'Anglospheric discourse' and concludes that modern political commentary is 'a pale imitation of previous iterations' lacking broad spectrum support across the political left-right dichotomy.  Public opinion polling conducted by YouGov in 2015 found that 58% of British people would support freedom of movement and work between the citizens of the United Kingdom and the citizens of Canada, Australia and New Zealand, with 19% opposed to the idea and 23% undecided, with support for the proposals in all four countries of the United Kingdom.  The research also found that British people valued free mobility between the UK and Canada, Australia and New Zealand more than they valued free mobility between the UK and EU at 46% to 35%.  Opinion poll surveys commissioned by the Royal Commonwealth Society in 2016 found that 70% of Australians said they were supportive of the proposal, with 10% opposed to it; 75% of Canadians said they supported the idea and 15% were opposed to it and 82% of New Zealanders stated that they supported the idea, with 10% opposed.  All of the respective provinces, states and territories of Canada, Australia and New Zealand registered majority support for the proposals.  Further polling of 2,000 people conducted in January 2017 found support for free movement of people and goods with certain limitations on citizens claiming tax-funded payments on entry across the UK, Canada, Australia and New Zealand to be 64% in the UK, 72% in Australia, 77% in Canada and 81% in New Zealand, with undecideds included.   Opinion polling of 13,600 respondents from Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom conducted between January and March 2018 found increased support for reciprocal free trade and movement between the countries when compared to 2017, with support at 68% in the UK (up 4%); 73% in Australia (up 1%); 76% in Canada (down 1%) and 82% in New Zealand (up 1%).  The opinion polling indicated greater support for the proposals in the North and South Islands of New Zealand at 83% and 81% support respectively; British Columbia and Ontario in Canada at 82% and 80% support respectively; and New South Wales and Victoria in Australia at 79% support each, while lesser support was observed in the province of Quebec in Canada at 63% support; Northern Ireland and Scotland in the UK at 64% and 66% support respectively; and Western Australia at 65% support.  