The Irish border question is a controversy about the impact that Britain's withdrawal from the European Union will have on the border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, in particular the impact it may have on the economy and people of the island were customs or immigration checks to be put in place at the border. The UK voted to leave the European Union in a referendum on 23 June 2016 which would effectively make the Republic of Ireland-Northern Ireland border an external EU border. All parties have stated that they want to avoid a hard border in Ireland particularly due to the sensitive nature of the border.  The UK and the Republic of Ireland are both members of the European Union, and therefore both are in the Customs Union and the Single Market, and will remain so until March 2019. There is freedom of movement for all EU nationals within the Common Travel Area between the UK and Northern Ireland and there are no customs or fixed immigration controls at the border. Following Brexit, the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland will become an external EU border.  It is feared that a "hard" border will return, with fewer, controlled, crossing posts and a customs infrastructure.  This would be a return to the position before both states joined the EU with the additional point that, unless the Free Travel Area is maintained, passport checks may also be required. Both the EU and the UK have agreed this would be a poor outcome to be avoided if possible. Since the 1998 Good Friday Agreement the border has been essentially invisible.  The Good Friday Agreement has the status of both an international treaty between the UK and Ireland as well as an agreement of the parties within Northern Ireland.  George Mitchell, an architect of the Good Friday Agreement, has warned that creating a border control system between Ireland and Northern Ireland could jeopardise the Good Friday Agreement.  In its white paper on Brexit, the United Kingdom government reiterated its commitment to the Good Friday Agreement. With regard to Northern Ireland's status, it said that the UK Government's "clearly-stated preference is to retain Northern Ireland's current constitutional position: as part of the UK, but with strong links to Ireland".  The British government have said that Brexit will not mean a return of the hard border.   According to statements by Theresa May and Enda Kenny, it is intended to maintain this arrangement after the United Kingdom leaves the EU.  A joint plan to allow British immigration controls to be applied at Irish ports and airports  was abandoned  in March 2017 after meeting opposition from Irish political parties  There have been worries among Unionists that the Irish government's position is a covert attempt to gain more power over the province in order to eventually unite Northern Ireland with the Republic,  a position the Irish government has denied.  A referendum on the reunification of Ireland was suggested by Sinn Féin leader Martin McGuinness immediately after the UK EU referendum results were announced.  In April 2017 the European Council agreed that, in the event of Irish reunification, Northern Ireland could rejoin the EU.  Joachim Pfeiffer, an influential MP for the governing German CDU party, believes border controls and customs checkpoints could be avoided, if United Kingdom were to perform some major concession such as to accept the four basic freedoms or to find a special solution for Northern Ireland,  but that Ireland would have the "hardest border" in the event of a No deal Brexit.  In the withdrawal negotiations the Irish border has been set as one of the three most important areas to resolve before moving to negotiations on the future economic relationship, along with British financial contributions to the EU and the rights of EU citizens in the UK. The Irish and UK governments, as well as EU representatives, have stated that they do not wish for a hard border in Ireland, taking into account the historical and social "sensitivities" that permeate the island.   In September 2016 the British Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union, David Davis, stated that the UK government would not seek a return to a "hard border" between the UK and Republic of Ireland.  Michel Barnier, the EU chief negotiator, has indicated that he would look to the United Kingdom and Ireland for "solutions" to threats posed to Ireland's trading links, the common travel area, and the Good Friday Agreement.  Denying UK media reports that Ireland expects the effective border to become the Irish Sea, Irish Minister for Foreign Affairs Simon Coveney said that "the onus was on British officials to come up with an imaginative solution but [the Irish Government] would not support a proposal which would see a hard border return on Ireland".  Some Brexit negotiation papers suggest that deciding the arrangements for the Irish border is the responsibility of the UK.  In order to keep a friction-less border, the European Union proposed a "backstop agreement" within the Withdrawal Agreement called the Northern Ireland Protocol. This would only come into force if there were no other solutions at the time, and it aimed to bring Northern Ireland under a range of EU rules in order to forestall the need for border checks.  Although the British government agreed with the principle of such a backstop at the December 2017 meeting,  it rejected the legal text prepared by Barnier's office because it created a legal and regulatory barrier between Northern Ireland and Great Britain.  The British side hopes to achieve an agreement that applies equally to the whole of the UK, thus avoiding any need for Northern Ireland to be treated differently.  In 1922 the Irish Free State seceded from the United Kingdom while Northern Ireland chose to remain in the UK and the border between the two entities became an international frontier. Trade in goods and services across this frontier became subject to differing tax and tariff arrangements and an infrastructure of Customs posts was put in place at designated crossing areas. All traffic was subject to inspection by the jurisdiction it was passing in to. This could entail full vehicle searches with consequent delay and inconvenience. However passport checks were not applied as the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland were part of the Common Travel Area.  In 1922 the newly established Irish Free State entered into a Common Travel Area together with the United Kingdom.  This meant that passport checks were not applied as the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland and  predates the freedom of movement provisions arising from membership of the EU, which to some degree superseded it. In 2011, the British and Irish Governments agreed informally to continue their common controls on entry to the CTA [for non-EEA nationals].  In September 2018, the British government guaranteed that free movement of EU citizens across the UK–Ireland border would continue.  It has been suggested that the Norwegian model might be used.  Along the Norway–Sweden border, major road crossings have customs control where all lorries are checked, but cars only occasionally, and on minor border crossings there is only video surveillance where lorries can pass with permission and pre-clearance.  John Major has argued that Brexit might lead to a hard border since the European Union and the UK need to control their borders for customs purposes.  The European Research Group faction of the Conservative Party believes that the UK might have the choice between not controlling its border if VAT is not enforced, or controlling the border in order to apply possible VAT on imported goods post-brexit.   Cooperation exists between the UK and Ireland on health matters, including the mutual recognition of qualifications. The Northern Ireland branch of the British Medical Association warned that a hard border "could risk patient care".  The CEO of Cooperation and Working Together, a body that organises cross-border cooperation in health matters, suggested that the Norwegian model might be used.  Along the Norway–Sweden border and other Nordic borders there is some cooperation on ambulance and helicopter pickup and on child birth clinics and some more, but otherwise health care is separated. 