   Legislation European Parliament Elections The meaningful vote is the common name given to Section 13  of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 "[UK] Parliamentary approval of the outcome of negotiations with the EU" (full text of section). It is a requirement that the government of the United Kingdom bring forward an amendable parliamentary motion at the end of the Article 50 negotiations between the government and the European Union.  The wording of the clause[note 1] was strongly contested by both the House of Commons and the House of Lords with the Lords proposing an amendment to the bill giving further powers to parliament. When the bill returned to the Commons the Conservative government offered concessions and the Lords proposed amendment was defeated. The bill was then passed into law on 26 June 2018.  Following the UK's decision to leave the European Union, the result of a referendum, 23 June 2016, the UK government invoked Article 50 of the Treaty on the European Union. The UK is thus due to leave the EU at 11 pm on 29 March 2019 UTC.  British businesswoman, Gina  Miller, took the government to court to challenge its authority to implement to invoke Article 50 without reference to Parliament. On 3 November 2016, the High Court of Justice ruled in favour of Miller in the case R (Miller and Dos Santos) v Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union.   In January 2017 the Conservative Prime Minister Theresa May announced, "I can confirm today that the Government will put the final deal that is agreed between the UK and the EU to a vote in both Houses of Parliament, before it comes into force."   As a result, on 13 July 2017, David Davis, the Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union, introduced the bill in the Commons, including the following clause 9 statement: As a government bill, this first reading was pro forma, with the first debate taking place on the second reading.  On 18 April 2017 the May announced a snap a general election 8 June 2017,  with the aim of strengthening her hand in Brexit negotiations.  This resulted in a hung parliament, in which the number of Conservative seats fell from 330 to 317, despite the party winning their highest vote share since 1983, prompting her to broker a confidence and supply deal with the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) to support a minority government. In July 2017 David Jones, Minister of State for Exiting the European Union, told the Commons he expected the parliamentary vote on the Brexit deal with the EU to happen "before the European Parliament debates and votes on the final agreement." Asked to clarify what would happen if MPs and members of the House of Lords decide they don’t like the deal, Jones said "the vote will be either to accept the deal. Or there will be no deal."  However, at Exiting the European Union Select Committee meeting in October Labour MP Seema Malhotra asked Davis, "The vote of our parliament, the UK parliament, could be after March 2019?",[note 2] to which Davis replied, "Yes, it could be."  This drew criticism from Labour opposition MPs and some Conservative MPs.   In December 2017 pressure grew on the government to amend clause 9 so that parliament would have approval of the final terms of the withdrawal deal between the UK and the EU prior to 29 March 2019, the date set for the UK's departure from the EU. Conservative MP Dominic Grieve advised the government to amend the clause themselves or he would table his own amendment to the bill.  Grieve duly tabled his amendment to the bill (Amendment 7) requiring any Brexit deal to be enacted by statute, rather than implemented by government order.  Clause 9 was then introduced to the house as (Grieve's additions, amendment 7, in italics): In the weekend prior to the Commons the leaders of the all-party parliamentary group on EU relations signed a statement saying, "Members of all parties have already provided valuable scrutiny to the EU (Withdrawal) bill, and we have forced the government into some concessions. But little of that will matter unless we can have a truly meaningful vote on the withdrawal agreement the government negotiates with the European Union."   On the morning of 13 December 2017 Davis issued a written statement saying, "In the UK, the Government has committed to hold a vote on the final deal in Parliament as soon as possible after the negotiations have concluded. This vote will take the form of a resolution in both Houses of Parliament and will cover both the Withdrawal Agreement and the terms for our future relationship."  Later in the afternoon, at Prime Minister's Questions, the Conservative MP Anna Soubry requested that May accept Grieve's amendment, "The Prime Minister says that she wants a meaningful vote on Brexit before we leave the European Union. Even at this last moment, will she be so good as to accept my right hon. and learned Friend’s [Grieve's] amendment 7, in the spirit of unity for everybody here and in the country?"  However, May rejected the idea saying, "We were very clear that we will not commence any statutory instruments until that meaningful vote has taken place, but as currently drafted [Grieve's draft] what the amendment says is that we should not put any of those arrangements and statutory instruments into place until the withdrawal agreement and implementation Bill has reached the statute book. That could be at a very late stage in the proceedings, which could mean we are not able to have the orderly and smooth exit from the European Union that we wish to have."   That evening Grieve's amendment was passed by 309 votes to 305 votes - a majority of 4,   representing a defeat for the government.   There were 12 Conservative MPs who voted against the government: Grieve, Soubry, Heidi Allen, Kenneth Clarke, Jonathan Djanogly, Stephen Hammond, Oliver Heald, Nicky Morgan, Bob Neill, Antoinette Sandbach, John Stevenson and Sarah Wollaston.  A month earlier all but Stevenson were pictured along with fellow Conservative MPs Vicky Ford, Jeremy Lefroy, Paul Masterton and Tom Tugendhat on the front page of the Daily Telegraph describing them as "The Brexit Mutineers".  At the House of Lords Report Stage in April 2018, Viscount Hailsham  introduced a new clause as follows: The amendment with the new clause was passed by Lords by 335 to 244 – a majority of 91, which represented a further defeat for the government.   The new wording would have given MPs the power to stop the UK from leaving the EU without a deal, or to make Theresa May return to negotiations.  The government rejected the proposal by the Lords that would give the Commons the power to decide the next steps for the government if the EU deal is rejected by parliament.   Labour MP Keir Starmer urged Conservative MPs who want Britain to remain in the EU to vote with Labour in favour of the Lords amendment when the bill returned to the Commons,   and former Labour Prime Minister Gordon Brown suggested that May could be replaced by a new Tory Prime Minister if she lost the vote.  However prominent Tory remainer Amber Rudd urged her party’s MPs to back the government in the vote.  The process of parliamentary ping-pong then took place between 12 June and 20 June 2018.   The night before bill was due back before the Commons, 11 June 2018, Dominic Grieve tabled a last minute alternative amendment. The Lords amendment would prevent a 'no deal' with the EU scenario, MPs and Lords could tell May to go back to negotiating table and get something better, for example. Grieve's amendment also tackles the 'no deal' scenario but it sets dates for May to come back to parliament and set out the government's intentions in the event of a no deal and gain parliamentary approval for those plans.  Grieve's amendment: On the morning of the vote, 12 June 2018, the government rejected the alternative amendment by Grieve. This set the scene for disagreement during the Commons debate about whether or not parliament should have a say in the event of the UK leaving the EU without a deal.   The morning also saw Phillip Lee's surprise resignation as a junior Tory minister saying, "If, in the future, I am to look my children in the eye and honestly say that I did my best for them I cannot, in all good conscience, support how our country’s current exit from the EU looks set to be delivered."  As the debate went on the government gave assurances to potential Tory rebels that they would address their concerns in a new amendment for the Lords to consider. The concession offered by ministers is believed to include offering a new parliamentary motion if the Brexit deal is voted down by MPs and peers,  this would open the door to MPs taking control of the negotiations if ministers fail to strike a deal in Brussels.  The concession by the government meant that the government won 324 votes to 298 - a majority of 26.   On BBC's Newsnight Grieve said that May must honour "assurances" she's given that Parliament will get a bigger say on any final Brexit deal.   However there is disagreement among Tories over what had been agreed with Anna Soubry MP saying that, "the PM said yesterday that clause c of Dominic Grieves amendment would be discussed as part of the new amendment to be tabled in the Lords",  and Stephen Hammond MP writing, "Parliament must be able to have its say in a "no deal" situation and we made this point very strongly today to the Government. The Government has conceded this point and I expect to see a new amendment to cover this situation soon."  A spokesperson for Downing Street claimed that the prime minister had agreed only to ongoing discussions and Davis’s Brexit department issued a statement which read: "We have not, and will not, agree to the House of Commons binding the Government’s hands in the negotiations."  Tory MP Andrew Bridgen said that "Tory Remainers supportive of Grieve's amendment to the Brexit bill of deliberatively attempting to stop the UK leaving the EU completely."  Speaking the day after the vote in the Commons at Prime Minister's Questions, May said, "We have seen concerns raised about the role of Parliament in relation to the Brexit process. What I agreed yesterday is that, as the Bill goes back to the Lords, we will have further discussions with colleagues over those concerns. This morning, I have agreed with the Brexit Secretary that we will bring forward an amendment in the Lords, and there are a number of things that will guide our approach in doing so... As my right hon. Friend the Brexit Secretary made clear in the House yesterday, the Government’s hand in the negotiations cannot be tied by Parliament, but the Government must be accountable to Parliament. Government determines policy, and we then need parliamentary support to be able to implement that policy.  Commenting the BBC's Laura Kuenssberg said that, "The risk is that appears as double dealing."  On the evening of 14 June 2018 the government published its compromise amendment:  As of  15 June 2018[update] rebel Tory MPs were reportedly still unhappy with the amendment as it only allows the Commons "a motion in neutral terms" (5C)(b)(i). Grieve had originally wanted the amendment to say that the government must seek the approval of Parliament for its course of action - and that ministers must be directed by MPs and peers.   On the evening of 14 June 2018 Viscount Hailsham, who proposed the original amendment on the meaningful vote, re-tabled Grieve’s amendment under his own name in the Lords in full.   Speaking on the Sunday Politics programme, ahead of the amendment returning to the Lords, Grieve said, "The alternative is that we've all got to sign up to a slavery clause now saying, 'Whatever the government does when it comes to January, however potentially catastrophic it might be for my constituents and my country, I'm signing in blood now that I will follow over the edge of the cliff', and that, I can tell you, I am not prepared to do." In response the Solicitor General, Robert Buckland Conservative MP, speaking on the same programme said, "If you were Michel Barnier and you were looking into the negotiation and looking into the future, it gives him a bit of a trump card to play when he knows that whatever the UK government might be saying to him now, he knows that at the end of it there's a third-party in this relationship, namely parliament, who are going to get involved and trump whatever the UK government say. Now that's not a good place for David Davis to be in. David Davis needs to be able to go out there and have a firm negotiating hand..."  On 18 June Lord Hailsham's amendment was passed by the Lords, a defeat for the government by 354 votes to 235 - a majority of 119.   When the bill returned to the Commons on 20 June the government offered further concessions. The concessions meant that the government won by 319 votes to 303 - a majority of 16.   Grieve said afterwards: "We’ve managed to reach a compromise without breaking the government – and I think some people don’t realise we were getting quite close to that. I completely respect the view of my colleagues who disagree, but if we can compromise we can achieve more."  13  Parliamentary approval of the outcome of negotiations with the EU  