Diseases of affluence is a term sometimes given to selected diseases and other health conditions which are commonly thought to be a result of increasing wealth in a society.   Also referred to as the "Western disease" paradigm, these diseases are in contrast to so-called "diseases of poverty", which largely result from and contribute to human impoverishment. The modern diet and sedentary lifestyle is argued to be the blame for current levels of obesity,  cardiovascular disease,  high blood pressure,  type 2 diabetes,  osteoporosis,  colorectal cancer,  acne,  gout,   depression, and diseases related to vitamin and mineral deficiencies.  These diseases of affluence have vastly increased in prevalence since the end of World War II. Examples of diseases of affluence include mostly chronic non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and other physical health conditions for which personal lifestyles and societal conditions associated with economic development are believed to be an important risk factor — such as type 2 diabetes, asthma,  coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, obesity, hypertension, cancer, alcoholism, gout, and some types of allergy.    They may also be considered to include depression and other mental health conditions associated with increased social isolation and lower levels of psychological well being observed in many developed countries.   Many of these conditions are interrelated, for example obesity is thought to be a partial cause of many other illnesses.  In contrast, the diseases of poverty tend to be largely infectious diseases,  or the result of poor living conditions.  These include tuberculosis, asthma, and intestinal diseases.   Increasingly, research is finding that diseases thought to be diseases of affluence also appear in large part in the poor.  These diseases include obesity and cardiovascular disease and, coupled with infectious diseases, these further increase global health inequalities.  Diseases of affluence are predicted to become more prevalent in developing countries as diseases of poverty decline, longevity increases, and lifestyles change.   In 2008, nearly 80% of deaths due to NCDs — including heart disease, strokes, chronic lung diseases, cancers and diabetes — occurred in low- and middle-income countries.  Factors associated with the increase of these conditions and illnesses appear to be things that are a direct result of technological advances. They include: General: 