Pneumatosis (pneumat- + -osis) or emphysema is the abnormal presence of air or other gas within tissues. In the lungs, emphysema involves enlargement of the distal airspaces,  and is a major feature of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Pneumoperitoneum (or peritoneal emphysema) is air or gas in the abdominal cavity, and is most commonly caused by a perforated abdominal viscus, Pneumatosis is also a frequent result of surgery. Pulmonary emphysema is a nonuniform enlargement of the distal airspaces with destruction of the acini of the alveoli, loss of lung elasticity, and (in itself) absence of any fibrotic changes.  It is a typical feature of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), a type of obstructive lung disease characterized by long-term breathing problems and poor airflow.   Even without COPD, the finding of pulmonary emphysema on chest CT confers a higher mortality in tobacco smokers.  Pulmonary interstitial emphysema (PIE) is a collection of air outside of the normal air space of the pulmonary alveoli, found instead inside the connective tissue of the peribronchovascular sheaths, interlobular septa, and visceral pleura. Congenital lobar emphysema (CLE), also known as congenital lobar overinflation and infantile lobar emphysema,  is a neonatal condition associated with enlarged air spaces in the lungs of newborn children. It is diagnosed around the time of birth or in the first 6 months of life, occurring more often in boys than girls. CLE affects the upper lung lobes more than the lower lobes, and the left lung more often than the right lung. Although CLE may be caused by abnormal development of airways (bronchi, for example) or compression of airways by nearby tissues, no cause is identified in half of cases.  Pneumarthrosis is the presence of air in a joint. Its presentation on radiography is often a vacuum cleft sign or vacuum phenomenon, which is a radiolucent cleft.  Pneumarthrosis is a common normal finding in shoulders  as well as in sternoclavicular joints.  It is believed to be a cause of the sounds of joint cracking.  It is also a common normal postoperative finding at least in spinal surgery.  In fact, pneumarthrosis is extremely rare in conjunction with fluid or pus in a joint, and its presence can therefore practically exclude infection.  X-ray of a hip with prosthesis and pneumarthrosis, in this case aseptic. A vacuum sign is a normal finding on shoulder X-rays. Pneumarthrosis is associated with osteoarthritis and spondylosis.  