  Elizabeth Margaret Farrelly is a Sydney-based author, architecture critic, essayist, columnist and speaker who was born in New Zealand but later became an Australian citizen. She has contributed to current debates about aesthetics, ethics, design, public art, architecture, urban environments, society and politics, including criticism of the treatment of Julian Assange.    Farrelly's range of interests and contributions are wide enough to have caused her to be described as a "Renaissance woman".  Farrelly's portrait by Mirra Whale was a finalist in the 2015 Archibald Prize at the Art Gallery of New South Wales.  Farrelly was born in Dunedin, New Zealand and trained as an architect in Auckland. She left New Zealand in 1983 for London, moved to Sydney in October 1988 and became an Australian citizen in 1991. She holds a PhD in architecture from the University of Sydney. Farrelly has taught at the University of New South Wales where she is Associate Professor (Practice) in the UNSW Graduate School of Urbanism; the University of Technology, Sydney, where she was Adjunct Associate Professor of Architecture; the University of Auckland; the Royal College of Art, London; the Humberside Polytechnic and the Architectural Association School of Architecture, London. Farrelly has set writing for Wikipedia as a task for post-graduate students, and has commented that its demand for every input to be traceable and published, enables "genuine crowd-sourcing of scholarship" and is both "a revelation and a revolution".  Farrelly practised as an architect in London until 1988, working at Pollard Thomas and Edwards Architects, London; at JASMaD Architects, Auckland; and Warren and Mahoney, Christchurch. She was the inaugural chair of the Australia Award for Urban Design, an award "established to recognise recent urban design projects of high quality in Australia and to encourage cities, towns and emerging settlements of all sizes to strive similarly for improvement".  and served as a juror for design awards such as Parramatta Design Excellence Awards and the Royal Australian Institute of Architects Awards. Elizabeth Farrelly served as an independent Councillor of the City of Sydney from 1991 to 1995. Farrelly was assistant editor of and contributor to the Architectural Review, London from 1985 to 1987 and a contributor to other professional publications such as The Architecture Bulletin; Architecture Australia; Architectural Theory Review; Architects' Journal; New Zealand Architect; and Queensland Architect.  She writes a weekly column and regular essays for The Sydney Morning Herald, one of which, on "the destructive myth of professionalism", was among the editor's best comment pieces of 2015.   Her blogs are available at www.leflaneur.mobi. Farrelly was a panellist at the University of Sydney's Sesquicentenary Colloquium Dinner on 12 October 2002, where her topic was Dreaming Spires: Architecture and the learning game  and an invited speaker at the Art Gallery of New South Wales Art After Hours program. In 2014, she was the keynote speaker at the Green Buildings Conference in Pretoria, South Africa and also delivered the year's final Utzon lecture at the University of New South Wales, which explored the relationship between ethics and aesthetics in architecture.   