The 2018 education workers' strikes in the United States began on February 22, 2018, after local activists dragged the West Virginia state leadership of the West Virginia branches of the American Federation of Teachers and the National Education Association into holding a strike vote. The strike—which ended when teachers returned to their classrooms on March 7—inspired similar, statewide strikes in Oklahoma and Arizona. It also inspired smaller-scale protests by school staff in Kentucky, North Carolina, Colorado, and led to a school bus driver strike in Georgia. Additionally, around this time, adjunct professors at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, Virginia protested over pay. Motivations for the strikes include low wages for teachers and support staff, inadequate school budgets, overcrowded classrooms, and other  problems. The strikes varied in their levels of success, with West Virginia considered mostly successful, where Oklahoman teachers received relatively few concessions. Discussions of a strike in West Virginia began in early 2018. In the first week of February, teachers staged "walk-ins" at schools and some protested at the West Virginia Capitol.  The strike proved successful, and inspired those in other states to strike as well.   In early April, Oklahoma became the second state to strike, making it the first time a teacher's strike was held in the state since 1990.  The strike lasted for 10 days, from April 2-12, after teacher salaries were increased by $6,000 and support staff salaries were increased by $1,250.  In late April, teachers in Arizona and in Colorado went on strike. The Colorado strike began on April 27 and is currently ongoing.  In May 2018, it was reported that teachers in North Carolina could be next to strike, making it the fifth state to have a teachers' strike.  This was due to the state being ranked 41st in the nation in salaries for teachers, and per pupil spending at negative 12 percent.  Further, it was reported that teachers in North Carolina have seen a five percent decrease in salaries since 2008. Furthermore, teachers hired after January 1, 2021, will not receive health benefits, along with teachers having to pay $10,000 per year in out of pocket health insurance.  Because of a majority of the strikes being in predominantly Republican Party-controlled, conservative states,  the strikes have been referred to as the "Red State Revolt".    This has prompted several Republican politicians to concede to their demands, in the run-up to the 2018 mid-term elections.  Universally, demands included raising pay.   In Oklahoma and West Virginia, respectively sources of oil and coal, demands included  financing the increased spending on education through taxation focused on these industries.    