The Daurian forest steppe ecoregion (WWF ID:PA0804) is a band of grassland, shrub terrain, and mixed forests in northeast Mongolia and the region of Siberia, Russia that follows the course of the Onon River and Ulz River. The region has been described as a “sea of grass that forms the best and most intact example of an undisturbed steppe ecosystem and is also one of the last areas in the Palearctic that still supports stable herds of larger vertebrates” in a semi-mountainous area. The area also has flat wetlands that are important to migratory birds. The ecoregion is in the Palearctic ecozone, with a Cold semi-arid climate climate. It covers 209,012 km2 (80,700 sq mi).  The ecoregion circles around half of the Khentii Mountains, then stretches over 1,000 kilometers east of Ulan Bator into northeasteastern Mongolia through the semi-arid region south and east of Chita, Zabaykalsky Krai, Russia. A prominent feature is the Onon River flowing east through mid-sized mountains (1,400 - 1,800 meters in height) to the Amur River.   Because of its altitude and distance from the ocean, the ecoregion has a Subarctic climate (Köppen climate classification Dwc). This indicates a continental climate characterized by short, cool summers, and very cold, long winters, with wide differences between day and night temperatures. This region is also heavily influenced by the high barometric pressures over Mongolia. Mean temperatures range from -30° C (January) to +24° C (August). Average annual precipitation is 150 mm. The steppe lands of the ecoregion are characterized by sedges (family Carex) and grasses (family Poaceae, forming meadow steppe, herbs steppe and sandy saltmarsh steppe. Along the lake shores are salt-loving plants and reed beds. The forests of the area are mostly Asian black birch (Betula dahurica), Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris), and Siberian larch (Larix sibirica). Aspen groves are found in some mountain areas. Herds of Mongolian Gazelle (Procapra gutturosa) roam the grasslands of the region, which is at the northern edge of their territory. The broken terrain of mountains and ravines support small mammals, including the Lesser white-toothed shrew (Crocidura sauveolens), Eurasian harvest mouse (Micromys minutus), and Maximowicz's vole (Microtus maximowiczii). Predators include the wolf, polecat, Eurasion badger, and Pallas's cat (Otocolobus manul). The federally protected areas in the region are: 