Dr. Angeline Stoll Lillard is a Professor of Psychology at the University of Virginia. She is the Director of the Early Development Laboratory,  one of four Child Development laboratories in the Psychology Department at the University. Dr. Lillard is an expert in Montessori education and the author of Montessori: The Science Behind the Genius,  which is in its third edition and was awarded the Cognitive Development Society Book Award  in 2006. Her other areas of expertise are pretend play, and more generally, how participating in fictional worlds influences people. Lillard is a Fellow of both the Association for Psychological Science and the American Psychological Association, and was awarded both the latter's Boyd McCandliss Young Scientist and Outstanding Dissertation (Developmental Psychology) Awards. Her research has been funded by federal and foundation sources. Dr. Lillard is author of Montessori: The Science Behind the Genius, 3rd edition. Her scientific work has appeared in journals such as Developmental Psychology and Cognitive Development, and has been featured in outlets such as The Washington Post, Forbes, and Slate. As an undergraduate, Lillard attended Smith College where she earned a Bachelor's of Arts in English Literature. After receiving her undergraduate degree, Lillard worked briefly as a Technical Writer for the Fortune Systems Corporation (1983-1985). In 1991, Lillard finished her Ph.D in Psychology from Stanford University. She was awarded the American Psychological Association Outstanding Dissertation Award in 1992.  Dr. Lillard's, primary research interests include pretend play and Montessori education. She is also interested in the development of theory of mind, children's executive function, children and media, neuroplasticity, contemplative practices, and culture and development. Dr. Lillard has received numerous awards and honors, including the National Science Foundation Research Highlights (2012); the James McKeen Cattell Sabbatical Fellow, (2005–2006); the Life Academy Fellow (Max Planck-Berlin, Universities of Michigan, Virginia, Zurich, Humboldt, and Freie University-Berlin) in 2005; the British Psychological Society Visiting Fellow (2003); and the University of Virginia Teaching Fellow (1999–2000). In addition to the above mention awards, in 2011, Lillard was made a Fellow  of the American Psychological Association in recognition of her outstanding contributions in the field of psychology. In 2006, Lillard was awarded the Cognitive Development Society Book Award for her book Montessori: The Science Behind the Genius. In 1999, Lillard received the American Psychological Association Boyd McCandless Young Scientist Award which recognizes young scientists who make distinguished contributions to the field of developmental psychology. Montessori: The Science Behind the Genius, 3rd edition (2017). Her book is currently being translated into multiple languages, such as Chinese, Vietnamese, French and Turkish. This book presents Montessori’s theoretical principles, the scientific research that has followed them, and how they are implemented in a Montessori classroom. Montessori: The Science Behind the Genius received the Cognitive Development Society Book Award in 2006 2013 