Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions is an annual congress held in Astana, Kazakhstan. On Sept. 23 and 24, 2003, Astana hosted the first Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions.  The congress was attended by 17 delegations from 23 countries.  The forum focused mainly on countering terrorism and extremism issues.  According to Nursultan Nazarbayev, in order to overcome current challenges and threats like violence, religious extremism and terrorism, it is necessary to establish and promote a dialogue between leaders of world and traditional religions, based on trust and mutual understanding. This helps to strengthen the international community as a whole . The respectable politicians of the world, such as K.Annan , G.Bush , M. Thatcher , Jiang Zemin , N. Mandela , Valéry Giscard d'Estaing , M. Gorbachev  and other representatives of different countries supported the initiative to create and hold the Congress. On Sept. 12 and 13, 2006, Astana hosted the second Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, which was attended by delegations from 29 countries.  The congress was held in a new building designed for the event, the Palace of Peace and Accord.  The central topic of discussion was “Religion, Society and International Security.”   The congress was recognized in the Congressional Record by Congressman Ben Chandler of Kentucky who called Kazakhstan "a model of religious diversity."  As a result of the forum, a joint Declaration was adopted  calling on representatives of all religions to resolve conflict situations through peaceful dialogue. On July 1–2, 2009, Astana hosted the third Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions.  About 400 delegates representing 77 delegations from 35 countries attended the event.  A central theme of the congress was “The role of religious leaders in building a world based on tolerance, mutual respect and cooperation.”  The 4th Congress took place in Astana on May 30–31, 2012.  85 delegations from 40 countries attended the congress with the central theme being “Peace and Harmony as the Choice of Mankind.”  Within the framework of this forum, the first meeting of the Council of Religious Leaders was held, whose activities are aimed at determining the mechanisms of interaction with other foreign organizations in the cultural and economic spheres . Astana hosted the 5th Congress on June 10–11, 2015. The theme of the event was "Dialogue of Religious Leaders and Politicians in the Name of Peace and Development".  During the Congress, Kazakhstan President Nursultan Nazarbayev met with UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and Jordan's King Abdullah II.  80 delegations from 42 countries attended the event.  