 Rita Clay Estrada (born July 31, 1941, in Michigan, US) is a US writer of romance novels as Rita Clay, Tira Lacy and Rita Clay Estrada, she has also written non-fiction books about writing romance novels. She was the first president of the Romance Writers of America, and founding member with her mother Rita Gallagher. Born Rita Clay on July 31, 1941, in Michigan, US.  Her mother, Rita Gallagher, was a former Miss Michigan, a romance novelist and a noted writing instructor, while her father was a pilot with the U.S. Air Force.  She spent much of her early years living in Europe.  She married her high school sweetheart when she was very young and stayed at home to raise their four children.  In 1977, when she had been married about 20 years, her husband brought her a typewriter and said, "'You said you always wanted to write.  Now write.'"  Her first attempt was a long historical romance which was promptly rejected.  Her next manuscript, a contemporary romance, was likewise rejected.  Her third manuscript, Wanderer's Dream, sold to Silhouette Books.  She used her maiden name, Rita Clay for that and an additional seven titles for Silhouette.  In 1982, she moved to Dell to write for their Candlelight Ecstasy line.  Harlequin owned her pen name, so she wrote as Tira Lacy, an anagram of Rita Clay.  In 1985 she re-signed with Harlequin and asked to use her full name, Rita Clay Estrada, on all future books.  She generally takes 4.5 months to write a novel.  Except for punctuation and fact-checking, she does very little rewriting, as "that's why there are editors."  Generally, she writes five pages each night and more on the weekends.  Her novels have been translated in 23 languages.  Estrada was a founding member and the first president of the Romance Writers of America (RWA).  Their signature award, the RITA, which is the highest award of excellence given in the genre of romantic fiction, is named for her.  The RWA also awarded Estrada their Lifetime Achievement Award in 2000.  She and her husband are divorced.  