  The Association of Secondary Teachers, Ireland (ASTI) is a trade union for secondary school teachers in Ireland.  It is a member of the Irish Congress of Trade Unions. The union represents 18,000 teachers schools throughout Ireland attended by 80% of all second-level students.  The ASTI represents teachers on educational issues and working conditions.  The objects and aims of the ASTI are:  The ASTI acts as a professional advocate for second level teachers, offers legal protection to its members, campaigns for improved working conditions and ensures continuing professional development for teachers providing research facility for teachers where necessary. The association will also provide a team of experienced industrial relations negotiators to assist teachers facing difficulties at school. The ASTI set up a Credit Union in  1984. The ASTI began life on Saint Patrick's Day, 1909, in Cork, Ireland, at a meeting called by teachers of St. Colman's College, Fermoy. There had been an Irish National Teachers Organisation (INTO) since 1868 and they had been successful in gaining better working conditions and pay for their members. At the time conditions for secondary teachers were very poor with men earning about £80 a year and women a little over half that. One of the aims of the association was to raise the status of teachers in the community.  The main force behind the formation of the union was Patrick Kennedy, born in Cloughjordan, an inspirational teacher in St Colman's. Founding members included such national figures as Easter Rising leader Thomas MacDonagh, whose godfather was Kennedy's father and who was a close friend; and the future Taoiseach and President of Ireland Éamon de Valera. In 1911 the decision was taken to establish a women's section within the ASTI, which was named the Women Teachers' Association (WTA). The role and social acceptance of women teachers changed dramatically from a place where women secondary teachers had to retire on marriage to a place where women became president of the union. The history of the union is documented in the book Unlikely Radicals.  The organisation struggled with the development of education, the role of the church and the changes in state which occurred while trying to reach out to educate as much of the population as possible. The General Secretary represents the interests of the members of the union on topics such as their salary, conditions of employment and education at a national and international level. The General Secretary manages the daily business of the ASTI and ensures that ASTI policy is appropriately carried out. This post is not elected annually but rather is appointed as a full-time position. Kieran Mulvey was the General secretary of the ASTI from 1980 until he was replaced by Charlie Lennon in 1991.  On Lennon's retirement in 2004 John White became acting General Secretary of the ASTI and was appointed in 2005.  Pat King replaced White in September 2010.  Kieran Christie is currently the General Secretary of the ASTI as of 1 January 2016  The president of the union is elected at the annual convention and takes office on 1 August of that year. Unlike the General Secretary the President is always a teacher and takes a leave of absence from their teaching role for the duration of their term.  