The Canadian Bureau for International Education (CBIE) is an education service provider based in Ottawa, Ontario. CBIE's pan-Canadian membership comprises 150 colleges, institutes, universities, school boards and language schools, which enroll over 1.2 million students from coast to coast. Since 1966, CBIE has supported, designed and implemented over 100 projects worldwide, in 60 countries and 17 languages, valued at $2 billion. CBIE is a trusted partner of the Canadian government, playing a consultative role in the development of Canada's International education strategy. CBIE has been responsible for mobilizing over 35,000 students, professional and academic faculty through the management of Canadian and internationally sponsored scholarship programs. Since 2005, CBIE has organized over 80  training courses or study tours across Canada for international delegations of students, faculty, institution administrators, government officials and private investors. As Canada's knowledge hub in Canadian international education, CBIE publishes research and provides insight into the international education sector for thought-leaders, international education practitioners and policy-makers. Each year CBIE hosts an annual conference on trends in international education. This annual event attracts 800+ participants, 40+ exhibitors and renowned thought leaders from all over the world. It offers opportunities for new professionals, education practitioners, decision-makers and strategists to discuss the latest trends, knowledge and tools in the sector. 2016 marks CBIE's 50th anniversary conference, Internationalization for All with a spotlight on Internationalization at Home. CBIE's core services include: international scholarship management, international tours, professional development and training, international and offshore school expertise, research and international technical assistance project management. CBIE manages and administers scholarships on behalf of Canadian government departments, private and public sector organizations and partner governments across the world. CBIE is currently managing the following scholarship programs: CBIE has extensive experience and expertise in the design, delivery, implementation and evaluation of technical training and capacity building programs across a range of sectors, including governance, civil society development, educational reform, and teaching for employment. CBIE is currently implementing the following Project: In September 2016, CBIE launched the International Students and Immigration Education Program (ISIEP), an online education program addressing advising needs vis-à-vis immigration policy and practice. It is designed for International Student Advisers (ISAs) and other professionals either working or aspiring to work in the education sector in Canada whose responsibilities include offering immigration advice to students. The program prepares ISAs working at educational institutions across Canada for the entry-to-practice exam to become Regulated International Student Immigration Advisers (RISIAs). In addition to online learning courses, CBIE offers custom training, seminars, webinars and resources that improve your capacity, develop policy and shape practice. For over 25 years, CBIE has conducted research on international education in Canada and from a Canadian perspective to meet the needs of its members, as well as public and private sector partners. Gathering data and providing insight into Canada's international education sector is one of CBIE's core activities. Our research is impactful, informative, responsive, relevant and current. CBIE's featured report on the state of international education in Canada is "A World of Learning: Canada’s Performance and Potential in International Education." 1940's CBIE dates back to the 1940s and was founded in the postwar years under the banner: Friendly Relations with Overseas Students (FROS) by a group of inspired students at the University of Toronto, among them Prof. Thomas H.B. Symons, founding President of Trent University, and Dr. Alan Earp, former President of Brock University. 1960's FROS existed to give attention to international students in Canadian university communities, numbered at around 8,000-10,000. 1964 Canadian Service for Overseas Students and Trainees (CSOST) evolved out of FROS to promote more systematic services on a national basis, thus the inception of CBIE. 1966 August 1966- CBIE Incorporation- Signatories to our letters patent: James A. Gibson, Jean-Charles Bouffard, Grace Maynard, Pierre Meunier, E. Clifford Knowles, John B. Thomas, Andrew Stewart, Douglas Mayer, Patrick Kenniff, Robert L. Dunsmore, Robert Murray MacDonald, Hugh G. Christie, Jacques Garneau, Mohammed Jeeroburkhan, Katherine D. Riddell, Helen Hnatyshyn, Gabrielle Einsle and Robert J. Torrance. Mohammed Jeeroburkhan, Katherine D. Riddell, Helen Hnatyshyn, Gabrielle Einsle and Robert J. Torrance. 1975-1990 Throughout the Lebanese civil war, CBIE worked with the Hariri Foundation to educate hundreds of Lebanese of all religious backgrounds. 1976 Education Canada is absorbed by CBIE, adding a new dimension – educational exchanges within Canada and internationally. 1978 CBIE begins management of the Nigeria-Canada Technical Education Program which over the next several years brings over 1,000 Nigerians to study at Canadian colleges. 1979 The council of Second Languages Programs in Canada is founded under CBIE sponsorship. CBIE supported the first certificate program for international educators in Canada in the 1980s, at the University of British Columbia, which continues today. 1980 CBIE led the first Canadian mission in Iran following the Revolution — promoting people-to-people relationships through education — leading to a major investment by Iran in a scholarship program in Canada. 1981 CBIE generated debate on campus with our study The Right Mix, discussing the need to aim for diversity in our international student population through recruitment and enrollments. 1988 CBIE conducted Canada's first national survey of international student satisfaction, which led to improvements in international student employment opportunities and enhanced services on campus and from government. 1989 CBIE's advocacy on behalf of Chinese students in Canada affected by events at Tiananmen Square led the federal government to establish the Chinese Student Emergency Service, implemented by CBIE. From that time forward, emergency mobilization on behalf of international students in need was established as a national responsibility. 1992+ With the support of the Canadian government, CBIE has enjoyed the longest uninterrupted technical assistance presence of any Canadian organization in Ukraine (including 18 technical assistance projects totalling over $80 million CAD) involving collaboration with government at central, regional and local levels, non-governmental organizations, civil society organizations, and policy think tanks, academic institutions, as well as the private sector. 1994 CBIE advised on the creation of the Advisory Committee on International Students and Immigration (ACISI) by the Canadian government. 1996-1998 A series of discussions on trilateral partnerships take place including CBIE, institutions and organizations across Canada the USA and Mexico. The Program for North American Mobility in Higher Education is created and CONAHEC founded (need to spell out the acronym) 2010 CBIE was selected to manage the Libyan scholarship program for North America. CBIE urged the establishment of the Canadian Consortium for International Education Marketing, launched in June, comprising CBIE, ACCC, Universities Canada, caps-i and Languages Canada 2012 CBIE welcomed the administration Ciência sem Fronteiras scholarship program funded by the Brazilian government.  Its main goal is to promote the consolidation and expansion of science, technology and innovation in Brazil by means of international exchange and mobility. CBIE publishes its first Flagship Report: A World of Learning 2014 CBIE adopts a Statement of Principles in Internationalization developed by CBIE's Internationalization Leaders Network. 2015 CBIE  launches Canada's Education Abroad Lexicon, developed through a consultative process led by CBIE's Education Abroad Advisory Committee (EAAC). 2016 Launch of  International Students & Immigration Education Program  (ISIEP). CBIE Turns 50! www.cbie.ca www.cbieconference.ca  http://cbie.ca/timeline/