The New Zealand Chinese Students’ Association (NZCSA) is an incorporated student society that aims to serve the Chinese students in New Zealand, promoting the Chinese Culture and act as a bridge between the Chinese student community and the local mainstream community.  Starting in 1996, NZCSA began its life as a student initiative to connect the Chinese students in New Zealand who shared the same vision, providing them with a chance to expand their capabilities as well as associate with like-minded young leaders. Since then, NZCSA has gone from strength to strength becoming the largest Chinese student organisation while establishing itself as a reputable entity in the local business community. NZCSA sees around 800 new members each year and currently has a committee of 65 students. It holds over 4000 members in the member database as means of advertising to and bringing influence for its own values and business opportunities. NZCSA has a strong presence across multiple channels including Wechat, Sina Weibo, Facebook and Skykiwi forums. NZCSA hosts a range of events from The NZCSA Ski Trips to "Xue-Tang" Exam Tutorials. Its major annual events attract over 100 participants with advertisements covering entire city campus of University of Auckland (“UoA”), while its co-operating business partners (around 60) and the partnership Chinese student organisations in all major tertiary institutes. On top of NZCSA’s events, there are also joint events it holds with ASIA - an alliance of all Asian student organisations in the University of Auckland, such as the Grande Royale Ball and the Halloween Party. NZCSA also has strong relationships with media companies and holds industrial and professional contacts with production companies.  The vision of NZCSA is to establish a strong network of the Chinese students and Alumni to serve the Chinese student community, build industrial contacts and promote Chinese culture. To serve the Chinese Students in Auckland, New Zealand and to provide support to them including providing working experiences and a wide array of events. 1. To act as the bridge between local political, business and education sectors and the local Chinese Students. 2. To promote Chinese culture to the local society. The constitution has been approved by committee with an overall rate of 86.86 per cent of committee members on 5 May 2015, 71 committee members attended, 542 votes counted against 8 modules. The Committee of NZCSA consists of 5 departments, 115 positions. The Presidium of NZCSA consists of 1 President and 2 Vice Presidents. The Executive Group of NZCSA consists of 1 President, 2 Vice Presidents, 1 Treasurer, 1 Director of Business Development, 1 Director of Human Resources, 1 Director of Marketing, 1 Director of Operations, 1 Director of Alumni Relations.  