  The Humanities Advanced Technology and Information Institute (HATII) was a research and teaching institute at the University of Glasgow in Scotland. It was established in 1997 to enhance Glasgow’s reputation as a centre of excellence in Humanities Computing and Information Studies with Professor Seamus Ross as its Founding Director (until 2009). HATII led innovative research in archival and library science and in information/knowledge management with emphasis on their impact on the growth of the creative industries. Recognised and pioneering research strengths were in the areas of humanities computing, digitisation, digital curation and preservation, and archives and records management. Members of HATII, most of whom had day-to-day experience mediating information in a variety of formats, led research under the broad headings of access and re-usability, content analysis and appraisal, evaluation and impact technologies, and preservation/curation. HATII was home to or partner in range of national and international research initiatives, including AHDS Performing Arts, 3D-COFORM (Tools and Expertise for 3D Collection Formation),   SHAMAN (Sustaining Heritage Access through Multivalent ArchiviNg),  DigiCULT,  CASPAR (Cultural, Artistic and Scientific knowledge Preservation,for Access and Retrieval),  DELOS Digital Library Network of Excellence Preservation Cluster,  Planets (Preservation and Long-term Access to our Cultural and Scientific Heritage),  Primarily History, Mapping the Practice and Profession of Sculpture in Britain and Ireland 1851-1951 and TheGlasgowStory. In addition to its contributions to these research projects, its groundbreaking initiative Electronic Research Preservation and Access NETwork (ERPANET) had a broad impact on developing the preservation research community ethos in Europe.   It was followed by Digital Preservation Europe|DigitalPreservationEurope (DPE)  which produced such research outputs as DRAMBORA and PLATTER, experimented with animation as a mechanism for dissemination of scholarship.  HATII was a founding partner of the UK's Digital Curation Centre (DCC)in 2004.  Information about scholarship conducted at HATII is available in Research Assessment Exercise submissions for RAE2001  and RAE2008.   Crucial in its development was its transition from an early research emphasis on tools and services as seen in its 2001 RAE submission to a focus on fundamental research and theory (evident in its RAE2008 submission) in such areas as investigations of the cultural production and the creation and communication of knowledge in the arts, humanities and cultural heritage, materiality of the digital, knowledge representation and dissemination, records and recordkeeping practices, data and digital curation, genre studies,  digitiality in museums, and more recently games studies. Between 1997 and when it launched its first degree programs in the early 2000s HATII pioneered teaching in such domains as Multimedia (from 1997), Digitisation (from 1998), and Cyberspace Studies (from 2000). HATII founded the UK's first postgraduate program in digital preservation/curation as an MSc Information Management and Preservation in 2001. In 2003 building on its record of undergraduate teaching it launched a joint honours MA in Arts and Media Informatics which eventually became a single honours MA in Digital Media and Information Studies.   Both the undergraduate MA and the MSc are accredited CILIP (Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals)  and the MSc is also accredited by the UK Archives and Records Association. In 2010 HATII established an MSc program in Museum Studies. After twenty years HATII became, in September 2017, Information Studies. 