 ABCya.com, L.L.C. (also stylized as ABCya!) is a website that provides educational games and activities for school-aged children. The games on the website are organized into grade levels from pre-kindergarten to fifth grade, as well as into subject categories such as letters, numbers, and holidays. Additionally, many of the games meet standards associated with the Common Core State Standards Initiative.  ABCya.com was founded in 2004 by Alan Tortolani,  a public school teacher whose school district did not have any additional funding to purchase new software for his computer lab. Alan decided to take matters into his own hands and created his own activities for his students. Later, other teachers in Alan’s school were asking where they could access the activities, so he decided to register a domain and ABCya.com was born. Tortolani chose this particular domain name “ABCya” to make it accessible to children and easy to type into a web browser.  As of April 2016, ABCya.com reaches on average 13.2 million unique visitors on a monthly basis and has grown to become the second largest web property in comScore’s Family Youth and Education category. Additionally, ABCya.com is ranked a Top 20 Publisher in the iOS App Store’s Education Category and a Top 25 Publisher in their Kids Category.  In April 2017, Lisa Tortolani took over as Chief Executive Officer.   ABCya.com has developed and published many apps for iPhone and iPad including: Math Bingo allows children to practice their math facts by answering simple math questions and selecting the correct answer in the bingo grid. It has been featured in The New York Times,  O'Reilly Media’s Best iPads Apps book,  Scholastic Parent & Child,  Disney Family Fun Magazine,  2014 Apps for iPad & iPhone,  and iPhone App Directory.  "Create a car" allows children to use their imagination to create the car of the their dreams. This app has been featured in 101 Top iPad Apps for Kids: Educational & Fun,  The 2011 iPad Handbook,  and iPad for Beginners.  A list of applications released to the iTunes App Store is as follows:  