Ethnopluralism or ethno-pluralism is a hypothetical far right and neo-fascist-associated model where self-governing regions divided by ethnicity would be established.   Proponents describe it as an alternative to multiculturalism that would attempt to prevent cultural assimilation and cultural homogenization.   The movement is closely associated with the Nouvelle Droite and French academic Alain de Benoist.  Ethnopluralism has been proposed by some in the radical right as a means to facilitate nationalism.  Implementing this policy would require ethnic cleansing to establish separate territories for different ethnic groups.  Ethnopluralism emphasizes the separation of varying ethnic and cultural groups, in contrast to cultural integration and intra-cultural diversity. It has been part of the ideological foundation of the European New Right, which has used ethnopluralism to express its favoritism towards the cultural identity of individual groups, thus expressing its opposition to heterogeneity within states.  These views of culture, ethnicity and race have become popular among several right-wing and far-right groups in Europe since the 1970s, and has been covered in some postmodern left sources (i.e. Telos) also.  Ethnopluralists use the concept of cultural differentialism to assert a "right to difference" to propose regional policies of ethnic and racial separatism. Among ethnopluralists there is no agreed upon definition of group membership, nor where these hypothetical borders would lie. Some ethnopluralists advocate limiting Europe to "true Europeans", while others propose much smaller divisions, similar to an ethnically-based communitarianism. While some ethnopluralists would allow European Muslims to remain in Europe, Jews and Romani are typically rejected by ethnopluralists.  French Nouvelle Droite philosopher Alain de Benoist claims that indigenous cultures in Europe are being threatened, and that pan-European nationalism based on ethnopluralism would stop this process.  Benoist has proposed ethnic and social territories be as small as possible, such that Muslims would be allowed ghettos in Europe subordinate to sharia.  According to ethnomusicologist Benjamin R. Teitelbaum, the term "ethnopluralism" was first coined by German sociologist Henning Eichberg in an essay that was written in opposition to both Western and European eurocentrism.  