The Klencke Atlas, first published in 1660, is one of the world's largest atlases.  It is 1.75 metres tall (about 5 ft, 9in) by 1.9 metres wide when open (about 6 ft, 3in),  and so heavy the British Library reportedly had six people to carry it.  It is a world atlas, made up of 41 copperplate wall maps with each being extraordinary rare and in exceptionally good condition.  The maps were intended to be removed and displayed on the wall.  The maps are of the continents and assorted European states  and it was said to encompass all the geographical knowledge of the time.  Dutch Prince John Maurice of Nassau is credited with its creation,  and it contains engravings by artists Blaeu and Hondius and others.  It was presented by a consortium of Dutch sugar merchants, represented by Professor Johannes Klencke,   to King Charles II of England in 1660 to mark the occasion of his restoration to the throne.  The consortium hoped to gain favourable trade agreements with Britain for their sugar plantations in Brazil.  Johannes Klencke was the son of a Dutch merchant family. Charles, a map enthusiast, kept it in the 'Cabinet and Closset of rarities' in Whitehall.  In 1828, King George IV gave it to the British Museum as part of a larger gift of maps and atlases collected by his father George III.   In the 1950s it was re-bound and restored.  Today it is held by the Antiquarian Mapping division of the British Library in London.  Since 1998 it was displayed at the entrance lobby of the maps reading room.  In April 2010 it was publicly displayed for the first time in 350 years with pages open,  at an exhibition at the British Library.   Up until 2012 the Klencke Atlas was widely regarded as the world's largest atlas,  a record it probably held since the atlas was created 350 years earlier.  In February 2012, Australian publisher Gordon Cheers published a new atlas called Earth Platinum that is bigger by about a foot making it probably the largest atlas in the world; 31 copies were made priced at US$100,000 each.   In 2017, the British Museum digitized the atlas and made it available online.  A video of the digitization process was also made available.  