The Diary of Anne Frank is a stage adaptation of the book The Diary of a Young Girl by Anne Frank. It premiered at the Cort Theatre in 1955. The play is a  dramatization by Frances Goodrich and Albert Hackett, and opened at the Cort Theatre on Broadway on October 5, 1955. The play was produced by Kermit Bloomgarden and directed by Garson Kanin, with scenic design by Boris Aronson and lighting design by Lee Watson. The cast was led by Joseph Schildkraut as Otto Frank, Susan Strasberg as  Anne Frank, David Levin as Peter van Daan, Gusti Huber as Edith Frank, Jack Gilford as Mr. Dussel, Dennie Moore as Mrs. Van Daan, and Lou Jacobi as Mr. Van Daan. The play transferred to the Ambassador Theatre on February 1957, and closed there on June 22 after 717 performances.  The play then traveled the United States with the original cast, save for Millie Perkins playing Anne Frank. The play opened simultaneously in seven German cities on October 1, 1956. Upon its opening in Amsterdam on November 27, 1956, Queen Juliana was in attendance. The play received the Tony Award for Best Play and was also nominated for Best Actress (Susan Strasberg), Best Scenic Design (Boris Aronson), Best Costume Design (Helene Pons), Best Director (Garson Kanin). The play also received the Pulitzer Prize for Drama for Albert Hackett and Frances Goodrich. Susan Strasberg won the 1956 Theatre World Award. The play also received the 1956 New York Drama Critics Circle award for best play. The Diary of Anne Frank was presented on June 1997, in a revision of the Goodrich and Hackett adaptation by Wendy Kesselman, directed by James Lapine. Otto Frank was played by George Hearn, Anne by Natalie Portman, Mrs. Van Daan by Linda Lavin, Mr. Van Daan by Harris Yulin and Edith Frank by Sophie Hayden. The play previewed in Boston in the Colonial Theatre  before opening at Manhattan's Music Box Theatre in December 1997. The production received two nominations for 1998 Tony Award for Best Revival of a Play and for Best featured actress (Linda Lavin). It also received two Drama Desk nominations, for Outstanding Featured Actor (Harris Yulin) and Outstanding Featured Actress (Linda Lavin). The play has been performed by amateur and professional companies round the world. 