In pragmatics (a sub-field of linguistics), a hedge is a mitigating word, sound or construction used to lessen the impact of an utterance due to constraints on the interaction between the speaker and addressee, such as politeness, softening the blow, avoiding the appearance of bragging and others. Typically, they are adjectives or adverbs, but can also consist of clauses such as one use of tag questions. It could be regarded as a form of euphemism. Hedges are considered in linguistics to be tools of epistemic modality; allowing the speaker to signal his or her degree of confidence in a connected assertion.  Hedges are also used to distinguish items into multiple categories, where items can be in a certain category to an extent.  Hedges may take the form of many different parts of speech, for example:  In some cases, "I don't know" functions as a prepositioned hedge—a forward-looking stance marker displaying that the speaker is not fully committed to what follows in their turn of talk Hedges may intentionally or unintentionally be employed in both spoken and written language since they are crucially important in communication. Hedges help speakers and writers indicate more precisely how the cooperative principle (expectations of quantity, quality, manner, and relevance) is observed in assessments .  For example,Hedges are used as a tool of communication and are found in all of the world's languages . Examples of hedges in languages besides English are as follow: Fuzzy language means that it is unclear or vague. Hedges can make sentences fuzzy or less fuzzy. Hedges in fuzzy language can be used to create sarcasm to make sentences more vague in written form. Hedging can be used as an evasive tool. This can be used when expectations are not met or people avoid answering a question. This can be shown below:  1.  A: What did you think of Steve?  B: As far as I can tell, he seems like a good guy.  2.  A: What did you think about Erica's  presentation  B: I mean, it wasn't the best. Hedges can also be used to politely give commands and requests to others.  