  This is a timeline of Indian history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in India and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of India.  See also the list of Governors-General of India, list of Prime Ministers of India and Years in India.  Madrasian Culture sites have been found in Attirampakkam (Attrambakkam=13° 13' 50", 79° 53' 20"), which is located near Chennai (formerly known as Madras), Tamil Nadu.  Thereafter, tools related to this culture have been found at various other locations in this region. Bifacial handaxes and cleavers are typical assemblages recovered of this culture.  Flake tools, microliths and other chopping tools have also been found. Most of these tools were composed of the metamorphic rock quartzite.  The stone tool artifacts in this assemblage have been identified as a part of the second inter-pluvial period in India.  Evidence for presence of Hominins with Acheulean technology 150,000–100,000 BCE in Tamil Nadu.  Technology similar to contemporary artifacts found used by Homo sapiens in Africa found in  Jwalapuram around 74000 BCE.  Paleolithic industries in South India Tamil Nadu 30,000 BCE   The ancient history of the region includes some of South Asia's oldest settlements  and some of its major civilisations.   Over the course of next 1000–1500 years, inhabitants of the Civilization developed new techniques in handicraft (carnelian products, seal carving) and metallurgy (copper, bronze, lead, and tin) had elaborate urban planning, baked brick houses, efficient drainage systems, water supply systems, and clusters of large non-residential buildings.  The civilization depended significantly on trade, was the first civilization to use wheeled transport in form of bullock carts, and also used boats.   Pallavas became a major power during the reign of Mahendravarman I (571 – 630 CE)  Maratha Empire reaches its zenith. Establishment of Hindu College (Presidency College, now Presidency University, Kolkata) Thakkar Bapa is Born (to 1951) 