  This is a timeline of|Philippine]] history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in the Philippines and their predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of the Philippines. See also the list of Presidents of the Philippines. Homo Erectus Tabon Man. The Tabon Cave Complex. Stone tools. The Negritos. Austronesian expansion map. The Austronesians. An example of Ling ling-0. Animal hunting. Domestication of Pigs. The Angono Petroglyphs. Palawan becomes the National treasure in the Philippines. Souttoukeny jewelry, 2nd century B.C. Tamil Nadu. The Sa Huỳnh culture. Bubuls (household deities), figures for Ancestor Worship. Example of cave painting in Tabon Caves what Maise believes to be a cave painting depicting Manjusri. the panoramic view of Banaue Rice Terraces in Benguet. Carabao. Cebu had earlier encounter with the Greek traders in 21 AD. The balangay replica docked at CCP Harbor Manila after its South East Asian expedition. Deer hunting natives. The Maitum Jars. Maharlika, A Tagalog royal couple. A Visayan royal couple. A Kawal (warrior knight). The Alipin (slaves). the Timawas (A free men) or a Middle class peoples. The Greater India. The spread of Hinduism. Flag of the Ryukyu Kingdom. Manila Bay the Kawi script. The world in 900 AD and the location of Tondo Expansion of Buddhism, originated from India in the 6th century BCE to the rest of Asia until present. The Laguna Copperplate Inscription (LCI). The Orang Dampuan in Central Vietnam. The Ruson-tsukuri (literally Luzon made in Japanese:呂宋製 or 呂宋つくり) clay jars used for storing green tea and rice wine. The Pintados. An ancient battleship called Karakowa, similar to the Balangay. Dayang is a royal title held for Princess or Queen. The territorial extent of Namayan and its capital Sapa (Now called Sta.Ana, Manila). Chinese porcelain-ware, Kangxi era (1662–1722), Qing Dynasty. Ancient Chinese porcelain excavated in Mindoro, Philippines; proves the existence of trade between the island and Imperial China. This consequently validates Chinese historical records of the area. The Surya Majapahit The Watawat of the Tondo Dynasty. A native warrior from Luzon. Two Lantaka guns. The Baybayin. The Visayan Timagua, a warrior caste. The Sulus attacked Majapahit and it's province Po-ni (Brunei), looting it of treasure and gold. The Yongle Emperor. The Burmese Siamese wars: Painting by Prince Narisara Nuvadtivongs, depicting Queen Suriyothai (center) on her elephant putting herself between King Maha Chakkraphat (right) and the Viceroy of Prome (left). Flag of the Sultanate of Sulu. Territorial extent of the Bruneian Empire. Lapu-Lapu, the King of Mactan island in Cebu. Ferdinand Magellan. The Blood Compact between Datu Sikatuna and Spaniards fleet. The Battle of Mactan. The San Agustin Church, the oldest catholic church in the Philippines. The Doctrina Christiana was an early book of Roman Catholic Catechism, written in 1593 by Fray Juan de Plasencia, and is believed to be one of the earliest printed books in the Philippines. Pedro Bucaneg written the epic poem of Biag ni Lam-ang. The UST, The oldest university in Asia. The Manila-Acapulco Galleon Memorial at Plaza Mexico in Intramuros, Manila. The Paoay Church in Ilocos Norte. Francisco Baltazar, A Poet and the author of the novel Florante at Laura. the IHS logo Society of Jesus . The Manila Observatory is a non-profit research institute housed on the campus of the Ateneo de Manila University in Quezon City, Philippines. Founded in 1865 by the Jesuits, Ramon Blanco Dr. Jose Rizal. The single known extant photograph of Andres Bonifacio, the founder of Katipunan, Theleader of Philippine Revolution. Camilo García de Polavieja General Emilio Aguinaldo, First president of the Philippines. The original front cover of Noli Me Tángere. El Filibusterismo, The sequel of the Noli me Tangere. George Dewey The Malolos Congress. The Three Stars and a Sun design was conceived by President Emilio Aguinaldo. Sewn by Doña Marcela Marino de Agoncillo, Lorenza Agoncillo, and Delfina Herbosa de Natividad in Hong Kong and first flown in battle on May 28, 1898. It was formally unfurled during the Proclamation of Philippine Independence and the flag of the First Philippine Republic, on June 12, 1898 by President Aguinaldo. It contains a mythical sun (with a face) similar to the Sun of May. Marching Filipino soldiers during the inauguration of the First Philippine Republic in Malolos on January 23, 1899. The soldiers of Philippine Revolutionary Army. Antonio Luna, Regarded as one of the fiercest generals of his time, he succeeded Artemio Ricarte as Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines. General Gregorio del Pilar and his troops in Pampanga, around 1898 (Philippine–American War). Arthur MacArthur Jr. Gregorio Aglipay as the Obispo Maximus of the Iglesia Filipina Independiente. Tabernakulo of Iglesia ni Cristo in Quezon City, Philippines. The Philippine Constabulary Macario Sakay, the unofficial President of the Tagalog Republic. First Philippine Assembly. Manuel L. Quezon was the First President of Commonwealth of the Philippines, the father of Philippine Language. Masaharu Homma Ramon Magsaysay,  the Man of Mass. The leaders of some of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO) nations in front of the Congress Building in Manila, hosted by Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos on 24 October 1966. Ferdinand Marcos: The 10th President of the Philippines, The longest-term held in office. The Empire Province of Cotabato has been dissolved on November 22, 1973, the remaining territories of the Empire Province of Cotabato was divided into North Cotabato, Maguindanao and Sultan Kudarat through Presidential Decree No. 341. Corazon Aquino: The 11th President of the Philippines, The First-women held in office. Lorenzo Ruiz proclaimed as a saint. The eruption column of Mount Pinatubo on June 12, 1991, three days before the climactic eruption. (PHL)  (PHL)  Joseph Estrada is the first president to be impeached by the House of Representatives Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, the 14th President of the Philippines. Location of Oakwood Premiere and the Manila Peninsula Hotel in Makati. These hotels had become the location of the Magdalo mutiny of 2003 and 2007, respectively Mountaineer Leo Oracion reached the summit of Mount Everest via the Nepalese side. The site of the explosion in Glorietta. MV Princess of the Stars which had capsized on June 21, 2008 at the height of Typhoon Frank. Corazon Aquino was buried beside her husband Ninoy at the Manila Memorial Park after her death on August 1. Benigno Aquino III, the 15th President of the Philippines. Territorial disputes in the South China Sea The bus of 2010 Manila hostage crisis were 8 Hong-Kong tourist were killed. New generation Series of Philippine Peso. Renato Corona is the first Chief Justice to be impeached by the House of Representatives. Pedro Calungsod proclaimed as a saint. Megan Young: She won the Miss World Philippines title and was later crowned as Miss World 2013 in Bali, Indonesia. The Zamboanga City Hall where the MNLF intended to hoist the Bangsamoro Republik flag in the height of Zamboanga City crisis. Basilica of the Holy Child in Cebu City, Philippines after 2013 Bohol earthquake. Typhoon Haiyan also known as Yolanda was the strongest typhoon in the Philippines. Bro. Eduardo Manalo, Executive Minister of Iglesia ni Cristo. Pia Wurtzbach: She won the Binibining Pilipinas title and was later crowned as Miss Universe 2015 in Las Vegas, Nevada, USA. Diwata-1 also known as PHL-Microsat-1 is a Philippine microsatellite launched to the International Space Station (ISS) on March 23, 2016 and was deployed into orbit from the ISS on April 27, 2016. It is the first Philippine microsatellite and the first satellite built and designed by Filipinos. Rodrigo Duterte, the 16th President of the Philippines. The Permanent Court of Arbitration ruled in favor of the Philippines against China over territorial disputes in the South China Sea. Hidilyn Diaz is a Filipino weightlifter and airwoman. won the silver medal in the women's 53-kg weight division, ending the Philippines' 20-year Olympic medal drought. Lav Diaz, the director of The Woman Who Left who wins the Golden Lion. The Heroes' Cemetery where the remains of Ferdinand Marcos were buried on November 18. Leila de Lima, Senator of the Philippines. A building in Marawi is set ablaze by air strikes carried out by the Philippine Air Force. Resorts World Manila immediately following the shooting. The complex was shrouded in smoke from fires started by the suspect. Also picture is Maxims Tower, where the attacker committed suicide. 