The Association for Computing Machinery's Council on Women in Computing (ACM-W) supports, celebrates, and advocates internationally for the full engagement of women in all aspects of the computing field, providing a wide range of programs and services to ACM members and working in the larger community to advance the contributions of technical women.  ACM-W is an active organization with over 36,000 members.  ACM-W sponsors annual celebrations focused on women in computing. ACM-W provides $3,000 for each celebration, and also raises and disburses corporate sponsorship. Each celebration organizing committee is responsible for additional fundraising within their conference area.  ACM-W has 137 active chapters at schools around the world. The student chapters serve to increase recruitment and retention of women in computing fields at the university level and offer student activities and projects that aim to improve the working and learning environments for women in computing.     Starting in 2006, ACM-W has offered an annual Athena Lecturer Award to honor outstanding women researchers who have made fundamental contributions to computer science.  ACM-W also offers an ACM-W Networking Award for active student chapters.  ACM-W provides support for women undergraduate and graduate students in Computer Science and related programs to attend research conferences. The ACM-W scholarships are offered for both intra-continental conference travel, and intercontinental conference travel. Scholarship applications are evaluated in 6 groups each year, to distribute awards across a range of conferences, including:  Sponsors of ACM-W services such as scholarships and regional celebrations include: ACM-W publishes a newsletter that highlights people, opportunities, accomplishments, and current issues associated with women in computing. The newsletter was started in 2008 with Bettina Bair as editor and is currently edited by Valerie Barr.  ACM-W officers include: ACM-W Committees include:  