A Bachelor of Science in Information Technology, (abbreviated BSIT or B.Sc IT), is a Bachelor's degree awarded for an undergraduate course or program in the Information technology field. The degree is normally required in order to work in the Information technology industry.  A Bachelor of Science in Information Technology degree program typically takes three to four years depending on the country. This degree is primarily focused on subjects such as software, databases, and networking. In general, computer science degrees tend to focus on the mathematical and theoretical foundations of computing rather than emphasizing specific technologies. The degree is a Bachelor of Science degree with institutions conferring degrees in the fields of information technology and related fields. This degree is awarded for completing a program of study in the field of software development, software testing, software engineering, web design, databases, programming, computer networking and computer systems. Graduates with an information technology background are able to perform technology tasks relating to the processing, storing, and communication of information between computers, mobile phones, and other electronic devices. Information technology as a field emphasizes the secure management of large amounts of variable information and its accessibility via a wide variety of systems both local and worldwide.  Generally, software and information technology companies look for people who have strong programming skills, system analysis, and software testing skills.  Many colleges teach practical skills that crucial to becoming a software developer. As logical reasoning and critical thinking are important in becoming a software professional, this degree encompasses the complete process of software development from software design and development to final testing.  Students who complete their undergraduate education in software engineering at a satisfactory level often pursue graduate studies such as a Master of Science in Information Technology (M.Sc IT) and sometimes continuing onto a doctoral program and earning a doctorate such as a Doctor of Information Technology (DIT). In Australia, Bachelor of Information Technology/Science (BInfTech) programs are three to four years in duration. Honors awarded to graduates who successfully complete a four-year program. In Belgium, the Bachelor of Science in Information Technology is a 3-year degree after the compulsory education, but outside the universities; with specializing in certain fields, usually databases, network, realtime operating systems and/or web design. The graduated students can join a postgraduate cycle in order to get a Master of Science in Information Technology degree, this time in the university system. In Bangladesh, the Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology is awarded following a four-year course of study under the Dhaka University, Jahangirnagar University, Bangladesh University of Professionals, University of Information Technology and Sciences    and Stamford University Bangladesh. In Canada, the Bachelor of Science (B.S.) program in Information Technology (IT) with a minor in Business Administration offers an interdisciplinary curriculum focusing on both information technology and business administration. In addition, the program is unique in that it merges traditional academic topics with leading edge and current IT practices and technology. This program is offered under the written consent of the British Columbia Ministry of Advanced Education. In Germany, Bachelor of Science in Information Technology integrates a professional degree in information technology with a major in another country or culture and its language, enhancing professional training and career options. The course is of three to five years duration. Students spend two semesters of study at a university or other higher education institution in the country of their major. The information technology component provides a sound education in all aspects of computing and information technology for a career in the profession. In India, a Bachelor of Science in Information Technology(BSc IT) is a 3-year undergraduate program. The Bachelor of Information Science degree is a distinctly different from a general B. Sc. The Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology, however is a 4-year program and the degree awarded is referred to as B.Tech or B.E. One can apply for BSc IT after completing HSC or after completing Engineering Diploma.  In Malaysia Information Technology course is being studied for 6 or 7 semesters (3 or 3 1/2 years) with specializing in certain field and by undergoing one semester (6 months) of industrial training. In the Netherlands, the Bachelor of Science in Information Technology degree is awarded after four years of study with specializing in a certain field. In Namibia, Bachelor of Science in Information Technology degrees are awarded after three and four years with specialization in areas such as Business Computing, System Administration & Networks as well as Software Development. The Polytechnic of Namibia, University of Namibia and other educational institutions in Namibia are key producers of graduates in this field. In  Nepal, Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Information Technology (B.Sc.CSIT ) is  a four-year course of study.  The Bachelor of Computer Science and Information Technology is provided by Tribhuvan University and the degree awarded is referred to as BScCSIT. In Pakistan, a Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (BS-IT) is 4-year program. Some universities also named as Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology (BE-IT).BEIT was started in Dr.A.Q Khan institute of Computer Sciences and Information Technology(KICSIT) from 2001 to 2013.Now it has been converted into BSIT.www.kicsit.edu.pk site for Visit.PUCIT is the only university who's ranked 'W'(highest)by HEC in BS(IT) among Pakistan universities. In the Philippines, BSIT program normally takes 4 years to complete. Schools with trimester system has less time to complete this course.  A total number of 486 hours was set by the CHED during internships of the program.  On May 4, 2000, the ILOVEYOU or Love Bug Virus has spread all over the world affecting millions of computers with an estimated damage of $10 billion.   The virus was originally a thesis proposal of Onel de Guzman which was unanimously rejected by the College of Computer Studies' academic board of AMA Computer College Makati. In Portugal, the Bachelor of Science in Information Technology degree is awarded following a ten-year course of study without specialization. In Sri Lanka, the Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (B.Sc. IT) is either a four-year degree with a specialization, called a major, with honors or a three-year degree without any specialization, called a general degree. University of Colombo has offered Bachelor of Science in Information and Communication Technology and later it was changed as Bachelor of Science in Information Systems. University of Moratuwa and Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology also offers IT degrees. University of Moratuwa gives B.Sc.(Hons) Information Technology 4-year degree.Sri Lanka's first IT faculty was in University of Moratuwa. Bachelor of Science in Information and Communication Technology (Special) degree program was newly started at Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences (FHSS) at University of Sri Jayewardenepura. University of Kelaniya offers Bachelor of Science in Management and Information Technology with IT specialization. In the United States, a B.S. in Information Technology is awarded after a four-year course of study. Some degree programs are accredited by the Computing Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET).   