  A Bachelor in Information Management (BIM) degree is an academic degree in Information technology requiring four years of study to acquire. This degree is a hybrid program with a mix of management and information technology courses with a focus on analytical, problem solving, decision-making and critical thinking skills.  Provide professional training to students by combining information technology with managerial skills. Graduating with a bachelors in Information Management highly beneficial as it opens up a plethora of career options and routes for students. This is manly due to the fact that employers now-a-days show a growing interest for applicants with both a business management education as well as an IT background. Paul Matthews from the Institute of IT Professionals stated that "Employers tell me the key thing holding them back is the ability to get skilled people".  This degree would be beneficial as it is employable all over world. Every company has an IT department, which even in non-tech firms, play an essential role in the company's daily functions.  The fine combination of IT and management that this degree offers, has shown career prospects in fields such as: Graduates from these types of degrees have also found themselves working for some of the world's top organisations including Ernst and Young, Deloitte, Goldman Sachs, and Bruder Mannesmann   Keep in mind that although you can start a career straight after your bachelors, you may also be interested in furthering your study by enrolling in a masters program. Employers seem to be finding that business management undergraduates are too keen on starting work immediately, without actually having attained the essential skills need for a professional workplace. This may be in terms of general maturity and also the students ability to 'hit the ground running'.  This is where masters students have the greater advantage. There are many different masters programs available to graduates from an Information Management degree. However at this point, the studies tend to narrow down to more specific areas. As you have a solid background in both Business Management and IT, you have a large range to choose from. If after studying you seem to be more keen in IT then perhaps you should consider doing a masters in either computer science  or information systems.These two programs are some of the best for finding postgraduate jobs with high earning salaries. Information Management students enrolled in a full-time degree generally have 8–13 hours a week in class, whether its lectures, tutorials, or seminars.  However time must be spend outside of class working on coursework and assignments as well as doing prerequisite readings for certain modules. One of the hardest parts about being a student is learning how to survive on a budget. To compensate for this, many students choose to get a part-time job while studying. In the United States, about 50% of students have a part-time job whilst enrolled in a full-time degree.  However it becomes increasing difficult to balance a part-time job along with course work, classes, good grades, self study time, and social life. Often self study time suffers the most from part-time jobs.  Therefore it would be recommended to work no more than 10 hours a week.   