The Computer Science Teachers Association (CSTA) is a professional association whose mission to “empower, engage and advocate for K-12 CS teachers worldwide.” It supports and encourages education in the field of computer science and related areas.  Started in 2004, CSTA supports computer science education in elementary schools, middle schools, high schools, higher education, and industry.  Together with the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), the CSTA offers the ACM/CSTA Cutler-Bell Prize in High School Computing. The award provides four $10,000 scholarships to each of four winners along with travel to a reception each February.  CSTA publishes a set of recommended Computer Science Standards for kindergarten through high school.  CSTA the Association for Computing Machinery publish an interactive State-By-State map showing the degree to which the recommended computer science standards have been included in the state educational standards.  CSTA recommendations for computer science education include beginning introductory lessons as early as kindergarten.  A recent report by Association for Computing Machinery and the CSTA, Running on Empty: The Failure to Teach K-12 Computer Science in the Digital Age, found that in the United States, most high schools count computer science as an elective and most secondary schools have few educational standards related to computer science.  CSTA is one of the participating organizations in the Code.org Advocacy Coalition (previously called Computing in the Core (CinC)).   The Code.org Advocacy Coalition is a group of organizations that works on public outreach and advocacy to encourage additional support for computer science in the core curriculum and includes members such as Microsoft, Google, Facebook, Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology, Computing Research Association, and others.  CSTA has more than 50 chapters in the United States  and international affiliates in Israel, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom.  CSTA publishes a bi-monthly newsletter, the CSTA Voice, that highlights issues related to computer science education.  The 2017–2018 CSTA Board of Directors consists of: CSTA Committees include:  