The Paris Graduate School of Digital Innovation (French: École pour l'informatique et les nouvelles technologies, or Epitech), formerly European Institute of Information Technology in English  is a private institution of higher education in general computer science that was founded in 1999  and has been accredited by the French government.   Headquartered in Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, south of Paris, the school has campuses in Bordeaux, Rennes, Marseille, Lille, Lyon, Montpellier, Nancy, Nantes, Nice, Strasbourg, Toulouse and Saint-André, Réunion   The school also has a location in Barcelona(Spain) , Tirana, Albania.  Epitech delivers a five-year curriculum split in two parts: the first three years corresponds to a Bachelor in computer science  and the last 2 years to expert in information technology   The school has the particularity to teach with practical cases instead of theoretical.  Epitech has also an Executive MBA in IT and entrepreneurship course targeting executive managers in computer science.  Epitech was created in 1999, taking advantage of the keen interest of the École Pour l'Informatique et les Techniques Avancées to train students with a specific interest for computer sciences related matter only. The institution is part of IONIS Education Group. In 2007, Epitech opened new campuses in Casablanca, Dalian, Bordeaux, Lille, Lyon, Nantes, Strasbourg and Toulouse. Since January 2008, the degree delivered has been recognized by the Commission nationale de la certification professionnelle,  as level 1.  In 2008, the campuses of Nice, Montpellier, Nancy, Marseille and Rennes were opened. Since 2009, the school has been recognized by the French State.  In early 2013, Epitech announced it would open a campus in Beijing, China in September 2013 and further international branches in California, United Kingdom and Spain by September 2014. [needs update] EPITECH has partnered with the Zup de Co association to create the Web@cademie, a 2-year training completely free for students without the French Baccalaureate and with a strong motivation in computer science.  This course has the goal to attain a job of software developer for young people who have stopped their regular studies.  They are trained by EPITECH teachers at Le Kremlin-Bicêtre  and at Lyon.  EPITECH delivers an "Expert of Information Technologies" diploma (equivalent to a Master's degree in France).  The degree is recognized by French CNCP.   