Higher Computing, SQA course code C206 12, is a qualification taught in Scottish secondary schools, usually in the fifth or sixth year of study (S5/S6). Candidates usually progress into Higher Computing with a pass at either Intermediate 2 or Standard Grade (credit). The course consists of three units: two mandatory units and one optional unit selected by the centre. The required units are Computer Systems (DF2X 12) and Software Development (DF2Y 12) and the optional units are Computer Networking (DF30 12), Artificial Intelligence (DF31 12) and Multimedia Technology (DF32 12).  Candidates are assessed on both practical and theory work. In October, the SQA issues a coursework task to centres which candidates will attempt between November and March. The task is split into two parts: 1.A programming task and 2.An investigation related to hardware and software studied in the Computer Systems unit. As with most SQA qualifications, candidates sit for a written exam in May/June.  This is split into two sections. Section I is worth 20 marks and contains short response questions, while section II involves more in-depth answers and is worth a total of 70 marks. Therefore, candidates can receive up to 150 marks. The grade is then worked out as follows: Note: In some years the criteria for these grades may change to reflect the difficulty of the exam. All three optional units are assigned 50 marks in the final exam. The Computer Systems unit of the course focuses on how modern day computers work and can be broken down into the following sub-sections:  30 marks in the coursework task (50%) are for this unit, while the written exam has approximately 45 marks worth of questions on Computer Systems. Software Development is about the process of developing commercial software and includes a practical element where students create their own programs using a high level language of the site's choice. The sub-sections are:  As with the Computer Systems unit, 30 marks in the coursework task (50%) are for this unit and the exam has around 45 marks worth of Software Development questions. The first optional unit, Artificial Intelligence, teaches students about the history and technology behind AI. The four sub-sections are:  This unit has similar content to the Expert Systems unit of Higher Information Systems. Computer Networking contains the following sub-units:  This unit has similar content to the Internet unit of Higher Information Systems. Multimedia Technology consists of the following:  This unit has similar content to the Applied Multimedia unit of Higher Information Systems. 