Kids Code Jeunesse (KCJ) is a Canadian not for profit organization  based in Montreal, Quebec  which helps children in Canada have an opportunity to learn computational thinking through code.  This organization, founded in 2013 by Kate Arthur,  is primarily used by children, teachers, and parents with the skills needed for the modern society.   KCJ wants more creatures than producers.  The intent is not to replace existing courses with computer science, but rather complement them with coding.  Kids Code Jeunesse uses intuitive, open source, free tools such as Scratch and Trinket.  Its education materials are developed for children aged 5 to 12 years old.  By targeting a younger age group, KCJ is helping boost the children's abilities in communication, collaboration, problem-solving, and creative thinking.  KCJ has partnered with local,  national,  and international partners  in order to raise awareness across Canada in both official languages.  In 2016, in partnership with Code Club U.K., KCJ licensed the rights to Code Club Canada, which runs volunteer-led Code Clubs for free across Canada. There are now over 150 Code Clubs registered, throughout every province and territory.  These clubs, set up at schools, libraries and community centers for a minimum of 8 weeks host free coding activities for children aged 7-12. In 2016, Kids Code Jeunesse, in partnership with Lighthouse Labs,  embarked on a national campaign to inspire teachers to incorporate the basics of coding and computational thinking into their classrooms.  From April to December 2018, KCJ will be hosting free, full-day Code Create Teach workshops which will provide K-12 educators with the tools to help them teach their students how to experiment with technology.  Two workshops are planned for each Canadian province and territory allowing KCJ to reach over 1500 teachers. During the workshops, KCJ instructors provide tips and guidelines to bring coding into the classroom, as well as combine unplugged activities with hands-on coding activities. These methods gives attendees the opportunity to connect with other teachers in purposeful and learner-driven way.  Following the Code Create Teach workshops, each teacher is given a free classroom kit of micro:bits, a pocket-sized programmable microcontroller designed to make learning and teaching code easy and fun.   In 2017, KCJ was contracted for CodeMTL, a project designed to KCJs coding workshops to over 65 schools in the Commission Scolaire de Montréal, Quebec's largest school board.   In January 2018, the Honourable Navdeep Bains, Canada’s Minister of Innovation, Science and Economic Development announced that Kids Code Jeunesse was one the recipients of the inaugural CanCode program. This program is part of the Canadian Government's Innovation and Skills Plan which has the stated intention to invest $50 million by March 2019 to increase the opportunities for children and teachers to master digital skills. With the funds received, Kids Code Jeunesse has been able to extend the training it provides to Canada's youth and aims to support over 70,000 children and 2000 teachers.   