Lighthouse Labs is a coding bootcamp for web and mobile software development in multiple cities across Canada. The establishment organizes an annual free learn-to-code event, The HTML500, in partnership with Telus.  More recently, the bootcamp became the first organization to offer a remote-hybrid web development program in Whitehorse through a partnership with the Government of Yukon.  Opened in 2013, Lighthouse Labs' first immersive bootcamp facility is based out of Launch Academy, an incubator in the heart of the city's Gastown neighborhood.  Students learn front and back-end development through the bootcamp's Web and iOS programs.   The iOS program, launched in July 2014, is arguably Canada's first immersive iOS immersive program.  As part of a national partnership with Highline, a seed stage investment platform, Lighthouse Labs announced the launch of its Toronto operations during The HTML500 in February 2015.  Located in Highline's office in downtown Toronto, the facility offers enrollment in any of the bootcamp's full-time or part-time programs. It joins existing Toronto-based bootcamps such as Bitmaker Labs, BrainStation, HackerYou, and Red Academy as one of several developer bootcamps that offer in-person learning opportunities to individuals in the Greater Toronto Area.  In April 2015, Lighthouse Labs launched a 'pop-up' program in Calgary through its national partnership with Highline, a co-venture platform that helps early stage digital startups. Lighthouse Labs in Calgary currently offers students the opportunity to enroll in a 6-week part-time program focused primarily on learning the fundamentals of web development.   In partnership with the Government of Yukon, Lighthouse Labs launched the territory's first web development bootcamp via a remote-hybrid program.  Students remotely attend lectures from the bootcamp's Vancouver location and have access to on-site assistance through Mentors in the facility    The 'Lighthouse Labs Prize' is an annual scholarship open to students of Simon Fraser University's Faculty of Communication, Art & Technology. Worth over $7000, the scholarship awards one student a spot in the bootcamp's web-development program in Vancouver and is currently in its second year of institution.  