SIGCSE is the Association for Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on Computer Science Education, which provides a forum for educators to discuss issues related to the development, implementation, and/or evaluation of computing programs, curricula, and courses, as well as syllabi, laboratories, and other elements of teaching and pedagogy.  It is also the name of one of the three annual events organized by SIGCSE. This event, the ACM SIGCSE Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education, is held annually in February or March in the USA. SIGCSE also sponsors an annual conference in or around Europe, named ITiCSE (Innovation and Technology in Computer Science Education), usually in late June, and an annual research workshop named ICER (International Computing Education Research), at varied locations, usually in August. The main focus of SIGCSE is higher education, and discussions include improving computer science education at high school level and below. The membership level has held steady at around 3300 members for several years. The current chair of SIGCSE is Amber Settle for July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2019. SIGCSE has three annual conferences. The SIGCSE Bulletin is a quarterly newsletter that was first published in 1969. It evolved from an informal gathering of news and ideas to a venue for columns, editor-reviewed articles, research announcements, editorials, symposium proceedings, etc. In 2010, with the inception of ACM Inroads magazine, the Bulletin was transformed into an electronic newsletter sent to all SIGCSE members providing communications about SIGCSE: announcing activities, publicizing events, and highlighting topics of interest. In other words, it has returned to its roots. SIGCSE has two main awards that are given out annually. The SIGCSE Award for Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education is given annually since 1981. Winners are the following: The SIGCSE Award for Lifetime Service to the Computer Science Education Community is given annually since 1997. Winners are the following: The current SIGCSE Board for July 1, 2016 – June 30, 2019 is: SIGCSE Chairs over the years: 