Advanced Innovation Design Approach (AIDA) is a holistic approach for enhancing innovative and competitive capability of industrial companies. The name Advanced Innovation Design Approach (AIDA) was proposed in the research project "Innovation Process 4.0" run at the University of Applied Sciences Offenburg, Germany in co-operation with 10 German industrial companies in 2015-2017.  AIDA can be considered as a pioneering mindset, an individually adaptable range of strongest innovation techniques such as comprehensive front-end innovation process, advanced innovation methods, best tools and methods of the theory of inventive problem solving TRIZ,  organisational measures for accelerating innovation, IT-solutions for Computer-Aided Innovation, and other tools for new product development, elaborated in the recent decade in the industry and academia. Initially the AIDA has been conceptualised as systemic approach including analysis, optimizations and further development of the innovation process and promoting the innovation climate in industrial companies. The innovation process with self-configuration, self-optimization, self-diagnostics and intelligent information processing and communication, is understood as a holistic system comprising following typical phases with feedback loops and simultaneous auxiliary or follow-up processes: uncovering of solution-neutral customer needs, technology and market trends, identification of the needs and problems with high market potential and formulation of the innovation tasks and strategy, systematic idea generation and problem solving, evaluation and enhancement of solution ideas, creation of innovation concepts based on solution ideas, evaluation of the innovation concepts as well as implementation, validation and market launch of chosen innovation concepts.  The Advanced Innovation Design Approach was refined and further developed for the application in the field of process engineering in the context of the EU research project "Intensified by Design - Platform for the intensification of processes involving solids handling” within international consortium of 22 universities, research institutes and industrial companies under H2020 SPIRE programme.  As a holistic innovation approach, AIDA postulates the complete problem analysis and a comprehensive idea generation and problem solving. The problems faced by the industry can not be solved by single eureka idea.  The principle of completeness in the new product development can be illustrated by following 4 steps.  Another example demonstrates the principle of completeness in the phase of the innovation strategy formulation. For the complete identification of existing and future customer needs or benefits several complementary methods are used simultaneously (Tool 4. Innovation potential analysis): AIDA tools or apps most frequently used in the practice include: The new Advanced Innovation Methods are the basis for the further development of the AIDA-tools or apps.  The following list will be regularly updated: 