 Jumpstart Academy Africa is a for impact social venture which utilizes entrepreneurial leadership and mentoring to solve Africa’ human capital problem which starts at the secondary school level. The founding mission of the Academy is to create a wave of entrepreneurial leaders by pioneering a world class Leadership and Entrepreneurship curriculum. The Academy was launched in Cameroon in 2014 by Madelle Kangha and has trained over 350 students to date. JumpStart Academy Africa has been featured by Forbes due to their ground breaking work in the space of Education and Youth entrepreneurship.  Madelle Kangha is from Cameroon and earned her college degree at the London School of Economics where she finished degrees in Anthropology and Law. She is the President of this organization. At the African Leadership Academy, Madelle founded a campus student-operated a small food retail outlet, Duka Bora that still exists up to the present time.  She also established a youth and community-based organization known as Youths 4 Change with the goal of making African youngsters advocates of socio-economic development.  The co-founder of Jumpstart Academy Africa is Omotola Akinsola from Ibadan in Nigeria. Omotola was among those who received the Who’s Who among American Colleges and Universities Students in 2012. Omotola is also the recipient of the Outstanding Social Work Student of the year (2012). Columbia College of South Carolina in the USA officially accepted Omotola into the Circle of Influence for Student Leaders. She served in the Office of Republican Party Senator John Boozman as Congressional Fellow of Capitol Hill, Washington District of Columbia. Omotola is a candidate for Master (George Warren Brown School of Social Work) at Saint Louis Washington University. She obtained her bachelor's degree major in Social Work from Columbia College.  Jumpstart Academy Africa seeks to deal with the human capital dilemma that Africa experiences today. The organization’s strategy is to help nurture youth leaders and entrepreneurs who espouse ethics by means of a global curriculum in leadership and entrepreneurship across various learning institutions. The Academy’s three essential components include a two-year leadership and entrepreneurship training for student so their skills will be improved. The focus will be on employment prospects, enterprise building, civic accountability, and community engagement. It also offers coaching to guide students in the transition from secondary to college environment as well as tutorials for promoting students’ learning outcomes.  This interactive strategy of learning as well as the Academy’s program nurtures critical thinking, principled leadership, and an entrepreneurial method of problem-solving along with civic engagement. The approach can help many youth between 14 and 18 years of age to turn out as esteemed contributors in the job market.  