Jay Vankawala (Director and Founder) The Hands for Music Foundation, otherwise known as Hands for Music, is a registered 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization whose primary purpose is to bring musical instruction to children and teenagers suffering from mental disabilities and mental illnesses. It is both an in-school and after school program, in which high school music teachers, as well as peer students, teach students afflicted with mental illnesses a variety of different instruments.This charity has been able to raise funds to buy instruments in over 8 high schools in Connecticut. It has been successful in providing musical education for a variety of mental afflictions, including Down Syndrome, depression, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Student founder Jay Vankawala began constructing the Hands for Music Foundation in early 2013 while teaching a fellow student with Down Syndrome. "Min-Jae" needed peer interaction to foster social behavior, and Vankawala was selected to teach him piano. As he moved to high school, Vankawala wanted to expand his teaching to more students and to more schools. He founded the foundation initially as just Hands for Music, and extended the name as well as its reach under the guidance of music teacher Jennifer Crooks. However, many schools he visited lacked the facilities in order to make the program a success, and as such, it was officially registered as a 501(c)(3) charity in order to raise money for these instruments. The Hands for Music Foundation's philosophy is similar to that of music instructional program Simply Music, in that it believes that "any child can learn music." However, Hands for Music extends that claim to include children with mental disabilities. It believes that musicality is inherent within all humans, and as such, should be available to these students trying to assimilate into the public school system. "A child's journey through Hands for Music is less of a musical journey and more of a social one," Vankawala says.  He and his team have structured this charity for this reason. Volunteer students will raise money by performing and holding recitals within school. This money, along with donations from community donors, will be spent exclusively by schools to purchase musical instruments for mentally struggling students. These volunteers will also teach these students, and the pupils will hold recitals, continuing the cycle. In the process, it is hoped that teachers and students will become lifelong friends and increase one's sense of belonging in a community. As of March 2016, the Hands for Music Foundation has raised over $4,000 over the course of 2 years to fund projects in 6 high schools in southern Connecticut.  