The Haitian Project, Inc. is a Providence, Rhode Island based Roman Catholic non-profit organization dedicated to education in Haiti. Since 1987, it has operated Louverture Cleary School, a Catholic secondary school in Croix des Bouquets, Haiti. Patrick Moynihan, brother of Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan, is the President of The Haitian Project.   The Haitian Project through its support of Louverture Cleary School, a national network of tuition-free, Catholic, co-educational secondary boarding schools in Haiti, provides for the education of academically talented and motivated students from Haitian families who cannot afford the cost of their children's education in order to maximize their potential and enable them to work toward building a Haiti where justice and peace thrive. The Haitian Project was founded in the early 1980s by a group of parishioners from St. Joseph's Parish in Providence, Rhode Island. In 1987, The Haitian Project established Louverture Cleary School, a Catholic boarding school in Croix des Bouquets, Haiti.  St. Joseph's parishioner and current Bank of America CEO, Brian Moynihan, was an early supporter of the school and his involvement inspired his younger brother, Patrick Moynihan, to go to Haiti and join The Haitian Project in 1996. In the late 1990s, The Haitian Project became a national project supported by individuals and parishes in five regions around the U.S.   Patrick, formerly a commodities trader for Louis Dreyfus Commodities, has been the President since 1996, with a two and half year hiatus from July 2006 to January 2009.  Over 350 secondary students attend the tuition-free boarding school, with a majority attending universities in Haiti upon graduation.  The motto of the school is biblical, from Matthew 10:8: "What you receive for free, you must give for free." Consequently, students are expected to give freely to Haiti what they have received for free. Bishop Ireton High School in Alexandria, Virginia is the sister school of Louverture Cleary School.  