In January 2009, the City of Albert Lea, Minnesota began the AARP/Blue Zones Vitality Project. Sponsored by United Health Foundation and led by Dan Buettner, the author of The Blue Zone: Lessons for Living Longer From the People Who've Lived the Longest, the Vitality Project's goal was to add 10,000 years to the lives of Albert Lea residents by encouraging them to make small changes in their daily lives.    The AARP/Blue Zones Vitality Project is divided into several different initiatives.  The categories for the initiatives were habitat, social networking, community, and purpose. Some initiatives proved to be specific to one category while others spanned several categories.  Early in the Vitality Project, organizers invited Dan Burden, a nationally recognized expert in the area of "walkability," to come speak to community leaders and do a "walkability audit."  In this audit, Burden toured Albert Lea on foot and pointed out ways that the city could make Albert Lea more walkable.  Since then the city has added sidewalk which connects several portions of a well traveled path around Fountain Lake.  The City of Albert Lea, Minnesota put together a sustainability committee which focuses on keeping practices put in place by Vitality Project organizers and volunteers. The long-term goal is that the Albert Lea will have a Vitality Center where leaders of other cities, organizations, and individuals can come to learn about how making small changes in lifestyle as a community can help to improve health and life expectancy.  On October 26, 2009, the Albert Lea City Council voted to designate the lower level of the Jacobson Apartment Building on Broadway Avenue in downtown Albert Lea as the Vitality Center.  The space will be refurbished and updated to accommodate the Vitality Center. The city's goal is that the Vitality Center be opened in the first part of 2010.  The Vitality Project was featured in a variety of news outlets and publications.  Among them are Good Morning America,  USA Today,  Minneapolis Star Tribune,  Minnesota Public Radio.  