Sharecare is a health and wellness engagement platform that provides consumers with personalized information, programs and resources to improve their health. It provides personalized information  to the site's users based on their responses to the RealAge Test, the company's  health risk assessment tool, and  offers a clinical decision support tool, AskMD.  Headquartered in Atlanta, Sharecare was founded in 2010 by Jeff Arnold (founder of WebMD) and Dr. Mehmet Oz, in partnership with Harpo Studios, Sony Pictures Television and Discovery Communications.   Sharecare began as an interactive question-and-answer (Q&A) platform  about health   and then expanded its products and services  through internal development and strategic acquisitions of companies including  DailyStrength, dotFit, The Little Blue Book, WisePatient, RealAge, PKC Corporation, BACTES Imaging Solutions, QualityHealth, Feingold Technologies, BioLucid and Healthways.      Sharecare.com is built on a social content platform curating the collective knowledge of vetted medical experts. Much of its content is contributed by organizations like AARP, the American Cancer Society, the American Heart Association, the American Red Cross, the National Academy of Sports Medicine, and medical professionals.  Questions are also answered by medical centers such as the Cleveland Clinic.  The  platform allows them to answer questions and engage in conversations about health.  AskMD, launched in December 2013, is a web-based application, (and a free app for iPhone and iPod touch), that helps people collect information about symptoms, learn more about   causes, and find appropriate physicians. AskMD aims to help consumers get organized around their health and have a more productive doctor's visit by guiding users through a personalized questionnaire that takes into account symptoms and other factors, like medications and known conditions, and matches answers against the latest clinical research. AskMD’s clinical knowledge management system was developed through Sharecare’s acquisition of PKC Corporation, to bring evidence-based medicine to patients and providers, and enabling clinically-informed communications. It  was  named Best Medical App at the 4th Annual Appy Awards, and was named an official 2014 Webby Award honoree in Mobile & Apps: Health & Fitness.   Concerns have been raised regarding the bias of answers provided on Sharecare.com by “knowledge partners," or paid sponsors.  Such knowledge partners include (among others): Colgate-Palmolive; Pfizer; Unilever (Dove skin-care products); health insurer UnitedHealthcare; and Walgreens drug stores.  In June 2013, the American Dental Association (ADA) withdrew as a knowledge partner in response to what it considered an irresponsible attack on the "Dr. Oz Show" on the use of dental amalgam. ADA President Dr. Robert A Faiella summed up the group's reaction by stating: "As a science-based organization, we should always welcome inquiry, but we should not be seen as supporting the promotion of misleading information unsupported by the best science."    