The adsorption/bio-oxidation process is a two-stage modification of the activated sludge process used for wastewater treatment. It consists of a high-loaded A-stage and low-loaded B-stage. The process is operated without a primary clarifier, with the A-stage being an open dynamic biological system. Both stages have separate settling tanks and sludge recycling lines, thus maintaining unique microbial communities in both reactors. Adsorption/bio-oxidation process was invented in the mid-1970s by the professor of the RWTH Aachen University Botho Böhnke. It was based on the finding, made by the German engineer Karl Imhoff in the 50th.[further explanation needed] Imhoff stated that the treatment efficiency of 60-80 percent could be achieved in highly loaded activated sludge basins. In 1977 Böhnke published his first article on adsorption/bio-oxidation process.  The same year the patent was issued. Extensive research of the following years, conducted by prof. Böhnke together with Bernd and Andreas Diering, ended up in 1985 with the establishment of the company Dr.-Ing. Bernd Diering GmbH. The same year AB-process was for the first time applied in a full-scale at the Krefeld, Germany sewage treatment plant (800 000 P.E.). In 1990, 19 full scale installations existed in Western Germany alone. Further application of the process in Europe was hindered by the tightening of the effluent discharge requirements with respect to nitrogen and phosphorus. The process came into notice in 2000th again due to the increased interest in energy recovery from wastewater.  The A-stage, or adsorption stage is the most innovative component of the process. It is not preceded by primary treatment.  Influent organic matter is removed in the A-stage mainly by flocculation and sorption to sludge due to the high loading rates (2-10 g BOD • g VSS−1 • d−1) and low sludge age (typically 4-10 h). Hydrolysis of complex organic molecules occurs improving biodegradability of the influent of the B-stage. High loading rates and low sludge age favours development of dynamic biocoenosis with a large fraction of microorganisms present in the exponential growth phase. Diverse sludge biocoenosis increase variety of organic compounds that can be degraded in the A-stage and makes the process more stable towards the shock loads.  Altogether, up to 80% of the influent organic matter can be removed in the A-stage.  The required reactor volume and oxygen supply are lower if compared to the removal in the conventional activated sludge process. The B-stage, or bio-oxidation stage, is a typical low-loaded activated sludge process, where biodegradation of the remaining organic material occurs. The B-stage can be designed for nitrogen and/or phosphorus removal by alternating aerobic, anoxic and anaerobic zones in the reactor. Nitrogen removal in the A-stage can reach 30-40%, as nitrogen of organic compounds is incorporated in upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor sludge. The sludge age of the B-stage is typically between 8 and 20 days promoting the growth of nitrifiers. Therefore, complete nitrification is usually achieved in the B-stage.  Complete denitrification is difficult to achieve, because of the low C:N ratio in the influent of the B-stage. Insufficient carbon supply of carbon source to the B-stage occurs due to the high efficiency of organic matter removal in the A-stage. The problem can be solved by decreasing organic matter removal in the A-stage, external carbon source supply, intermittent aeration or decreased HRT of the A-stage and/or on-line control of certain operational parameters.  To achieve biological nitrogen and phosphorus removal anaerobic and anoxic compartments are introduced before the aerated zone of the B-stage. Phosphorus removal from the secondary effluent of the B-stage can be achieved by coagulation with ferric and aluminium salts, e.g. FeCl3 or Al2(SO4)3.   The adsorption/bio-oxidation process was applied at the Krefeld plant (800 000 P.E.) in 1985 for the first time. The plant was expanded and modified and currently treats municipal and industrial wastewater of 1 200 000 P.E.  Currently adsorption/bio-oxidation process is applied at the municipal treatment plants in Germany, the Netherlands (WWTP Dokhaven (Rotterdam), WWTP Utrecht, WWTP Garmerwolde (Groningen) etc.), Austria (WWTP Salzburg, WWTP Strass etc.), Spain, USA, China etc.  Adsorption/bio-oxidation process is a part of innovative wastewater treatment concept WaterSchoon, realized in the Netherlands. 250 apartments in the new district Noorderhoek (Sneek, the Netherlands) are equipped with separate collection systems for toilet wastewater and the rest of the household wastewater (or so-called greywater). Both streams are treated separately in order to maximize recovery of resources from wastewater. Adsorption/bio-oxidation process is used for grey water treatment to increase sludge production. Sludge, produced in both stages of the process, is digested together with toilet wastewater in the UASB reactor to maximize energy recovery.  The adsorption/bio-oxidation process is used for treatment of industrial wastewater with high COD, including wastewater from: The C/N and C/P ratios of industrial wastewater is often too high for complete aerobic biodegradation of the influent organic matter, even after the adsorption stage. Addition of nutrients prior to bio-oxidation stage is required in these cases.  