An automatic toilet paper dispenser is a toilet roll holder that can be either button or sensor-activated to fold and cut the toilet paper automatically. The automatic toilet-paper dispenser can help aid disabled users, especially in large facilities.  The Camitool by the Japanese company Shikoku uses motion sensor to dispense the toilet paper, so users do not have to touch the machine. It also cuts paper into 60, 90, or 120 cm portions and can be used with almost any brand of toilet paper. The dispenser comes in plastic as well as wood versions which cost roughly $750 and $1,200 respectively. It was released in 2012 and is currently being used by hospitals, and in public buildings in Kagawa.  The SCOTT by Kimberly-Clark is activated when the user waves his hand under a sensor on the machine or by pushing and turning a knob on the front of the dispenser. A given amount of toilet paper with a programmable sheet length — 16", 20" and 24" - is rolled out through the dispenser. K-C claims a 20% reduction in the amount of toilet paper by using the SCOTT. It was released in 2007.  The TPer is a prototype of an automatic toilet-paper dispenser. It works by spinning up an appropriate amount of folded paper before slicing it free. It was created in order to aid disabled and elderly users.  The Eadan brand by Hangzhou Golden Key Science and Technology Co., Ltd includes the functions of infrared induction, automatic paper feeding and automatic cutting. It comes with LCD display screen for information on time, paper quantity regulation and working state. It can be operated by using either batteries or DC power input. The OriFuji automatically cuts the toilet papers and folds them into a neat triangle shape. This makes it easier for the next person to pull and roll out the paper. A total of 10 companies in Japan put their combined energies into the creation of the new automated paper cutting and folding machine. The concept initially came about as a way to express the Japanese culture of omotenashi (hospitality), as to greet and welcome foreigners with heartwarming service in restrooms ahead of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. It was first introduced in 2015.  The Useless Duck Company's "useless toilet paper machine" is a parody of automatic toilet paper dispensers.  