Project Raahat is an initiative of Enactus Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies and was started on 29 December 2015 in collaboration with Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board, Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi, India. Enactus is a global non-profit organisation run by students at individual university and college levels committed to using the power of entrepreneurial action to transform lives and shape a better and more sustainable world. In India, Enactus is active in more than 150 colleges and universities involving more than 4,300 students working on nearly 122 projects across the country. The SSCBS Enactus team comprises 70 students, of which 20 are directly involved in Project Raahat.  With DUSIB, Enactus SSCBS has become the first student body in Delhi to be allocated four toilet complexes in Sultanpuri and Kirti Nagar slums for holistic growth and upkeep of the local community.  Under Project Raahat, the management of Community Toilet Complexes (CTCs) is undertaken by the students, including aspects relating to operational management, aesthetic modification and sensitisation activities. Project Raahat aims to eradicate open defecation and provide safe sanitation facilities to the urban slum dwellers of Delhi. They come up with innovative measures for management of toilet complexes, incorporate aesthetic modification and sensitize people on healthy sanitary practices. The idea sprung from an older project called ‘Sanitary Solutions’ in which they were educating people living in slums about healthy and hygienic practices like the use of sanitary napkins, etc.  The project has currently been launched at toilet complexes in Sultanpuri and Kirti Nagar.  "Open defecation" is the practice of people defecating outside and not into a designated toilet. The term is widely used in literature about water, sanitation, and hygiene issues in developing countries. Open defecation causes public health problems in areas where people defecate in fields, urban parks, rivers, and open trenches in close proximity to the living space of others.  India's sanitation and toilet statistics continue to raise a stink. The World Health Organization and United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) estimate that there are more than 620 million people practising open defecation in the country; over 50 per cent of the population. Moreover, the latest Census data reveals that the percentage of households having access to television and telephones in rural India exceeds the percentage of households with access to toilet facilities. The economic impact of inadequate sanitation is about Rs. 2.4 trillion ($38.4 million), or 6.4 per cent of India’s gross domestic product, according to the Water and Sanitation Programme.  Over five lakh residents in the national capital continue to defecate in the open. Lack of toilets is not the only reason behind this preference for open defecation. Improper maintenance of the existing ones and restrictive timings have forced residents to head out into the open.  At least 234 spots in Delhi are used by the poor as open defecation grounds, a first ever citywide survey on the practice has revealed. Most of these spots are open fields next to slums or spaces along railways tracks.  The Raahat Model is carried out in phases.  The team created a cartoon character called Rahi, a superhero, to draw the attention of slum kids towards the importance of using a toilet.  In order to engage the families through little ones, a superhero called Raahi, who is an epitome of cleanliness, has also been painted on one of the walls.  The character is used in their camps, being impersonated by one other members. Kids see Raahi as a someone who is there to help them lead a healthy life. A ticket system has been put in by Project Raahat in their complexes which enables the community to reap benefits through reduced expenditure on their use of the CTC. Under conventional pay-per-use system employed in majority of the toilet complexes, the users are charged Re.1 each time they use a toilet complex. Under the Ticket system, they buy a bundle of Rs.10 containing 11 tickets instead. The users turn in one ticket each time they use the complex. 