 This is a list of religious populations by number of adherents and countries. Adherents.com says "Sizes shown are approximate estimates, and are here mainly for the purpose of ordering the groups, not providing a definitive number".  Countries with the greatest proportion of Christians from Christianity by country (as of  2010[update]): Countries with the greatest proportion of Muslims from Islam by country (as of  2010[update]) (figures excluding foreign workers in parenthesis): Remarks: Saudi Arabia does not include other religious beliefs in their census, the figures for these other religious groups could be higher than reported in the nation. While conversion to Islam is among its most supported tenets, conversion from Islam to another religion is considered to be the sin of apostasy  and could be subject to the penalty of death in the country. Countries with the greatest proportion of people without religion (including agnostics and atheists) from Irreligion by country (as of  2007[update]): Remarks: Ranked by mean estimate which is in brackets. Irreligious includes agnostic, atheist, secular believer, and people having no formal religious adherence. It does not necessarily mean that members of this group don′t belong to any religion. Some religions have harmonized with local cultures and can be seen as a cultural background rather than a formal religion. Additionally, the practice of officially associating a family or household with a religious institute while not formally practicing the affiliated religion is common in many countries. Thus, over half of this group is theistic and/or influenced by religious principles, but nonreligious/non-practicing and not true atheists or agnostics.  See Spiritual but not religious. Countries with the greatest proportion of Hindus from Hinduism by country (as of  2010[update]): Countries with the greatest proportion of Buddhists from Buddhism by country (as of  2010[update]):  As a spiritual practice, Taoism has made fewer inroads in the West than Buddhism and Hinduism. Despite the popularity of its great classics the I Ching and the Tao Te Ching, the specific practices of Taoism have not been promulgated in America with much success;  these religions are not ubiquitous worldwide in the way that adherents of bigger world religions are, and they remain primarily an ethnic religion. Nonetheless, Taoist ideas and symbols such as Taijitu have become popular throughout the world through Tai Chi Chuan, Qigong, and various martial arts.  The Chinese traditional religion has 184,000 believers in Latin America, 250,000 believers in Europe, and 839,000 believers in North America as of  1998[update].   All of the below come from the U.S. Department of State 2009 International Religious Freedom Report,  based on the highest estimate of people identified as indigenous or followers of indigenous religions that have been well-defined. Due to the syncretic nature of these religions, the following numbers may not reflect the actual number of practitioners. Countries with the greatest proportion of Sikhs: The Sikh homeland is the Punjab state, in India, where today Sikhs make up approximately 61% of the population. This is the only place where Sikhs are in the majority. Sikhs have emigrated to countries all over the world – especially to English-speaking and East Asian nations. In doing so they have retained, to an unusually high degree, their distinctive cultural and religious identity. Sikhs are not ubiquitous worldwide in the way that adherents of larger world religions are, and they remain primarily an ethnic religion. But they can be found in many international cities and have become an especially strong religious presence in the United Kingdom and Canada.    Note that all these estimates come from a single source. However, this source gives a relative indication of the size of the Spiritist communities within each country. Countries with the greatest proportion of Jews (as of  2010[update]): Countries with the greatest proportion of Bahá'ís (as of  2010[update]) with a national population ≥200,000: Largest Christian populations (as of  2011[update]): Largest Hindu populations (as of 2010): Largest Muslim populations (as of 2017): Largest Buddhist populations Largest Sikh populations Largest Jewish populations (as of  2011[update]): Largest Bahá'í populations (as of  2010[update]) in countries with a national population ≥200,000:  As of  2005[update]:  Religions: 