Islamic graffiti is a genre of graffiti created by Islamic people or by people inspired by the Islamic religion. Containing Islamic themes, this type of art finds expression in a variety of forms. The most common languages used are English and Arabic.   Like all other forms of art, graffiti can serve as a medium for instigating political or social change, or as a form of self-expression. Sticker art refers to the practice of posting images or phrases to convey a message.Subvertising refers to the practice of making spoofs or parodies of political advertisements.   Nowadays he is an International artist, known for His innovative Arabic & Persian Calligraphic Street Art Painted in Various Countries. A1one started his career as an artist in the late 1990s with indoor painting.   In 2003, he moved outdoors by spraying a 30x40cm stencil on university walls to express to the "uncommon pressure" at the university which was "endured in silence." However, the motivations behind his art are not protest. He states that his art is simply personal expression: "A drawing on the street is similar to a letter: It proves that there is a writer."  In the Arab World, three major areas of interest can be identified: Lebanon, the Palestinian Territories and the Arab states that were involved in the Arab Spring. In these areas, graffiti has been perceived, both by the public and the media, as a barometer of the society. Lebanon’s religious and ethnic diversity and its position at the crossroad of the Mediterranean basin and the Arab World have contributed to the appearance and development of an active youth culture and graffiti is part of it. Secondly, the Palestinian Territories are a space where graffiti is one of the most powerful forms of protest against what its inhabitants perceive as a contemporary form of colonization. Last but not least, the social importance of graffiti and its militant functions have recently been reflected by the international media, within the coverage of the uprisings in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and Syria. The media coverage of the Arab Spring has drawn attention to a type of both artistic and political expression typical for the young people in the MENA region.  