  Commercial surrogacy in India was legalized in India in 2002. The availability of medical infrastructure and potential surrogates, combined with international demand, has fueled the growth of the industry.  Surrogate mothers receive medical, nutritional and overall health care through surrogacy agreements.   The economic scale of surrogacy in India is unknown, but study backed by the United Nations in July 2012 estimated the business at more than $400 million a year, with over 3,000 fertility clinics across India.  BABY MANJI YAMADA v. UNION OF INDIA & ANR.   INSC 1656 (29 September 2008). Baby Manji was born at Akanksha Infertility Clinic. The girl, who was born in late July, arrived at Kansai International Airport from India, accompanied by her 70-year old grandmother Emkio Yamada. The Japanese government issued the visa last week after the Indian government granted the baby a travel certificate in September in line with a Supreme Court direction.  In Jan Balaz v Union of India, the Gujarat High Court conferred Indian citizenship on two twin babies fathered through compensated surrogacy by a German national in Anand district.  The court observed: "We are primarily concerned with the rights of two newborn, innocent babies, much more than the rights of the biological parents, surrogate mother, or the donor of the ova. Emotional and legal relationship of the babies with the surrogate mother and the donor of the ova is also of vital importance." The court considered the surrogacy laws of countries like Ukraine, Japan, and the United States. Because India does not offer dual citizenship,  the children will have to convert to Overseas Citizenship of India if they also hold non-Indian citizenship.  Balaz, the petitioner, submitted before the Supreme Court that he shall be submitting his passports before the Indian Consulate in Berlin. He also agreed that a NGO in Germany shall respond back to India on the status of the children and their welfare. The Union of India responded that India shall make all attempts to have the children sent to Germany. German authorities have also agreed to reconsider the case if approached by the Indian.  In May 2010, the Balaz twins were provided the exit and entry documents that allowed them to  leave India for Germany. The parents agreed to adopt them in Germany according to German rules.  The Indian Council for Medical Research has given Guidelines in the year 2005 regulating Assisted Reproductive Technology procedures. The Law Commission of India submitted the 228th report on Assisted Reproductive Technology procedures discussing the importance and need for surrogacy, and also the steps taken to control surrogacy arrangements. The following observations had been made by the Law Commission: According to The Guardian, there was a mother who died because she didn't get the proper medical attention.  Conservatives estimates show that more than 25,000 children are now being born through surrogates in India every year in an industry worth $2 billion.  Domestic demand is increasing, but as fertility levels drop elsewhere, at least 50% of these  are "commissioned" by overseas, mainly western, couples.  Most of the industry is operating unchecked. India's medical research watchdog drafted regulations more than two years ago, yet they still await presentation in parliament, leaving the surrogates and baby factories open to abuse.  According to Dr. Manish Banker, from the Pulse Women's Hospital, reported to come back on a patient, "She suddenly had a convulsion and fell on the floor," he said. "We immediately took her for treatment. Since she was showing signs of distress, we conducted an emergency cesarean section delivery."  The Assisted Reproductive Technology Bill, 2013 has a been pending for quite a while and it has not been presented in the Indian Parliament. It will not allow commercial surrogacy that involves exchange of money for anything other than paying for medical expenses for the mother and the child.   The bill would prohibit these from surrogacy: couples already having one child, foreigners or Overseas Citizens of India (OCI),  holders as well as live-in-Partners, single people, homosexuals and widows.  There has been significant criticism of the bill.  