The Constitution of India makes healthcare in India the responsibility of the state governments, rather than the central federal government. It makes every state responsible for "raising the level of nutrition and the standard of living of its people and the improvement of public health as among its primary duties".    The National Health Policy was endorsed by the Parliament of India in 1983 and updated in 2002 and then in 2017. The recent four main updates in 2017 mentions the need to focus on the growing burden of the non-communicable diseases, on the emergence of the robust healthcare industry, on growing incidences of catastrophic expenditure due to health care costs and on rising economic growth enabling enhanced fiscal capacity.  India's population, as per census 2011 stood at 1.21 billion (0.62 billion males and 0.588 females).  There are great inequalities in health between states. The infant mortality in Kerala is 6 per thousand live births,  but in Uttar Pradesh it is 64.  According to World Bank, the total expenditure on health care as a proportion of GDP in 2015 was 3.89%.  Out of 3.89%, the governmental health expenditure as a proportion of GDP is just 1%  and the out-of-pocket expenditure as a proportion of the current health expenditure was 65.06% in 2015.  The life expectancy at birth has increased from 49.7 years in 1970-1975 to 67.9 years in 2010-2014. For the same period, the life expectancy for females is 69.6 years and 66.4 years for males.  In 2018, the life expectancy at birth is said to be 69.1 years.   The infant mortality rate has declined from 74 per 1,000 live births in 1994 to 37 per 1,000 live births in 2015. However, the differentials of rural (41) and urban (25) as of 2015 are still high.  In 2016, the infant mortality rate was estimated to be 34.6 per 1,000 live births.  The under five mortality rate for the country was 113 per 1,000 live births in 1994 whereas in 2018 it reduced to 41.1 per 1,000 live births.  The maternal mortality ratio has declined from 212 per 100 000 live births in 2007-2009 to 167 per 100 000 live births in 2011-2013. However, the differentials for state Kerala (61) and Assam (300) as of 2011-2013 are still high.  In 2013, the maternal mortality ratio was estimated to be 190 per 100 000 live births.  The total fertility rate for the country was 2.3 whereas in rural areas it has been 2.5 and it has been 1.8 in urban areas during 2015.  The most common cause of disability adjusted life years lost for Indian citizens as of 2016 for all ages and sexes was ischemic heart disease (accounting for 8.66% of total DALYs ), 2nd chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (accounting for 4.81% of total DALYs), 3rd diarrhea (accounting for 4.64% of total DALYs) and 4th lower respiratory infections (accounting for 4.35% of total DALYs).   As per the figures about the child mortality rate which is quite a big hurdle for the government, the 2nd most common cause of DALYs lost for children under 5 years of age was diseases like diarrhea, lower respiratory tract infections and other communicable diseases (accounting for 22,598.71 DALYs per 100 000 population) as of 2016 which can be preventable.  Malnutrition refers to deficiencies, excesses or imbalances in a person’s intake of energy and/or nutrients. The term malnutrition covers 2 broad groups of conditions. One is undernutrition - which includes stunting (low height for age), wasting (low weight for height), underweight (low weight for age) and micronutrient deficiencies or insufficiencies (a lack of important vitamins and minerals). The other is overweight - overweight, obesity and diet-related noncommunicable diseases (such as heart disease, stroke, diabetes and cancer).  According to a 2005 report, 60% of India’s children below the age of three were malnourished, which was greater than the statistics of sub-Saharan African of 28%.  World Bank data indicates that India has one of the world’s highest demographics of children suffering from malnutrition – said to be double that of sub-Saharan Africa with dire consequences. India’s Global Hunger Index India ranking of 67, the 80 nations with the worst hunger situation places it even below North Korea or Sudan. 44% of children under the age of 5 are underweight, while 72% of infants have anemia.  It is considered that one in every three malnourished children in the world lives in India.  States where malnutrition is prominent:   * : <Median -2SD of WHO Child Growth Standards # : NNMB Rural Survey - 2005-06 A well-nourished child is one whose weight and height measurements compare very well within the standard normal distribution of heights and weights of healthy children of same age and sex.  A child without sufficient nutrients in its daily intake is not only exposed to physical and motor growth delays, but also to heightened risk of mortality, reduced immune defenses and decreased cognitive and learning capacities. Malnutrition limits the productivity of all those who are its victims, and thus serves to perpetuate poverty. As with serious malnutrition, growth delays also hinder a child’s intellectual development. Sick children with chronic malnutrition, especially when accompanied by anemia, often suffer from a lower learning capacity during the crucial first years of attending school.  * : <Median -2SD of WHO Child Growth Standards # : NNMB Rural Survey - 2005-06 ^ : NNMB Tribal Survey - 2008-09 Due to their lower social status, girls are far more at risk of malnutrition than boys of their age. Partly as a result of this cultural bias, up to one third of all adult women in India are underweight. Inadequate care of these women already underdeveloped, especially during pregnancy, leads them in turn to deliver underweight babies who are vulnerable to further malnutrition and disease.   Diseases such as dengue fever, hepatitis, tuberculosis, malaria and pneumonia continue to plague India due to increased resistance to drugs.  In 2011, India developed a 'totally drug-resistant' form of tuberculosis.  HIV/AIDS in India is ranked third highest among countries with HIV-infected patients. National AIDS Control Organisation, a government apex body is making efforts for managing the HIV/AIDS epidemic in India.  Diarrheal diseases are the primary causes of early childhood mortality.  These diseases can be attributed to poor sanitation and inadequate safe drinking water.  India has the world's highest incidence of rabies. Malaria has been a seasonal health problem in India from a very long time. The maximum number of malaria cases and deaths have been reported mostly form the rural parts of Orissa. The overall prevalence of the disease has diminished in 2012 and 2013 however there is a slight increase in 2014 and again started decreasing from 2015. Kala-azar is the second largest parasitic killer in the world. Most of the cases (76%) were found in Bihar in 2016. Dengue and chikungunya transmitted by Aedes mosquitoes, is another problem of concern in India. Dengue outbreaks have continued since the 1950s but severity of disease has increased in the last two decades. In 2016, India reported a total of 58,264 cases of chikungunya. Chicken pox cases were reported to be 61,118 & deaths to be 60 in 2016.  In 2012, India was polio-free for the first time in its history.  This was achieved because of the Pulse Polio programme started in 1995–96 by the government.  India has witnessed huge progress in the health status of its population after its independence. During this period the transition have been seen in economic development, nutritional status, fertility and mortality rates and consequently, the disease profile has changed considerably. Although great efforts have been done to control the communicable diseases, but they still contribute significantly to disease burden of the country. Decline in DALYs and deaths from communicable diseases have been accompanied by a gradual shift to, and accelerated rise in the prevalence of chronic non-communicable diseases (NCDs) such as cardiovascular disease (CVD), diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), cancers, mental health disorders and injuries. . Indians are at particularly high risk for atherosclerosis and coronary artery disease. This may be attributed to a genetic predisposition to metabolic syndrome and adverse changes in coronary artery vasodilation. NGOs such as the Indian Heart Association was created to raise awareness. .  As there are more than 122 million households that have no toilets, and 33% lack access to latrines, over 50% of the population (638 million) defecate in the open.(2008 estimate)  This is relatively higher than Bangladesh and Brazil (7%) and China (4%).  Although 211 million people gained access to improved sanitation from 1990–2008, only 31% use the facilities provided.  Only 11% of Indian rural families dispose of stools safely whereas 80% of the population leave their stools in the open or throw them in the garbage.  Open air defecation leads to the spread of disease and malnutrition through parasitic and bacterial infections.  Several million more suffer from multiple episodes of diarrhea and still others fall ill on account of Hepatitis A, enteric fever, intestinal worms and eye and skin infections caused by poor hygiene and unsafe drinking water.  Access to protected sources of drinking water has improved from 68% of the population in 1990 to 88% in 2008.  However, only 26% of the slum population has access to safe drinking water,  and 25% of the total population has drinking water on their premises.  This problem is exacerbated by falling levels of groundwater caused mainly by increasing extraction for irrigation.  Insufficient maintenance of the environment around water sources, groundwater pollution, excessive arsenic and fluoride in drinking water pose a major threat to India's health.  Despite health improvements over the last thirty years, lives continue to be lost to early childhood diseases, inadequate newborn care and childbirth-related causes. More than two million children die every year from preventable infections.  Approximately 1.72 million children die each year before turning one.  The under five mortality and infant mortality rates have been declining, from 202 and 190 deaths per thousand live births respectively in 1970 to 64 and 50 deaths per thousand live births respectively in 2009 and to 41.1 (in 2018) and 34.6 (in 2016) deaths per thousand live births respectively.    However, this decline is slowing. Reduced funding for immunization leaves only 43.5% of the young fully immunized.  A study conducted by the Future Health Systems Consortium in Murshidabad, West Bengal indicates that barriers to immunization coverage are adverse geographic location, absent or inadequately trained health workers and low perceived need for immunization.  Infrastructure like hospitals, roads, water and sanitation are lacking in rural areas.  Shortages of healthcare providers, poor intrapartum and newborn care, diarrheal diseases and acute respiratory infections also contribute to the high infant mortality rate.  Maternal deaths are similarly high. The reasons for this high mortality are that few women have access to skilled birth attendants and fewer still to quality emergency obstetric care. In addition, only 15 per cent of mothers receive complete antenatal care and only 58 per cent receive iron or folate tablets or syrup.  Women's health in India involves numerous issues.  Some of them include the following:  Rural India contains over 68% of India's total population,  and half of all residents of rural areas live below the poverty line, struggling for better and easy access to health care and services.  Health issues confronted by rural people are many and diverse – from severe malaria to uncontrolled diabetes, from a badly infected wound to cancer.  Postpartum maternal illness is a serious problem in resource-poor settings and contributes to maternal mortality, particularly in rural India.  A study conducted in 2009 found that 43.9% of mothers reported they experienced postpartum illnesses six weeks after delivery.  Furthermore, because of limited government resources, much of the health care provided comes from non profits such as The MINDS Foundation.  The Twelfth Five Year plan covering 2012-2017  was formulated based on the recommendation of a High Level Experts Group (HLEG) and other stakeholder consultations. The long term objective of this strategy is to establish a system of Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in the country. Key points include: The High Level Expert Group report recommends an increase in public expenditure on health from 1.58 per cent of GDP currently to 2.1 per cent of GDP by the end of the 12th five-year plan. However, even this is far lower than the global median of 5 per cent.  The lack of extensive and adequately funded public health services pushes large numbers of people to incur heavy out of pocket expenditures on services purchased from the private sector. Out of pocket expenditures arise even in public sector hospitals, since lack of medicines means that patients have to buy them. This results in a very high financial burden on families in case of severe illness.  Though, the 12th plan document express concern over high out-of-pocket (OOP) expenditure, it does not give any target or time frame for reducing this expense . OOP can be reduced only by increasing public expenditure on health and by setting up widespread public health service providers.  But the planning commission is planning to do this by regulating private health care providers.  It takes solace from the HLEG report which admits that, "the transformation of India’s health system to become an effective platform for UHC is an evolutionary process that will span several years".  Instead of developing a better public health system with enhanced health budget, 12th five-year plan document plans to hand over health care system to private institutions. The 12th plan document causes concern over Rashtriya Swasthya Bhima Yojana being used as a medium to hand over public funds to the private sector through an insurance route. This has also incentivised unnecessary treatment which in due course will increase costs and premiums.  There have been complaints about high transaction cost for this scheme due to insurance intermediaries. RSBY does not take into consideration state specific variation in disease profiles and health needs.  Even though these things are acknowledged in the report, no alternative remedy is given. There is no reference to nutrition as key component of health and for universal Public Distribution System (PDS) in the plan document or HLEG recommendation. In the section of National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) in the document, the commitment to provide 30- to 50-bed Community Health Centres (CHC) per 100 000 population is missing from the main text. It was easy for the government to recruit poor women as ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers but it has failed to bring doctors, nurses and specialist in this area. The ASHA workers who are coming from a poor background are given incentive based on performance. These people lose many days job undertaking their task as ASHA worker which is not incentivised properly. Even the 12th plan doesn't give any solace.  To summarize, successive administrative and political reforms have conveniently bypassed training citizens and local bodies to actively participate in healthcare. In a situation where people are not enabled to identify poor quality, speak up and debate. There is dire need for the health system to fill that role on behalf of the people and can be easily done by decentralization of healthcare governance. A recent study pointed out that access to advanced medical facilities under a single roof was the main reason for the choice of private hospitals in both rural and urban areas. The second major reason for private healthcare preference was proximity of the facility in the rural area and approachability and friendly conduct of doctors and staff in the urban centers.  Preventive and Promotive Healthcare Programmes for Communicable Diseases Programmes for Non-communicable Diseases National Nutritional Programmes Programmes Related to System Strengthening / Welfare Miscellaneous    