A patient's bill of rights is a list of guarantees for those receiving medical care. It may take the form of a law or a non-binding declaration. Typically a patient's bill of rights guarantees patients information, fair treatment, and autonomy over medical decisions, among other rights. In the UK, the Patient's Charter was introduced and revised in the 1990s. It was replaced by the NHS Constitution for England. In the United States there have been a number of attempts to enshrine a patient's bill of rights in law, including a bill rejected by Congress in 2001. The United States Congress considered a bill designed to safeguard patients' rights in 2001. The "Bipartisan Patient Protection Act" (S.1052), sponsored by Senators Edward Kennedy and John McCain,  contained new rules for what health maintenance organizations had to cover and granted new rights for patients to sue in state or federal courts, if they are denied needed care.  The House of Representatives and Senate passed differing versions of the proposed law. Although both bills would have provided patients key rights, such as prompt access to emergency care and medical specialists, only the Senate-passed measure would provide patients with adequate means to enforce their rights.  The Senate's proposal would have conferred a broad array of rights on patients. It would have ensured that patients with health care plans had the right to: The bill was passed by the US Senate by a vote of 59–36 in 2001,  it was then amended by the House of Representatives and returned to the Senate. However, it ultimately failed. Wendell Potter, former senior executive  at Cigna turned whistleblower, has written that the insurance industry has worked to kill "any reform that might interfere with insurers' ability to increase profits" by engaging in extensive and well-funded, anti-reform campaigns. The industry, however, "goes to great lengths to keep its involvement in these campaigns hidden from public view," including the use of "front groups." Indeed, in a successful 1998 effort to kill the Patient Bill of Rights then, "the insurers formed a front group called the Health Benefits Coalition to kill efforts to pass a Patients Bill of Rights. While it was billed as a broad-based business coalition that was led by the National Federation of Independent Business and included the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Health Benefits Coalition in reality got the lion’s share of its funding and guidance from the big insurance companies and their trade associations. Like most front groups, the Health Benefits Coalition was set up and run out of one of Washington’s biggest P.R. firms. The P.R. firm  provided all the staff work for the Coalition. The tactics worked. Industry allies in Congress made sure the Patients’ Bill of Rights would not become law." Some have cited differences between positive rights and personal freedoms. Asserting that medical care "must be rendered under conditions that are acceptable to both patient and physician," the Association of American Physicians and Surgeons adopted a list of patient freedoms in 1990, which was modified and adopted as a 'patients' bill of rights' in 1995: "All patients should be guaranteed the following freedoms: 