 Thierry Henri Philippe Baudet (born 28 January 1983) is a Dutch politician, jurist, columnist and historian who founded and leads the political party Forum for Democracy (FvD, Dutch: Forum voor Democratie). Born in Heemstede to a family of partial French and Indonesian origin,  Baudet is a eurosceptic and opposed to multiculturalism. Baudet is an advocate for a return to nation states; his party set up the Dutch Ukraine–European Union Association Agreement referendum, 2016 with the GeenStijl website and the Burgercomité EU association, in which Baudet voted no.  In 2014 he gave a speech at the Flemish nationalist event IJzerwake. Also he spoke at several Vlaams Belang conferences. Baudet maintains that his conservative political convictions have been largely influenced by two events in his first year as a history undergraduate in Amsterdam: the September 11 attacks and the assassination of Pim Fortuyn. In November 2016 Baudet co-signed a letter, initiated by the German journalist Billy Six requesting Donald Trump, to press for a new investigation regarding MH17.  Baudet features regularly in both print and visual media in Europe. As a journalist he has had a permanent column in NRC Handelsblad, and is published in Le Monde, PressEurope and European Ideas. Recently he has been active as a commentator in Studio PowNed on the Dutch public television. As an academic teacher and researcher Baudet focuses on questions of law, history and political philosophy through a multidisciplinary approach.     He opened his first parliamentary speech in Latin language.  In the general election of 2017 his newly founded party won two seats in the House of Representatives, Baudet being elected alongside Theo Hiddema. In February 2018 Baudet was confronted with the question whether there is a relation between IQ and race in a debate with Femke Halsema. Hiddema and the number two on Baudet's party list for the Dutch municipal elections, 2018 in Amsterdam, Yernaz Ramautarsing, stated they believed it to be true while Baudet refused to answer the question. Deputy Prime Minister Kajsa Ollongren stated that Forum for Democracy is a bigger threat than the PVV and that members have an unhealthy fascination for race differences; Baudet made a complaint for defamation at an Amsterdam police station. Hiddema supported him as his advocate.  In a debate a few days later, he no longer refused to answer the question and mentioned he shares Ramautarsing's opinion on the subject.  Baudet is a national conservative and eurosceptic, advocating for both Netherlands' exit from the European Union and its eventual dissolution. He is against further unskilled immigration into the Netherlands. In a speech he spoke about immigration causing a homeopathic dilution  and in an interview he said he prefers a dominant white and cultural Europe as it is.  He is opposed to Ukraine joining the European Union. Baudet has a strong opinion on arts, the topic of his book Oikofobie, and considers non-Western art and Western post-1900 modernism in visual arts inferior to Western Realism, encourages education and programmation of tonal music opposed to atonal music and dislikes modern post-1950 architecture. Baudet frequently speaks about the perceived existence of a "party cartel", in which the main ruling parties of the country divide power among themselves and conspire towards the same goals, despite claiming to be competitors.  Baudet is an atheist.  Since Baudet entered the States General with his political party, he became a hot topic in the Dutch media with daily new analytic articles, background checks, gossip, and interviews. His broad international network is a prominent re-occurring chapter in the debate whether his political position is extreme right, racist, or fascistic. He had contact with Jared Taylor,  Milo Yiannopoulos, Jean-Marie Le Pen and Filip Dewinter.  He speaks about non-Western immigrants as the cause of an "homeopathic dilution" of Europe.  Brackets signifies a temporary absent member  Italics signifies a temporary member  Angle brackets signifies a member who prematurely left the House of Representatives   