Open source product development (OSPD) refers to the development of open-source hardware products performed in a collaborative development process allowing the participation of any interested person. Open source product development instantiate the concept of open-source model in the context of physical products.  OSPD is characterized by the simultaneity of two forms of openness: product openness (the development of open source hardware products as defined by the Open Source Definition) and process openness (the possibility for any interested person to take part in the collaborative development process). Generally, OSPD processes are relevant for complex products, whose definition requires the collaborative integration of inputs from multiple contributions. This, however, does not excludes the existence of OSPD processes for simple products. In that sense, OSPD specifies the concept of "open source innovation" as defined by Huizingh  in the case of complex tangible products. Process openness requires that the product development process is performed by a "community". The word "community" is used in contrast to "company" or "team" in order to highlight three fundamental differences with the governance of conventional industrial product development . First, communities are groups of individual people whose affiliation to institutions or companies has little influence on the role they play in the product development project. Second, the participation of a member to a community is voluntary, that is, each member defines independently his/her degree of involvement and the delivered workload is generally not paid. Third, the composition of a community is not set at the beginning of the project but is open for the participation of any interested person and evolves along the self-defined involvement of the community members.  OSPD is "collaborative" in that it is performed with a certain simultaneity or parallelity in the work provided by the community members. In other words, OSPD is characterized by "intention for co-development" . Collaboration is defined as the coordinated work performed by a group using common material and following a common objective . It therefore delineates with sequential development loops of open source designs  where a product is sequentially developed and released by an isolated member then reused, further developed and released again by another community member, and so on.  