Open Source Ecology (OSE) is a network of farmers, engineers, architects and supporters, whose main goal is the eventual manufacturing of the Global Village Construction Set (GVCS). As described by Open Source Ecology "the GVCS is an open technological platform that allows for the easy fabrication of the 50 different Industrial Machines that it takes to build a small civilization with modern comforts."  Groups in Oberlin, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York and California are developing blueprints, and building prototypes in order to pass them on to Missouri.    The devices are built and tested on the Factor e Farm in rural Missouri. Recently, 3D-Print reports  OSE has been experimenting with RepRap 3-D printers as suggested by academics for sustainable development.  Marcin Jakubowski Ph.D. founded the group in 2003.  In the final year of his doctoral thesis at the University of Wisconsin, he had the feeling that his career field was too closed off from the world's problems, and he wanted to go a different way.  After graduation, he devoted himself entirely to OSE. OSE made it to the world stage in 2011 when Jakubowski presented his Global Village Construction Set TED Talk.  Shortly after, the GVCS won Make magazine's  Green Project Contest. The Internet blogs Gizmodo and Grist produced detailed features on OSE. Jakubowski has since become a Shuttleworth Foundation Fellow (2012) and TED Senior Fellow (2012). In December of 2013, Marcin married Catarina Mota.  She co-chaired the Open Hardware Summit 2012, served on the board of directors of the Open Source Hardware Association, taught as an adjunct faculty member at ITP-NYU, and was a fellow of the National Science and Technology Foundation of Portugal. Catarina finished her PhD dissertation on the social impact of open and collaborative practices for the development of physical goods and technologies. She was a visiting scholar at ITP-NYU, Research Chair at the Open Source Hardware Association, TED Fellow, and member of NYC Resistor. Open Source Ecology is also developing in Europe as OSE Europe.  The Factor e Farm is the main headquarters, where the machines are prototyped and tested.  The farm itself also serves as a prototype. Utilizing the Open Source Ecology principles, Marcin and Catarina have built four prototype modules which comprise their home.  An added greenhouse demonstrates how a family can grow their own fresh vegetables and fish.  Outside there is also a large garden including fruit trees..  As of 2014, twelve of the fifty machines have been designed, blueprinted, and prototyped, with four of those reaching the documentation stage.   On October 2011 a Kickstarter fundraising campaign collected 63,573 USD for project expenses and the construction of a training facility.   The project has been funded by the Shuttleworth Foundation  and is a semifinalist in the Focus Forward Film Festival.  Powercube v7 Assembly video Liberator Compressed Earth Brick Press v4 Assembly video LifeTrac tractor - Design Rationale LifeTrac tractor - Fabrication Report LifeTrac tractor- Fabrication Drawings The Global Village Construction Set (GVCS) comprises 50 industrial machines:   Compressed earth block press v4  ·  Concrete mixer  ·  Sawmill  ·  Bulldozer  ·  Backhoe Tractor:  LifeTrac v3  ·  Seeder  ·  Hay rake  ·  Microtractor  ·  Rototiller  ·  Spader  ·  Hay cutter  ·  Trencher  ·  Bakery oven  ·  Dairy milking machine  ·  Microcombine harvester  ·  Baler  ·  Well-drilling rig Multimachine  ·  Ironworker  ·  Laser cutter  ·  Welder  ·  Plasma cutter  ·  Induction furnace  ·   CNC torch table  ·  Metal roller  ·  Wire and rod mill  ·  Press forge  ·  Universal rotor  ·  Drill press  ·  3D Printer  ·  3D Scanner  ·   CNC circuit mill  ·  Industrial robot  ·  Woodchipper / Hammermill Power Cube: PowerCube v7  ·  Gasifier burner  ·  Solar concentrator  ·  Electric motor / generator  ·  Hydraulic motor  ·  Nickel–iron battery  ·  Steam engine  ·  Steam generator  ·  Wind turbine  ·  Pelletizer  ·  Universal power supply Aluminium extractor  ·  Bioplastic extruder Car  ·  Truck During October, 2011 the first successful duplication of a Global Village Construction Set product by a third-party group was completed. Jason Smith along with James Slade and his organization Creation Flame  developed a functioning open source CEB press.  A group in Baltimore, Maryland, and a group in Dallas, Texas have also begun production of GVCS machines.  