   Brady John Haran (born 18 June 1976) is an Australian-born British independent filmmaker and video journalist who is known for his educational videos and documentary films produced for BBC News and his YouTube channels, the most notable being Periodic Videos and Numberphile.   Haran is also the co-host of the  Hello Internet podcast along with fellow YouTuber CGP Grey. On August 22, 2017, Haran launched a new podcast called The Unmade Podcast. Brady Haran studied journalism for a year before being hired by The Adelaide Advertiser. In 2002, he moved from Australia to Nottingham, United Kingdom. In Nottingham, he worked for the BBC, began to work with film, and reported for East Midlands Today, BBC News Online and BBC radio stations.    In 2007, Haran worked as a filmmaker-in-residence for Nottingham Science City,   as part of an agreement between the BBC and The University of Nottingham.  His "Test Tube" project started with the idea of producing a documentary about scientists and their research, but he decided to upload his raw footage to YouTube; from that point "Periodic Videos" and "Sixty Symbols" were developed.   Haran then left the BBC to work full-time making YouTube videos.  Following "Test Tube", Haran decided to create new YouTube channels.  In his first 5 years as an independent filmmaker he made over 1500 videos.  In 2012, he was the producer, editor, and interviewer behind 12 YouTube channels  such as The Periodic Table of Videos,  Sixty Symbols and Numberphile.  Martyn Poliakoff received the Royal Society of Chemistry Nyholm Prize for Education in 2011 for work taking chemistry education to a wider audience; this included his work with Haran on The Periodic Table of Videos.   Working with Poliakoff, Haran's videos explaining chemistry and science for non-technical persons received positive recognition.  Together, they have made over 500 short videos that cover the elements and other chemistry-related topics. Their YouTube channel has had more than 159 million views.  Also, Haran and Poliakoff authored an article in the Nature Chemistry journal  and an essay on Science journal  discussing the impact of The Periodic Table of Videos. Haran frequently collaborates with professionals and experts, who often appear in his videos to discuss subjects relevant to their work. Most notably his series Periodic Videos features chemist Martyn Poliakoff, with the series also featuring chemist Stephen Liddle. The Numberphile channel has hosted a wide array of guests and presenters, including mathematicians James Grime, Elwyn Berlekamp, John Conway, Persi Diaconis, Rob Eastaway, David Eisenbud, Edward Frenkel, Hannah Fry, Ron Graham, Lisa Goldberg, Barry Mazur, Ken Ribet, Tadashi Tokieda and Terence Tao, computer scientists Don Knuth and Carlo H. Séquin, scientists Brian Butterworth, Ed Copeland, Laurence Eaves, and Clifford Stoll, and scientific writers and popularizers Alex Bellos, Steve Mould, Matt Parker, Tom Scott, and Simon Singh.  The Computerphile channel has hosted similar experts, such as computer science professor Michael Pound.  In January 2014, Haran launched the podcast Hello Internet along with co-host CGP Grey, another YouTube educational content creator. The podcast peaked as the #1 iTunes podcast in the United Kingdom, United States, Germany, Canada, and Australia.  It was selected as one of Apple's best new podcasts of 2014.  The Guardian included the podcast among its 50 best of 2016, naming episode 66 ("A Classic Episode") its episode of the year. The paper described the podcast as having "in-depth debates and banter that is actually amusing".   The podcast features discussions pertaining to their lives as professional content creators for YouTube, as well as their interests and annoyances. Typical topics include technology etiquette; movie and TV show reviews; plane accidents; vexillology; futurology; and the differences between Grey's and Haran's personalities and lifestyles.   In August 2017, Haran launched The Unmade Podcast along with co-host Tim Hein, a close friend of Haran.  The podcast features a discussion between the two of "ideas for podcasts that they will never make." and sometimes do make.  