You Suck At Photoshop is a series of online Photoshop tutorials with adult-themed humor designed by Matt Bledsoe and Troy Hitch of the Big Fat Institute for Advanced Interactive Design; hosted at My Damn Channel.  The show started as a one-off parody of instructional videos and became popular almost overnight; since its debut in December 2007, the first episode alone has received over 4.7 million views on YouTube, over 600,000 on My Damn Channel, and garnered national attention in Time Magazine.  Episodes typically star fictional Photoshop user Donnie Hoyle, who demonstrates tools and techniques in Photoshop, usually on a Macintosh computer. Donnie is a person with severe and chronic personal problems relating to his job, his relationships and disintegrating marriage; various legal problems, career and emotional problems; which tend to weave themselves into the narrative to dark comedic effect. Each episode's title card is further distinguished by a different misspelling which can be interpreted as part of the joke of each episode or is spelled so as to suggest an off-color reference. Further clues to Donnie's state of mind can probably be inferred from the ever-changing desktop wallpaper seen during the demonstration. Despite Donnie's rather intractable life problems, he does manage to demonstrate Photoshop CS3 tools and techniques, such as selecting via Color Range, Curves, and Vanishing Point. Originally intended as a one-off series, YSAP went into a second season due to fan demand.  The series went into its second season on My Damn Channel on 27 June 2008, and ended on 31 October 2008. The series has had two spinoffs, a five-episode My Damn Channel series known as Sn4tchbuckl3r's Second Chance, and You Suck At Photoshop (TOP SECRET EDITION!), in which Donnie creates his Photoshop will. The series restarted unofficially on 4 April 2012 with a spinoff called You Rock At Photoshop, starring Ronnie Cox. On 25 April 2012, the official start of You Suck At Photoshop started. The series was awarded two Webby awards; for Best How-To and Best Comedy Series – People's Voice.   It also won the Streamy award for Best Artistic Concept in a Web Series.   The creators of the character have this to say about him, from their Time magazine profile:  Hitch and Bledsoe had long nurtured an idea for a character they thought of as the Angry Photoshop Guy. Explains Bledsoe: "We had both been in the agency business so long that after a while we'd seen every kind of person in the advertising world." One of those stereotypes, he says, was the "insane designer, basically. He has horrible social skills and horrible things going on in his life, and the only thing he has going for him is he can out-Photoshop the guy in the cube next to him Additional uncredited characters include Donnie's wife (usually heard heckling him in the early episodes), and Donnie's co-workers at Phebco (heard when he had to do a couple of tutorials from his workplace after legal trouble during his divorce caused him to be locked out of his house). Season One of You Suck at Photoshop was presented on My Damn Channel every other week from 21 December 2007 through 4 April 2008. It comprises 10 regular episodes and one season-ending tribute episode. Donnie's life and career trajectory during this series begin with his portrayal as a man who is both desperately unhappy in his job and his marriage, the progress of his life through is divorce and the loss of his job (whether by firing or quitting is not made clear), and his failed attempt to forge another relationship prior to his rather mysterious disappearance at the end of episode 10. Season Two debuted on My Damn Channel on 27 June 2008, with episode #11, and new episodes being released once every other week on Friday. As before, Donnie is at war with his lifestyle and the results of the life choices he's made. Despite his apparent sojourn to Peopleburg (as detailed in the short series Sn4tchbuckl3r's Second Chance and the placidity of his attitude in episode #10, he is just as stressed and anxious as he was before. The trajectory of this season starts with a losing paternity battle, the losing of which incites Donnie to do something incredibly stupid involving Thai thumb drives and a NERF jart that invoking Stephen Baldwin can't even save him from, and an apparent cross-country flight from Ricky (aka. the guy "drilling" his wife in the Vanagon in episode 1). Sna4tchbuckl3r and Sandy make returns to the storyline. As of 4 April 2012, My Damn Channel has started showing You Suck At Photoshop series, beginning with an offshoot series called You Rock At Photoshop, starting 4-year-old Ronnie Cox, the possible estranged child of Donnie Hoyle. The offshoot series tends to mimic the original in a happier tone voiced by little Ronnie. Following the first episode, two videos affidavits by Robert Davis-Brockweilder Munghj, the legal representative of the "late" Donnie Hoyle estate, notifying My Damn Channel that they were in violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act for the blatant copy. The second episode of the You Rock At Photoshop started the same as the second episode of You Suck At Photoshop, but involving removing a robot instead of a cat. During the video, Ronnie Cox received a Skype message from Robert Davis-Brockweilder Munghj regarding how Robert was just attacked by a horde of 4-year-old children which he believed were sent to attack him by Ronnie. During the Skype call, you could hear a group of 4-year-olds breaking into the room where Robert was. There was a third affidavit by Robery Davis-Brockweilder Munghj, where he appeared beaten, bounded and his head was covered. In this video he made mention that Donnie Hoyle was alive and he would return. Soon after, the sounds of 4-year-olds entering the room and attacking Robert occurred. On 25 April 2012, the third season of You Suck At Photoshop started, with Donnie Hoyle creating an advertisement for Robert Davis-Brockweilder Munghj as payment for his services.  