The following is a list of conservation organizations associated with the professional field of conservation-restoration.  Professional conservators join and take part in the activities of numerous conservation associations and professional organizations with the wider conservation field, and within their area of specialization. These organizations exist to "support the conservation professionals who preserve our cultural heritage".  This involves upholding professional standards, promoting research and publications, providing educational opportunities, and fostering the exchange of knowledge among conservators, allied professionals, and the public. Brief History of Chamber of Restorers, Slovak Republic The Chamber of Restorers was established on September 1st 1994 by the Law of the National Council of the Slovak Republic No. 200/1994 Collection of Law about the Chamber of Restorers and the Execution of the Restoration Activity of its Members, as a so called professional chamber with compulsory membership, which has the task to gather physical persons executing the profession “restorer” in the area of the Slovak Republic. The seat of the Chamber of Restorers is in the capital of the Slovak Republic, Bratislava and it operates within the whole area of the Slovak Republic. The essential mission of the Chamber of Restorers is to act as public authority in two main areas. For this purpose the law entrusted the chamber on one side with the authority to issue internal (corporative/professional) rules which are legally binding for its members and on the other side it accredited the chamber with disciplinary authority over its members, which manifests in the chamber’s right to impose disciplinary measures on its members (written warning, monetary fine, or deletion from the list of the members of the chamber) in cases when they have committed misconduct fulfilling the features of disciplinary offence. Besides these two areas in which the Chamber of Restorers as the authority of the so called interest self-government fulfils tasks in the field of public administration from the position of its executor, its duty is also to promote and protect the rights of the professional, social and economic interests of its members, as well as to protect the professional honor of its members. The task of the Chamber of Restorers is also to cooperate with the providers of the university level education with restoration specialisation in the area of the Slovak Republic and to propose measures leading to improvement of the quality of the education in this field and the preparation for the profession restorer. The Chamber of Restorers in the interest of providing the highest possible protection and the widest accessibility of the cultural heritage to the public cooperates with the government bodies, local self-government with the domestic and foreign partner professional chambers and professional associations acting in the field of restoration activity and activities related to the restoration activity. As a result of its long-term activity in the area of cooperation also on the European level the Chamber of Restorers in the year 2005 became a full member of the European Confederation of Conservator-Restorers´ Organisations – E.C.C.O. which acts as an international body gathering professional organisations from the member states of the European Union and the EEA which is also a permanent specialised partner of the European Commission and the Council of Europe in the area of the protection and restoration of European objects of cultural heritage. Egypt is the richest country in Africa and the Middle East for photographic treasures dating back from 1850. Egypt is also well known for its vast library collections, for the great part in public institutions such as the National Library Dar El Kutub, university libraries, museums etc. Public and private collections of antique photographs and books in Egypt are in a state of rapid deterioration due to environmental factors. In order to address these issues, Catania University and Helwan University, in cooperation with Egyptian-Italian Center for the Conservation of Antique Photographs and Paper Heritage (acronym EICAP), propose a master in Conservation of Antique Photographs and Paper Heritage. Acre, la Asociación Profesional de Conservadores Restauradores de España, se inscribió en el Registro General de Asociaciones el 22 de septiembre de 2011 como asociación sin ánimo de lucro. Los estatutos de la asociación, actualmente vigentes, fueron aprobados en Asamblea General en diciembre de 2016.  Desde el 14 de mayo de 2012 son miembros de la European Confederation of Conservador-Restorers Organisations – E.C.C.O- y participa directamente en su comité desde 2016 ACRE. Su principal objetivo es conseguir la regulación de la conservación restauración de bienes culturales en España, mediante el establecimiento de unas competencias claras, definidas y exclusivas de los conservadores restauradores. En la actualidad está desarrollando su Plan estratégico 2017-18, que consta de varios programas de acción: Además de las actividades desarrolladas a través de los programas, ACRE ha realizado otras acciones en paralelo, persiguiendo siempre el objetivo de la defensa del profesional de la conservación restauración de bienes cuturales y el patrimonio cultural. Estas acciones fueron:  Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones: 2003 Asociación de ámbito autonómico.   GTCRC: Grup Tècnic, Associació Profesional dels Conservadors-Restauradors de Béns Culturals de Catalunya. Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones: 1983  ARCC: Associació de Restauradors-Conservadors de Catalunya  Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones: 1996  Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones: 2004   Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones:  Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones: 2004  Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones: 1996  Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones: 2004  Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones: 	 Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones:  Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones:  Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones:  Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones:1991  Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones: 1995	  Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones: 1999 Asociación de ámbito estatal.  Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones:1996  Fecha de inscripción en el registro de asociaciones: 