 Film Socialisme alternative French title Socialisme, English: Socialism but often referred to as Film Socialism, is a 2010 French film directed by Jean-Luc Godard. The film was first screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 2010 Cannes Film Festival,  to a widely varying reception, and released in France two days later, on 19 May 2010. It screened at the 48th New York Film Festival in 2010, the 27th film that Godard has shown at the festival.  According to the synopsis on the film's official website,  the film is composed of three movements: Principal photography began in 2008, and the film was originally scheduled for a 10 January 2010 release, but an extended post-production delayed its release.   Most of the film was shot around the Mediterranean Sea. The film is Godard's first in HD video and the 16:9 aspect ratio, as well as his first in several decades not be photographed with an intended aspect ratio of 4:3. Though Godard was one of the first major directors to shoot and edit on video, and has incorporated video footage and editing into most of his work since the mid-1970s, this is the first theatrical release from him to be shot entirely in a digital format. As with many of his films, Godard's partner Anne-Marie Miéville worked on the film, other people credited as collaborators being Fabrice Aragno and Louma Sanbar, who also have worked with Godard before. The cruise ship is the Costa Concordia,  sailing around the Mediterranean Sea. This ship was wrecked in real life in January 2012. Reviews for Film Socialisme were mixed. The review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reported that 59% of mainstream critics gave the film positive reviews, based on 56 reviews.  Metacritic reported the film had an average score of 64 out of 100, based on 13 reviews.  Michael Phillips, film critic for the Chicago Tribune gave the movie three stars out of four, writing, "Those receptive to Godard's sense of humor will find Film Socialisme an elusive yet expansive provocation. Those less receptive will find it elusive, period".  British film critic Mark Kermode attended the premiere screening at the 2010 Cannes Film Festival, describing it later as the worst film of the festival.   Kermode would include Film Socialisme in his list of the worst ten films of 2011.   Roger Ebert described the film as "an affront. It is incoherent, maddening, deliberately opaque and heedless of the ways in which people watch movies."  Film Socialisme was screened at numerous film festivals around the world including, 