Leviathan is a 2012 documentary film directed by Lucien Castaing-Taylor and Véréna Paravel of the Sensory Ethnography Lab at Harvard University.  It is an experimental work about the North American fishing industry. The film has been acquired for U.S. distribution by The Cinema Guild. The filmmakers used GoPro cameras and worked 20-hour shifts during the shooting of the film.  Peter Howell of the Toronto Star said the film "plunges us into the sights and sounds of this visceral business", using "[t]iny waterproof cameras that could be clipped or rested upon people, fish or objects…to capture the film’s raw images and natural sounds. Edited together into a non-linear and virtually wordless whole, it creates a briny immersive effect that is almost hallucinatory."   A. O. Scott of The New York Times noted that the film "conveys the brutal toll that the enterprise takes on the workers and on the ocean, and it could even be read as an environmental parable in which the sea threatens to exact its revenge on humanity. But none of this is explicit in the film, which avoids exposition and context, unfolds almost entirely in the dark and often verges on hallucinatory abstraction. Where most documentaries prize clarity, this one attests to the power of estrangement."   Melissa Anderson of The Village Voice opined that "[t]he density of aural and visual stimuli overwhelms—and liberates."   NPR critic Stephanie Zacharek was less complimentary, calling the film "a self-conscious tone poem concocted from oblique camera angles, shots held longer than it takes a tadpole to reach maturity and nighttime images enhanced with a psychedelic glow. An alternate title for it might be David Lynch, Gone Fishin'."  The film won the Michael Powell award for best British feature at the Edinburgh International Film Festival  as well as the Experimental/Independent Film/Video Award at the 2012 Los Angeles Film Critics Association Awards.  It was presented within Maryland Film Festival 2013 as a favorite film of Baltimore-based filmmaker Matthew Porterfield. 