Landmark College is a private college exclusively for those with diagnosed learning disabilities, attention disorders or autism. Located in Putney, Vermont, Landmark offers two and four-year programs in the liberal arts and sciences. Landmark College is accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges (NEASC) and provides to students a progressive and comprehensive overall college experience. Established in 1985, Landmark College was the first institution of higher learning to pioneer college-level studies for students with dyslexia. Landmark College offers degrees at the associate and bachelor’s levels, as well as summer programs and an online/hybrid graduate certificate in universal design and assistive technology for educators and professionals.  The college is expensive;  fees for the 2015–2016 year were $51,330.  In 2015, it topped C.N.N. Money's list of most expensive colleges.  It was also the most expensive four-year, private non-profit by list price according to the Department of Education's rankings for the 2012–2013 year;  fees including room and board were reported to be $59,930 in 2013  and $61,910 in 2015.  Scholarships of up to $30,000 are available.  The current college president is Peter Eden  who started at Landmark College in 2011. The campus the college occupies originally belonged to Windham College. After Windham shuttered in 1978, the campus remained unused. Plans for a prison and for a conference center fell through. Putney Selectman Peter Shumlin was instrumental in persuading the government to allow Landmark School in Beverley, Massachusetts, to start a college on the dormant campus. Landmark College was established in 1985.  Lynda Katz  was president from 1994 to 2011, when Peter Eden took the helm. Landmark began offering Bachelor degrees in 2012.  The College built a $9.6 million, 28,500 square foot science and technology center named the MacFarlane building in 2015.  It was the first building erected since the college's founding.  Applicants are required to document a condition that impairs learning, such as dyslexia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or autism spectrum disorder. All students receive personal, directed assistance in their studies. The student to faculty ratio of 6:1 is small by postsecondary standards.  Classroom faculty employ universal design principles, integrated assistive technology elements, individualized attention, and multi-modal teaching strategies in their courses.  Students come from across the United States and from around the world to attend Landmark College. The average age is 20 years, and about 97% of students live on campus. The male-to-female student ratio is about 3:1, which reflects the higher number of males who are diagnosed with conditions that affect learning.  Students are not required to have taken the SAT or ACT examinations.  About half of Landmark's full-time students have failed or withdrawn from another college; this may be due to the low number of tertiary-level students who disclose and seek help for their disability.  Student turnover is high.  The College offers Associate degrees in various disciplines including Business, Gaming and Sciences, and since 2012 offers Bachelor degrees in such disciplines as Computing and Art. Additionally, a Graduate Certificate in Universal Design aimed at professionals in the field of special education is accredited through nearby Marlboro College. Secondary school students in several areas of Landmark's county, Windham, can access dual-enrollment NEASC accredited courses. Middle school students can participate in a summer program called "Expanded Learning Opportunities in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics."  In 2011, the New York Times reported that 30% of students in the Associate program graduated within three years; many drop out in their first or second semester. Of those that graduate, a third drop out. Many students struggling at other colleges go to Landmark for a "bridge semester" to learn to manage their learning differences in an academic setting.  The three-week-long High School Program is intended to assist high school students entering their Junior or Senior year who learn differently develop self-understanding and self-advocacy skills. Faculty who are experienced at working with students who learn differently provide coursework, academic support and experiential activities. Housing options range from suite living to traditional residence halls.  All rooms are designed as doubles or singles. Residential halls are equipped with wireless Internet, cable television, laundry facilities, and common lounge space, as well as full-time residential staff.  Some suite buildings have kitchens. Landmark College provides student leadership opportunities as part of its education program. The Student Government Association engages in the governance of the college, the Phi Theta Kappa honor society completes a service project each year, and the Campus Activities Board plans events for the community. Students also serve in leadership jobs supporting their peers as Resident Assistants and Orientation Leaders. The Department of Student Affairs delivers programs, activities, clubs and special events for students throughout the year. Impressions literary magazine, The Independent student newspaper, and WLMC student internet radio station are among the print and audio media. The Landmark College Athletic Department provides club, intramural, and intercollegiate sports and fitness activities for students. Student groups include Hillel, the LGBTQIA Club, Film Club, Fitness Club, Anime and Manga Club, Gaming Club, Chess Club and organized activities in rock climbing, mountain biking, hiking, and martial arts are among the extracurricular activities. The College has a Women's Center and holds a play every Spring. 