 Nonverbal learning disorder (also known as nonverbal learning disability, NLD, or NVLD) is a learning disorder characterized by verbal strengths as well as visual-spatial, motor, and social skills difficulties. It is sometimes confused with autism spectrum disorder. Nonverbal learning disorder has never been included in the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders or the World Health Organization's International Classification of Diseases.  Considered to be neurologically based,    nonverbal learning disorder is characterized by verbal strengths as well as visual-spatial, motor, and social skills difficulties.   People with this disorder may not at times comprehend nonverbal cues such as facial expression or tone of voice.  Challenges with mathematics and handwriting are common.  While various nonverbal impairments were recognized since early studies in child neurology,     there is ongoing debate as to whether/or the extent to which existing conceptions of NLD provide a valid diagnostic framework.   As originally presented "nonverbal disabilities" (p. 44) or "disorders of nonverbal learning" (p. 272) was a category encompassing non-linguistic learning problems (Johnson and Myklebust, 1967).  "Nonverbal learning disabilities" were further discussed by Myklebust in 1975 as representing a subtype of learning disability with a range of presentations involving "mainly visual cognitive processing," social imperception, a gap between higher verbal ability and lower performance IQ, as well as difficulty with handwriting.  Later neuropsychologist Byron Rourke  sought to develop consistent criteria with a theory and model of brain functioning that would establish NLD as a distinct syndrome (1989).  Questions remain about how best to frame the perceptual, cognitive and motor issues associated with NLD.     The DSM-5 (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual) and ICD-10 (International Classification of Diseases) do not include NLD as a diagnosis.    Assorted diagnoses have been discussed as sharing symptoms with NLD—these conditions include Right hemisphere brain damage and Developmental Right Hemisphere Syndrome,     Developmental Coordination Disorder,   Social-Emotional Processing Disorder,   Asperger syndrome,     Gerstmann syndrome   and others. Labels for specific associated issues include visual-spatial deficit,    dyscalculia,   dysgraphia,    as well as dyspraxia.    In their 1967 book Learning Disabilities; Educational Principles and Practices, Doris J. Johnson  and Helmer R. Myklebust  characterize how someone with these kinds of disabilities appears in a classroom: "An example is the child who fails to learn the meaning of the actions of others....We categorize this child as having a deficiency in social perception, meaning that he has an inability which precludes acquiring the significance of basic nonverbal aspects of daily living, though his verbal level of intelligence falls within or above the average." (p. 272).  In their chapter "Nonverbal Disorders Of Learning" (p. 272-306) are sections titled "Learning Though Pictures," (274) "Gesture," (281) "Nonverbal Motor Learning," (282) "Body Image," (285) "Spatial Orientation," (290) "Right-Left Orientation," (292) "Social Imperception," (295) "Distractibility, Perseveration, and Disinhibition." (298) 