The 74th World Science Fiction Convention (Worldcon), also known as MidAmeriCon II, was held August 17–21, 2016, at the Bartle Hall Convention Center in downtown, Kansas City, Missouri. Its location was selected on August 17, 2014 by the members of the 72nd World Science Fiction Convention in London. The convention was organized by Mid American Science Fiction and Fantasy Conventions, Inc., and was chaired by Ruth Lichtwardt and co-chaired by Diane Lacey.  The convention's name, by established Worldcon tradition, follows after the first MidAmeriCon, the 34th World Science Fiction Convention, held in Kansas City in 1976. The announced Guests of Honor for MidAmericon II were artist Kinuko Y. Craft, authors Tamora Pierce and Michael Swanwick, plus editors Patrick Nielsen Hayden and Teresa Nielsen Hayden. Pat Cadigan served as Toastmaster.  By the February 2014 deadline, only two committees had announced bids to host the 74th World Science Fiction Convention: "KC in 2016" for August 17–21, 2016, at the Bartle Hall Convention Center in downtown Kansas City, Missouri, and "Beijing in 2016" for August 14–19, 2016, at the China National Convention Center. Kansas City bid co-chairs Diane Lacey, Ruth Lichtwardt, and Jeff Orth represented the non-profit Mid American Science Fiction and Fantasy Conventions, Inc.  Of the 758 votes cast by Loncon 3 members, Kansas City won the contest with 651 votes over Beijing with 70 votes.  "None of the above" received 4 votes while other sites, including Minneapolis, Boston, Norway, Helsinki, and Sitka, Alaska, received 1 or 2 votes each. If Beijing had been selected, this would have been the first Worldcon in China and the first in mainland Asia.  The Hugo Awards, named after Hugo Gernsback, are presented every year for the best science fiction or fantasy works and achievements of the previous year. The results are based on the ballots submitted by members of the World Science Fiction Society. Other awards, including the John W. Campbell Award for Best New Writer, are also presented at each year's Worldcon.   MidAmeriCon II also presented Retro Hugos for the calendar year 1940, on the 75th anniversary of the 3rd World Science Fiction Convention held in Denver because, having not yet been established, no Hugo Awards were presented in 1941.  The 74th World Science Fiction Convention, MidAmeriCon II, announced the winners of the 2016 Hugo Awards at a ceremony on the evening of Saturday, August 20, 2016. The ceremony was hosted by Toastmaster, Pat Cadigan, assisted by Jan Siegel. 3,130 valid final ballots were received and counted.  The 2016 Hugo Award trophy base was designed by Sara Felix. The MidAmeriCon II masquerade was held on Friday, 19 August with 34 entrants.   Gregory de Danann was the Masquerade Director and the master of ceremonies was John Hertz.   The judges were Tanglewyst de Holloway, Karen Schnaubelt, and Kathy Pepmiller for performance and Jill Eastlake and Aurora Celeste for workmanship.  The winners, across four experience-based categories, were:   Workmanship awards: Performance awards: Workmanship awards: Performance awards: Workmanship awards: Performance awards: 