The Maps and the Internet Commission of the International Cartographic Association (or simply Maps and the Internet Commission) was created in 1999 as one of the standing commissions of the International Cartographic Association. It promotes multi-national cartographic research in order to solve problems related to web-based cartography. The commission enhances cartographic education related to the Internet. In addition, the commission promotes professional and technical standards for maps available through the Internet. Like all commissions of the International Cartographic Association, formal members are assigned by individual countries. However, anyone can become a corresponding member. Corresponding members receive all commission correspondence and invitations to meetings. Activities of the commission include e-mails to members, meetings, workshops, promotion of standards, and publications. The Internet has redefined how maps are used (see Web mapping). No longer restricted to paper, maps are transmitted almost instantly and delivered to the user in a fraction of the time required to distribute maps on paper. They are viewed in a more timely fashion. Some maps, such as those showing weather patterns, are updated continuously throughout the day. It is the interactive nature of the Internet map that is considered the most important development. Online maps are accessed through a hyperlinking structure that makes it possible to engage the map user on a higher-level than is possible with a map on paper.The Internet is making it possible to more easily distribute cartographic displays such as map animations. The Internet presents the map user with both a faster method of map distribution and different forms of mapping. Broader research questions associated with the commission: The commission meets annually.  Past meetings have been held in Orleans, France; Orlando, Florida (2010); Valparaiso, Chile (2009); Warsaw, Poland (2007); Seoul, Korea (2006); Madrid, Spain (2005); Tokyo, Japan (2004); Stellenbosch, South Africa (2003); Karlsruhe, Germany (2002); Guangzhou, China (2001); Knoxville, Tennessee (2000) and; Ottawa, Canada (1999). With the support of host institutions, the commission offers instructional workshops that cover online mapping. Workshops have been offered at universities or government mapping institutions in Malaysia, Germany, Austria, Cuba, Brazil, China, Canada, South Africa and USA. Workshops  can be as short as half a day or up to two weeks. Commission Chair:  Rex Cammack, University of Nebraska at Omaha 