The International Cartographic Association (ICA) (French: Association Cartographique Internationale, ACI), is an organization formed of national member organizations, to provide a forum for issues and techniques in cartography and GIScience. ICA was founded on June 9, 1959, in Bern, Switzerland.  The first General Assembly was held in Paris in 1961. The mission of the International Cartographic Association is to promote the disciplines and professions of cartography and GIScience in an international context. To achieve these aims, the ICA works with national and international governmental and commercial bodies, and with other international scientific societies.  The first president, Eduard Imhof of Switzerland was heavily involved in founding the association.   The Secretary-General and Treasurer is responsible for the administration and the general running of the Association. On 28 August 2015 member nations elected the new Executive Committee (EC) of the ICA for the 2015–2019 term. New ICA president is Menno-Jan Kraak.  To coordinate international cartographic work Commissions and Working Groups have been established. These are chaired by experts in a specific field of cartography and comprise members from the international Cartography and GIScience community.  ICA allows two types of memberships:  International Cartographic Conferences (ICC) take place every second year in one of the member countries. At every second conference (every fourth year) it hosts the General Assembly of the ICA.  The Carl Mannerfelt Gold Medal honours cartographers of outstanding merit who have made significant contributions of an original nature to the field of cartography. It is awarded only on rare occasions. The award is named after the Swedish cartographer, Carl Mannerfelt, who in 1981 won the prize named after him.  The ICA Honorary Fellowship is for cartographers of international reputation who have made special contribution to the ICA. It includes a bronze medal. At the biennial International Map Exhibitions at the ICC an international jury selects the best entries.  This competition is organized every two years at the ICC. In a national round in all participating ICA member countries, the national winners are selected, which are exhibited during the International Cartographic Conference, where the international winners are selected.  ICA offers a number of publications.  Its official journal is the International Journal of Cartography. 