Jackie Chan Adventures is an animated television series starring the adventures of a fictionalized version of Hong Kong action film star Jackie Chan.   Many of the episodes contained references to Chan's actual works. The series ran on The WB for 5 seasons from September 9, 2000 to July 8, 2005. During its run, it was also shown on Cartoon Network, and afterwards, its reruns landed on Toon Disney's Jetix programming block, as well as continuing on Cartoon Network. In the United Kingdom and Ireland, it originally premiered on Fox Kids in 2002 and ran until 2005. Several toys and video games based on the series were produced and sold during the original run of the animated series. Its main character designer is Jeff Matsuda. Jackie Chan, an amateur archeologist, enjoyed his job working for the local university until fate dealt him another hand. After finding a shield containing a talisman he encounters The Dark Hand, a criminal organization led by a man called Valmont that serves the demon sorcerer Shendu. Jackie and his family must cooperate with a secret law enforcement organization, Section 13, to counter the threat, and must face dangers that will demand all of Jackie's daring and skill in martial arts to overcome. The main characters are: The series involves magic and the supernatural, like spells, demons, chi, and stone talismans all throughout the episodes. The talismans represent the twelve animals of the Chinese zodiac: In the series of Jackie Chan Adventures, several characters can use a form of magic using chi energy. Chi magic involves the use of potions, magic objects, and incantations. Below are some of the Chi incantations that have been used throughout the series. Each wizard usually uses the same incantation but can accomplish many different effects, ranging from banishing demons to turning living creatures to stone. Common Sense Media gave the show 4 out of 5 stars, saying "Lighthearted, entertaining, suspenseful, and humorous, this show may not be deep, but it's a lot of fun".  The TV series features references to Jackie Chan's films and his own life throughout the series. In the first episode, Jackie is surprised to learn that Jade speaks English. She tells him that she never said she didn't speak it, he assumed. This is a reference to Jackie's line of a similar nature in the movie Rush Hour. In the episode "A Night at the Opera", Uncle states that he was part of the stage group "Seven Little Fortunes", which Jackie Chan was actually part of in real life. Another example is season 3 episode 7 Jackie is bitten by a Snake, and uses a kung fu style known as "the drunken master" from one of his earliest headlining films of the same name.  According to Jackie during one of his question segments, the characters of the show are based on certain people in his life. Uncle is based on his agent and father, Jade is based on an assortment of his nieces, and Tohru is based on one of his stunt team members as well as himself. An episode titled "And He Does His Own Stunts" in reference to the fact that Jackie Chan does his own stunts in his movies. Some episodes' titles are based on actual film names. For example, "Half a Mask of Kung Fu" is based on Half a Loaf of Kung Fu, four episode titles ("Enter the Viper", "Enter the Cat", "Re-Enter the J-Team", and "Re-Enter the Dragon") are based on Enter the Dragon (In which Jackie Chan performs as a stuntman ), "Shanghai Moon" is based on Shanghai Noon, "Armor of the Gods" is based on Armour of God, "Project A, For Astral" is based on Project A and "Rumble in the Big House" is based on Rumble in the Bronx. A number of books were released to accompany the series. A number of comics were released to accompany the series. In 2001, Sony Pictures released episodes from the first season on VHS and DVD. But one format differed from the other in that of the four DVDs released, three were select, individual episodes while the fourth contained the whole season of 13 episodes; the VHS series had only three, separate episodes. Also, there was a difference in the titles of the said episodes released on VHS and DVD. The Day Of The Dragon VHS box cover art was the same as that of the first season DVD case cover, which featured Jackie, Jade and Uncle with the villains behind them, dimmed in a yellowish background. On these, the episodes were presented sans the teasers that originally appeared prior to the opening/intro sequence as they aired. They are currently unavailable and out-of-print, especially since they had limited pressings and no plans have been announced to follow up season one with DVD box sets of the remaining four seasons. However, the entire series can be ordered and seen via video-on-demand service at Amazon and iTunes. As of October 2010, the entire series was made available on the Netflix Instant Streaming service. Sony Pictures Home Entertainment plans to release the second season on DVD through Amazon.com, and other online retailers.  Mill Creek Entertainment announced all five seasons on DVD. There has only been one Jackie Chan game first released on Game Boy Advance then re-released on PlayStation 2 both are under different titles. Other titles include 成龙大冒险 (Chinese Title Simplified) and Chenglong Da Maoxian (Chinese Title) Following Jackie Chan Adventures, Chan set off to create local productions in Asia. The first, Jackie Chan's Fantasia (Chinese: 奇幻龙宝; pinyin: Qíhuàn Lóng Bǎo), is a 52-episode Chinese animated series produced by Nanjing Hongying Animation Entertainment.   It aired in 2009 on CCTV and in English on Sonic-Nickelodeon.  In 2017, Chan announced All New Jackie Chan Adventures (Chinese: 新成龙历险记; pinyin: Xīn Chénglóng Lìxiǎn Jì), a $6 million 104-episode Chinese CG-animated series produced by Zhejiang Talent Television & Film, Khorgas JJ Culture Media Co., and VJ Animation Studio.  It's set to be released in China in 2017, with a feature film scheduled for 2019.  Despite the name, it is unrelated to the American series. Former: 