Jeannie is a 30-minute Saturday morning animated series and a spin-off of the 1965–1970 NBC live-action sitcom I Dream of Jeannie. It was produced by Hanna-Barbera Productions in association with Screen Gems Television and broadcast on CBS from September 8, 1973 to December 22, 1973. The animated series features the eponymous 2,000-year-old genie character (voiced by Julie McWhirter) with her master and love interest Corey Anders (voiced by Mark Hamill), a high school student and surfer, and his best friend Henry Glopp (voiced by Bob Hastings). Many of Corey and Henry's misadventures often involved run-ins with their rival, S. Melvin Farthinghill (voiced by Tommy Cook), a snooty rich kid and the series' antagonist whom Henry often addressed as "Smellvin" or "Smelly". S. Melvin was often a competitor with Corey when it came to girls, undermining his efforts at every turn. Comedian and former Three Stooges star Joe Besser voiced Babu, a cowardly, bumbling, immature genie-in-training under Jeannie's charge. His typical magic words are "Yapple Dapple!" which usually complicates their situation, often causing trouble, on account of his mistakes. Babu regularly annoys almost everyone he meets because he gets so nervous, he could never control his powers. Jeannie would always try to help Corey with his problems, using magic. She was also in love with him and whenever some other girl shows interest in him, Jeannie sabotaged the other girl's efforts. Unlike the blonde character from I Dream of Jeannie (portrayed by Barbara Eden), the animated Jeannie was a ponytailed redhead. Jeannie could use her magical powers by crossing her arms and whipping her ponytail instead of blinking her eyes. On September 22, 1973, Jeannie and Babu made one guest appearance on The New Scooby-Doo Movies. Four years later, Babu alone appeared on Laff-A-Lympics. The early art of the production for the Laff-a-Lympics showed Jeannie as well as Josie and the Pussycats as members of the "Scooby Doobies" team, but legal problems with Columbia Pictures Television, Screen Gems' successor, prevented it (Hanna-Barbera owned Babu, but Columbia controlled all rights to Jeannie's image). In 1977–78, episodes of Jeannie were serialized on the syndicated weekday series Fred Flintstone and Friends. Due to this series' connection with I Dream of Jeannie, this is one of only two Hanna-Barbera produced series since Hanna-Barbera's 1967 sale to Taft Broadcasting that are owned outright by Sony Pictures Television, whose predecessor Screen Gems once had a partnership with Hanna-Barbera; the other is Partridge Family 2200 A.D., because of its ties to The Partridge Family (the copyrights to both animated series are currently held by CPT Holdings). Like many animated series created by Hanna-Barbera in the 1970s, the show contained a laugh track created by the studio. 