Lil' Bush is a satirical, politically themed animated television series which premiered on June 13, 2007 on Comedy Central. The series features childlike caricatures of members of the George W. Bush administration, and other American and international political leaders. Donick Cary created the series initially as content for Amp'd Mobile. The first season's episodes each consist of two story segments, with each segment featuring a musical performance by a band composed of main characters. The second season, which premiered on March 13, 2008, consists of ten episodes, and features thirty minute storylines including the musical segment.  The second season finale aired on May 15, 2008. The show was not renewed for a third season. Li'l Bush takes place in an alternate reality version of the present day, where George H. W. Bush is president and George W. Bush ("Li'l George" on the show), along with his cronies (members of George W. Bush's real life former staff), are children attending Beltway Elementary School. Issues in which the latter Bush Administration is involved (for example, the Iraq War) are transferred to the elder Bush, but feature the younger Bush interacting with them in various ways. Also, just as George Bush's father is president, the parents of the other kids are members of the elder Bush's cabinet (all depicted as their real life adult counterparts, with the exception of the elder Cheney, who is depicted as Cheney with a Darth Vader helmet). The show pokes fun at George W. Bush's policies in an indirect manner, and provides a criticism of his administration. The series antagonists (also called Li'l Dems). Lil' Bush and his gang put on a concert at the nearby Walter Reed veteran's hospital, which accidentally brings media attention to the atrocious conditions there. As punishment, he and the gang must raise money for repairs, which the eventually spend on themselves. Featuring Henry Rollins as the voice of an injured veteran that Lil' Bush knicknames "Halfsy". The show has received negative reviews from critics, with an aggregate metascore of 31/100.  A common complaint is that the show comes too late in Bush's presidency to remain topical.  Other complaints accuse it of immaturity and lack of subtlety.  Not all the reviews, however, have been negative. Among others, The Hollywood Reporter gave the show a positive review. A review from About.com cited the show's "cleverness and maturity," likening it to "a less bloody South Park".  Likewise, in a Netscape review, the show was credited as a political satire which "pinpoints the logical extreme of real life."  