Mister T is an animated series that aired on NBC on Saturday morning from 1983 to 1986. A total of 30 episodes were produced during all three seasons, with the thirteen episodes for Season 1, eleven for Season 2, and six episodes for the third and final season. The series was produced by Ruby-Spears Enterprises. Reruns were later seen on the USA Cartoon Express in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and more recently as part of Cartoon Network's Adult Swim late-night programming block. The cartoon stars Mr. T as a coach to a gymnastics team (with a specific emphasis on members Jeff, Woody, Robin, and Kim), travelling the world while becoming involved in and solving various mysteries. Paul Dini, Jack Kirby, and Neal Adams have all contributed to Mr. T's comic book and cartoon show. At the beginning of each episode, a live-action introduction featuring Mr. T himself is shown to explain what is going on. At the end of each episode, Mr. T narrates a moral lesson for the audience. A new member of the gymnastics team tries to fit in. Elsewhere, men in black suits smash gold medals apart as if looking for something valuable inside them. This takes the team searching around San Francisco for answers to their first mystery. Someone on the team has told the team to meet in New Mexico. While there, they come across a monastery where no one goes. When the team investigates, they start disappearing mysteriously. As the team visits Seattle, Kim's father, Mr. Nakamura, a software designer, is on urgent business with other scientists. However, a mysterious person using a mind-controlling device steals the minds of the scientists including Mr. Nakamura to obtain certain knowledge. The team plans to find out the mystery and save the scientists and their minds from this evil foe. The team travels from Salt Lake City on the Rocky Mountain Express to reach another gymnastics meet in Chicago. However, three hooded criminals steal a top-secret biological virus and smuggled it on board. Also on board is a chimpanzee who is immune to the virus. Also, the team tries to help one of their own, Garcia Lopez, who is struggling with gymnastics and has been exposed to the virus. Mr. T and the team are in Mississippi planning to turn a rundown plantation called "Magnolia House" into a gymnastics camp, but a gang of street car thugs called the Ghost Riders threatened to eliminate the team. Jeff's bragging to a pretty girl gets overheard by the Ghost Riders, who use that information which puts the team in danger. Rumor has it that the original owner of Magnolia House left something behind, and the team has to figure out what it is. While in Washington, D.C., Ms. Bisby does a crossword puzzle finding a clue to the puzzle. However, once the word was said, Ms. Bisby falls into a hypnotic state. And she's not the only one. Two college professors are also hypnotized.  The team has a meet in New York City not too far from a movie location which interests a member of the team who wants to be an actor. At the same time, a mysterious ninja is robbing stores nearby and is looking for something in particular. The team has to unravel the mystery before the ninja makes a clean getaway. Mr. T was placed under arrest while the team was in Mexico City where strange thefts from a museum happened. With Mr. T in jail, the team try to help by finding the real criminals and uncover an ancient pyramid. Once inside, the team discovers 4 Aztec warriors standing in their way. Mr. T and the team visit Robin and Spike's parents in Chicago. Robin receives a phone call allegedly from her long-lost sister, Cathy, who had died in a plane crash 5 years before. At the same time, two burglars were looking around in Cathy's old room for something that Cathy worked on before her death. The team has to find out more about Cathy, solve the mystery and bring the two burglars to justice. Bisby's late-night run-in with a classic car called the "Silver Swan" prompts the team staying at Lake Tahoe to investigate. Unknowingly, a local car dealer, museum staff and the car maker's original owner are part of an illegal automobile ring planning to sell duplicate copies of the Silver Swan and other vehicles. Robin tries to do everything for the team so she can get credit for this caper as well as the upcoming meet. "Whatever happens in Vegas, stays in Vegas" unless Mr. T and the team get involved in shutting down a high-stakes operation. Career criminals Hampton and Selby posing as soldiers plan on stealing the Million Dollar Jackpot at the Golden Horseshoe. Courtney tries to go solo to stop the thieves, but her actions might cost the team plenty. It's all or nothing for Mr. T to stop a Sherman tank from destroying a slot machine and making a clean getaway. The team takes a rest in Miami and sees an air show starring Jeff's cousin "The Great Marco". During his air show stunt, which involves dropping a sports car by parachute, he turns up missing causing Jeff to worry. Meanwhile, Woody has fallen for a woman named Vanetta Price who's involved in something Woody doesn't want to know. His jealousy almost got him and the team in hot water as they make their way into the Everglades to try and solve this swamp of a mystery. The team heads into Monterey Bay to see an auto stunt show done by the Turbo Team in order to impress a Hollywood director to use their cars for his movie. At the same time, Robin develops a crush on the team's leader. However, a woman and two men are after something and plan on using the Turbo Team's prize automobile, the UltraCar to take it. Mr. T's wheels are spinning to solve this mystery before this caper speeds out of control. A disappointing loss at the meet doesn't stop the team from having a good time in Hawaii. Courtney's fear of water would have to be tested when she and the rest of the team encounter modern-day pirates stealing valuable jewels. Mr. T hopes to turn this trouble in paradise into a final luau for the pirates and still have time to enjoy Hawaii with the team. The team are in Churchill, Manitoba, Canada for a little skiing before their big meet when they catch a supersonic jet crashing down. Mr. T recovers a black box from the wreckage before it exploded. However, he and the team are now being chased by a group of spies called Snow Raiders who are desperate to get that black box from the team at any cost. It'll take nerves of steel to solve this mystery in the Great White North. On Manzanita Island in the San Francisco Bay, people are being scared away & abducted by a group called the Panthermen who handle a giant panther. Mr. T and the team plan on investigating to uncover clues to the disappearances, while Jeff meets with a newspaper reporter who plans on turning the island into a tourist attraction. At the same time, a shady businessman wants to turn the island into a real estate development. The team is in Baltimore for a meet and Kim puts herself on a crash diet. Suddenly, Mr. T spotted a lifejacket belonging to a ship called the Argo which the locals say doesn't exist. Mr. T sets out to investigate where the Argo sank, but as they reach it, the ship blows up. Something's very fishy about this mystery and Mr. T is hoping to catch a bite to solve it. However, Kim's crash diet is weakening both herself and her ability to be part of the team, and Mr. T must help her understand the danger of eating disorders and fad diets. The team is in Arizona near a town called Busted Springs owned by the corrupt Rundle family who harbors a bitter grudge against Skye's ancestors. To get to the bottom of this Wild West mystery, Mr. T, the team and Bisby's nephew "Showbiz" Ronny, plan to help Skye and find out the truth behind the Redfern/Rundle ruckus 75 years ago. Mr. T and the team has some time to celebrate Mardi Gras while in New Orleans before the big meet. As they celebrated, they went to a magic show hosted by Ross Howard, Courtney's uncle who was once a con man who paid his debt to society and now works as a magician, under the stage name of Cadabra the Great. However, when a jazz singer's diamond jewelry disappears during a magic act, everyone suspects Uncle Ross reverted to his wicked ways. Someone is framing Cadabra the Great for these crimes and that's what Mr. T needs to find out to close the curtain on this boggle in the bayou. Although Mr. T hates flying, he takes his team to Cairo, Egypt to meet Joanna Bakara, Kim's pen pal. Joanna's father is an Egyptologist trying to piece the mystery of the Pyramid of Amenhotep while his greedy comrade Dr. Fasiri and his henchmen kidnap Joanna and her father to get the ruby Joanna wears. Jeff knows why the ruby was important to unlock the mystery and sets off on his own. In the heart of New York City's Chinatown, Mr. T and the team stumbles onto a mysterious string of arsons involving rare goods, including rare books from a bookstore owned by Jeff's parents. The team finds out that Mr. Fong, the owner of a Chinese restaurant, is using fortune cookies with codes and a hired arsonist called the Phantom Firebug as cover to smuggle every rare item out of the country. Woody's stubbornness about his astigmatism might have cost him a win at the meet in Rapid City, and it continued to get him into more trouble by the fact that he refuses to see an ophthalmologist on the basis that he may be prescribed eyeglasses. He was on his way to see Professor Andrews to see his latest inventions including Mr. T II, a robot version of Mr. T, but the professor was kidnapped. Suddenly, Woody spots a U.F.O. flying overhead. Suddenly, Mr. T and the rest of the team are caught up in an out-of-this-world mystery and an alleged abduction. "Never ever go with strangers!" That's the lesson Spike had to learn the hard way. While the team was in Hollywood performing as stunt doubles, Spike was offered a hamburger by a married couple, but was stopped by his sister Robin. The couple encountered Spike, telling him that his sister is sick and Spike went along, only to be trapped in the back of their van where two other children were also kidnapped, the objective being for the couple to make money through ransom. When Mr. T and the team's first attempt to rescue Spike fails, they are discouraged. However, Mr. T rallies the team to try once more for Spike and the kids' sake, and that whomever endangers a member of the team messes with Mr. T! While the girls manage to capture the wife, the husband proves too strong for the guys, but Mr. T foils his escape by literally ripping the steering wheel from the van! After Spike and the children are rescued and reunited with their parents, the district attorney says that the man and woman who did that to them are going to prison, but it is first and foremost your responsibility to always be wary of strangers. At the Cape Cod meet, Robin scores a perfect 10, but Spike's accidental picture of what looked like a sea monster overshadows her achievement, causing Robin to be jealous of Spike. For retribution, Robin hopes to take a clearer picture of the monster, but finds herself being captured by oil smugglers planning to steal oil from the Nantucket inlet, and that monster may be part of it. Mr. T, Spike, and the rest of the team must find Robin and get to the bottom of this deep sea mystery. The team are in Colonial Williamsburg, Virginia to help restoring an old house. Spike ignoring his reading problem lands him in a mess of trouble when two crooks posing as Colonial soldiers raids a Colonial home for directions to a secret cave where a valuable diary is buried. Luckily, Spike makes it out OK, but he has to put his pride in check, while Mr. T and the team get to the bottom of this colossal Colonial caper. After a successful charity meet, Mr. T takes the team to the city of Samana to receive a cargo ship full of food, water and surplus aid to the village. Unfortunately, a crooked businessman named Saber hires mercenaries to hijack the ship and plan on selling the goods on the black market. Mr. T must now lead his team to find Saber and put him and his gang behind bars, and at the same time to teach the team about how situations in other countries are much different then where they live and rely on surviving in the desert. Heading back to Chicago, Mr. T visits an old friend named Jimmy Stone, the owner of a youth center. At the same time, Courtney visits the gym to hopefully train with gold medalist Sally Owen, which Courtney finds out is more interested in herself than others. Sally's actions would later get her barred for life, but the real big issue is a shady drug dealer named Speedy and his henchmen who plan on framing Jimmy in which to use the youth center for his drug operations. Jimmy helped T get out of a gang during his youth and it's up to T to help him stop Speedy before everything comes tumbling down. Just because someone's young, it doesn't make them worthless nor unbelieveable. Jeff and Woody know that for a fact now. Back then, while the team was having a free tour of the Play Town amusement park, Spike saw two of its mascots, Marvin Mouse and Dingy Dog, acting suspicious and no one wanted to believe him. In truth, they were career criminals dressed as mascots in order to retrieve gold bars from an active gold refinery in Play Town's Frontier Town section. Heading back to New York City, the team does charity work and a new member of the team named Grant Kline has just signed up. Grant done athletic programs at the same high school as Jeff, but he has a falling out with his old friends, a group of bullies called the Chain Gang and their leader, Blade. They had Grant keep quiet about their activities or they will tell the police about his previous mistake of helping the Chain Gang steal a car, putting him in a precarious position. Mr. T hopes to help Grant erase his past and correct his mistakes in order to break the links to the Chain Gang. The series ends with an out-of-this-world caper from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida's Cape Canaveral. Robin brought her camera to take pictures for her school which Woody tries to take without permission. Suddenly, Robin sees two spies trying to take a photo from inside the shuttle. The spies have been hired by terrorists to blow up the shuttle as soon as it reaches orbit. Unfortunately for Robin, she got captured, and it's up to Mr. T and the team to stop the launch, save Robin and bring the spies to justice in this mystery of a final frontier. On May 10, 2011, Warner Archive released Mister T: The Complete First Season on DVD in Region 1 territories (North America and Japan).  This is a Manufacture-on-Demand (MOD) release, available exclusively through Warner's online store and Amazon.com.  The Mister T DVD set is branded as part of the Hanna-Barbera Classics Collection  as Mister T and the other 1978–91 Ruby-Spears programs were sold to Turner Broadcasting in 1991 alongside Hanna-Barbera by Great American Broadcasting. The second and third seasons have yet to be released. 