Spaceballs: The Animated Series, also known as Spaceballs: The Series, is an animated television series that premiered in 2008 on G4 and Canada's Super Channel, and is loosely based on the parody science fiction film Spaceballs.  Similarly to how the original film parodied the original Star Wars films and the Star Trek universe, each episode of the series parodies a different film or other aspect of popular culture, such as the Star Wars prequel trilogy, The Lord of the Rings, or the Grand Theft Auto video games. Production began in early 2005 under the supervision of Brooksfilms, MGM and Berliner Film Company. Mel Brooks not only directed the writing, but also voiced two characters, President Skroob and Yogurt, both of whom he played in the film.  Daphne Zuniga and Joan Rivers also reprise their roles from the film, while Bill Pullman and Rick Moranis do not. Those roles are filled by Rino Romano and Dee Bradley Baker, respectively. Tino Insana replaces John Candy, who died in 1994, as "Barf," and Rudy De Luca also supplied his voice talents. Some promotional items on the series were seen at the 2007 Comic-Con and a total of 13 episodes were planned to debut during the fall of 2007,  although this "deadline" passed by with no sign of the show on G4's schedule. A start date of June 1, 2008 was later reported,  but the series was delayed once again. Despite the lack of information in the United States, the series premiered on Canada's Super Channel.  and remained absent from G4 in America until its eventual series premiere on September 21, 2008. The first two episodes of the series were shown following an airing of the original film.  Dark Helmet gets knocked out by a robot stripper in Skroob's new casino and recalls his origin story as in a dream. Once he was a young boy named Pannakin Crybaby , he won his freedom in a NasPodrace, was trained in the Schwartz by Yogurt, fell in love with Princess Harley Van Patten, and became Lord Dark Helmet.  Lone Starr and Princess Vespa are sucked into a game of Grand Theft Starship, leaving the Spaceballs to conquer the known universe. But, missing Lone Starr's opposition, President Skroob and Dark Helmet follow them into the game world. Years ago Lone Starr's father stole the One Onion ring from Skroob's father. When Barf finds the Onion Ring stuck in an old couch inside the Eagle 5, Yogurt sends him on a quest to throw the Onion Ring into the deep fryer of Lardor. Meanwhile Skroob orders Dark Helmet to build him a dark army. Unfortunately they end up with a dork army instead. Lone Starr and Barf are named fans of the day at a Spankees ball game and win a trip to Watch your Assic Park to see the Spankees train. After they arrive at Isla Nueblo (180 star miles from Planet Costa Rica) they learn how Skroob, the owner of the Spankees, uses a combination of steroids and dinosaur DNA to create Dino-athletes and rule the sports universe. Despite being quite disgusted, Lone Starr, Barf, Vespa and Dot take the park tour anyway, accompanied by Skroob's precious 9 year old niece Jasmine and two anonymous lawyers. President Skroob hatches a plan to take over the galaxy with a pestilent soda. But Barf intercepts the shipment and causes an outbreak on planet Spaceball. Absent Characters: Dot Matrix and Princess Vespa Lone Starr and the gang go to a golf tournament at Mawgwarts academy. But President Skroob uses Dark Helmet to cheat using a magic diaper. Skroob and Dark Helmet attempt to destroy planet Druidia with a meteor, but it fails. With the help from Indians they launch a mighty meteor. Meanwhile Lone Starr becomes obsessed with his new van. President Skroob fools Yogurt with a "free body scan" to steal his gallbladder which is the source of all the Schwartz. Now Lone Starr and "Black Barf" must get it back. But Dark Helmet wants all the Schwartz in the galaxy. President Skroob has a plan to take over the galaxy's fish supply. Lone Starr AKA Double O "Sven" must stop Skroob AKA Fishfinger. Skroob is way behind in the re-election polls, so he and Dark Helmet go back in time to kill the great great etc grandmother of his opponent.  President Skroob kidnaps Princess Vespa and tries to use her as a virgin sacrifice on planet Areola. Barf and Princess Vespa appear on the show Druidian Idol. Lone Star, Dot, and Skroob pose as judges. Barf gets bitten by a mutant space spider and becomes Spidermawg. 