The Osmonds is a 1972 ABC-TV Saturday morning cartoon series produced by Rankin/Bass Productions starring the Osmond Brothers. Each episode features the family in a different location around the world, with young Jimmy's antics usually driving the plot of the episode. As with most television series oriented around bands, the Osmonds' songs were featured prominently in the series. The series featured Jimmy's pet dog named Fuji, with a speaking mind of its own. Marie Osmond did not appear in the series, as she would not make her performing debut until 1973.  An abridged version of "One Bad Apple" was used for the opening of the show, while a brief instrumental version of the same song was used for the end credits. Like The Jackson 5ive, it used an laugh track created by Rankin/Bass.   Unlike the Jacksons, the Osmond brothers provided their own speaking voices in their series. Each episode features one song by The Osmonds and one solo song by either Donny or Jimmy.  Songs are followed by their album inclusions. The pilot episode introduces the six brothers, their pet dog Fuji, and Donny's biggest fan Hortense Bird.  The brothers have a chance to audition to go around the world, but Jimmy and Fuji ruin their chances. The brothers arrive in China and there are bad vibes between Jimmy and Fuji. The brothers play a ping pong game for America vs. China. The brothers visit London and Jimmy is mistaken for a prince who looks exactly like him. The brothers arrive in Bavaria and Donny is sent back in time and meets a princess.  The brothers are in Paris and they must save a restaurant from going out of business. The brothers are in Monte Carlo and Jimmy makes a very popular movie.  Donny falls for the wrong girl. Songs: "Wake Up Little Susie" (Donny solo, The Donny Osmond Album), "Getcha Goin' My Way" (non-album song) The brothers arrive in Denmark and Jimmy travels with a mermaid underwater. The brothers arrive in India and Jimmy makes friends with a genie. Jimmy accidentally books the brothers to go to the Yukon. The brothers have to fix a clock or a whole town will be put to sleep forever. Jimmy finds a coin worth lots of money and a girl tries to get it from him by going on a date with Donny. The Osmonds visit Australia where a kangaroo falls in love with Jimmy. The Osmonds are invited to a vampire's party. The brothers visit Rio and Jimmy gets lost at a costume contest. Songs: "Pretty Blue Eyes" (Donny solo, Too Young), "Hey Mr. Taxi" (Crazy Horses) The brothers arrive in Spain and Donny becomes a bullfighter to impress a girl. The brothers arrive in Ireland and Jimmy is mistaken for a leprechaun. Songs: "Down by the Lazy River" (Phase III), "Long Haired Lover from Liverpool" (Jimmy solo, Killer Joe) After 15 weeks of touring around the world, the Osmonds return home to Utah. 