The "Mass Transit Incident" was an infamous event in professional wrestling that occurred at an Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) house show on November 23, 1996 at the Wonderland Ballroom in Revere, Massachusetts.    It involved Erich Kulas (1979 – May 12, 2002), an aspiring professional wrestler using the ring name "Mass Transit", being bladed too deeply by New Jack of The Gangstas during a tag-team match. Two of Kulas' arteries were severed; he bled profusely and passed out, and needed to be escorted out of the arena with medical attention. Further controversy arose when it came to light that Kulas had lied to ECW owner and booker Paul Heyman about his age and professional wrestling training. The incident led to a future ECW pay-per-view being temporarily cancelled and a lawsuit from Kulas' family. Axl Rotten had been scheduled to work a tag team match with D-Von Dudley against The Gangstas (New Jack and Mustafa Saed),  but could not make the show due to a family emergency.  Erich Kulas, a wrestling fan who had just turned 17, told ECW owner and booker Paul Heyman that he was 23 and convinced Heyman to allow him to fill in for Rotten by lying that he had been trained by Killer Kowalski, a retired star wrestler who ran a notable wrestling school in the Boston area.   Heyman stated afterward that he was unaware of Kulas' real age. Kulas performed as Mass Transit, a Ralph Kramden-esque bus driver gimmick.   Before the match, Kulas asked New Jack to blade him since he never had done it himself, and New Jack agreed.  During the match, Dudley and New Jack brawled outside the ring, while Saed and Transit fought inside the ring. The match was booked as a squash and Dudley was quickly isolated outside the ring. The Gangstas then double-teamed Kulas inside the ring, with New Jack pummeling him with crutches, toasters, and various other objects in the hardcore style ECW was known for.   At the end of the match, New Jack bladed Kulas with a surgical scalpel, , as the two had agreed, but cut too deeply and severed two arteries in Kulas' forehead. Kulas passed out as blood poured from his head.    The event was a house show and thus not televised; however, camcorder footage was available, which was eventually used as evidence in legal proceedings. The video showed New Jack quietly asking Kulas, after the blading, "You alright?" Next, The Gangstas proceeded to work Kulas over even more with elbow drops and various objects, prompting Kulas' father to scream, "Ring the fucking bell. He's 17!" As medics rushed into the ring to aid Kulas, New Jack grabbed the house microphone and shouted, "I don't care if the motherfucker dies!  He's white. I don't like white people. I don't like people from Boston. I'm the wrong nigger to fuck with."  The incident led to the cancellation of ECW's first ever pay-per-view (PPV) event, Barely Legal, by pay-per-view provider Request TV  on Christmas Eve, 1996. Heyman, by his own admission in The Rise and Fall of ECW, "begged and pleaded" with Request and finally convinced the company that they had been misled. The PPV event was placed back on the schedule on Sunday, April 13, 1997, at 9:00 PM. Kulas and his family later did an interview with Inside Edition that featured footage from the incident, including New Jack cutting him and berating him after the match. The segment depicted Kulas as an innocent, unprepared victim while vilifying ECW, even going as far as showing that Heyman had not asked for any state identification. The story was completed before the Kulases launched their lawsuit, so key details of how Kulas actually got himself into the match had not been made public at that point. Three years after the incident, Jerome "New Jack" Young was tried on charges of assault and battery with a dangerous weapon, and was later sued by the Kulas family. After hearing about Erich Kulas' request to New Jack to blade him, a jury acquitted Young of all charges in the criminal trial,  and he was later declared not liable in the civil trial. Performers who testified at Young's trial stated that Kulas was extremely arrogant and demanding backstage prior to the match and, when told that he would have to bleed as part of the match, Kulas had asked Young to blade him, since he had never done it. It was also testified that Kulas' father shouted "He's only 17!" and "Take it easy on him, he's just a kid!" when they isolated his son from D-Von Dudley during the match and double-teamed him. The book The Rise and Fall of ECW also states that as the medic crew carried Kulas out, he was escorted by Tommy Dreamer, who held his hand to comfort him. Passing by the audience, Kulas began giving them the finger in an attempt to continue "playing the bad guy".  Authorities later determined that Kulas had lied to Heyman about his age and experience; Kulas claimed to be 23 years of age but he was actually 17 years old.  He also claimed to have been trained by Killer Kowalski, and his father vouched for him, but Kulas was never trained to wrestle. In The Rise and Fall of ECW, Paul Heyman states that Kulas' dubious credentials as a student of Killer Kowalski were endorsed by a then-known midget wrestler, who was with Kulas when he and his father approached the staff about getting Erich in the match. Erich Kulas died on May 12, 2002 at the age of 22  due to complications from gastric bypass surgery.  