 Vert Dider is a non-profit volunteer project focused around translating and dubbing scientific and educational videos for Russian-speaking audience . The project was found in July, 2013. The studio is supported and developed by volunteers helping it evolve. The studio’s leading activity is translating and dubbing videos related to science . Over a thousand videos are currently available through the studio’s official public page on VK social media site. The list of translated into Russian and dubbed videos include videos from a number of educational YouTube channels, lectures, debates and documentaries  . On January 19, 2016, was the day when Vert Dider started cooperating with BuzzFeed media company . In early 2017 Vert Dider started a YouTube channel for videos in English. That same year the studio joined efforts with the educational project SciOne to conduct interviews with Walter Lewin , Robert Sapolsky , Lawrence Krauss , Richard Dawkins  and James Watson . The studio has been a Harry Houdini Awards media partner since the Russian analogue to James Randi’s One Million Dollar Paranormal Challenge was founded . In October 2015, the studio started translating Richard Feynman’s Messenger Lectures into Russian . By July, 2017 the whole series had been translated and dubbed, and is currently publicly available for Russian-speakers . In July 2016, the studio started translating and dubbing the CS50 Harvard course for JavaRush . In April 2017, an announcement was made that the work had been completed . As of April, 2018, translation of Human Behavioral Biology by Robert Sapolsky is in progress (the fourteenth lecture of the course with Russian translation was published in February, 2018) . The studio took on the task of spreading word about Robert Sapolsky throughout Russian-speaking audience. In 2017, the studio managed to arrange a long interview with Prof. Sapolsky . With the studio’s information support, “A Primate's Memoir” by Sapolsky was published by “Alpina non-fiction” publishing house. The studio was allowed by a number of creators behind major educational channels to translate and dub their videos. The channels are listed below: In 2015, the studio was nominated as “The best online project about science” for an award "For Loyalty to Science" initiated by Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation  . 