The Ukrainian Research Institute at Harvard University, commonly known as the Harvard Ukrainian Research Institute (HURI), is a research institute affiliated with Harvard University devoted to Ukrainian studies, including the history, culture, language, literature, and politics of Ukraine. Other areas of study include sociology, archaeology, art, economics, and anthropology. Faculty at the Institute include the three endowed professorships in Ukrainian studies, which are in the Department of History and the Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures; these are supplemented by other Harvard faculty as well as visiting scholars. HURI was formally founded in 1973 by Omeljan Pritsak and other leading scholars in Ukrainian studies. It functions as a focal point for undergraduate and graduate students, fellows, and professors and provides assistance with their research. Prior to the establishment of HURI, its founders organized weekly seminars in Ukrainian studies. These seminars have continued to the present day. HURI maintains one of the largest collections of Ukrainian books and other media available in the West, both in its own collection and in those stored in Harvard University's many libraries. HURI also manages the Harvard Ukrainian Summer Institute which offers summer courses in Ukrainian language, history, literature, and culture, as part of the Harvard Summer School. The Institute publishes the Harvard Ukrainian Studies journal (founded in 1977) and a series of book publications, including the Harvard Series in Ukrainian Studies, the Harvard Library of Early Ukrainian Literature, and Harvard Papers in Ukrainian Studies.  Mission: To advance knowledge of Ukraine through teaching, research, and publication in the humanities and the social sciences at Harvard and worldwide  In the mid-1950s, a group of student activists and members of the Ukrainian-American community sought to preserve Ukraine's unique culture and history, which were suppressed in Soviet Ukraine and unfamiliar to political and intellectual establishments in the West.  Under the guidance of Professor Omeljan Pritsak at Harvard, the group's general goal was shaped into a vision for three endowed chairs in Ukrainian studies at a major university, along with a research institute to support and broaden the scholarship. With the assistance of the Ukrainian Studies Fund, a fundraising organization founded and led by Stephan Chemych, the Ukrainian studies program was established with three endowed professorships in the Departments of History and Slavic Languages and Literatures at Harvard University, beginning on January 22, 1968 (the fiftieth anniversary of Ukraine's first proclamation of independence). <More info to come> <More info to come> The Ukrainian Research Institute's fellowship program supports scholars from around the world who are researching Ukrainian history, literature, philology, culture, and other related areas of study in the humanities and social sciences fields. In addition to receiving a stipend and office space at Harvard, fellows are immersed in the academic life of the Harvard community, with opportunities to attend events with world-class speakers, network with peers, and make use of the University's vast library collections. Fellows also actively participate in HURI's Seminar in Ukrainian Studies, a weekly series that is open to the public, where they each give a formal presentation on their research.  HURI's fellowships for the next academic year are chosen in the spring. Fellows typically spend about one semester at HURI. The Petro Jacyk Distinguished Fellowship in Ukrainian Studies is a biennial program for senior scholars who have already distinguished themselves in Ukrainian studies. The five-month fellowship supports significant and innovative projects in Ukrainian studies. Jacyk Fellows preside over the Petro Jacyk Seminar in Ukrainian Studies, a forum presented as part of the Seminar in Ukrainian Studies.  The Jacyk fellowship is funded through a gift to the Institute by the Petro Jacyk Educational Foundation in Ontario, Canada. Recent Jacyk Fellows include: Intended to support recent PhDs and PhD candidates who have already defended their dissertations, the annual Jaroslaw and Nadia Mihaychuk Postdoctoral Research Fellowships provide younger scholars with the opportunity to carry out research in residence at Harvard at the start of their career.  Like the other fellows at HURI, Mihaychuk Fellows participate in the Seminar in Ukrainian Studies, where they join in conversations about others' research and receive feedback on their own. These fellowships are funded by the endowed Dr. Jaroslaw and Nadia Mihaychuk Fellowship Fund. Recent Mihaychuk Fellows include: The Eugene and Daymel Shklar Research Fellowship program ran from the 2001-2002 academic year through the 2017-2018 academic year thanks to the generosity of the Eugene and Daymel Shklar Foundation.  Shklar Fellows were typically in the middle of their academic career, having received their PhD or academic equivalent in the past eight to ten years. Supporting the work of a great volume of scholars in that time period, the Shklar program has made a significant impact on Ukrainian studies. Recent Shklar Fellows include:  The HURI/Ukrainian Studies Fund Research Fellowships are supported by the annual gift support of the Ukrainian Studies Fund, Inc, and other available HURI resources. These fellowships support mid-career scholars, similar to the Shklar Fellowship program.  Recent HURI/USF Fellows include: Fellows whose work can contribute to the MAPA: Digital Atlas of Ukraine are eligible for the MAPA Project Research Fellowship.  MAPA is a collection of interactive web maps and other resources that visually represent data on Ukraine, such as statistics pertaining to the Holodomor (Great Famine).  While MAPA Fellows are in residence, they assist with collecting and organizing the data for the web map, discuss the project with the MAPA team, and analyze the information as part of their own research project. Recent MAPA Fellows include:  In addition to supporting research through its fellowships program, HURI provides its Associates and other visiting scholars focusing on Ukraine with resources such as office space, technical facilities, and access to Harvard's unique library holdings. The Institute has also sponsored a number of major research projects, including the first exhaustive study of the Famine of 1932/33 and the Project on the Millennium of Christianity in Rus'-Ukraine, and it collaborates with institutions in the U.S. and abroad, including in Ukraine.  <Info to come> <Info to come> <Info to come> 