A baby shower is a party of gift-giving or a ceremony that has different names in different cultures. It celebrates the delivery or expected birth of a child or the transformation of a woman into a mother. The term shower is often assumed to mean that the expectant mother is "showered" with gifts. A related custom, called a bridal shower, may have derived its name from the custom in the 19th century for the presents to be put inside a parasol, which when opened would "shower" the bride-to-be with gifts.  Alternatively the term possibly denotes a "first showing" of the new baby to the wider family and circle of friends. Traditionally, baby showers are given only for the family's first child, and only women are invited,  though this has changed in recent years, now allowing showers being split up for different audiences: workplace, mixed-sex, and feminist.  Activities at baby showers include gift-giving and playing themed games. Baby shower games vary, sometimes including standard games such as bingo, and sometimes being pregnancy-themed, such as "guess the mother's measurements" or "guess the baby". These games help let the close friends attending the shower bond with the mother, and enable the new family to say thanks ahead of time, figuring out who is willing and able to help them with the challenges of bringing up a child. According to etiquette authority Miss Manners, because the party centers on gift-giving,  the baby shower is typically arranged and hosted by a close friend rather than a member of the family, since it is considered rude for families to beg for gifts on behalf of their members.  However, this custom varies by culture or region and in some it is expected and customary for a close female family member to host the baby shower, often the baby's maternal grandmother.  When a baby shower is held after the birth of a baby, an invitation to attend the shower may be combined with a baby announcement. In the US, if a baby shower doesn't happen before the arrival of the baby, a sip-and-see party or other similar event can be organized after the birth. Guests bring small gifts for the expectant mother. Mothers are usually given pampering treats. Typical gifts related to babies include diapers, blankets, baby bottles, clothes, and toys.   It is common to open the gifts during the party; sometimes the host will make a game of opening gifts. The baby shower is a family's first opportunity to gather people together to help play a part in their child's life. The new parents may wish to call on people to assist in the upbringing of their child, and help educate the child over time. People around the family, who care for them, want to be involved in the child's life, and a baby shower presents an opportunity for them to give gifts and be of help, showing their love for the family.  If it happens before the birth, it allows the new family to thank everyone before the stress of a new baby and lack of sleep begins. The term "baby shower" is relatively new, but the celebrations and rituals associated with pregnancy and childbirth are both ancient and enduring.  Baby showers and other social events to celebrate an impending or recent birth are popular around the world. They are often women-only social gatherings. Some baby showers are directed at the future father.  These may be more oriented towards drinking beer, watching sports, fishing, or playing video games.   The primary nature of these gifts is diapers and/or diaper-related items.   The organization of the diaper party is typically done by the friends of the father-to-be as a way of helping to prepare for the coming child.  These parties may be held at local pubs/bars, a friend's house, or the soon-to-be grandfather's house.   In the United Kingdom, this is called wetting the baby's head, and is seen more commonly than baby showers.  Wetting the baby's head is traditionally when the father celebrates the birth by having a few drinks with a group of friends. There has been some controversy over these, with Judith Martin calling them a "monstrous imposition",  although she was referring to the attitude of demanding gifts and not necessarily the male version of a baby shower. 