A Dadchelor Party, otherwise referred to as a Man Shower, is the new emerging trend for fathers in the 21st century.  It is a party that is similar to a baby shower, but instead of being thrown for the mother-to-be, it is thrown for the father-to-be. The idea of a Dadchelor Party has been around for years, but the recent trend emerged more prominently in 2011.  In the years before this trend emerged, Baby Showers were often centered around the mothers-to-be, leaving the father left out and forgotten altogether. It is common for the party to be revolved around the mother because their bodies are the ones that have another human being growing inside of them. They go through extensive mood swings and grow out of their clothes, which can be quite frustrating, so a simple celebration makes them feel as though the journey was worth it.  Baby showers often follow around the idea of an extravagant party. The baby's sex is often revealed or there are games, such as diapers filled with different melted candies. It highlights the transition into parenthood, especially for mothers. It allows them to feel as though this process of birth and parenting will be manageable. They also receive many gifts that they can "ooh and ahh" over for a majority of the party.  To put it simply, a Dadchelor Party is a way to celebrate a first time father and to give them some recognition as they enter parenthood. There are many things that they will lose as fatherhood moves up to their first priority. Instead of nights out with their friends, their days will consist of late nights and early mornings.These parties allow the father-to-be to let loose one last time.  Men do this in order to celebrate one last time before their lives are filled with diapers and other baby-related activities.  These parties consist of masculine activities to celebrate a gift that isn't always considered to be quite masculine, his new promotion into fatherhood.  These parties can also be viewed as the "one last pre-fatherhood bash."  Dadchelor Parties can be an extensive celebration or a simple party. Sometimes fathers-to-be choose to take a trip to a location in which there will be multiple activities for them to partake in while others make a simple fishing trip or go to celebrate at the local golf course.  Often, people assume these parties are to celebrate a man's life "before it is over" but this is far from the truth. Dadchelor Parties are a celebration of new babies and the father-to-be. They create memories for the father-to-be that he will remember forever and allows him to have a get together with his friends in honor of this monumental life moment.  The exchange of gifts at a Dadchelor Party is optional, but is encouraged. It adds an awkward moment into the party, in which the Dadchelor's friend make the dad-to-be open his gifts while "oohing" and "aahing" like one would do at a normal baby shower-style party. Gifts can range from gift cards to fast food places to Sports stores.  Other men bring gifts that will contribute to their night of male bonding or even pay for the dad-to-be and his travel expenses. Gifts also are exchanged for alcoholic beverages, for example, "Chuggies for Huggies," where the guests bring diapers in exchange for beers.  