The Higher School Certificate is an academic qualification in Mauritius awarded upon the completion of Upper 6 Form, the final stage of secondary school. The qualification is awarded upon earning passing marks on the A-level exams administered by the Mauritius Examinations Syndicate, in conjunction with the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate of the Cambridge International Examinations board.  The traditional Higher School Certificate (HSC) is the main school-leaving qualification awarded by Mauritian secondary schools. Requirements include A Levels and AS Levels in subjects chosen by the student.  Successful students may receive academic recognition and are eligible to compete for laureateship, a scholarship scheme offered by the Mauritian government for students pursuing higher education.  The Higher School Certificate Professional Qualification (HSC Pro) is an alternative school-leaving qualification with a modified curriculum and structure, which allows students to pursue both an academic curriculum and vocational training, to be prepared for tertiary studies as well as employment.  The qualification will be introduced as a pilot in 2015.  There are certain unique features of this qualification that distinguish it from the traditional Higher School Certificate.  One is the inclusion of the Cambridge International Technical in ICT, adapted to the local context, in place of an A Level.  Another is replacement of the AS General Paper with a mandatory alternative, the AS Global Perspectives, which is designed to develop communication, analytical and research skills.   Another is the Work Placement Component (WPC), a structured and supervised placement that provides practical work experience in the industry.   The structure for the qualification includes:  The alternative qualification is recognised by local and overseas universities, enabling students who successfully complete the qualification to seek admission in universities.  HSC Pro students may not compete for laureateship, as can traditional HSC students, but may participate in alternative schemes provided by the Mauritian government for further studies as well as employment.  Typically 3 to 5 primary subjects are chosen to study at AS-level, and at least 3 subjects are further studied to A2-level. Both the AS (Advanced Subsidiary) and A2 years must be completed for the full A-level qualification to be completed; an AS-level qualification may also be awarded after the first year. Cambridge Higher School Certificate candidates may take the following subjects at AS-level:   Cambridge Higher School Certificate candidates may take the following subjects at A2-level:   Higher School Certificate Professional Qualification (HSC Pro) students additionally take the following subjects:   Students who successfully earn the Higher School Certificate may then progress onto tertiary study. Students who are unsuccessful in obtaining the qualification may then transition from the academic stream to the vocational stream and progress onto vocational programmes of study. Students may also choose to obtain A Level qualifications at a later time. 