Contraindications to breastfeeding are those conditions that could compromise the health of the infant if breast milk from their mother is consumed. One example of this is galactosemia. This is. If the mother has HIV or antiviral therapy, untreated active tuberculosis, Human T-lymphotropic virus 1 or II, uses illicit drugs, or mothers undergoing chemotherapy or radiation treatment.   Breastfeeding contradiction is an act of breastfeeding a child while the mother has conditions such as an addiction or disease. Breast milk contains many nutrients that formulas in store shelves do not have which makes breast feeding a healthier and ideal way to feed an infant.  Breastfeeding contraindications can occur if a mother does not take medication or seek medical advice prior to breast. The effects of the contradiction can do damage to both the infant and even the mother. It is important to explore the factors that can do damage that way a mother can be informed and well educated on the subject manner.  Breastfeeding contradiction is an act of breastfeeding a child while the mother has conditions such as an addiction or disease. Breast milk contains many nutrients that formulas in store shelves do not have which makes breast feeding a healthier and ideal way to feed an infant.  Breastfeeding contraindications can occur if a mother does not take medication or seek medical advice prior to breast. The effects of the contradiction can do damage to both the infant and even the mother. It is important to explore the factors that can do damage that way a mother can be informed and well educated on the subject manner.  Breastfeeding contradiction is an act of breastfeeding a child while the mother has conditions such as an addiction or disease. Breast milk contains many nutrients that formulas in store shelves do not have which makes breast feeding a healthier and ideal way to feed an infant.  Breastfeeding contraindications can occur if a mother does not take medication or seek medical advice prior to breast. The effects of the contradiction can do damage to both the infant and even the mother. It is important to explore the factors that can do damage that way a mother can be informed and well educated on the subject manner.  An individual with T cell lymphotropic virus type 1 and 2 will have excessive amounts of  T-cell leukemia and HTLV-1. This often happens through the spread of needles and can affect anyone at any age.  If a mother contains this virus and is not aware of it the spread to her infant can be at an all time high of 25%.  There is currently no antivirals a mother can take to decrease the spread which is why breastfeeding is not recommended.  Alcohol intake can also pose a threat to an infant, the fat content in your breast can cause toxins from alcohol to build up. It is advised that mothers only limit their drinking to one or two drinks a week so the spread of toxins does not reach the breast.  If a mother is binge drinking while breastfeeding and the toxins spread to the infant; there will be a risk of slow weight gain for the infant.  