 A guard of honour (en-GB), guard of honor (en-US), also honour guard (en-GB), honor guard (en-US), also ceremonial guard, is a guard, usually military in nature, appointed to receive or guard a head of state or other dignitary, the fallen in war, or to attend at state ceremonials, especially funerals. In military weddings, especially those of commissioned officers, a guard, composed usually of service members of the same branch, form the Saber arch. In principle any military unit could act as a guard of honour. However, in some countries certain units are specially designated for guard of honour duty. Guards of Honour also serve in the civilian world for fallen police officers and other civil servants. Certain religious bodies, especially Churches of the Anglican Communion and the Methodist movement, have the tradition of an Honour Guard at the funeral of an ordained elder, in which all other ordained elders present "guard the line" between the door of the church and the grave, or hearse if the deceased is to be buried elsewhere or cremated.  The practice of providing a guard of honour as a mark of respect also occurs in sports, especially throughout the Commonwealth of Nations. The Algerian Republican Guard (Arabic:الحرس الجمهوري الجزائري, French:Garde républicaine algérienne), is a ceremonial military corps of the Algerian army which is composed of 6,000 troops. The Egyptian Republican Guard is a Division level unit in the Egyptian Army which has the responsibility of defending the President of Egypt, as well as major presidential and national institutions. The members of the Nigerian Presidential Guard Brigade are elite Nigerian soldiers which guards the residence of the President of the Federal Republic and his guests as well as perform ceremonial duties. It is similar to the American Secret Service. The Red Guard of Senegal is a Senegalese Gendarmerie unit that is responsible for maintaining the security of the President of Senegal. It is similar to the ceremonial elements in the French Republican Guard. The unit's uniform is derived from the French colonial Spahi. The guard of honour unit in South Africa is the State Presidents Guard (Staatspresidentseenheid) until 1990.  The unit has been replaced by the National Ceremonial Guard in the South African National Defence Force. The Algerian Republican Guard The Egyptian Republican Guard. A Ghana Air Force Guard of Honour. Russian President Dmitry Medvedev inspecting the Presidential Guard Brigade during his visit to Abuja in June 2009. The National Ceremonial Guard at the opening of 17th World Festival of Youth and Students. The Senegalese Red Guard during the inauguration of Macky Sall. The Canadian guard of honour is formed from members of the Ceremonial Guard, an ad hoc unit drawn from all branches of the Canadian Forces (CF). Although the unit's members are derived from a variety of military units, the Ceremonial Guard uses similar uniforms to Canada's two Foot Guards regiments as a reflection of their traditional connection with those regiments.  The unit comprises 400 people, including a Foot Guard company and the Band of the Ceremonial Guard. The Ceremonial Guard typically execute public duties in Ottawa during the summer months of the year. The Guard is mounted on dates such as Canada Day and Remembrance Day, inspected by the most senior dignitary in attendance. They may also be formed for repatriation ceremonies for fallen soldiers returning from combat. Public duties in Ottawa were performed by the Canadian Guards before the unit's disbandment in 1970.  Prior to 2007, membership with the Ceremonial Guard was restricted to the Foot Guards of the Canadian Army. The Household Division of the Canadian Army had traditionally performed ceremonial duties, such as guard mounting or Trooping the Colour. The Household Division consists of two regiments of Foot Guards (the Canadian Grenadier Guards and the Governor General's Foot Guards) as well as one cavalry regiment (the Governor General's Horse Guards). Several other Canadian Army regimental units have also performed guard of honour duties, including the Royal 22nd Regiment, these units are active in events such as royal and state visits, national and provincial celebrations, state, military and civil funerals and ceremonies related to the work of the entire Armed Forces. Alongside these are detachments made up for ceremonial duties from both the Royal Canadian Navy and the Royal Canadian Air Force. The Ceremonial Unit of the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces provided honours for the Communist Party of Cuba, the Government of Cuba, and the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces. The main purpose of the military unit is the performance of the changing of the guard every half an hour at the José Marti Mausoleum in Santiago de Cuba. The Honour Guard in Mexico consists of members selected from the Navy, Army or Air Force, and report to the Secretariats of National Defense and the Navy, while the Estado Mayor Presidencial maintains, through the Army Presidential Guards Corps, a dedicated guards brigade. Some of their duties include protection of the Mexican flag in Zocalo, and the raising and lowering of it, as well as providing ceremonial guards during state visits to Mexico. There are also those selected from other organizations, such as historic societies, schools, sports centers, celebrities, etc., but these are for national holiday events within the country.  Escolta de la bandera or Escolta de guerra or Escolta de honores or simply La escolta is the term in Spanish for color guards and flag parties. Each uniformed service branch in the U.S. Armed Forces has its own official honour guard: Army,  Marines,  Navy,  Air Force,  and Coast Guard.  Most state national guard units have a ceremonial guard as well. The official honour guard of every branch is located in the National Capital Region, though nearly every military installation will have its own honour guard for local ceremonies and events. The honour guard units in National Capital Region represent the military as a whole and the United States as a nation, and perform numerous ceremonies on behalf of the President of the United States. Since World War II, The Old Guard has served as the official Army Honor Guard and escort to the President, and it also provides security for Washington, D.C., in time of national emergency or civil disturbance.  Arlington National Cemetery's Tomb of the Unknowns is guarded by members of the U.S. 3rd Infantry Regiment (The Old Guard).  Many local, state/provincial, national and federal public safety agencies maintain Honour Guards, Pipes & Drums and Buglers, including fire departments, law enforcement agencies, emergency medical services, and search and rescue, who typically use adaptations of military honour guards, and honour those who die in the line of duty (LODD-Line of Duty Death), off-duty but still on the job, and retirees, as well as participating in support of other agencies, and parades. Some Law Enforcement agencies are able to maintain a Rifle Team for 'three volley' salutes. Most, even those within major career paid agencies, are not paid for performing and preparing for the honor guard duty.  Two soldiers from the Canadian Grenadier Guards posted outside Rideau Hall, the official residence of the Canadian monarch and the Governor General of Canada. The Mayor of Quebec City, Andrée P. Boucher inspecting a guard of honour of the Canadian Royal 22nd Regiment. The Canadian Grenadier Guards mounting the guard of honour at the funeral of Ernest "Smokey" Smith in Ottawa, Ontario. Inspection of the guard of honour, made up of the Governor General's Foot Guards during the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's 2011 royal tour of Canada. The Cuban ceremonial unit in 2015. Female members of the unit Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau inspecting the Mexican guard of honor during his visit to Mexico in 2016. A sentry at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery. Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak (right) is escorted by Commander of Troops Col. Thomas M. Jordan (center), U.S. Army, and Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen (left) as Barak inspects the joint honor guard during an arrival ceremony at the Pentagon on July 16, 1999. A ceremonial guardsman from the United States Air Force Honor Guard presents arms to honor U.S. Foreign Service members killed during attacks to the U.S. consulate 2012, in Benghazi, Libya. Regiment of Mounted Grenadiers (Argentina). Still serving as part of the Argentine Army, they are the presidential guard and ceremonial companions. Two unmounted grenadiers are stationed in front of the Pink House as a symbol of the ceremonial and honour guard. The Brazilian armed forces and police have several troops for ceremonial usages. The most important of them is the Brazilian president's honour guard. It is composed of the 1st Guards Cavalry Regiment (1o Regimento de Cavalaria de Guardas – RCG, in Portuguese) – "Independence Dragoons", the Presidential Guard Battalion (Batalhão da Guarda Presidencial – BGP, in Portuguese) and the Cayenne Battery. The 37th Infantry Presidential Guard Battalion, composed of five companies, a historical company and one artillery battery plus a military band, a fanfare trumpet section and Corps of Drums, is the President of Colombia's honour guard service regiment under the National Army of Colombia. It is stationed at the Casa de Nariño in Bogota and carries the traditions of Simon Bolivar's infantry guards company raised in the midst of the Spanish American wars of independence in 1815.  The Presidential Honor Guard Brigade is the joint service military unit mandated to ensure the immediate security of the President of Venezuela and his First Family and for the performance of public duties in the most important places in the country. The most distant antecedents of the Presidential Honor Guard go back to the Hussars Troop of Simon Bolivar, of the Venezuelan War of Independence and of the larger Spanish American wars of independence, raised in June 1815 and part of a more bigger guards brigade targeted for the immediate security of the Liberator, and the early 20th century 1st Cavalry Regiment "Ambrosio Plaza" that until the 1950s, albelt reduced to squadron size, provided the ceremonial security of the President and was modeled on the Prussian horse guards units of the late 19th century. The modern brigade serves as a ceremonial escort to the President of Venezuela at Miraflores Palace and attends all state arrival ceremonies conducted there, as well as providing security for the palace complex. The brigade also provides honor guards (i) at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Carabobo Field, Carabobo commemorating the memory of national heroes and the fallen of the Battle of Carabobo of 1821, (ii) at the Montana Barracks in Caracas in memory of the late Hugo Chávez; and (iii) at the National Pantheon in Caracas in memory of Bolívar and other national heroes buried there. The brigade also performs public duties functions as required. Brigade personnel come from all branches of the National Bolivarian Armed Forces of Venezuela and public security services. The brigade is commanded by a general or flag officer and includes a Presidential mounted escort of platoon or troop size. Aside from the PHGB, there are two foot guards battalions in the NBAF, each also tasked with forming guards of honour and public duties: Mounted Grenadiers of "San Martín", for the Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov's arrival, San Martín Square, Buenos Aires. Cayenne Battery at Independence Day military parade, Brasília. A Soldier of the Military Engineers Battalion of the Presidential Guard. Honour guards, as known as Combined Honour Guard of the People's Liberation Army, are provided by the Beijing Capital Garrison Command in Beijing, under the Central Theater Command and reporting directly to the General Staff. They marched as the first battalion in the military parade of the 35th, 50th, and 60th anniversaries of the People's Republic of China. They are often on parades led by a color guard detail carrying the PLA flag. In India, the Tri-Services Guard of Honour is made up of men or women drawn from three services of the Indian military: the Indian Army, Indian Air Force, and Indian Navy. It is based at New Delhi and is of company size, present only during state visits. In January 2015, during Barack Obama's state visit to India, Wing Commander Pooja Thakur became the first female officer to lead the guard of honour for a foreign leader.  In Indonesia the unit institutionally intended to act as an honour guard for the President of Indonesia and towards foreign state visitors is the Paspampres, a special branch of the Indonesian National Armed Forces. The Paspampres are responsible for the security of the President and vice president and are also responsible for the internal security of the Residence of the President. In addition to the Paspampres, there are other honour units known as Pasukan Jajar Kehormatan chosen from the different units within the Indonesian National Armed Forces and Police force, specifically for honor guard duties and public duties during military and police events, in the former, these are made up of personnel from the Joint Service Military Police Command. During the ceremony commemorating the independence day of Indonesia in the Merdeka Palace at every 17 August, honour guards which line-up during the ceremony are part of the combined-forces honour guard which includes the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Police force. In Jakarta, the Paspampres Group An honour guards in this occasion join the Paskibraka troops for escorting the national flag of Indonesia. The same format is seen in other flag raising ceremonies nationwide, wherein Armed Forces and Police personnel pre-selected escort the lower-level Paskibraka units in the provinces, regencies, cities and district-level subdivisions. The National Guard of Kyrgyzstan carries out official representative functions on behalf of the Armed Forces of the Kyrgyz Republic. The guard of honor is formed from the 701st Military Unit of the National Guard. The National Guard stands at attention at the National Flagpole on Ala-Too Square in Bishkek, and has been  performing the changing of the guard ceremony every hour since August 16, 1998.   The guard of honour in Malaysia usually consists of the 1st Battalion, Royal Malay Regiment, which performs most ceremonial duties in Malaysia, such as Heroes' Day, visitation of diplomats and state leaders, National Day, guard duties at the Royal Palace of Malaysia, and many more, in the national level. The RMR also mounts the guard during state visits to the Ministry of Defense. State level guards of honour are mounted by the following units aside from the Royal Malay Regiment, which is also the guard of honour for the states of Kedah, Perak, Selangor and Pahang: Units of the Royal Malaysia Police in Melaka, Penang, Sabah and Sarawak, as well as the Royal Malay Regiment and the Royal Rangers, mount guards of honour of the governors of these states. Guard of honour units are also found in the Royal Malaysia Police, The People's Volunteer Corps, the Fire and Rescue Department, and the Malaysia Civil Defence Force. Honour guards units of the Royal Malaysian Navy (RMN Honour Guard Battalion, Lumut) and the Royal Malaysian Air Force (RMAF Honour Guard Battalion or the RMAF College) are mounted in the presence of the Sultan of Selangor and the Sultan of Pahang, respectively, in events where each of the two service branches are involved. Visits to the MoD building by naval and air general and flag officers are also accompanied by the guard of honour units of these services. In Nepal, the Guard of honour is formed from special troops from Nepalese Army. It is mainly given to the President of Nepal and the Prime Minister of Nepal. Foreign Heads of State also receives the Guard of Honour. Formerly, Guard of honour were given in Tribhuwan International Airport premises but since 2018, Government of Nepal changed the venue to Tundikhel. The first foreign state head to receive the Guard of honour at Tundikhel was Pakistan Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi during his visits to Nepal in March 2018. In Pakistan, the guard of honour is provided by men drawn from three services of the Pakistan Armed Forces: The Pakistan Army, Pakistan Air Force, and the Pakistan Navy. A tri-service guard of honor company is stationed in Islamabad, the national capital, for services in state visits and important national holidays. The Presidential Security Group provide honour guard services to the President of the Philippines in Malacañang Palace, especially during state visits to the country. The PSG is the only presidential guard service in Asia that is composed of men and women from the various uniformed organizations of the Philippines: the Armed Forces of the Philippines, the Philippine National Police, the Bureau of Fire Protection and the Philippine Coast Guard. The AFP has 5 designated honour guard battalions mandated for public duties for events concerning the Armed Forces. They are: Honour Guard units are also present in the PNP and the PCG, and are mounted on important occasions of these two services. The Guards-of-Honour (GOH) of Singapore are specially formed from all three services of the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF), namely, the Singapore Army (usually comprising personnel from the sole SAF Commando Formation unit, the 1st Commando Battalion), the Republic of Singapore Navy (RSN) and the Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF), together with the Singapore Police Force (SPF), which are positioned at the forefront of major parades and significant state events, such as the country's National Day on the 9th of August. They are dressed in ceremonial attire (known as the No. 1 uniform), which, based on the unit's origin (the sole exception being the Navy), have various colours imbued on a thin strip running down the outer-sides of the pants (red for the Army, light-blue for the Air Force and black for the Police) and different and unique badges, medals, awards and buttons, and will be equipped with SAR-21 assault rifles which have bayonets attached to them. These GOH units will typically be contrasted by at least one or more contingents of their fellow troops and men in their regular uniform (the No. 4 uniform for the SAF units and the No. 3 uniform for the SPF unit). For state-visits and other important ceremonial duties within the Istana compounds, the guard-of-honour group that is formed and mounted is provided by personnel from the Singapore Armed Forces Military Police Command. During the Joseon Dynasty, the role of guards of honour taken up by the Sumunjang, who reported directly to the Emperor and the Imperial Family with administrative responsibility to the Minister of Defense as part of the armed forces of the state.  South Korea today operates several guards of honour companies under the Republic of Korea Armed Forces - one each from the Republic of Korea Army, Republic of Korea Navy, Republic of Korea Air Force and Republic of Korea Marine Corps, along with a traditional honour guard unit that is made up of soldiers from the 3rd Infantry Division. The traditional guard in particular was founded in 1991 after president Roh Tae-woo reviewed the Old Guard Fife and Drum Corps and the Commander-in-Chief's Guard of the 3rd U.S. Infantry Regiment of the United States. Since then the traditional honour guards have taken the role of officially welcoming heads of state and other dignitaries. Roles of the honour guards as a whole include funeral honours for the fallen, ensuring the security of various military headquarters, and acting as ceremonial guards to Gyeongbok Palace. For ceremonial purposes the guards carry various rifles - the Army, Navy and Air Force carry the M16 rifle; the Marine Corps carry M1 Garands and the traditional guards carry ceremonial swords, arrows, spears and lances, keeping with the traditions of the Korean military and as a tribute to the guards units of the Imperial era. Their colour guards also reflect these influences as well. While the service guards units maintain their respective military bands based on the US and UK practices, the traditional guard unit also contains a Daechwita, a form of military band playing Korean traditional music for military ceremonies and events, and as such wears uniforms used by similar ensembles in the 19th century. In Sri Lanka, the guard of honour is provided by men drawn from three services of the Sri Lankan Armed Forces. The Sri Lanka Army, the Sri Lanka Navy, and the Sri Lanka Air Force. During the colonial era, the Lascarins provided the local guards of honour, apart from British Army, British Indian Army, or Ceylon Defence Force personal. In the Republic of China, the honour guard is provided by members from the three service branches of the Republic of China Armed Forces, including the ROC Army, ROC Navy and the ROC Air Force, usually present at the places as follows: The National Day honour guard battalion is also made up of personnel of the honor guards companies of the aforementioned branches. During the reign of the Ming Dynasty, that role was taken up by the Jǐnyīwèi (錦衣衛) or the Embroidered Uniform Guard. In Tajikistan, the guard of honour battalion is provided by men drawn from the four services of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Tajikistan: The National Army, Mobile Forces, Air Force, and the Border Troops. The Presidential National Guard also has its own guard of honor battalion. In Thailand, the honor guard role is taken on by the Kings Guard (ทหารรักษาพระองค์; Thahan Raksa Phra Ong) units of  the Royal Thai Armed Forces. Until its 2016 disbandment, the Presidential Guard Regiment of Turkey acted as an honour guard regiment of the Turkish Armed Forces.  Ceremonial duties are usually served by the Independent Honor Guard Battalion of the Ministry of Defence. The battalion is the first division on Independence Square in the annual Independence Day Parade.  They also greet foreign leaders visiting Turkmenistan, as well as the Guard the National Museum of Turkmenistan.  Two honour guard units fall under the People's Army of Vietnam: The Azerbaijani National Guard. Chinese honour guard in column (Beijing Capital Garrison Honour Guard Battalion). Barack Obama inspects the Tri-Service Honor Guard in New Delhi in 2015. Brazilian President Lula da Silva at the Rashtrapati Bhavan receives a guard of honour ceremony from members of IAF. Paspampres Honour Guards of Indonesia. Honor guard at Mausoleum of Ruhollah Khomeini. The Republican Guard of Kazakhstan. The honor guard of the National Guard standing at attention on Ala-Too Square. The Guard of Honour and marching band of the Royal Malay Regiment during Hari Merdeka celebrations in 2013. A Pakistani Honour Guard prepares for the arrival of U.S. Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates at the Army's Martyr's Monument. US Navy Admiral Mike Mullen (pictured in the center), the chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, reviewing the honour-guard of the Singapore Armed Forces during a welcoming ceremony at the Istana. The Korean honour guard from the 3rd Infantry Division welcomes U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry at the Seoul Airbase. Honour guards of Republic of China (Taiwan) Armed Forces at the Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hall in Taipei. Members of the Presidential National Guard. Dmitry Medvedev and Emomali Rahmon inspecting th honour guard company of the Tajik Defense Ministry. Turkish Presidential Guard Regiment during a parade. Members of the battalion during a parade in 2011. Changing of the guards at the Ho Chi Minh Mausoleum. Sergei Shoigu in Vietnam The Honor Guard Company of the Military Commandant's Office of the Armed Forces of Belarus is the primary honour guard company of the Republic of Belarus. National Guards Unit (Bulgarian: Национална гвардейска част), established 1878, includes military units for army salute ceremonials, a band and a wind orchestra. In 2001 the National Guards Unit was declared the official military unit representing the Bulgarian Army and one of the symbols of modern state authority along with the flag, the coat of arms and the national anthem.  In Croatia, the Honour Guard Battalion (Croatian: Počasno-zaštitna bojna) serves as the guard of honour. The Honour Guard Battalion performs protocol tasks for the needs of top-level state and military officials, as well as tasks related to the protection and security of the Commander-in-Chief (President of the Republic of Croatia). It consist of up to 300 members. The unit is under direct command of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia.  Ceremonial duties are usually served by the Castle Guard, a special unit of the armed forces of the Czech Republic, organized under the Military Office of the President of the Czech Republic, directly subordinate to the President of the Republic. The Royal Life Guards is an infantry regiment of the Danish Army. It serves in two roles: as a front line combat unit, and as a guard/ceremonial unit to the Danish monarchy. Danish Amalienborg palace is guarded by this unit day and night. The Republican Guard of the National Gendarmerie provides both foot and horse-mounted guards of honour. The primary mission of the Wachbataillon is to perform the military honours for the German Federal President, Federal Chancellor, Federal Minister of Defense and the Inspector General of the Bundeswehr during state visits or on similar occasions. In addition, the Wachbataillon takes part in military events and ceremonies of major importance. A secondary mission is to perform ceremonial guard duty at the Ministry of Defense and other high-profile public places, and protect and guard the members of the German government and the Ministry of Defense. The GDR's Friedrich Engels Guard Regiment was the primary honour guard regiment of East Germany. In Greece, the Presidential Guard is a unit of the Greek Army guarding the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and the Presidential Palace. Its members, known as Evzones, must be taller than 1.85m and are trained hard as their duty includes standing completely still for more than an hour 4 times a day. They are famous for their military discipline, the ability to stand motionless without even blinking, their stylish walking and the uniform which derives from traditional Greek dress. The Honour Guard in Hungary was the HDF 32nd Budapest Guard and Ceremonial Regiment (Hungarian: MH 32. Budapest Őr- és Díszezred) until 31 December 2006, at which time it was disbanded. From 1 January 2007 was the Ceremonial Battalion branch, part of the MH Támogató Dandár (MH TD, HDF Support Brigade) until 31 December 2010. Converted from 1 January 2011 to Nemzeti Honvéd Díszegység (National Home Defense Ceremonial Band) as part of the MH TD and achieved the service from 25 April.   The official honour guard of the Hungarian People's Republic was the Hungarian People's Army's 7015th Ceremonial Regiment (Hungarian: Magyar Néphadsereg 7015 Dísz -és őrezred).    In Ireland, a guard of honour is drawn from the Irish Army and is called 'Garda Onóra' in Irish. It is inspected by the President of Ireland, Taoiseach or visiting dignitaries. In Italy the unit institutionally intended to act as an honour guard to the President of the Italian Republic is the Corazzieri Regiment, a special branch of the Carabinieri.  The Corazzieri follow the President during official occasions and are also partly responsible for the internal security of the Quirinal Palace. In addition to the Corazzieri, there are other honour units chosen from the different Armed Forces, specifically for representation purposes. These units have to stand guard at important places, such as the gates of the seats of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in the Altar of the Homeland, and at the gates of the Quirinal Palace. Example of honour units from the different Armed Forces are: During state funerals, honour guards are granted to the departed by the protocol.  The guards are positioned at the entrance and the exit of the place in which the ceremony is held. Aside from the aforementioned services, honour guards are also found within the Guardia di Finanza, Polizia Penitenziaria and the Polizia di Stato. They perform the same duties mentioned above. The Ceremonial Guard Battalion (Церемонијален гардански баталјон, Ceremonijalen gardanski bataljon) is part of the Army of the Republic of Macedonia which is mainly used for ceremonial purposes. It is the personal guard of the President of the Republic of Macedonia. The National Guard can be often seen near the presidential palace, during official visits of foreign presidents or delegations, ceremonies and during the days of the flag. In 2010 the Ministry of Defence proposed and designed new uniforms for the guards. Both, the old and the new uniforms, are based on the uniforms of the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO) revolutionaries with some details of the other periods of the history of the Republic of Macedonia. Influence over the new design were based on the uniform worn by Bulgarian    revolutionary Dedo Iljo Maleshevski and the uniforms of the 19th century Bulgarian Legion regiment which served in the Imperial Russian Army.  The Honour Guards in Netherlands consists of two guard regiments, Garderegiment Grenadiers en Jagers & Garderegiment Fuseliers Prinses Irene, both from the Royal Netherlands Army. Guard of honor detachments for public duties are present in the Royal Netherlands Navy and the Royal Netherlands Air Force. The Honor guards of Norway are the Hans Majestet Kongens Garde The Honour Guard unit in Poland is the Pulk Reprezentacyjny Wojska Polskiego (Representative Honour Guard Regiment of the Polish Armed Forces), created on 30 March 2018 on the basis of the Representative Honor Guard Battalion.  Also posted within its ranks is the Presidential Mounted Ceremonial Troop of the Armed Forces, which also acts as an honour guard and horse guard unit. Service branches of the Armed Forces, the Warsaw Garrison and other civil uniformed services all maintain honour guard units of their own. The Brigada 30 Gardă „Mihai Viteazul” (Michael the Brave 30th Guards Brigade) of the Romanian Land Forces serves as the honour guard brigade of the Romanian Armed Forces. The brigade is present at ceremonial events and during visits from international officials. The Romanian Gendarmerie maintains an honour guard unit, called Unitatea Specială de Gardă de Onoare și Protecție Instituțională București (Bucharest Institutional Protection and Honour Guard Special Unit), and a horse guards troop acting during state ceremonies and celebrations of the service. Russia's primary honour guard (Russian: Почётный караул, Pochotny kara-ul) is the Kremlin Regiment of the Federal Protective Service of the Russian Federation, established in 1936. The 154th Preobrazhensky Independent Commandant's Regiment, established in 1979, serves as the official representative honour guard regiment of the Russian Armed Forces and serves as the main honour guard unit of the armed forces. Military districts and fleet formations of the Russian Navy also have their own honour guard companies. Examples of honour units from all three branches of the Armed Forces include: The Russian Imperial Guards served as honour guards for the Russian Empire. The Serbian Guards Unit is an elite unit within the Serbian Army, of brigade size, under the direct command of Serbian Armed Forces Chief of Staff. Its purpose to secure vital facilities of the defense system and performing military honours to highest foreign, domestic and military officials. For the needs of Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army General Staff, the Guard Unit performs tasks within the scope of the military police work and the tasks in the field of logistics and security. Guard continues the tradition of Serbian Guard units which is now almost two centuries long. The first Guard unit formed in Serbia was created on the order of Prince Milos Obrenovic on St. George Day in 1830 in Pozarevac. The Guard Unit also sports the official military band of the Serbian Armed Forces - the Guards Band. On top of bodyguard services & overseas deployment, the Spanish Royal Guard (Guardia Real) also perform ceremonial & honor guard services. Honour guard service is carried out by all units of the Swedish Armed Forces, although the Life Guards Regiment (Livgardet) in the Swedish Army accounts for the main part of honour guard services. The Royal Guards (Högvakten) at the Stockholm Palace and the Drottningholm Palace is the honour guard to the King of Sweden. The service is carried out by the Life Guards as well as other units of the Swedish Armed Forces including the Home Guard and other voluntary defence organisations.  The Grenadier company of the Life Guards is used as an honour guard at state visit welcoming ceremonies. A detachment of grenadiers is also used as honour guard at the opening of the Riksdag, when an incoming foreign ambassador meets with the King at an audience to present letters of credence and when the King attends an annual meeting of one of the Royal Academies.  Drabantvakt ("Royal Bodyguard"), commonly known as Karl XI:s drabanter ("The Bodyguard of Charles XI") and Karl XII:s drabanter ("The Bodyguard of Charles XII") is a ceremonial guard used at state occasions such as state visits, investiture of a monarch, royal weddings and funerals etc. The guard was formed in 1860 based on historical royal bodyguards. The design of the uniforms of the guard is based on, but not identical to, uniforms used during the reign of Carles XI and Charles XII respectively. The guard consists of 24 soldiers and one officer selected from the Life Guards.  A guard of honour is formed to present formal ceremonial compliments to royal or presidential dignitaries by a guard not exceeding 100 personnel (including three officers, one with a colour) with other particular distinguished individuals saluted by a guard not exceeding 50 personnel. A half guard is a colloquial term describing a guard of honour of not more than 50 personnel (including two officers, one with a colour).  A guard of honour could have a single service contingent (e.g. army) or it could be a tri service (inter-service) affair. The guard commander, after saluting the dignitary (usually head of state), marches up to him or her and escorts him or her to inspect the guard (soldiers in formation). During the salute, the national anthems of both the dignitary's country and the host country are usually played by a ceremonial band. Only a standard, guidon, Queen's Colour, or a banner presented by either a member of the Royal Family or the governor-general may be carried by a royal guard of honour. Only a regimental colour or a banner presented by a personage other than a member of the Royal Family may be carried on a half guard of honour. A smaller unit honouring distinguished visitors at a military installation is known as a quarter guard. The commander is three paces in front of the second file from the right and accompanies the personage for whom the guard is mounted. An officer carrying the Colour stands three paces in front of the centre; if there is a third officer he will be three paces in front of the second file from the other flank.  Units that traditionally perform ceremonial duties, such as Guard Mounting (changing of the Queen's Guard) or Trooping the Colour, are the five regiments of Foot Guards and the Household Cavalry (Blues and Royals and Life Guards), which form the Household Division. The Royal Air Force's ceremonial unit is the Queen's Colour Squadron. The British Armed Forces do not have dedicated ceremonial units, although some units such as the Scots Guards have a battalion designated to perform public duties. Generally, units from all three services not deployed overseas will rotate and share public duties at various major historic landmarks (e.g. royal palaces and castles) through the country. The Queen's Guard is primarily made up of units from the Household Division for royal palaces and public monuments—namely Buckingham Palace, St James's Palace, Windsor Castle, and the Tower of London—and other units from all three services of the British Armed Forces filling in when not deployed; in Scotland, Holyrood Palace and Edinburgh Castle are usually the responsibility of Scottish regiments or units based in Edinburgh.  Occasionally units from Commonwealth militaries are given the honour.  The Kyiv Presidential Honor Guard Battalion is a guard of honour unit of the Hetman Bohdan Khmelnytsky Independent Presidential Guard Regiment.  National Guards Unit of Bulgaria marching during the Bastille Day Military Parade 2007 in Paris. Ceremonial dress of the Honour Guard Battalion of the Croatian Armed Forces. A member of Czech Castle Guard. Danish Royal Guards presenting arms at the Changing of the Guard ceremony, Amalienborg, Copenhagen. The Republican Guard marching during a Bastille Day Parade in Paris in 2017. The French Republican Guard guarding the presidential palace. The Slovenian Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek inspecting a in Germany guard of honor together with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, in 2013. The Presidential Guard. The MH 32. Budapest Őr- és Díszezred welcome the President of the United States on 22 June 2006. Mounted hussars can be seen along the top. Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, reviews the Irish Honor Guard at Brugha Barracks in Dublin, Aug. 31, 2012. Italian Corazzieri on parade, in high uniform and riding horses. Corazzieri in the Quirinal palace. The troops of the Latvian National Armed Forces Staff Battalion during the 2017 Kiev Independence Day Parade. The honor guard company during the 2007 Bastille Day Parade. A member of the Ceremonial Guard Battalion (in the middle). The soldier wears the old uniform. Carabinier at the Prince's Palace in Monaco-Ville. Romanian 30th Guard Regiment on parade during 1 December celebrations. A guard at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier (Moscow). The Russian military honour guard from the 154th Commandant's Regiment welcomes U.S. Navy Adm. Mike Mullen at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. The Khabarovsk Honour Guard in 2017. Honour Guard Company of the EMERCOM A dragoon of the Life Guards Regiment posted outside the Stockholm Palace. Grenadiers of the Life Guards Regiment forming a guard of honour at the opening of the Riksdag. The Life Guards Regiment mounting the Royal Guards at the Stockholm Palace. A sentry from an armoured regiment on guard outside the Stockholm Palace. A sentry at Buckingham Palace. Coldstream Guards performing the guard change at Windsor Castle. Household Cavalry parading at Windsor Castle for the state visit of the Amir of Kuwait to the United Kingdom in 2012. Ukrainian Minister of Defense, Oleksandr Kuzmuk, and US Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld inspect the Ukrainian Guard of Honor in Kiev. An detachment of the Pontifical Swiss Guard escorting U.S. President Barack Obama to an audience with Pope Francis in 2014. The tri-service Federation Guard, consisting of members of the Australian Army, the Royal Australian Air Force and the Royal Australian Navy provides guards of honour for various ceremonies. All members of the guard are enlisted in their respective areas before volunteering for service in the guard. The rifle of choice is the L1A1 SLR. U.S. President Barack Obama inspects Australia's Federation Guard at a guard of honour ceremony. In cricket, the guard of honour is used to celebrate the achievement of a player (usually as a batsman), normally used during a player's final game. The players' teammates or opposition form a cordon, with their bats at the second count of the draw saber forming an arch, and the successful player walks through. It may also be performed to mark a milestone, such as when a player breaks a world record. A player can receive guard of honour multiple times as they retire from different forms of the game separately. When a bowler retires, it would generally be when they leave the field for the final time, or when they play their final match in a certain venue of importance (away match, home ground, retiring on the same day a ground is due to be demolished). In recent years, association football teams have shown their respect to teams in their own division which have already won their league title at the end of the season with games to spare by forming a guard of honour onto or off the pitch for their players.  The applauding team forms two lines to make a corridor and the league winners pass through the corridor, generally in single file. The guard of honour is in some instances considered good form to perform but is not considered compulsory and teams may opt not to provide one, as especially tends to happen between teams considered particularly bitter rivals.  The same has occasionally been done for individual players meeting particularly momentous points in their career, such as when Scottish Premier league team Rangers squad did so for departing talisman Dado Prso  and Chelsea controversially  chose to do so in a pre-planned display in the middle of a match for John Terry's last game, causing significant delays to the game.  In Australian rules football, players will often form a guard of honour for those who are leaving the field after a landmark game or on their retirement game. For example, Fremantle formed a guard of honour for Fitzroy's last match in 1996. Melbourne and Essendon formed a guard in 2005 to honour Indian Ocean tsunami victim Troy Broadbridge. Collingwood and North Melbourne formed a guard of honour in 2006 for retiring player Saverio Rocca, who forged a successful goalkicking career at both clubs.  After playing in the little league at half time of senior matches, the junior players line up to form a guard of honour for when the players return to the field.  In recent times guard of honour is usually done among Hockey players for those who have done something valuable for their country like Balbir Singh, Sr, Jamie Dwyer 