The Thai Royal Guards parade, also known as Trooping the Colour, occurs every December 2 since 1953, in celebration of the birthday of the King of Thailand, during which the King's Guard of the Royal Thai Armed Forces perform a military parade and pledge loyalty to the monarch. The venue is the Royal Plaza at Bangkok, Thailand, in front of the Dusit Palace and its Ananta Samakhom Throne Hall. All three branches of the armed forces take part in the parade, as seen in the composition of the Massed Military Bands, Bugle Squads and the Colour Parties of the 13 military units participating. The parade is notable for the colourful uniforms on display; pith helmets with heavy plumes resembling bearskins are worn, except for the lone cavalry unit in attendance - with British-style cavalry helmets and Thai lances on horsebacks - and the Naval Cadets. These uniforms are a nod to the British military traditions in the Royal Thai Armed Forces since the time of King Rama V Chulangkorn in the final years of the 19th century, with a combination of the British and German military drill and ceremonial. The general public also attend the parade celebrations, and Thai television stations broadcast this to the entire nation. Of the 13 participating battalions most are from the Royal Thai Army with two battalions, one each from the Royal Thai Navy and Royal Thai Marine Corps and another two battalions coming from the Royal Thai Air Force; all in full dress uniforms. Of all of them, most are active military units, the rest are military academies of the Royal Thai Armed Forces, represented by cadet battalions of the academies themselves led by their commandants. The tradition started in 1953 by King Bhumibol Adulyadej (Rama IX), as a simple colours ceremony for the new colours of the 1st Infantry Regiment, King's Own Bodyguard and has now grown into a national military tradition through the years. Since 2009, however, Trooping the Colours is not held, however the oath taking part of the ceremony is retained, plus the ceremonial march-in and march-out of the troops and the Massed Bands, the Royal Salutes and the Royal 21-Gun Salute. The parade itself came back in 2014 after a 5-year break, but this time before the King's birthday celebrations. On Dec. 5, 1953, the 1st Inf. Regiment The King's Guards of the Royal Thai Army received their Colours from King Bhumibol Adulyadej, in his capacity as Head of the Royal Thai Armed Forces, in Bangkok, and trooped it in his presence, thus beginning this national military tradition. This has now grown from being a purely infantry activity to becoming an Armed Forces-wide celebration over the years, with the original unit now being joined by 12 other units representing the Royal Thai Armed Forces. They form the Thai counterpart to the British Household Division: 14 foot units and 1 mounted unit parade past the Royal Family on that day, 3 from the military academies of the RTAF and the rest from units within the Armed Forces. The difference now that the ones on parade are units designated as "King's Guards" by His Majesty the King in his full constitutional duties as Head of the Royal Thai Armed Forces, from all its three branches. These units are as follows: The 1st Artillery Regiment, King's Guard's 1st Battalion Ceremonial Battery provides the ceremonial 21-gun salutes in all royal occasions, and also on the parade itself. If HM the King is only present, the following then follow: 