United States military music customs are the traditional, regulatory, and statutory provisions that guide performances by United States military bands during drill and ceremony and state occasions. For hundreds of years, military forces have used music to signal their troops.   The use of music retains an important place in modern diplomatic protocol and military courtesy and is part of many official military events, such as state funerals, military parades, naval christening, officer-commissioning ceremonies, and promotion ceremonies. Unlike other English-speaking nations, United States military band ceremonial music is not largely drawn from British military customs but is, rather, a mix of original styles and compositions and - to a lesser extent - French traditions. At the outset of the American Revolution, United States military units primarily relied on fife and drum corps for musical support. The U.S. was first introduced to the bugle horn (forerunner to the modern bugle) during the Battle of Harlem Heights, when British infantry used the instrument, causing Joseph Reed to later recall, "the enemy appeared in open view, and sounded their bugles in a most insulting manner, as is usual after a fox chase. I never felt such a sensation before—it seemed to crown our disgrace."  Some U.S. cavalry units adopted bugle horns during the war, however, a shortage of brass in the Thirteen Colonies largely limited use of the instrument to the opposing British and German forces, with U.S. troops continuing to rely heavily on fifes, drums, and even - at the Battle of Saratoga - turkey calls. The modern bugle was first introduced to U.S. military units around the time of the War of 1812.  During that conflict, only the Rifle Regiment was authorized to use the bugle. All other U.S. forces were required to continue using the traditional U.S. fife. Gradually, however, bugles became more widely adopted by the United States military. U.S. bugle calls have largely been based on early French bugle calls (the notable exception is "Attention", which is taken from the British bugle call "Alarm").  The dawn of the "march music era" hastened the downfall of the fife and drum corps (today, the U.S. armed forces field just a single fife and drum corps among its nearly 150 bands). Aided by the large body of work being created by prolific U.S. composers such as John Philip Sousa, Henry Filmore and Edwin Eugene Bagley, U.S. military and military-like bands became known for performing a unique style of quick-tempo marches with thundering brass and heavy percussion. One music critic, writing about the Boston Jubilee of 1872, contrasted the "velvety smoothness" of the invited Band of the Grenadier Guards to the follow-up performance orchestrated by U.S. Army bandmaster general Patrick Gilmore which involved "a heterogeneous choir of nearly twenty thousand, an orchestra of about a thousand instrumentalists of decidedly mixed abilities, an organ blown by steam power ... a drum of the most preposterous magnitude, and a few batteries of artillery."  Today, United States military bands employ music at various times as provided for in armed forces regulations, statute law, and customary practice. The United States authorizes all military bands "band regalia" consisting of a unique unit drum major mace, baldric, tabard, and drum design. The United States Army Institute of Heraldry designs these items on behalf of military bands.  In full parade dress, drum majors of many U.S. military bands wear bearskin hats. The origin of the use of bearskins in U.S. military bands dates to 1855 when United States Marine Band director Francis Scala adopted the style for that ensemble in emulation of European trends. This transition occurred as the band was reorganizing itself from a traditional U.S. fife and drum corps into its modern incarnation. A shortage of bearskins in the late 1880s caused the price of the hats to skyrocket, with The New York Times then reporting their use might be phased out entirely. "It can readily be seen what a price has to be paid for keeping up a custom which is rather old, it is true, but is practically a useless one save for the purpose of military display," the newspaper opined.  