The Global Energy Prize is an international award which recognises outstanding scientific innovations and solutions in global energy research and its concurrent environmental challenges. Since its inception in 2002, the Global Energy Prize has grown to become a recognised global energy award. According to IREG Observatory on Academic Ranking and Excellence, the Global Energy Prize is one of TOP-99 international academic awards with the highest prestige and significance. It is the only award from Russia included in the IREG list.  Moreover, the Global Energy Prize is included in the official list of the International Congress of Distinguished Awards (ICDA). In ICDA prestige rating the Global Energy Prize is in the category of “Mega Prizes” for its laudable goals, practices exemplary and the overall prize fund. Three leading Russian energy companies support and provide funding the prize: JSC Gazprom, JSC Surgutneftegaz and JSC Federal Grid Company UES. The Global Energy Prize is awarded annually in Russia by the President of the Russian Federation or person on his behalf. Each laureate receives, amongst others, a commemorative medal and a monetary prize. In 2017 the Prize fund amounted to 39 million RUB. The award process is overseen by the Global Energy Prize International Award Committee, which consists of 20 scientists from 13 countries and is chaired by renowned British scientist Rodney John Allam. The Global Energy Prize is managed by the Global Energy Association. The Global Energy Prize was founded in October 2002 by leading Russian energy companies and endorsed by the President of the Russian Federation. Since the first awards ceremony in 2003, the award has been presented to 37 laureates from 12 countries: Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Iceland, Japan, Russia, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, the UK and the US. The Global Energy Prize laureates include, amongst others, prominent scientists including Arthur Rosenfeld, awarded for his pioneering work in energy efficiency, and Gennady Mesyats, awarded for fundamental research and development in the field of powerful pulse energy. The Global Energy Prize is managed by the Global Energy Association which is responsible for the organisational, financial and informational management of the Global Energy Prize. The Association is managed by the Board of Trustees, headed by Alexander Shokhin, Head of Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, and other representatives of Russian academia of Sciences, politics and energy sphere, including the Nobel Peace Prize winner Mikhail Gorbachev. The Board, formed by the Global Energy Association and renewed every 5 years, is responsible for general management of the nomination process and the awarding of the Prize. The members of the Board of Trustees do not take part in the nomination process, nor do they make a final decision on awarding. The Global Energy Association manages a range of awards and projects related to the promotion of science and innovation in the field of energy: The idea of the Global Energy Prize was developed in 2002 by a group of Russian scientists and was endorsed by Russian energy corporations, President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, and the scientific community. The Global Energy Fund was set up in October 2002, by three major Russian Energy companies:  JSC Gazprom, JCS Federal Grid Company of the Unified Energy Systems (FGC UES, Former JSC Unified Energy Systems of Russia) and Yukos. In 2005, oil and gas company JSC Surgutneftegaz joined the group of funding companies. The first Global Energy Prize awarding ceremony took place in June 2003 at the Konstantinovsky Palace, Strelna (St Petersburg district, Russia) and was attended by President Vladimir Putin. The award was presented to three scientists:  Mr Nick Holonyak (USA), Chair Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Physics at the University of Illinois, for his contribution to the development of power silicon electronics and the invention of the first semi-conducting light-emitting diodes, Mr Ian Douglas Smith (USA), Chief Manager and Senior Researcher in ‘Titan Pulse Sciences Division’, for his fundamental research and development in the field of powerful pulse energy, and a Russian scientist Mr Gennady Mesyats, then-Chairman of the State Commission for Academic Degrees and Titles of the Russian Federation, for his fundamental research and development in the field of powerful pulse energy. In the history of the Global Energy Prize award, 37 scientists have been recognised for their work. The laureates represent 12 countries, including Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Iceland, Japan, Russia, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom and the USA. Laureates since 2002 include: Sergey Alexeenko (RUS) - For research and development in the field of thermal power engineering and heat transfer systems, enhancing resource potential of mankind Martin Green (Australia) - For research, development and educational activities in the field of photovoltaics that have revolutionized the efficiency and costs of solar photovoltaics, making this now the lowest cost option for bulk electricity supply Michael Grätzel (Switzerland) - For transcendent merits in development of low cost and efficient solar cells, known as “Graetzel cells”, aimed to creation of cost-efficient, large-scale engineering solutions for power generation. Valentin Parmon (RUS) - For a breakthrough development of new catalysts in the area of petroleum refining and the renewable sources of energy as a principal contribution into the energy of the future. Shuji Nakamura (USA) - For the invention, commercialization and development of energy-efficient white LED lighting technology. B. Jayant Baliga (USA) - For invention, development and commercialization of Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistor, which is one of the most important innovations for the control and distribution of energy. Lars Gunnar Larsson (SWE) - Awarded for an outstanding contribution to nuclear safety enhancement and nuclear facility decommissioning. Ashot Sarkisov (RUS) - Awarded for an outstanding contribution to nuclear safety enhancement and nuclear facility decommissioning. Akira Yoshino (JAP) - Awarded for the invention of the rechargeable lithium-ion battery, an essential element for mobile electronic devices and various types of electric vehicles, including hybrids Akira is also credited with the concept, development and commercialization of storage battery systems based on his invention. Vladimir Fortov (RUS) - Awarded for research into thermodynamic, thermophysical, electrophysical, strength, optical, structural and electronic properties of fluids and construction materials in the previously unexplored field of the phase diagram. This includes extreme states of matter, which serves as the basis for perspective development of the energy sector. Valery Kostuk (RUS) – Awarded for research and development in the field of high-efficiency liquid propellant rocket engines with cryogenic fuel for the purpose of the generation of energy in space. Boris Katorgin (RUS) – Awarded for research and development in the field of high-efficiency liquid propellant rocket engines with cryogenic fuel for the purpose of the generation of energy in space. Rodney John Allam (UK) – Awarded for the development of new processes and equipment for production of gases and cryogenic liquids, as well as for the development and implementation of technology for production of electricity in power systems. Philipp Rutberg (RUS) – Awarded for fundamental research and development of energy plasma technologies. Arthur Rosenfeld (USA) – Awarded in recognition of his pioneering work in the field of energy efficiency. Boris Paton (UKR) – Awarded for his contribution to solving scientific and technical problems associated with the transportation by pipeline of energy resources. Alexander Leontiev (RUS) – Awarded for fundamental research in the field of the intensification of heat transfer in power plants. Brian Spalding (UK) – Awarded for numerous original concepts of heat-and-mass transfer processes, which formed the basis of practical calculations in fluid mechanics and computational fluid mechanics. Alexey Kontorovich (RUS) – Awarded for research on the implementation of new methods of surveying, prospecting and exploiting of hydrocarbon-bearing deposits. Nikolai Laverov (RUS) – Awarded for fundamental research and large-scale implementation of new methods for the exploration and production of oil, gas and uranium deposits. Eduard Volkov (RUS) – Awarded for the creation and implementation of synthetic oil production technologies. Clement Bowman (CA) and Oleg Favorsky (RUS) – Awarded for the theoretical justification, creation and implementation of efficient technologies for synthetic fuel production from bituminous schist and oil sands. Thorsteinn Ingi Sigfusson (IS) – Awarded for research and development in the implementation of hydrogen to power vehicles. Geoffrey Hewitt (UK) – Awarded for developing the idea of fuel generation on the basis of water power. Vladimir Nakoryakov (RUS) - Awarded for the project "Physicotechnical Bases of Power Technologies — Hydrodinamics and Heat Exchange, Non-Stationary and Wave Processes in Multiphase Mediums". Evgeny Velikhov (RUS), Masaji Yoshikawa (JP) and Robert Aymar (FR) – Awarded for the development of a scientific and technical basis for the creation of the international thermonuclear experimental reactor (ITER Project). Zhores Alferov (RUS) – Awarded for his contribution to the creation of semi-conductor energy converters for use in solar and electrical energy. Klaus Riedle (DE) – Awarded for the development and creation of high-temperature gas turbines for steam and gas power plants. Fyodor Mitenkov (RUS) – Awarded for development of fast-neutron reactors. Leonard J. Koch (USA) and Alexander Sheindlin (RUS) – Awarded for fundamental research into the thermo physical properties of substances at extremely high temperatures. Nick Holonyak (USA) – Awarded for his contribution to the development of power silicon electronics and the invention of the first semi-conducting light-emitting diodes in a visible part of the spectrum. Gennady Mesyats (RUS) and Ian Douglas Smith (USA) – Awarded for fundamental research and development in the field of pulse power engineering. The nomination process begins on 1 December and ends in July of the following year. Candidates for the Prize can by nominated by: Nominators suggest candidates for the Prize by submitting pre-defined nomination forms. Once the nomination process is closed, the Commission of Experts provides a preliminary expert assessment of the nominees and their scientific achievements. The Commission of Experts consists of independent international experts from international energy organisations, scientific bodies and energy industry. The Commission of Experts’ recommendations – a list consisted of up to 5 nominees – is forwarded to the Global Energy Prize International Award Committee, which make the final selection of the winners. In June, the Global Energy Prize International Award Committee makes a final decision on awarding the Global Energy Prize. There can be no more than three laureates in a given year. The International Award Committee is responsible for choosing the laureates of the Global Energy Prize. This Committee, selected by the General Assembly of the Global Energy Association for a term of 4 years, includes representatives of the most reputable scientific and academic organizations (such as MIT Energy Initiative, Russian Academy of Science, IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates), as well as governmental and public figures from Russia and abroad. The Committee is managed by the Chairman. As of today Rodney John Allam, Noble Prize and the Global Energy Prize laureate is elected Chairman of the Committee. The Committee consists of 20 members from 13 countries, including the Chairperson. The Global Energy Prize is presented to laureates at an official award ceremony that takes place in Russia. In 2018, the ceremony will be held at the Russian Energy Week Interntional Forum. The laureate is recognised at the Forum for his or her contribution to global energy research at a ceremony attended by Russian government officials, leading scientists, directors of national and international scientific and public organizations, members of the Association's Board of Trustees,  the Global Energy Prize International Award Committee and Association members. Laureates are presented a gold medal, a gold badge, a diploma and a monetary part (the Prize fund).  The statuette received by a Global Energy Prize laureate is made of gold and silver. The statuette conceptualises scientific contributions to the field of energy: the image on the front side of the medal is that of a rising star, symbolising discovery, whereas the back shows a star already risen, portraying the laureate's recognised contribution to global energy research. Each Global Energy Prize laureate is awarded a diploma recognising their contribution to the field of energy. An honorary pin is provided to the Global Energy Prize laureates to reflect their scientific achievement. The Global Energy Prize laureate are awarded a monetary prize. The total prize fund (which is 39 million RUB as of 2017) is split equally among the laureates. Since its establishment in 2002, the Global Energy Prize has grown to become a respected global energy award: The Global Energy Prize laureates Global Energy Prize 2011 Annual Report The Global Energy Prize Founders The Global Energy Prize International Award Committee The Global Energy Prize Greetings from the Heads of State & Government EcoGeneration Australia, US and Russian scientists awarded Global Energy Prize June, 2011 EnergyAsia, President Medvedev awards Global Energy Prize 2011, June 2011 PRNewswire, Global Energy Prize Summit Aims at Revolutionising Energy Thinking, October 2012 