King Faisal Prize (Arabic: جائزة الملك فيصل‬‎) is an annual award sponsored by King Faisal Foundation presented to "dedicated men and women whose contributions make a positive difference".    The foundation awards prizes in five categories: Service to Islam; Islamic studies; Arabic Language and Literature; Science; Medicine. The first King Faisal Prize was awarded to Sayyid Abul Ala’a Al-Mowdoodi in the year 1979 for his service to Islam. In 1981, King Khalid received the same award.   In 1984, King Fahd was the recipient of the award.  In 1986, this prize was co-awarded to Ahmed Deedat and French Roger Garaudy.  Each year, the selection committees designate subjects in Islamic Studies, Arabic Literature, and Medicine. Selected topics in Islamic Studies category are aimed at highlighting areas of importance in Muslim societies. Arabic Literature  topics relate to specialized areas within the discipline. Topics in Medicine are supposed to reflect current areas of international concern. The Science category covers a broad range of subcategories e.g. physics, mathematics, chemistry and biology.  Islamic institutions, universities and previous winners of the King Faisal Prize can nominate a person for the award. Nominations from ordinary individuals or political parties are not accepted.  The nominee or nominated institution(s) must be known for their leading practical or intellectual role in the service of Islam and Muslims.  Nominated works must be published, benefit mankind and enrich human knowledge.  Winners of the Prize for category "Service to Islam" are chosen directly by the respective selection committee. For other Prize categories, pre-selection by peer reviewers is carried out, which is followed by scrutiny of the works of worthy nominees by selected referees of each discipline. Autonomous, international, specialist selection committees are then convened at the headquarters of King Faisal Foundation in Riyadh each January to make their final decisions.  The prize in each of the five categories consists of: Co-winners in any category share the monetary grant. The Prizes are awarded during a ceremony in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, under the auspices of the King of Saudi Arabia.  The five countries with most award-winners as of  2012[update] were: [needs update] Sydney Brenner was considered to be the first Jew to win the King Faisal Award, in 1992.  Ronald Levy was reported to be a Jewish recipient in 2009.  