A talent show is an event where participants perform talents of singing, dancing, lip-syncing, acting, drumming, martial arts, playing an instrument, or other activities to showcase skills. Many talent shows are performances rather than contests, but some are actual contests. In the instance of a contest, participants may be motivated to perform for a reward, trophy, or prize of some kind. For example, a high school might not have many students with any interest in performing in front of the student body for the sole purpose of performing alone and may offer different prizes as an incentive for these students to participate in the contest.  In 1976 President of Bangladesh, Ziaur Rahman, arranged an innovative talent pool to promote the development of children's talent. Named Notun Kuri This is the first merit search reality show in the world by date. Since the late 1980s, talent shows have become a notable genre of reality television,  such as Notun Kuri(1976),Popstars (1999), Star Academy (2001), Idol (2001), The X Factor (2004), So You Think You Can Dance (2005), Got Talent (2006), The Voice (2010) Rising Star (2013), Tri Akkorda (Russian Talent Show) (2014) and The Four: Battle for Stardom (2018), which have been critical in catapulting some amateur artists to stardom and resulting in their commercially successful careers. Bangladeshi national television channel BTVarranged children's competition Notun Kuri, which is still running, started in 1976 by arrangement of late president Ziaur Rahman  . Ziaur Rahman handoverd the trophy to the winners with his own hand till his life time. The most important contribution of the programme is that it has produced many talented artistes of the time. Former foreign minister Dipo Moni, state minister Tarana Halim was one of the prime champions of the competition. Other popular faces on television -- including Rumana, Rashid, Ishita, Tarin, Mim, Nusrat Imroz Tisha  -- all are from Notun Kuri. Talent shows can be seen as a way to help boost the self-esteem, confidence, and assurance of youth. Some communities and companies see talent shows as a way to help prevent juvenile delinquency among children, teens, and young adults. As a result, these communities create programs such as Girls Only!  in San Diego to promote the growth of these otherwise trouble youth to better the community. Such programs are created with the hope to prevent youth from the possibilities of entering delinquency or lives of crime.  