Desert Uniforms, Patches, and Insignia of the US Armed Forces is a comprehensive reference book that provides a detailed study of desert uniforms, patches, and insignia worn by the US Armed Forces in combat from Desert Storm, through Somalia and in the campaigns of Iraq and Afghanistan. The book is the definitive reference of desert combat uniforms, patches and insignia worn by the US Armed Forces in Desert Storm, Somalia, Iraq and Afghanistan. It covers information on US Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard desert uniforms and patches. Its detailed research is designed to provide a reference for veterans, historians, collectors and reenactors.    The March 2017 issue of the Military Trader Magazine stated that, "While the term 'bible' is thrown around rather loosely in our hobby 'definitive' retains its significance as an expression of honor and endorsement. I do not hesitate to say Desert Uniforms, Patches, and Insignia of the US Armed Forces by Born and Barns is the definitive volume for anyone who is collecting the shortest-lived - but some of the most distinctive  - uniforms in U.S. military history.  Not only is it a stand alone reference for the collector and historian, it is also a tribute to the men and women of the US Armed Forces during this chaotic time in history.     The Trading Post, the quarterly journal of the American Society of Military Insignia Collectors described the book as, "a roadmap of those changes that will be an invaluable guide to the collector of uniforms and insignia from this somewhat unappreciated era in our military history... I highly recommend it to anyone with even a passing interest in collecting militaria of the last thirty or so years"    The Fort Lee Traveller Newspaper reported that, "In preparation for the book, they accumulated more than 1,000 government and theater-made desert patches and over 300 uniforms. A large number are in it. These came from numerous veterans and collectors...Born said, “writing the book was about two things for us – recognizing the service and sacrifice of the men and women of the armed forces who wore the desert uniform as well as advancing this area of military collecting. Whenever a reference like this is published, there is an increased interest among collectors.”   