A physical training uniform is a military uniform used during exercise, calisthenics, drills, and in some cases, very casual periods of time (off-duty time during Initial Entry Training in the U.S. Army, for example). The United States Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force, and Coast Guard require use of a physical training (PT) uniform during unit exercise (including formation runs, calisthenics, and conditioning exercises). Some military units produce unique T-shirts with their unit insignia and motto, and for special events, this shirt is part of the uniform. Occasionally, exercise will be conducted in that branch's utility uniforms, normally with the blouse removed and the undershirt exposed (also known as "boots and utes"  ). The Army Physical Fitness Uniform (APFU) consists of: For unit runs, esprit de corps or special occasions, Commanders may have soldiers wear unique T-shirts with the distinctive unit insignia and unit colors. All items worn by Marines conducting PT as a group are subject to uniformity, at the commander's discretion. The Marine Corps PTUs consist of: The Navy PTU's nylon moisture wicking and odor resistant Navy blue shorts come in six and eight inch lengths, providing standard appearance among different height sailors. It also has side pockets with a hidden ID card pocket inside the waistband, which is something that all of the branches' PTUs have in common. As with the Army uniform, optional compression shorts may be worn under the PTU shorts provided they are black or navy blue in color. The Navy PTUs consist of: In July 2018, Chief of Naval Operations John M. Richardson announced changes to the Navy PTU that will include the uniform having a moisture-wicking navy blue short-sleeve shirt and shorts with a zipper pocket on the back right side. The uniform is planned to sport gold non-reflective eagle logos with the statement "Forged By The Sea" on the back of shirt, and the uniform will no longer have long-sleeve shirts. The uniform will be released in October 2018 with a retirement date for the gold-shirt uniform pending. Also, a secondary navy blue uniform planned to resemble the gold-shirt uniform is in development and is planned to be released in 2019.  The Air Force Physical Training Uniform (AFPTU) consists of: The Coast Guard PTUs consist of: 