Excessivism  is an art movement which was introduced in 2015 by American artist and curator Kaloust Guedel with an exhibition titled Excessivist Initiative.      A preview of the exhibition  written by art critic and curator Shana Nys Dambrot, titled "Excessivism: Irony, Imbalance and a New Rococo" was published in the Huffington Post.  Its early adopters go back to late 20th century.   Excessivism is a reflection, examination, or investigation of every aspect of life in excessive state with particular consideration to the areas that have real and consequential effect on the members of the society.  Subject areas are, but not limited to, economics, politics and psychology. In the area of economics it is a commentary on economic materialism. It reflects, examines and investigates the excessive desire to acquire material goods beyond one's needs and often means.  Excessivism depicts the excessive use of resources in an exaggerated way, by means of two- or three-dimensional visual creations, written or spoken words, or in any other manner. It aims at a reflection, examination, or investigation of the capitalist system, devoid of aesthetic, legal, commercial, ethical, moral, racial, or religious considerations.  The goal of the capitalist system is to deliver profit for private investors, or corporations (without consideration of consequences including human and environmental), as contrasted to cooperatively or state-owned means of wealth. Said structure provides incomparable contribution to economic growth, employment and prosperity. According to determinism,     freedom of choice is illusory and society is positioned to function as a reliable producer of excess, the lubricant of the capitalist engine.  The inaugural exhibition of Excessivism took place in LA Artcore Brewery Annex gallery with the title "Excessivist Initiative".  And the Excessivism Manifesto was published in Downtown News weekly in September 2015.   According to an art critic Shana Nys Dambrot the idea was conceived in the studio of the founder based on his personal realizations of his relationship as a consumer with the capitalist environment.   Excessivism was introduced to the Los Angeles art scene in November 2014 in the Red Pipe gallery in an  exhibition titled Excess The New Norm. It was curated by art critic, publisher and curator Mat Gleason.  The artists included in the inaugural exhibition were Brett Baker, Christophe Baudson, Andrew Dadson, Ian Davenport, Jonas Etter, Kaloust Guedel, Don Harger, Zhu Jinshi, Fabian Marcacio, Roxy Paine, Scott Richter, Samvel Saghatelian, Elizabeth Sheppell, Michael Toenges, Michael Villarreal, Danh Vō, Cullen Washington jr., Brigid Watson, Leslie Wayne, Ai Weiwei and Zadik Zadikian.   