 Ankou (Breton: /ɑːnkuː/ an Ankoù) is a personification of death in Breton mythology as well as in Cornish (an Ankow in Cornish), Welsh (yr Angau in Welsh) and Norman French folklore.  This character is reported by Anatole Le Braz, a 19th-century writer and collector of legends. Here is what he wrote about the Ankou in his best-seller The Legend of Death: There are many tales involving Ankou, who appears as a man or skeleton wearing a cloak and wielding a scythe, and in some stories he is described as a shadow, often atop a cart for collecting the dead. He is said to wear a black robe with a large hat which conceals his face.  According to some[who?], he was the first child of Adam and Eve. Other versions have it that the Ankou is the first dead person of the year (though he is always depicted as adult, and male), charged with collecting the others' souls before he can go to the afterlife.  He is said to drive a large, black coach pulled by four black horses; accompanied by two ghostly figures on foot.   One tale  says that there were three drunk friends walking home one night, when they came across an old man on a rickety cart. Two of the men started shouting at the Ankou, and then throwing stones; when they broke the axle on his cart they ran off. The third friend felt bad and, wanting to help the Ankou, found a branch to replace the broken axle, and then gave the Ankou his shoe-laces with which to tie it to the cart. The next morning, the two friends who were throwing stones at the Ankou were dead, while the one who stayed to help only had his hair turned white. He would never speak of how it happened. Ankou is the king of the dead, and his subjects have their own particular paths along which their sacred processions move.  Another origin story is that the Ankou was once a cruel prince who met Death during a hunting trip and challenged him to see who could kill a black stag first.  Death won the contest and the prince was cursed to roam the earth as a ghoul for all eternity.  Every parish in Brittany is said to have its own Ankou.  In Breton tradition, the squealing of railway wheels outside one's home is supposed to be Karrigell an Ankou ("The Wheelbarrow of Ankou").  Similarly, the cry of the owl is referred to as Labous an Ankou ("The Death Bird").  The Ankou is also found on the baptismal font at La Martyre where he is shown holding a human head.  In Ireland the proverb "When the Ankou comes, he will not go away empty" relates to the legend.  The seventh album of the Spirou et Fantasio comics series, named L'Ankou, also relates to the legend. [better source needed] It is said that the Ankou is a death omen that collects the souls of the deceased. The Ankou is the last person to die in a parish during a year. The last deceased person will assume the duty of calling for the dead. They describe the Ankou as a tall, haggard figure with long white hair. It is also perceived as a skeleton with a revolving head able to see everything everywhere. The Ankou is said to drive a cart and stops at the house of someone who is about to die. It knocks on the door, this sound is sometimes heard by the living, or it could give out a mournful wail like the Irish Banshee. The Ankou has also been reported as an apparition entering the house, it takes away the dead who are then placed in the cart with the help of two ghostly companions.  