Ravenswood was an American supernatural teen drama, mystery-thriller television series created by I. Marlene King, Oliver Goldstick and Joseph Dougherty. The show premiered on ABC Family on October 22, 2013,  as a spin-off series of Pretty Little Liars, airing on the same network and is the second show in the Pretty Little Liars franchise. Ravenswood takes place during the events of the original series' fourth season. On February 14, 2014, Ravenswood was canceled due to low ratings after one season.     Set in the fictional town of Ravenswood, Pennsylvania, the series follows five strangers whose lives become intertwined by a deadly curse that has plagued their town for generations.  They have to dig into the town's dark past to solve the mysterious curse. On April 30, 2013, it was revealed that Tyler Blackburn would reprise his Pretty Little Liars role as Caleb Rivers in Ravenswood.  On May 6, 2013, it was revealed that Brett Dier and Elizabeth Whitson will play twins, Abel and Olivia, in the series.  It was later stated that the character of Abel had been renamed Luke.  On May 7, 2013, it was announced that Merritt Patterson would join the show as Olivia's best friend, Tess Hamilton.  On May 10, 2013, it was announced that Nicole Gale Anderson would join the show as Miranda Collins.  In May 2013, it was announced that Meg Foster would join the cast as Ravenswood resident Mrs. Grunwald, who made her first appearance in season 4 episode 6 of Pretty Little Liars.  On July 16, 2013, it was announced that Merritt Patterson would be replacing Elizabeth Whitson in the role of Olivia.  Whitson has now departed Ravenswood, and Patterson has changed roles. In August 2013, it was announced that Steven Cabral joined the cast as Raymond Collins, Luke Benward joined the cast as Dillon, Henry Simmons joined the cast as Simon Beaumont, Sophina Brown joined the cast as Terry Beaumont, and Haley Lu Richardson joined the cast as a replacement for Patterson's former role of Tess. On August 27, 2013, it was announced that Justin Bruening joined the cast as Benjamin Price.  In October 2013, Jay Huguley was announced to have joined the cast as Police Chief Tom Beddington. In November 2013, Mary Elise Hayden joined the cast as Bea Hamilton. Filming started on August 21, 2013, in New Orleans, Louisiana.  Hanna Marin arrives and demands Caleb tell her the truth about what has been happening in Ravenswood. Meanwhile, Luke and Olivia discover that truth about what happened to their father and Remy goes missing. Hanna meets Max, who she saw previously. Miranda's uncle attempts to save them by releasing the original Caleb Rivers who believes Miranda is the original Miranda. Television critic David Hinckley of the New York Daily News gave the show 3 out of 5 stars, saying that the show was "entertaining, and creepier than its parent show."  Scott D. Pierce of The Salt Lake Tribune said the show was "ridiculous, but might be fun."  Margaret Lyons of New York Magazine Vulture claims the show "only meets generic expectations and needs to show us more than cheap fright-gags if it wants to avoid cancellation..." 