IIMBx is a MOOC platform where free online courses are offered by the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (also known as IIMB). Operating on the edX platform, it offers free MOOCs and MicroMasters programs in a wide range of disciplines to a worldwide student body.  IIMBx is also the national coordinator for SWAYAM (Study Webs of Active–Learning for Young Aspiring Mind), a MOOC-based initiative by the Government of India. IIMBx follows a weekly learning sequence which consists of  lecture videos, online quizzes, multimedia cases, references, readings, and live sessions (via webinar). There are also discussion forums where students post queries and interact with their peers and the course team. These courses are offered in English and transcribed in Hindi to help more learners across India.  Courses offered by IIMBx have no admission pre-requisite. Most of the courses run over the duration of 4–6 weeks. The passing grade differs from course to course, and learners can access this information in the ‘grading policy’ section. Learners can audit the course free of cost or receive a certificate of completion for a fee.  IIMB is the first and only business school in India to offer MOOCs on edX. The initiative of launching MOOCs was taken up by former Director of IIMB, Sushil Vachani. IIMBx started its journey in August 2014 with five professors on board and has reached out to over 800,000 learners in 190 countries since then.  In May 2017, IIM-B partnered with TCS iON to facilitate proctored exams for IIMBx MOOC courses.  Online courses at IIMBx are designed to give students, working professionals, and lifelong learners the opportunity to upgrade their skills for academic and professional careers. MOOCs are available in a wide range of management-related disciplines like marketing, strategy, accounting, operations, information systems, people management, finance, statistics, analytics, information technology management, international business, and sustainability. In addition to its standalone MOOCs, IIMBx offers nine different MicroMasters programs for an enhanced, in-depth learning experience. These programs run for a longer time than MOOCs and are recognized by potential employers. In addition to the MicroMasters, IIMBx also offers credit-eligible programs: Fundamentals of Business Management, Specialized Marketing Courses, MBA Preparatory Programme, Certificate in Technology and Management (CTM), Professional Development Programme, and the General Management Programme for Young Leaders (YLP). The IIMBx programme is founded on the philosophy that everyone – irrespective of financial or regional constraints – should have access to quality education. Led by IIMB faculty, IIMBx uses digital learning tools to enable anytime, anywhere learning in a global classroom. The vision of the IIMBx programme is to use digital learning to enable widespread access to management education. IIMBx conducts faculty development programs every quarter where teachers from across India learn to implement blended learning methods in the classroom. Through its FDPs, IIMBx has created a community of more than 700 educators who are keen to include MOOCs in the classroom.  IIMBx organizes the Future of Learning conference every year. This event brings together leaders of higher educational institutions, policy makers, practitioners and L&D Technology providers to provoke thought, showcase innovation and share knowledge. 