Mindvalley -  globe education technology company founded by Vishen Lakhiani  in 2002. It publishes products focused on "personal spiritual development" and "lifelong learning". One of the educational publishers that provides customized educational content, software, and services about mindfulness, meditation, personal growth, fitness and health.  As of 2018, the company has more 202 employees from 46 countries, and offers products and services based on delivering digital content and technology-enabled learning solutions to over 135 countries in 60 plus languages.   Company was founded by Vishen Lakhiani  in New York  in December 22, 2002. A year later in November 2003, when the company in its first iteration started turning a monthly profit of $4,000, founder Lakhiani decided to quit his job and become a full-time entrepreneur.   Mindvalley started as a digital publishing company, and then evolved to education company offering teachings programs  on mindfulness, meditation, personal growth, fitness and health. The first flagship product published by Mindvalley was the Silva Life System, which was their primary offering during that time.  In 2004 the company headquarters relocated from New York to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. It is a widely-known fact that the HQ shift was due to visa problem of its founder.   In 2013 company`s revenues past $15 million a year (50 million in Malaysian Ringgit).  Nowdays Mindvalley has revenues of more than $20 million annually.  In 2017 it was created Quest, app was touted as a solution for our information-thirsty paired with our modern busy lifestyles. The app was tailored to help individuals absorb life changing knowledge in 20 minute time intervals or less, with actionable advice from personal growth gurus such as Robin Sharma, Eric Edmeades and Lisa Nichols.   Nowadays there are approximatelu 30 English-language courses.   This deviation from the traditional length of masterclasses and content consumption standards has been proven to deliver up to 500% better course completion rates with regards to industry standards. Micro Slicing content, an emerging trend in smartphone applications geared towards maximum information consumption, is a design and delivery concept that the Quests app is influenced by. It combines daily tasks with bite sized actions to create a game-like experience. In 2015 was released meditation app Omvana,Its library contains thousands of meditations, and about 75 of those are free.   In 2018 it reaches more than 100 000 installations.  Mindvalley for the Russian-speaking market. About 30 programs of various topics, weekly mediation in Moscow time are offered. Mindvalley for the Italian market. In addition to varied courses in Italian, the service offers the purchase of e-books. A-Fest is an event that involves more than 2000 people from 50 countries, which takes place twice a year. The purpose of the festival is to unite, grow and learn from the best teachers of the world.  Past destinations include Bali, Ibiza, Dubrovnik, Mykonos and the Mayan Riviera in Mexico.  The next event will be held in Bali, Indonesia. The University of Sprint-Wollay is a one-month transformational event that takes place once a year in different locations. The purpose of the event is to provide skills for personal and business growth.  Mindvalley U changes its location annually. In 2018 it will be in Estonia. 