  Harikrishnans is a 1998 Indian Malayalam-language detective comedy film written and directed by Fazil. The film was produced and distributed by Mohanlal under the production company Pranavam Arts International and starring Mohanlal , Mammootty and Juhi Chawla in the lead roles, along with Innocent, Shamili, Nedumudi Venu and Kunchacko Boban. The film received a great pre-release hype due to the combined screen presence of Mohanlal and Mammootty after a gap of several years. Harikrishnans was the highest grossing Malayalam film of 1998. The film was dubbed in Tamil with same name.  The Harikrishnans are of the most famous lawyer duos in India. To avoid confusion one is called as Hari (Mammooty) and the other as Krishnan (Mohanlal). They head the organization called Harikrishnan Associates, which consists of around 300 lawyers. They get engaged in a murder case of Guptan, who was allegedly killed by Gabriel. Gabriel is a friend of Hari's sister and Harikrishnans become the defense lawyers upon her request. Harikrishnans begin investigation and come across Meera (Juhi Chawla), a friend of Guptan. Both of them fall in love with her. After some trouble over the matter, they rediscover their friendship and get involved in the case again. They discover that Guptan actually died due to poisoning by his relatives who were doctors. At the end Meera decides to go for a random method of choosing her lover as she liked both Harikrishnans equally. The film features multiple endings. One shows Hari winning the toss for being Meera's friend; the losing person Krishnan presumably becoming Meera's life partner and another shows Krishnan winning the toss for being Meera's friend; the losing person Hari presumably becoming Meera's life partner. There was also a third climax planned for the movie with Bollywood Superstar Sharukh Khan. It was set for outside Kerala fans. Photo shoot was also done includes SRK, Mohanlal and Mammootty with Juhi Chawla. SRK was proposed to do the role of lover of Juhi Chawla in the movie. But due to some technical problems finally it was cancelled. Harikrishnans is the only Malayalam film associated with SRK. The movie features a soundtrack composed by Ouseppachan with lyrics penned by Kaithapram Damodaran Namboothiri. Harikrishnans had multiple climaxes to appease the fan base of the lead actors Mammootty and  Mohanlal. This had also caused some controversy.  The scene was when Meera (Juhi Chawla) chooses one of them to be her friend among both the Harikrishnans. She admires both equally and goes for a selection method which her grandmother taught her, whenever she had to make tough decisions. She sets the method so as to choose her friend; the loser of the toss presumably becoming Mira's lover. One of the climax shots shows Hari (Mammootty) winning the toss and the other one Krishnan (Mohanlal) winning it..  The film's budget was ₹2.5 crore (US$350,000) and recovered its cost within two weeks.  The film collected ₹5.6 lakh (US$7,800) from first week beating the previous record of Aaraam Thampuran,which was ₹4 lakh (US$5,600).  The film was commercial success.   