The NeuroGenderings Network is a transdisciplinary network of "neurofeminist" scholars who aim to critically examine neuroscientific knowledge production and to develop differentiated approaches for a more gender adequate neuroscientific research.   Feminist neuroscientists  generally seek to elaborate the relation between gender and the brain beyond biological determinism but still engaging with the materiality of the brain.  The group, comprising critical gender, feminist, and queer scholars, formed to tackle "neurosexism"  as defined by Cordelia Fine in her 2010 book Delusions of Gender "uncritical biases in [neuroscientific] research and public perception, and their societal impacts on an individual, structural, and symbolic level."  By contrast they practice "neurofeminism"  to critically evaluate heteronormative assumptions of contemporary brain research and examine the impact and cultural significance of neuroscientific research on society's views about gender.   The network advocate greater emphasis to be placed on neuroplasticity rather than biological determinism.   The members of the NeuroGenderings Network are:  Non-network member, Simon Baron-Cohen, conducted a test on newborns – on average a day-and-a-half old – to see if they were more interested a human face (social object) or a mobile (physical-mechanical object). Baron-Cohen concluded that the results, based on the eye-gaze of the babies, "showed that the male infants showed a stronger interest in the physical-mechanical mobile while the female infants showed a stronger interest in the face" and the "research clearly demonstrates that sex differences are in part biological in origin."  Network member, Cordelia Fine, criticized the experiment as being flawed for a number of reasons including: the expectations of the experimenter (graduate student, Jennifer Connellan), for example, unconsciously moving her head more / smiling more for a female baby.  In a review of Fine's book Baron-Cohen "we included a panel of independent judges coding the videotapes of just the eye-region of the baby’s face, from which it is virtually impossible to judge the sex of the baby."  In response Fine argued, "clearly, if the behaviour of the experimenter-cum-stimulus has already inadvertently influenced the babies’ eye gaze behaviour, the introduction of sex-blind judges is to close the stable door after the horse has bolted," and fellow network member Gina Rippon added, "the potential for misuse of our [neuroscientists] research should make us doubly careful of how (and why) we do research into these kinds of arenas, and how we report our findings. [...] Whether we like it or not, science and politics do mix."  In an fMRI study into the gender differences when processing fear, Schienle et al (who are not part of The NeuroGenderings Network) began with an hypothesis that women would show a greater emotional response than men. In fact, the results showed the opposite. The researchers explanation for the unexpected response pattern was that it "may reflect greater attention from males to cues of aggression in their environment."  Network member Robyn Bluhm criticized the initial hypothesis, that women would show a greater emotional response than men, as stereotyping. She also criticized the researchers' explanation for the unexpected results, as they discounted the possibility that men may be more sensitive to fear than women.  An article by Tracey Shors found "sex differences in emotional and cognitive responses in rats" and she advised that her findings "be used to better understand and promote mental health in humans" as "a greater appreciation of our [sex] differences can only enhance our ability to treat our common afflictions."  By comparison, the research carried out by network member Daphna Joel et al found that "between 55% and 70% of people had a “mosaic” of gender characteristics, compared to less than one per cent who had only “masculine” or only “feminine” characteristics."  Below is a list of works which cause the network concern due to their "neurodeterminist notions of a ‘sexed brain’ [which] are being transported into public discourse without reflecting the biases in empirical work."  