 The International Association of Horticultural Producers (AIPH / IAHP) is an international organization dedicated to promoting horticultural producers and held the international garden / flora festivals or expositions. AIPH aims to put flower, plant and landscaping services on a global agenda, with a vision to: In 1948, amid strained relationships following the end of the Second World War, a group of representatives from the national grower associations of Western Europe came together in Zurich to form the Association Internationale des Producteurs de l’Horticulture (AIPH). At least 4 events were held including the 1999 World Horticultural Exposition in Kunming, China and Expo '90 in Osaka, Japan.  15 events were held in the 2000s including Floriade 2002 in Haarlemmermeer, Netherlands and an exhibition in Shenyang, China in 2006 The 2010 Taipei International Gardening and Horticulture Exposition was held in Taiwan from November 6, 2010 to April 25, 2011 hosted by the Taipei City Government and the Taiwan Floriculture Development Association (TFDA). This was an A2/B1 classification event  In 2012 the Floriade 2012 was held in Venlo. As with other Floriades this was an A1 classification event.  AIPH has been approving and regulating International Horticultural Expos, with its partners BIE (www.bie-paris.org), since 1960. AIPH recognises five different categories of Horticultural Exhibitions, with the following table summarising the main differences between each of them. This calendar shows both the approved exhibitions and those applied for http://aiph.org/current-events/ A list of AIPH members can be found here http://aiph.org/members/aiph-member-organisations/ All members have the right to sit on a Committee. The Standing Committees include: Other active groups include: AIPH maintains relations with other organisations in the field, including the Community Plant Variety Office (CPVO) of the EU and Ciopora, the International Association of Plants Breeders. In line with the International Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants (UPOV) – convention 1991, AIPH lobbies to maintain the rights of growers and to resist legislation that would reduce innovation in the sector. http://aiph.org/novelty-protection/ 