Live Nation Entertainment is an American global entertainment company, formed from the merger of Live Nation and Ticketmaster in 2010. It owns, leases, operates, has booking rights for and/or equity interests in a large number of U.S. entertainment venues. The merger initially received regulatory approval in Norway and Turkey in 2009.  In October 2009, the United Kingdom's Competition Commission provisionally ruled against the merger.  On December 22, 2009, the Competition Commission reversed its decision and cleared the proposed merger.  The United States Justice Department approved the merger on January 25, 2010, with some conditions to which both parties agreed.  As part of the agreement with governments to merge, Ticketmaster had to sell its ownership in its self-ticketing company, Paciolan, and Live Nation Entertainment was placed under a 10-year court order prohibiting it from retaliating against venues that choose to accept competitors' ticket-selling contracts, and it "must allow venues that sign deals elsewhere to take consumer ticketing data with them".   In addition, the new company had to license a copy of its ticketing software to two companies—Anschutz Entertainment Group (AEG) and either Comcast Spectacor or another "suitable" company—so that both companies could compete "head-to-head" with Ticketmaster for venues’ business. AEG was given the option after five years to buy the software, replacing it with something else, or partnering with another ticketing company.  The merger that formed the company was opposed by members of the United States Congress, business rivals, and the Computer & Communications Industry Association (CCIA), whose members include Google, Oracle, Microsoft, Yahoo, Intuit, and eBay.   Bruce Springsteen said the merger "would make the current ticket situation even worse for the fan than it is now would be Ticketmaster and Live Nation coming up with a single system, thereby returning us to a near monopoly situation in music ticketing".   In a January 25, 2010 press release, the TicketDisaster.org group—a coalition of consumer rights and anti-trust groups—also issued the following statement about the proposed Live Nation-TicketMaster merger:"Despite its "monopoly-like dominance" controlling 70 to 80 percent of all concert ticket sales, Ticketmaster is unabashedly seeking to grow its empire - all to the detriment of the average fan. Ticketmaster is now trying to dampen competition by merging with Live Nation, the nation's largest concert promoter and second largest primary ticket seller. That merger is coming under heavy fire from consumer and industry groups and Members of Congress, particularly because of the clear anti-consumer and anti-competitive effects. As the Department of Justice reaches the final round of reviewing this merger, only one question must be answered: will the merger lead to increased prices, poorer service, or less innovation?"In 2018, the United States Department of Justice launched an investigation following complains that Live Nation had engaged in anti-competitive practices following the merger. AEG has alleged that Live Nation had pressured them into using Ticketmaster as a vender. If AEG had refused, they would have lost out on business. The allegations of antitrust violations have resulted in a re-examination of the merger between Ticketmaster and Live Nation. Much of the initial criticisms of the merger has been re-affirmed.   In June 2013, Live Nation, two other organizations and an engineer were charged with 13 charges under Ontario health and safety laws following the collapse of a stage at a Radiohead concert in 2012 that killed one crew member.   Live Nation issued a statement denying any wrongdoing and vowing to "vigorously defend" itself.  In September 2017, after several delays, the case was dropped under the Jordan ruling, which sets strict timelines on trials.  On 30 November 2017, CBC reported that the chief coroner of Ontario, Dirk Huyer, will hold an inquest into Johnson's death.  The leadership team at Live Nation Entertainment consists of the following people as of 2017: In June 2013, Live Nation Entertainment announced a joint venture with Insomniac Events, a promoter focused on electronic dance music.    In December 2014, Live Nation Entertainment acquired Austin-based live entertainment and artist management company C3 Presents.  In October 2016, Live Nation Entertainment bought AC Entertainment, a Knoxville Tennessee music company.  In January 2017, Live Nation Entertainment acquired a controlling interest in BottleRock Napa Valley Music Festival.  In February 2017, Live Nation Entertainment acquired a majority interest in Israeli promoter Blue Stone Entertainment.  In May 2018, Live Nation Entertainment acquired Rock in Rio Music Festival.  