  I'll Be Gone in the Dark: One Woman's Obsessive Search for the Golden State Killer is a true crime book by Michelle McNamara about the Golden State Killer. The book was released posthumously on February 27, 2018, nearly two years after McNamara's death. McNamara became interested in the Golden State Killer case and wrote an article for Los Angeles magazine about the serial killer in 2013. She then signed a book deal with HarperCollins and began to work on a book about the case. McNamara herself coined the moniker "Golden State Killer"  to refer to the serial killer/rapist who had previously been referred to by various other names (e.g., Original Night Stalker, East Area Rapist, and the Diamond Knot Killer).  McNamara died in her sleep on April 21, 2016, at the age of 46.  At the time of her death, she had been in the middle of her hunt for the killer, and her book was unfinished.  Crime writer Paul Haynes, investigative journalist Billy Jensen, and McNamara's widower Patton Oswalt helped finish the book after McNamara’s death. The book – McNamara's debut – was released on February 27, 2018 (almost two years after her death) and reached the top of The New York Times Best Seller list for non-fiction.  The book remained on the list for fifteen weeks.  I'll Be Gone in the Dark contains an introduction by Gillian Flynn and an afterword by Oswalt. In April 2018, HBO announced that they had purchased the rights for I'll Be Gone in the Dark and were developing it into a documentary series.  Filming for the series began on April 24, 2018.  On April 25, 2018, the Sacramento Police announced the April 24 arrest of a suspect in the Golden State Killer case: 72-year-old Joseph James DeAngelo (born November 8, 1945). DeAngelo, a former police officer in Auburn and Exeter, California,  was arrested and charged with six counts of first-degree murder.    Authorities in Sacramento, Orange, Santa Barbara, and Ventura counties are preparing charges against DeAngelo for all twelve of the murders in the Golden State Killer case.  