 Vedanta Sakshi or Sākṣī (Sanskrit: साक्षी) means – 'observer', 'eyewitness' or the 'Supreme Being' the one that lends its shine - " Chitchhaya"- to the "ego" part of the subtle body - which consists of the everchanging Mind, the decision making Intellect, the Memory & the Illusory Ego !   In Hindu philosophy, the word, Sākṣī or 'witness' refers to the 'Pure Awareness' that witnesses the world but does not get affected or involved. Sakshi is beyond time, space and the triad of experiencer, experiencing and experienced; sakshi witnesses all thoughts, words and deeds without interfering with them or being affected by them, other than sakshi there is nothing else in the entire universe.  With regard to the word, साक्षी (sākṣī), used in the following verse from Shvetashvatara Upanishad, Panini states that the same indicates a direct seer or eyewitness (Panini Sutras V.ii.91),  Sakshi means Ishvara, the चेता (cetā), the sole Self-consciousness, who is the witness of all, who gives consciousness to every human being, thereby making each rational and discriminatory.  Vedanta speaks of mind (chitta) or antahkarana ('internal instrument'), and matter as the subtle and gross forms of one and the same reality; being the subtle aspect of matter, mind is not a tangible reality. The field of mind (Chittakasha) involves the duality of the seer and the seen, the observer (drg) and the observed (drshya), which duality is overcome in the field of pure Consciousness. Drg-drshya-Viveka tells us:- Sakshi, the Atman, the unchangeable eternal Reality, is the Pure Consciousness and knowledge, in which regard Sankara explains that knowledge does not destroy or create, it only illumines,  that the senses (indriyas) are not the mind, the mind uses them as an implement.  The Varaha Upanishad (IV) refers to the Bhumika ('stage of development of wisdom') which is of the form of pranava (Aum or Om) as formed of or divided into – akāra, ukāra, makāra and ardhmātra, which is on account of the difference of sthula ('gross'), sukshama ('subtle'), bija ('seed' or 'causal') and sakshi ('witness') whose avasthas ('states') are – 'waking', 'dreaming', 'dream-less sleep' and 'turiya'. Sakshi which is 'turiya' is the essence.  The faculty which perceives the individual personality is Sakshi or 'Witness' or the higher 'Ego'. Mind (manas), Ego (ahankara) and Sakshi, all perform different functions but that difference of functions does not mean difference in nature or essence.  Indian Philosophy discovered the concept of Sakshi, the ultimate Observer, or Witness behind the sense of individuality, or the ego; the Sakshi is the timeless Being which witnesses all this ceaseless flow and change in the world of thought and things.  