The Social Impact Media Awards (abbreviated as "SIMA"), founded in 2012 by documentary filmmaker and producer, Daniela Kon, are awards dedicated to documentary filmmakers. SIMA recognizes films from around the world for their potential to inspire activism, compassion, and social transformation.   In 2016, the winning films were selected from 255 films and 96 countries  including Ethiopia, Ukraine, Afghanistan, and the United States.  SIMA's mission is to champion, promote and exhibit the work of independent filmmakers, activists and changemakers that may otherwise have been overlooked.  The awards are hosted online and select films for the following categories: documentary features, documentary shorts, virtual reality/360 video, and impact video.  Additional jury prizes are awarded to projects that reflect a core principle of SIMA's mission. The 2018 jury prizes included: Ethos, Stylistic Achievement, Lens to Action, and Transparency.  2018 finalists included City of Ghosts (2017 film), The Blood Is At The Doorstep, and A Plastic Ocean.  Social Impact Media Awards (SIMA) hosts three distribution programs.  Every year, SIMA selects Social Impact Media Award winning films to join its screening collection. A portion of the films are available to be watched on demand and some are available for classroom showings. SIMA screening events have been co-hosted by Human Rights Watch,  Impact Hub (Global Network), , Bay Street Film Festival , Skirball Cultural Center  and UN Women.   Every month, SIMA features an award-winning film in its online film club. Streaming is available via membership. The film club hosts a monthly podcast with guests who are experts in their fields, impactful grassroots activists, and the filmmakers behind the month's featured documentary. In addition, the film club creates an action kit every month featuring organizations working for the cause and ways to contribute to the activism featured in the film.  Featured guests include ,  SIMA Classroom is a membership based streaming platform that hosts over 100 award-winning short documentaries and virtual reality experiences for the purposes of cultivating global citizenship through education. The platform includes lesson plans, playlists, and a variety of teaching aids for educators. It is currently in use by 1,400 teachers and 36,000 students.  The program has collaborated with organizations like Skirball Cultural Center to screen films for high school students.   