Steve Wharton is Senior Lecturer in French and Communication at the University of Bath's Department of Politics, Language and International Studies,  where he has worked since 1990. He is a social and cultural historian whose research has three main strands: Now Honorary Vice Secretary of the Association for the Study of Modern and Contemporary France or ASMCF, he previously served twice as both Hon Treasurer and Hon Secretary. He represents both ASMCF and The University of Bath on the University Council of Modern Languages. After primary school education at Wimborne St Giles followed by Cranborne Middle School and Queen Eizabeth's School, Wimborne Minster, Wharton read French and German at Aston University before remaining there for his PhD. First appointed to a lectureship in French Studies at the University of Manchester, Wharton moved in 1990 to Bath where he has remained since. Between 2000 and 2008 he served on the National Executive of both the Association of University Teachers (AUT) and the University and College Union (UCU) which was formed through the AUT's merger with Natfhe in 2006; he was the last AUT President (2005/06)  and first joint President of UCU (2006/07). He led the union when it successfully took industrial action to raise salaries for the sector in March–June 2006, resulting in the highest uplift in scales for almost 20 years, in part through the application of his tenet of matching the aspirations of activists to the pragmatics of circumstances. September 2016 saw him appointed by UCU as one of its three Directors of the Trustee Company of USS, the Universities Superannuation Scheme, where he has served on its Governance and Nominations Committee since July 2017. Appointed to Policy Committee and Remuneration Committee in May 2018, he has been member of the Rules Group, which reports to the Board through the Policy Committee, since September 2017. In February 2012 the French Government appointed him Chevalier dans l'Ordre des Palmes Académiques for services to French Culture. A Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts since 2006 and a Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy, he has been Chair of Directors of the trustee company of Bath Royal Literary and Scientific Institution (BRLSI) since 2013, and was Vice-Chair of its Management Committee from shortly after his election as Director in 2011 to 31 January 2018. He is the author of: 