 Tridip Suhrud (born 19 December 1965) is an Indian writer, political scientist, cultural historian and translator from Gujarat, India.  Suhrud was born in 1965 in Anand, Gujarat. He completed a Master of Arts in Economics and Political Science and earned a Ph.D under Ashis Nandy for his thesis Narrations of a Nation: Explorations Through Intellectual Biographies, a socio-historical work on 19th century Gujarati literature in the context of autobiographies written by Narmad, Manilal Dwivedi and Govardhanram Tripathi.   He served as a coordinator at the Behavioural Science Centre, St. Xavier's College, Ahmedabad (1989–1992); as a visiting fellow at the Committee for Cultural Choices and Global Futures, CSDS, Delhi (1993–1994); as a faculty member at the National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad (1994–2001); and as a professor at DAIICT, Gandhinagar (2001–2012).  After working for five years with Sabarmati Ashram as a director, he resigned in August 2017.  In 2017, he was appointed as professor and director of CEPT Archives.  He is a member of the Gandhi Heritage Sites Mission of the Government of India.  He translated several works from English into Gujarati, including Ashis Nandy's The Intimate Enemy: Loss and Recovery of Self Under Colonialism as Antarang Ari, G. N. Devy's After Amnesia: Tradition and Change in Indian Literary Criticism as Smrutibhranshna Pagle Pagle and Chandulal Bhagubhai Dalal's biography of Harilal Gandhi as Harilal Gandhi: A Life (2007).   He translated two major works of Gujarati literature into English; Suresh Joshi's experimental novel Chhinnapatra (as Crumpled letter)  and Govardhanram Tripathi's epic novel Saraswatichandra.  He also translated the biography of Mahatma Gandhi in four volumes written by Narayan Desai into English from Gujarati.  He translated Mahatma Gandhi's Hind Swaraj into Hindi.  He received the Katha Award in 1999. He received Sahitya Akademi's Translation Prize in 2009 for his translated work, Harilal Gandhi: A Life.   