Felton James 'Tony' Earls is an American political scientist currently Professor of Social Medicine, Emeritus, Harvard Medical School, and Professor of Human Behavior and Development, Emeritus, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health; and formerly the Blanche F. Ittleson Professor of Child Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, and an Elected Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, American Academy of Political and Social Science, American Academy of Arts and Sciences.      He is known for a long-term study of the influence of neighbors' willingness to help each other on the neighborhood's crime rate.  In January 1942, Felton James Earls, III, was born in New Orleans, Louisiana, to Ethlyn and Felton James Earls II.  He was the first and oldest of their four children.  When he was 11, his family relocated to Memphis, Tennessee, where he attended and graduated from Booker T. Washington High School, and his father worked for the U.S. Postal Service.  He then studied at at Howard University, earning a degree in chemistry in 1963 and a medical degree in 1967, after which he pursued post-graduate training in neurophysiology at the University of Wisconsin because he was interested more in the science than in clinical care of patients. Earls joined the Harvard Medical School faculty in 1974.  In 1981 he became Professor of Child Psychiatry and Director of the Division of Child Psychiatry at Washington University in St. Louis, then in 1989 he returned to Harvard University. His CHASE: Child Health and Social Ecology, “The Project on Human Development in Chicago Neighborhoods” (1990-2005) for which he was Principal Investigator, was a large-scale 10-year $51 million epidemiological project funded by the National Institute for Mental Health and the MacArthur Foundation, which examined causes and consequences of children’s exposure to community and family violence, and asked how neighbors in crime-ridden neighborhoods can act optimally.  From this he developed the concept of "collective efficacy" as a 'protective factor' against low birthweight (LBW), crime and violence, and other debilitating conditions of poverty.     He also researched concepts of residence characteristics, health promotion,  violence, social environment, and child behavior disorders.  His Ecology of HIV/AIDS and Child Mental Health in Tanzania project was a cluster randomized control trial which aims to strengthen adolescents’ capacity to promote community health.  He currently serves on the Board of Directors of Physicians for Human Rights and at the National Academy of Sciences and has been Director of the Harvard South Africa Fellowship Program at Harvard University. 