Licensed professional counselor (LPC) is a licensure for mental health professionals in some countries. In the US, licensed professional counselors (or in some states, "licensed clinical professional counselors" or "licensed mental health counselors") provide mental health and substance abuse care to millions of Americans. Licensed professional counselors (LPCs) are doctoral and master's-level mental health service providers, trained to work with individuals, families, and groups in treating mental, behavioral, and emotional problems and disorders. LPCs make up a large percentage of the workforce employed in community mental health centers, agencies, and organizations, and are employed within and covered by managed care organizations and health plans. LPCs also work with active duty military personnel and their families, as well as veterans. Licenses are awarded for professional counselors (LPC) and professional counselor supervisors (LPC-S); Interns are identified with the corresponding suffix "I" (LPC-I), and Licensed Professional Counselor Associates, with the suffix "-A"; this also applies to licensed therapists, as in the case of Licensed Marriage and Family Therapists (LMFT) who are designated as: LMFTA. In U.S., the exact title varies by state, but the other most frequently used title is licensed mental health counselor (LMHC).  Several U.S. states, including Illinois, Maine, and Tennessee, have implemented a two-tier system whereby both the LPC and LCPC (or equivalent) are used. In those states higher tier professionals are granted the privilege to practice independently. However, in most states LPC's or LMHC's may practice independently. Licensed Professional Counselors are one of the six types of licensed mental health professionals who provide psychotherapy in the United States. In addition to their education, LPCs must obtain supervised clinical experience and must pass a state licensing exam. Different states require one of several different licensing examinations. Examples are the National Counselor Examination for Licensure and Certification (NCE) as well as the National Certified Mental Health Counselor Examination (NCMHCE). LPCs are regulated by federal and state laws, which either protect the title of LPC or LMHC or actually define the scope of practice of a professional counselor and stipulate certain client protections. If an LPC is also a member of a professional association or has received additional certifications, they must adhere to the codes of ethics of the professional association or certification body with which they have aligned. LPC (or variation, e.g. LCPC, LMHC, etc.) licensure is recognized in 50 states in the United States, as well as the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.  The requirements vary from one jurisdiction to the next.  Most states require some combination of a master's degree, counseling experience and supervision, as well as passing a national examination, such as the National Counselor Examination (NCE) and/or the National Clinical Mental Health Counseling Examination (NCMHCE).  A summary of requirements from the state of Texas LPC board serves as an example;  requirements vary from state to state.  For example, practicum/internship requirements (during the master's degree) vary significantly between states (i.e.: 300 in Texas and 1000 in Vermont). Course requirements and credit amount also vary, making reciprocity between states difficult for many licensed counselors. Some states, such as Oregon, have broad exemptions that allow the practice of professional counseling without a license.  In Alabama, nothing in the chapter regulating professional counseling applies to the activities, services, titles, and descriptions of persons employed, as professionals or as volunteers, in the practice of counseling for IRS recognized 501(c)(3)  public and private nonprofit organizations or charities. [Alabama Code 34-8A-3-a-6] In the Canadian province of Quebec, the Ordre des conseillers et conseilleres d'orientation et psychoeducateurs et psychoeducatrices du Quebec (OCCOPPQ) grants counselor licensure. The Canadian Counselling and Psychotherapy Association, CCPA offers a distinct certification, Canadian Certified Counsellor (CCC), separate from the regular professional membership.  The Canadian Professional Counsellors Association (CPCA) is a national competency-based association that provides the designation of Registered Professional Counsellor (RPC) to its members. Unlike degree-based associations, a specific degree level does not automatically qualify applicants for membership.  Instead, the CPCA requires core competencies in education and experience prior to taking a qualifying exam and undergoing psychological testing  as part of the membership application process.  Counsellors must then embark on a two-year candidacy under the supervision of an approved Clinical Supervisor prior to becoming a full member.  The CPCA membership roles are a mixture of Diploma, Bachelor, Master, and PhD level degree holders, and its primary purpose is the protection of the public and the promotion of competency in the mental health profession in Canada.  As well; the Canadian Addiction Counsellors Certification Federation (CACCF) promotes, certifies and monitors the competency of addiction specific counsellors in Canada using current and effective practices, which are internationally recognized. The certifications CACCF issues and its professional conduct review process provide public protection for counsellors, employers, regulatory agencies, clients and their families.   The Ministry of Labor and Human Resources grants counselor licensure. In Malaysia, Lembaga Kaunselor Malaysia grants counselor licensure. 