Stan Tatkin is the founder of the PACT Training Institute  and the developer of PACT—A Psychobiological Approach to Couple Therapy.    PACT is an integration of neuroscience, arousal regulation, and attachment theory.   This therapy modality centers on early attachment and its effect on the development of the brain and the nervous system.   Also, PACT encourages couples to participate in secure-functioning relationships, even if the individuals themselves do not have secure attachment.  Tatkin is the author of Wired for Dating: How Understanding Neurobiology and Attachment Style Can Help You Find Your Ideal Mate, Wired for Love: How Understanding Your Partner’s Brain and Attachment Style Can Help You Defuse Conflict and Build a Secure Relationship,  and Your Brain on Love: The Neurobiology of Healthy Relationships,  as well as the co-author with Marion Soloman of Love and War in Intimate Relationships: Connection, Disconnection, and Mutual Regulation in Couple Therapy.   He has a private practice in Calabasas, California, and works as an assistant professor at the UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine, Department of Family Medicine.  Tatkin also teaches and supervises first-year family medicine residents at Kaiser Permanente, Woodland Hills, Los Angeles.  Tatkin is a licensed marriage and family therapist.   He studied at Antioch University Los Angeles, where he earned his undergraduate and graduate degrees.  He received his Psy.D in clinical psychology from the online Ryokan College in 1994.  In 1989, Tatkin joined the team at the Bradshaw Center as a primary inpatient lead group therapist, where in addition to leading groups, he taught Vipassana meditation to patients and the staff.   His early training was in a variety of different modalities including developmental object relations from the Masterson Institute, psychodrama, family systems, and Gestalt theory about working in the here-and-now.  Additionally, Tatkin studied personally with Allan N. Schore.   Tatkin specialized in the treatment of adolescents and adults with personality disorders at the beginning of his career.  More recently his clinical interests expanded to include several psycho-neurobiological theories involved in interpersonal relationships and integrating principles of early mother-infant attachment with adult intimate relationships.    Reflecting his shift in interests, he currently teaches PACT trainings through the PACT Institute to clinicians in Austin; Berkeley; Boulder; Los Angeles; Westchester, NY; and Seattle.  He also travels internationally to Australia, Canada, Turkey, and Spain, teaching PACT to mental health professionals.   He has been published internationally about his theories, methods, and interventions about the PACT approach to couple therapy.   Tatkin is on the board of directors of Lifespan Learning Institute and serves as a member on Relationships First Counsel, a nonprofit organization founded by Harville Hendrix and Helen LaKelly Hunt.  The American Association of Marriage and Family Therapists CA awarded Tatkin with the Educator of the Year award in 2014.  