Tulsa Studies in Women's Literature (TSWL), founded in 1982, was the first journal devoted solely to the study of women's and feminist literature.  The journal publishes "articles, notes, research, and reviews of literary, historicist, and theoretical work by established and emerging scholars in the field of women's literature and feminist theory."  As part of the now-defunct Tulsa Center for the Study of Women's Literature, the journal was founded in 1982 by Germaine Greer at the University of Tulsa.  Greer's purpose for the journal was to begin "the rehabilitation of women's literary history."   Following Germaine Greer’s tenure, Shari Benstock (1983–1986), Mary O’Toole (1986–1988), Holly Laird (1988–2005), and Laura Stevens (2005-2016) each served as the journal’s editor.  Jennifer Airey has held the editorship since 2016. The distinctive TSWL logo, present from the journal’s inaugural issue, is a saxifrage flower, captioned with a quotation from William Turner’s Herbal: "The white saxifrage with the indented leafe is moste commended for the breakinge of the stone."     In 2009, TSWL launched a cover redesign (see images below), which presents "a visually bold design that retains thematic elements of the original cover" but continues "to feature a red background, white ink, the saxifrage flower, and the accompanying quotation."  Stevens explains, "As before, there are different covers for fall and spring, now focused on a variation of the saxifrage. We hope that this new look establishes continuity with the old one even as it conveys renewal of and advancement in the feminist study of women's literature."  The journal's editorial and advisory boards include scholars prominent in their varied disciplines.  Board members include Nina Auerbach, Marilyn Butler, Carol T. Christ, Helen Cooper, Sandra M. Gilbert, Susan Gubar, Peggy Kamuf, and Jane Marcus.  In addition to articles, notes, research, and reviews, Tulsa Studies in Women's Literature has published numerous forums and special issues during its twenty-eight-year run: The journal also has developed two new features over its history: the Archives and Innovations sections.  The Archives section, instituted in 1986, "is devoted to the transmission and discussion of the findings of archival research and its theory and practice. By archives we mean documents and records relating to the literary activities of women writers: books, manuscripts, letters, publishing histories, and bibliographies."   The Innovations section presents new approaches to the study of women writers. The journal has been recognized for excellence by the Council of Editors of Learned Journals. Two issues of TSWL have won the prestigious Best Special Issue Award: "Feminist Issues in Literary Scholarship" (1984), edited by Shari Benstock, and "Redefining Marginality" (1991), edited by Holly Laird. "Toward a Gendered Modernity" (1988), edited by Holly Laird, was also a finalist for the Best Special Issue Award.  In 2007, Executive Editor Holly Laird received the Distinguished Editor Award.  