  9.9 School of Convergence, also known as SoC, is a small media school in New Delhi, India. The school has Pramath Raj Sinha, the founding dean of Indian School of Business, as its dean. The School of Convergence (SoC) was set up in October 2001 by Kaleidoscope Entertainment, headed by Bobby Bedi. The school started with a Two Year Post Graduate Diploma Course in Content Creation and Management (PGDCCM) combining print, radio, television, cinema and the Internet. This course offered knowledge and skills in all streams of media and management. It combines the curricula of a journalism school, a film school and a management school. The Media School licensed its brand to 9.9 Mediaworx Pvt. Ltd. to start journalism courses as 9.9 School of Convergence and it starting its first batch in September 2009   with just one course, an eleven-month diploma in Applied Journalism. 9.9 School of Convergence offers a Diploma in Applied Journalism. The programme equips aspiring journalists with the core skills required for success in their profession – high-quality and consistent reporting, writing and editing skills. The course is primarily taught by practising journalists, who have excelled at their craft and gained enough experience to teach the dos and don’ts of the profession. In fact, the weekly modules have been received with enthusiasm by media practitioners approached by 9.9 SoC because of the high degree of practicality in the syllabus. This school has an impressive list of faculty members, including Graham Watts, a journalist and trainer; BV Rao, consulting editor with MoneyLife, a fortnightly magazine, and a columnist on Indian media; Rasheeda Bhagat, associate editor of Hindu Business Line; Edward Henning, a teacher-turned-journalist; Vanita Kohli-Khandekar, independent media consultant and writer. Other faculty members are Savyasaachi Jain, Mala Bhargava, Jacob Cherian, Radha Hegde, Vinay Kamat, Pooja Kothari, Ranbir Majumdar, Eric Saranovitz and Pramath Raj Sinha himself. Address :-Sri Aurobindo Society, New Mehrauli Road, Adchini, New Delhi - 110 017 9.9 Media is a diversified media company started by former ABP CEO Dr. Pramath Raj Sinha along with four of his other colleagues. It targets consumer, business and professional communities through magazines, websites, events, and peer groups. Other than SoC, 9.9 Media publishes several other magazines, manages professional institutes and host online platforms. 