Note that this list ranks markets based on retail value (rather than units) each market generates respectively per year; retail value generated by each market varies from year to year. The figures are based on IFPI annual reports. As all financial data is given in US dollars annual rates of change for all countries other than the United States are heavily influenced by exchange rate fluctuations as well as by actual changes in revenue in local currency terms. It is important to note that the information presented in this page only accounts for revenue generated from the recorded music industry (recorded music and auxiliary revenues generated by these recordings), and is not reflective of the entirety of the music industry including sectors such as publishing, live music, etc. Source: Figures within the table are based on IFPI Global music report 2018.  Source: Figures within the table are based on IFPI Grobal music report 2017.  Source: Figures within the table are based on IFPI Grobal music report 2016.  Source: Figures within the table are based on IFPI 2014 annual report.  Source: Figures within the table are based on IFPI 2013 annual report.  Source: Figures within the table are based on IFPI 2012 annual report.  Source: Figures within the table are based on IFPI 2011 annual report.  Source: Figures within the table are based on IFPI 2010 annual report.  Total units figures are derived by addition of figures reported by referenced sources. Source: Figures within the table are based on IFPI 2009 annual report.  Total units figures are derived by addition of figures reported by referenced sources. Source: Figures within the table are based on IFPI 2008 annual report, except where noted below.  Total units figures are derived by addition of figures reported by referenced sources. Notes^  Source: Figures within the table are based on IFPI 2007 annual report, except where noted below.  Total units figures are derived by addition of figures reported by referenced sources. Notes^  Source: Figures within the table are based on IFPI 2006 annual report, except where noted below.  Total units figures are derived by addition of figures reported by referenced sources. Notes^  Source: Figures within the table are based on IFPI 2005 annual report, except where noted below.  Total units figures are derived by addition of figures reported by referenced sources. Notes^  Source: Figures within the table are based on IFPI 2004 annual report, except where noted below.  Total units figures are derived by addition of figures reported by referenced sources. Notes^  