Laura Ainsworth (1885 – 1958) was a British teacher and suffragette. She was employed by the Women's Social and Political Union and was one of the first suffragettes to be force-fed. She left the WSPU in 1912 in protest at the ejection of the Pethick-Lawrences, but continued to work for women's suffrage. Ainsworth was born in Blything in Suffolk in 1885, and she was brought up in Salisbury. She became a teacher but decided in 1909 to become a full time worker for the Women's Social and Political Union in 1909.  Ainsworth was drafted to co-ordinate WSPU activities in the Midlands with Gladice Keevil. She was involved in the protest on 17 September 1909 when Charlotte Marsh and Mary Leigh climbed onto the roof of Bingley Hall in Birmingham. They were protesting at women being excluded from a political meeting where the British Prime Minister Asquith was giving a speech. Marsh and Leigh threw roof tiles which they levered up with an axe at the Asquith's car and at the police.  They went to trial and were sent onto Winson Green Prison.  In protest about not being treated as a political prisoner she, Marsh and Leigh went on hunger strike.  They became some of the first suffragette hunger strikers to be forcibly fed. Ainsworth obviously objected to being forcibly fed although she was OK with how that was achieved. After she was released she wrote an open letter to the first hunger striker, Marion Wallace Dunlop, describing her experience. The WSPU took advantage of the opportunity for publicity and prepared a case for assault against the prison authorities on their behalf.  2 April 1911 was the night of the British census when the government recorded details of everyone living in the United Kingdom. The WSPU as part of their campaign of civil disobedience had decided that if women "didn't count, then they were not going to be counted".  Ainsworth hired a room used by a dance academy in Jazreel's Hall (the religious folly known as Jezreel's Tower in Gillingham).  Ainsworth was boarding locally with a WSPU supporter. Over 40 women gathered there to avoid being at home during the census. However they enjoyed themselves so much that the police were called and they tipped off the census enumerators and they were counted.  The census return says "Party of Suffragettes assembled in Dancing Academy – 40 in number 1 male and 39 females", but carries no details of who was there.  Ainsworth and Marsh were invited as leading suffragettes to Eagle House in Batheaston in April. This was the home of Mary Blathwayt and her parents. They invited leading suffragettes to plant trees to commemorate their achievements. A plaque was made to record each event and Colonel Linley Blathwayt would take photographs. A Cupressus Lawsoniana Wisselii was planted to record Ainsworth's achievement and Colonel Blathwayt also took a portrait photograph.  Ainsworth left the WSPU in protest in 1912 at the ejection of the Pethick-Lawrences from the WSPU.  