ToneWork Records and Gerhard Daum Music Edition (GDME)  were founded by the German musician and composer Gerhard Daum. The companies are a music label and a music publishing company, which produce music for all media, soundtracks, and live orchestra recordings. His music is synched in European and American films, trailers, TV shows and video games.  In 1993 Gerhard Daum founded GDME, a publishing company to oversee the administrative duties relating to the composers’ works. Two years later, whilst still in Munich, Daum also established his own label, ToneWork Records. Since then, the label has exclusively distributed his compositions. He established the music library as part of GDME in 2001, when he was living and working in Los Angeles.  Gerhard Daum's album Mental Voyager – Voiceland  was published in 1996, it was recorded in Dolby Surround. The Album received a four star review in the October issue of the German Edition of the Rolling Stone magazine.  In addition, he collaborated with the Brandenburger Symphoniker to record and release the album Film Music Suites (2017), based on original compositions of his works for film and TV, rewritten for the orchestra.  GDME is an independent publisher and international music library. The catalogue consists of music for films and TV, other media productions and video games. It ranges from solo instrumental works to orchestral works. All commissions are produced at GDME’s own studio in Berlin. GDME cooperates with different sales partners around the world. These include Nichion and Modoocom  in Asia, as well as Warner/Chappell PM  for North America. Alongside his works for film and television, Daum has also released solo projects. These albums are published through ToneWork Records. The label also re-published his 1993 debut album Mental Voyager – A Music Journey in 2014.   On ToneWork Records Gerhard Daum collaborates with different artists and ensembles, such as the Chor des Bayerischen Rundfunks, the Cambridge Consort Voices, the Historisches Ensemble Regensburg and the Brandenburger Symphonikern with Hannes Ferrand.  In December 2017 the Album “Rural Renewal” reached peak position on the airplay charts on Zone Music Reporter.  Gerhard Daum was born on September 30, 1956, in the southern German city of Freiburg im Breisgau. From 1985, upon completion of his studies, Daum worked as a guitar teacher at the renowned Jazz & Rock School Freiburg. During this time, he also toured through Europe with his own jazz and rock ensemble, the Gerhard Daum Quartet.  His focus then switched to film music and Daum began composing scores for German films and TV series, including Tatort.  As a composer, Daum has worked on music for film, television series, commercials, and video games in Germany and the US and has won awards for his work. Of the numerous television series Daum has composed for, highlights include Forsthaus Falkenau, Die Garmisch-Cops, and German cult TV series Tatort. He gained recognition through his scores for independent feature films such as Reflex Action, Hollywood Kills, Prince of Swine and, most notably, for the Hollywood action drama Felon, starring Val Kilmer, Sam Shephard, and Stephen Dorff. The music from the movie was performed by the Bavarian Radio Symphony Orchestra at the Film Music Night in Munich in 2009. Soundtracks: Film Music Suites - original film and tv themes  That which I love destroys me  - original motion picture soundtrack  Hindenburg & Hitler - original motion picture soundtrack  Film Music Collection II – Drama Love Romance - original film and tv themes  Albums: 3D Scoring – Fantasy Animation Family  Rural Renewal – Gerhard Daum Guitar & String Ensemble   Epic Drama  Epic Action  Piano Visions  String Theory  Mental Voyager  Mental Voyager – Voiceland  Media Productions: Commercials To Go – Visionary & Inspirational Commercials To Go – Positive & Optimistic Commercials – Suspense Action Drama Commercials Vol.2 – Contemporary Styles Commercials Vol.3 – Twisted Alternative Urban Dark Energy – Crime Tension Mystery  Drama Emotion Family Trailers & Commercials Drama War Tension Drones – Tension Mystery Drama Drums & Percussion EthnoColors – Magic Flutes From Around The World Ethno Trailers European Folk Songs – Traditional & Contemporary Styles Explosive Choirs – Action Adventure Drama  Film Music Collection – Suspense Drama Action Film & TV Action Trailers  Green Evolution – Commercials Trailers Promos Modern X-mas Power Drums – Commercials Promos Trailers Storm Guitars – Trailers for Action Adventure Drama  Suspense Horror Tension Trailers & Commercials  Gerhard Daum on the Internet Movie Database 