This is a list of online digital musical document libraries. Each source listed below offers access to collections of digitized music documents (typically originating from printed or manuscript musical sources), and containing music notation of some kind, stored as an image file.  The autograph manuscripts and original sources from the collections of all of the participating partners – the Berlin State Library, the Bach-Archiv Leipzig and the Saxon State Library – Dresden State and University Library – will be digitized by 2011, thereby encompassing 90% of the worldwide remaining manuscripts. Further autograph manuscripts from other collections should be integrated at a later date. Bach Digital is a joint project of the Berlin State Library – Prussian Cultural Heritage, the Saxon State Library-Dresden State and University Library, the Leipzig Bach-Archiv and the Leipzig University Computing Center. Funding is provided by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft. Early Music Online is the result of a pilot project in which more than 300 volumes of 16th-century music from the British Library were digitised from microfilm. The project was funded by JISC as part of the Rapid Digitisation programme 2011, and will be formally launched at the end of September 2011. You can preview the digitised music below. The digitised content is copyright © The British Library Board, and is made available for non-commercial use under the JISC Collections Open Education User Licence version 1.0. You may use the digitised content on Early Music Online in any way and for any such purposes that are conducive to education, teaching, learning, private study and/or research as long as you are in compliance with the terms and conditions of the licence. You may not use the content for commercial purposes. The ultimate goal of the IMSLP is to gather all public domain music scores, in addition to the music scores of all contemporary composers (or their estates) who wish to release them to the public free of charge. Laborde Chansonnier – ca. 1470 – Unknown, (author) – France – Library of Congress, Music Division Collections Indexed: Number of Publications in this collection : 8643 