The Music Library Association (MLA) of the United States is the main professional organization for music libraries and librarians (including those whose music materials form only part of their responsibilities and collections).  It also serves corporations, institutions, students, composers, scholars and others whose work and interests lie in the music librarianship field.  National meetings occur annually. "The purposes of the Association shall be to promote the establishment, growth, and use of music libraries; to encourage the collection of music and musical literature in libraries; to further studies in musical bibliography; to increase efficiency in music library service and administration; and to promote the profession of music librarianship.  The Association is a non-stock, non-profit corporation organized and operated exclusively for said purposes.  No part of the net earnings of the Association shall inure to the benefit of any individual.  No officer, member, or delegate of a member shall, as such, receive compensation except that reasonable compensation may be paid for services of employees of the Association."  The MLA is composed of five operational elements: Regional chapters include: The MLA offers membership on a yearly basis.  Costs vary depending on the type of membership (institutional, associate, student, retired, etc.). The MLA produces several different publications covering different aspects of the field.  Publications include: The MLA website offers a wide range of services and resources to members and non-members alike: employment and education information, awards and grants, copyright guidelines, and resources concerning the field.  These include the MLA-L (a listserv open to the public), resources generated by the MLA committees and groups, external resources via print and web, and the MLA Shop, which is the organization's official store. The Music Library Association was founded in June 1931 during the American Library Association meetings in New Haven, Connecticut.  Its founding was spearheaded by Eva Judd O'Meara (1884–1979) and Carleton Sprague Smith (1905–1994) of the New York Public Library.  Among their objectives was to improve cataloging for sheet music and audio recordings.   