ManuelbastioniLAB is a free and open source plug-in for Blender for the parametric 3D modeling of photorealistic humanoid characters. AGPL It's developed by the artist and programmer Manuel Bastioni.  The plugin is completely integrated in Blender. The GUI is designed to be self-explanatory and intuitive and when possible the features are designed to work with one click. Over 90% of the character is defined with only three sliders that control age (from 18 to 80 y.o.), body mass and body tone. The character is finished with other lab tools for body and face details, poses, skin and eye shaders, animation, poses, proxy, etc. The software is designed as a laboratory in constant evolution and includes both consolidated algorithms as the 3D morphing and experimental technologies, as the fuzzy mathematics used to handle the relations between human parameters, the non-linear interpolation  used to define the age, mass and tone, the auto-modelling engine based on body proportions and the expert system used to recognize the bones in motion capture skeletons.  The software is written in Python and works on all the platforms supported by Blender: Windows, macOS and Linux. All the characters use the same standard skeleton, so the poses and animation can be easily moved from a character to another. Most of the data distributed in the package is stored using the standard json syntax. ManuelbastioniLAB is completely open source, released under standard licenses   of the Free Software Foundation. The characters generated with ManuelbastioniLAB are released under double license: ManuelbastionLAB provides two different base meshes for male and female models. Each model respects the fundamental requisites of a professional mesh, as defined by the author:  The base humans are modelled after accurate studies of anatomy and anthropology. The lab 1.5.0 provides about 470 morphs for each human character, designed to parametrically describe most of the anatomical range in human bodies, faces and expressions. Genitalia are not present. Concerning ManuelbastionLAB, the word phenotype is intended with the following meaning: The lab provides three main classes of humans: Caucasian, Asian and Afro. For each class there is a specific set of phenotypes. Each phenotype can be loaded from the library and used as base for a custom character, or mixed with another phenotype. The available phenotypes are: While the lab is aimed to create realistic 3d human beings based on a scientific description of their parameters, the same technology can be successfully applied to non-human characters, like fantasy creatures. The version 1.5.0 of the lab supports three variety of anime characters: classic shojo, modern shojo and "realistic style" anime. There are also male and female elves and male dwarf. Each model has a separate set of morphs to create millions of variations. Concerning the creation of fantasy characters, the lab supports some extra parameters for humans too, like pointed ears, special teeth, etc.. 