Heritage New Zealand Pouhere Taonga, (previously until 2014 named the New Zealand Historic Places Trust) (Māori: Pouhere Taonga), is a Crown entity with a membership of around 20,000 people that advocates for the protection of  ancestral sites and heritage buildings in New Zealand. It was set up through the Historic Places Act 1954 with a mission to "...promote the identification, protection, preservation and conservation of the historical and cultural heritage of New Zealand" and is an autonomous Crown entity. Its current enabling legislation is the Heritage New Zealand Pouhere Taonga Act 2014. It is governed by a Board of Trustees, currently chaired by Shonagh Kenderdine, and a Māori Heritage Council, currently chaired by Sir Tumu Te Heuheu.  Past chairs include Dame Anne Salmond. The head office is in Antrim House, Wellington, while regional and area offices are in Kerikeri, Auckland, Tauranga, Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin. It publishes the quarterly magazine New Zealand Heritage. Buildings owned by Heritage New Zealand include the Mission House, the Stone Store, and the Te Waimate mission house. The register of historic places is divided into four main areas: The historic places are organised in two categories: As of  2013[update], the register contains over 5,600 entries.  The Canterbury earthquakes of September 2010 and February 2011 resulted in damage to a number of historic buildings in Christchurch.  Post-earthquake redevelopment has caused a significant loss of heritage buildings in Christchurch.  The Māori Heritage Council sits within the New Zealand Historic Places Trust and was established by the Historic Places Act 1993. The functions of the Council  include: As of  2013[update] Sir Tumu Te Heuheu is the Chair of the MHC. Antrim House, Wellington Timeball Station, Lyttelton Fyffe House, Kaikoura The flag of the Historic Places Trust flying outside Fyffe House in Kaikoura Mission House, Kerikeri Stone Store, Kerikeri Katherine Mansfield's Birthplace Museum of Wellington City & Sea Wellington Harbour Board Wharf Office Building St Mary of the Angels (Wellington) Nairn Street Cottage St Patrick's Basilica, Oamaru, crossing and main dome interior.]] Criterion Hotel, Oamaru St Luke's Anglican Church, Oamaru Old Harbour Board building, Oamaru Granary, Privy & Schoolhouse, Matanaka, Otago Railway Hotel, Invercargill Municipal Offices & Public Library, Timaru Historic Places Trust blue plaque in Dunedin at the site of the first performance of God Defend New Zealand  