Hispanismo or Hispanicism is an ideology, school of thought and historiographic current centered on Spanish heritage. In Hispanic America it is similar but unlike most times to indigenismo.  The view of hispanismo holds that "countries" should not deny their cultural roots because in doing so they are denying themselves. In the case of Hispanic America these cultural roots are Spanish and indigenous. An important detail is that in hispanismo the Spanish roots are implicitly more important than the indigenous roots. Hispanismo consist of Hispanic American countries building upon their "own heritage" which would be the same as Spanish heritage.  Because of that the Spaniard is not yet another element in the ethnic conglomerate. He is the decisive factor, the only one that could attract them all... Because of this any attempt to forget the Spanish name in these lands and oppose to him a hyperbolic renewed value of the indigenous, would go straight to attack the lifeblood that unite our peoples. Anything worthy that the ancient civilizations could have had at the moment of decadence when they faced the Spanish conquest was saved and defended by the Spaniards themselves who took with them just in time the instrument of writing, unknown to the indigenous peoples, to perpetuate the history and the traditions of the conquered ones. Whatever the Spaniards destroyed was not comparable with what they contributed with in terms of culture.The ranks of notable supporters of hispanismo include Chilean historian Jaime Eyzaguirre, who rejected liberal historiography in favor of traditionalist hispanismo. [A] Another hispanista was Víctor Andrés Belaúnde a Peruvian diplomat who held that Peru was essentially a mestizo and white nation and due to this its people "gravitated" towards what was "hispanic".  In the late 19th century Uruguayan José Enrique Rodó and Cuban José Martí both were hispanistas in stressing the value of Spanish heritage, albeit the later worked against Spain to liberate Cuba.   