Infections associated with diseases are those that are associated with possible infectious etiologies, that meet the requirements of Koch's postulates. Other methods of causation are described by the Bradford Hill criteria and Evidence-based medicine. Koch's postulates have been altered by some epidemiologists based upon sequence-based detection of distinctive pathogenic nucleic acid sequences in tissue samples. Using this method, absolute statements are not always possible regarding  causation. Since this is true, higher amounts of distinctive pathogenic nucleic acid sequences would be in those exhibiting disease compared to controls since inoculating those without the pathogen is unethical. In addition, the DNA load should drop or become lower with the resolution of the disease. The distinctive pathogenic nucleic acid sequences load should also increase upon recurrence. Other conditions are met to establish cause or association including studies in disease transmission.  This means that there should be a high disease occurrence in those carrying an pathogen, evidence of a serologicalresponse to the pathogen, and the success of vaccination prevention. Direct visualization of the pathogen, the identification of different strains, immunological responses in the host, how the infection is spread and, the combination of these should all be taken into account to determine the probability that an infectious agent is the cause of the disease. A conclusive determination of a causal role of an infectious agent for in a particular disease using Koch's postulates is desired yet this might not be possible.  The leading cause of death worldwide is cardiovascular disease, but infectious diseases are the second leading cause of death worldwide and the leading cause of death in infants and children.  Other causes or associations of disease are: a compromised immune system, environmental toxins, radiation exposure, diet and lifestyle choices, stress, and genetics. Diseases may also be multifactorial, requiring multiple factors to induce disease. For example: in a murine model, Crohn's disease can be precipitated by a norovirus, but only when both a specific gene variant is present and a certain toxin has damaged the gut.  A list of the more common and well-known diseases associated with infectious pathogens is provided and is not intended to be a complete listing.  Bladder cancer Schistosoma helminths can cause cancer.   Brain tumor. Glioblastoma multiforme is associated with cytomegalovirus,  BK virus, JC virus, and simian virus 40.    Breast cancer is associated with mouse mammary tumor virus, Epstein-Barr virus, and human papillomaviruses.   Carcinoid tumors are associated with enterovirus infections.   Cervical cancer can be caused by human papillomaviruses.    Colorectal cancer is associated with the bacteria Helicobacter pylori, Streptococcus bovis and Fusobacterium nucleatum,  with human papillomaviruses,  and with the helminth Schistosoma japonicum.  JC virus may be a risk factor for colorectal cancer.   Gallbladder cancer is associated with the bacterium Salmonella typhi.   Hodgkin's lymphoma is associated with Epstein-Barr virus,  hepatitis C virus,  and HIV.   Kaposi's Sarcoma can be caused by Kaposi's sarcoma herpesvirus and HIV.   Liver cancer. Hepatocellular carcinoma can be caused by hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus,  and by the helminth Schistosoma japonicum.   Lung cancer is associated with the bacterium Chlamydia pneumoniae,  with human papillomaviruses, and with Merkel cell polyomavirus.   Leukemia. Adult T-cell leukemia can be caused by human T-cell leukemia virus-1.  Mesothelioma is associated with simian virus 40,  especially in conjunction with asbestos exposure.  Nasopharyngeal carcinoma can be caused by Epstein-Barr virus.  Non-Hodgkin lymphoma is associated with HIV and simian virus 40.   Oropharyngeal cancer can be caused by human papillomaviruses.  Ovarian cancer is associated with mumps virus.  Pancreatic cancer is associated with hepatitis B virus and the bacterium Helicobacter pylori.  Prostate cancer is associated with xenotropic murine leukemia virus-related virus and BK virus.  Skin neoplasm is associated with human papillomaviruses.  Squamous cell carcinoma is associated with human papillomaviruses.  Stomach cancer is associated with the bacterium Helicobacter pylori.  Thyroid cancer is associated with simian virus 40.  Major depressive disorder is associated with bornavirus,  as well as Bartonella  and Borrelia  species bacteria.  Seasonal affective disorder is associated with Epstein-Barr virus.  Obesity is also associated with higher gut levels of certain Firmicutes bacteria in relation to Bacteroidetes bacteria. Overweight individuals tend have more Firmicutes bacteria  (such as Clostridium, Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, and Helicobacter pylori) in their gut, whereas normal weight individuals tend have more Bacteroidetes bacteria.  Aggravating or contributory microbes in Tourette's may include the bacteria Mycoplasma pneumoniae,  Chlamydia pneumoniae, Chlamydia trachomatis, and the protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii.  Infectious pathogen-associated diseases include many of the most common and costly chronic illnesses. The treatment of chronic diseases accounts for 75% of all US healthcare costs (amounting to $1.7 trillion in 2009).  One of first examples of systematic study of disease causation was Avicenna, in the tenth century. The history of infection and disease were observed in the 1800s and related to the one of the tick-borne diseases, Rocky Mountain spotted fever. The cause of viral encephalitis was discovered in Russia based upon epidemiological clustering of cases. The virus causing this illness was isolated in 1937. The rash typical of Lyme borreliosis was identified the early 1900s.  Historically, some chronic diseases were linked or associated with infectious pathogens.     Using Wikipedia for Research 