An eponymous disease is a disease named after a person: usually the physician who first identified the disease or, less commonly, a patient who suffered from the disease. Eponyms are a longstanding tradition in Western science and medicine.  Being awarded an eponym is regarded as an honor: "Eponymity, not anonymity, is the standard."   The scientific and medical communities regard it as bad form to attempt to eponymise oneself.  To discuss something, it must have a name.  At a time when medicine lacked tools to investigate underlying causes of many syndromes, the eponym was a convenient way to label a disease. Some diseases are named after the person who first described the condition—typically by publishing an article in a respected medical journal.  Rarely, an eponymous disease is named after a patient, examples being Lou Gehrig's disease, Hartnup disease, and Mortimer's disease. In at least one instance, Machado–Joseph disease, the eponym is derived from the surnames of the patriarchs of two families in which the condition was initially described. Instances also exist of eponyms named for fictional persons who displayed characteristics attributed to the syndrome. These include Miss Havisham syndrome, named for a Dickens character, and  Plyushkin syndrome, named for a Gogol's character; these also happen to be alternative names for the same symptom complex. At least two eponymous disorders follow none of the foregoing conventions: Fregoli delusion, and Munchausen syndrome. Related disease naming structures reference place names (Bornholm disease, Lyme disease, Ebola virus disease), and societies, as in the case of Legionnaires' disease. These, however, are not eponyms. In 1975, the Canadian National Institutes of Health held a conference that discussed the naming of diseases and conditions. This was reported in The Lancet where the conclusion was summarized as: "The possessive use of an eponym should be discontinued, since the author neither had nor owned the disorder."  Medical journals, dictionaries and style guides remain divided on this issue. European journals tend towards continued use of the possessive, while US journals are largely discontinuing its use.  The trend in possessive usage varies between countries, journals, and diseases.   Associating an individual's name with a disease merely based on describing it confers only an eponymic; the individual must have been either affected by the disease or have died from it for the name to be termed autoeponymic. Thus, an 'autoeponym' is a medical condition named in honor of an individual who was affected by or died as a result of the disease which he had described or identified or, in the case of a non-physician patient, from which the patient suffered.  Autoeponyms may use either the possessive or non-possessive form, with the preference to use the non-possessive form for a disease named for a physician who first described it and the possessive form in cases of a disease named for a patient (commonly, but not always, the first patient) who had the particular disease.  Autoeponyms listed in this entry conform to those conventions with regard to the possessive and non-possessive forms. Examples of autoeponyms include: The current trend is away from the use of eponymous disease names, towards a medical name that describes either the cause or primary signs . Reasons for this include: Arguments for maintaining eponyms include:  The usage of the genitive apostrophe in disease eponyms has followed different trends. While it remains common for some diseases, it has dwindled for others.  As described above, multiple eponyms can exist for the same disease. In these instances, each is listed individually (except as described below), followed by an in-line parenthetical entry beginning 'aka' ('also known as') that lists all alternative eponyms. This facilitates use of the list for a reader who knows a particular disease only by one of its eponyms, without the necessity of cross-linking entries. It sometimes happens that an alternative eponym, if listed separately, would immediately alphabetically precede or succeed another entry for the same disease. There are three conventions that have been applied to these instances: Medical signSymptomSyndrome Medical diagnosisDifferential diagnosisPrognosis AcuteChronicCure/Remission DiseaseEponymous diseaseAcronym or abbreviation 