HoloBuilder Inc., founded in 2016, assists builders and engineers to create immersive progress views of construction sites. The company is a German-American construction technology-startup, developed both in San Francisco, California, and Aachen, Germany. They offer tools to create and share 360° views of construction sites and buildings. Those digitized sites help at managing their real-world counterparts effortlessly from everywhere. In 2016, HoloBuilder has been used in 190 countries around the world, where more than 15,000 projects have been created, which have been viewed almost 800,000 times. The cloud-based software www.HoloBuilder.com providing the leading cloud and mobile software for virtual reality capturing of construction sites. HoloBuilder for constructions focuses on the whole  development process, from the planning phase up until maintenance management. Holobuilder.com is  an online virtual reality capturing software. This means that users can easily and quickly create virtual tours using 360° photos through your construction site. When reliable and affordable 360° cameras hit the market, it became easier than ever to capture your surroundings with the tap of one single button.  HoloBuilder projects support multiple sheets, making it easy to manage big construction sites with multiple floors in one single web-based project, which is easily accessible from anywhere. Coupled with the Time Travel feature, another functionality that makes it easy to track the progress over time on a construction site. Users include construction companies, realtors. architects, designers and Industry 4.0 companies  who use it to create Virtual Tours    of real estate properties, construction sites or digital Augmented Reality user manuals. These projects can be created and viewed in the browser and are embeddable into any website as an iFrame. HoloBuilder leverages HTML5 and WebGL to be usable in browsers without the need of Plugins like Adobe Flash and in mobile browsers, it uses the device sensors to support browser-based VR in Google Cardboard and similar VR headsets. Users can import their 360 pictures taken with Cameras like the Ricoh Theta S   and combine them with 3D models from editors like AutoCAD, SketchUp or Blender. The JobWalk App enables users to create virtual 360° tours on the go. The user connects a 360° Camera with his mobile device via WiFi. After taking 360° images and linking the scenes, the 360° tour can be synchronized with the web-platform. 