Interior protection is the general term for the installation of temporary dust and debris containment systems during re-roofing, remodeling, or other construction related projects. A temporary interior protection system can be installed in almost any environment, from manufacturing plants, production facilities, class A office space, hospitals, schools or warehouses. Interior protection services include suspended ceilings, construction wall barriers, high structure cleaning and other types of custom applications. Using reinforced engineered poly film and proven installation methods, temporary interior protection systems prevent re-roofing and remodeling dust and debris from cross contaminating clean room type environments within commercial facilities, retail stores, class A office space, and just about any type of environment you want kept clean.  The foundation of any interior protection project is a high-quality suspended ceiling. Using reinforced engineered poly film and innovative installation methods to prevent contamination due to falling dust and debris during re-roofing and remodeling projects. Suspended ceilings are installed before the roof replacement or repair begins, remain in place throughout the project, and are removed upon completion. Therefore, providing valuable uninterrupted protection and peace of mind.  Suspended ceilings offer security against falling dust and debris and other types of contamination. Another application of interior protection is construction wall barriers. They are used to separate a construction project that produces dust, debris, and/or odor from the rest of business operations. This includes scarifying and re-flooring project, concrete cutting, remodeling, installation of new equipment, tenant improvements, restoration, and reparation. Temporary Construction wall barriers involve installing the poly engineered film floor to ceiling creating a frameless wall – a protective envelope separating the workplace from the work zone. Construction wall barriers can also be specifically customized to meet your project requirements, including doorways, tunnels, person-doors, and air filters. While not only preventing dust and debris from spreading, a vertical wall or temporary construction partition also confines contractors to their area, keeps employees safe, and prevents spread of unwanted odors. Every re-roofing or remodeling project creates dust and debris. Although the Suspended Ceiling catches the contamination, another aspect of interior protection is High Structure Cleaning. High Structure Cleaning is performed during take down of the suspended cover by using hand brooms, brushes, HEPA vacuums and other tools to clean and remove non-adhered dust and debris captured on pipes, ductwork, metal beams, trusses, and other horizontal surfaces.  High Structure Cleaning service provides additional assurances against site contamination. Every re-roofing or remodeling project has distinct challenges. Equally, no two temporary interior protection installs are alike. In the course of interior protection numerous situations may arise which require custom applications. Using proven methods and installation techniques. A temporary interior protection system can be adapted to unique situations and circumstances, such as zipper doors, curtain walls, and suspended netting. Special attention needs to be given to safety as related to fire sprinklers when dust protection is installed as a ceiling.  A sprinkler impairment plan or solution needs to be discussed with the safety officer, the building insurance company and the local Fire Marshall prior to any interior protection system installation.  Installing the interior protection above the sprinklers is not a solution as a fire could cause a localized hole directly above the fire and this hole would act as a vent trapping the heat above the fire sprinklers or the heat could cause the protection to droop onto sprinkler head thus covering the spray head reducing the effectiveness of the water spray. 