The Historical Aviation Society of Ireland (HASOI) was founded in 2004 as the interim group in Ireland to establish a sustainable infrastructure for aviation heritage in Ireland.  As a non-governmental organisation, HASOI has been developed by a firm list of aviation enthusiasts from all fields, including recreational, events management, commercial transport, voluntary and entrepreneurial sectors. Collectively this group makes up the not-for-profit movement which works independently of governing bodies and commercial groups in an enthusiast movement role. In recent years of operation, HASOI has participated in many high-profile aviation events which have led to a keen relationship between pilots, aviation personnel, the movement and commercial entities being created. This in turn has allowed the group to grow into a driving force for an aviation museum in Ireland, and to help campaign for better enthusiast facilities. HASOI has developed links to aviation groups in Ireland, such as the Foynes Flying Boat Museum which offered significant moral support to the movement in its early days; it continues to be the main representing museum in Ireland for aviation (despite the fact that it only caters for flying boats).  HASOI has acted as an intermediary between the media and aviation enthusiasts in Ireland, as in a Bloomberg International article in which the issue of troops in Shannon was discussed. This additional public presence has a double-edged effect for the group, although increasing public popularity for the causes of HASOI; it has also led to a situation whereby HASOI can be cornered into issues where they may not be able to represent the complete enthusiast and commercial membership of the movement. Despite this, Internet radio is a common broadcast platform for HASOI issues, and several local, regional and national radio stations have also allowed considerable airtime for HASOI in the past, this has been aided by a strong affinity of several of the directors to radio and broadcasting in various roles.  HASOI’s daily work involves public relations, researching on behalf of people inquiring into local history and other matters on a voluntary level, and consulting different groups on their stances on certain issues, for further discussion at a later date with governing bodies, senior groups, companies, etc. On a longer term basis, HASOI is actively involved in talks for aviation museums to be established in Ireland (including a movement museum at some stage); administering new heritage policy for Ireland is also a primary concern for the group. HASOI is also strongly involved in assisting in establishing pilot groups for enthusiasts, etc., when requested. As yet, HASOI is just a website domain and provisional body. However, the movement plans to apply for full status as a not-for-profit body, at which point it wishes to retain its status as solely an enthusiast group, rather than a governing body. 