 The Fédération Internationale des Archives de Télévision - International Federation of Television Archives (FIAT/IFTA) is a worldwide association of institutions, commercial companies and individuals managing or with a special interest in audiovisual archiving in general and television archives in particular. Many members are commercial and public broadcasters, but also national (audiovisual) archives are involved ever more. In general terms the association wants to connect the members, to spread knowledge in the field of television archiving and to defend their interests on an international level. The goal of the federation is to create cooperation among television archives, multimedia and audiovisual archives and libraries. To meet these goals,  FIAT/IFTA  provides  forums to share knowledge and experience. Some of FIAT/IFTA’s main objectives are to provide a forum for exchange of knowledge and experience between its members, to promote the study of any topic relevant to the development and use of audiovisual archives and to establish international standards on key issues regarding all aspects of audiovisual media archive management. FIAT/IFTA has over 250 members.  The office is currently situated at the Raidió Teilifís Éireann. FIAT/IFTA has working relations with other organisations in the field, amongst others as a member of the Coordinating Council of Audiovisual Archives Associations. FIAT/IFTA is chaired by a president (elected every 2 years with one possible re-election) and a general-secretary. The President, the General-Secretary, the Treasurer and the Commission Chairs are ex-officio members of the Executive Council. Next to these, the other Executive Council members, accumulating to a maximum of 12, are elected every 4 years, by groups of 6 alternating every 2 years. Next to the Executive Council, FIAT/IFTA has got 4 commissions, each with 6 à 12 members and a chair: The FIAT/IFTA World Conference is held each year, usually in October. The evening programme includes an opening cocktail, a gala dinner and the annual FIAT/IFTA Archive Achievement Awards gala. The 2016 FIAT/IFTA World Conference was held in Warsaw, the 2017 edition in Mexico City, the 2018 edition will take place in Venice, hosted by RAI. In the even years the World Conference also holds a General Assembly, during which the new president and a part of the Executive Council is elected. The Conference features keynotes speakers, panels discussions, workshops, masterclasses, case study presentations, social events, and networking opportunities.  Next to this, FIAT/IFTA organises regional seminars around the globe, in order to focus on regional television archiving challenges. Recent editions were held in Rio de Janeiro (Regional Media Management Seminar, 2016), Bucharest (Regional Television Studies Seminar, 2015) and Dubai (Regional Preservation & Migration Seminar, 2008). The Media Management Commission also organises a biannual seminar called 'Media Management Seminar' since 1998. The proceedings of these seminars are published and printed and freely available online via the FIAT/IFTA website. Recent editions where held in Lugano (2017), Glasgow (2015), Hilversum (2013), Toronto (2011) and Stockholm (2009).   FIAT/IFTA Archive Achievement Awards is a series of three annual awards given for the best use of archival material, the best archive preservation project and the most innovative use of archival material. Several other categories have come up and disappeared over the course of the nineties and 2000s. Occasionally also a Lifetime Achievement Award is attributed to a person with exceptional and enduring merits in the field of audiovisual archiving. Save Your Archive is a program designed to help saving endangered audiovisual collections. The ambition is to save the world audiovisual heritage, starting with a few collections. The Program does so by various means, including by providing financial support, training and/or technical assistance. The program speaks to FIAT/IFTA’s core mission – designing useful policies and tools to serve the archival community and developing cooperation among its members. The program works under the umbrella of the Archives at Risk campaign by the Coordinating Council of Audiovisual Archives Associations (CCAAA). In the past projects in East-Timor, Madagascar, Zimbabwe, Romania, Colombia, ... have received help from the programme. FIAT/IFTA was founded as an association under French Law on 5 October 1977, when archives directors of mainly broadcasters but also national audiovisual archives felt the need to establish a separate organisation dedicated to television archives, as they weren't accepted as members of the International Federation of Film Archives. Most members knew each other via the European Broadcasting Union. After preparative meetings in the course of 1976-1977 in Paris, London and Rome, the first conference of FIAT/IFTA was held in October 1977 in Paris. After Paris 1977, annual World Conferences took place all over the world:  Regarding the organisation of the federation, next to the ones mentioned above several other commissions have come and gone:  The past presidents of FIAT/IFTA were: 