  The Maritime Volunteer Service (MVS) is a United Kingdom wide charity which has as its motto, "We change lives through training and serving local communities". To achieve this objective it recruits volunteers from all walks of life, provides afloat experience to youth organisations and supports port and river authorities around the country. HRH Prince Michael of Kent is the charity's royal patron.  At a National level the MVS Headquarters (MVS HQ) are based in Warrington at the International Business Centre.  All decisions on policy or national regulation are formulated by the directors and trustees. Under the stewardship of chairman Captain Antony Minns MN MNI, they also oversee the governance of the charitable aspects of the MVS. The MVS is headed operationally by the Chief Volunteer Officer (CVO) who is also the chair of the Committee of Management (CoM). CoM also takes the reports of the national managers and coordinators, including: •	MVS Training Manager: Responsible for all  training matters. •	MVS Resilience Manager: Responsible for liaison nationally and regionally to develop and implement resilience strategies and co-ordinate efforts in community support. •	MVS Communications Manager: oversees the national communications, including web content and social media. •	MVS National Health & Safety Advisor oversees all aspects of matters health & safety. •	MVS National Fleet Manager: Responsible for craft management group. •	MVS National Registrar: Responsible for maintaining membership records and subscriptions and matters relating to data protection. The country is divided into four areas which are: •	Northern England •	Southern England •	Central England (incorporating Wales and Northern Ireland) •	Scotland Each area has an Area Volunteer Officer (AVO). In addition to the AVO each area may have: •	A Deputy Area Officer (D/AVO) who assists the Area Volunteer Officer. •	Area Specialist Officers (ASO) who offers advice and guidance on matters such as operations, seamanship or engineering. Each area is subdivided into distinct regions. Each region has a Regional Volunteer Officer (RVO). The RVO is elected every three years by the units within their region. Each region may also have a Deputy Regional Volunteer Officer (D\RVO). Some regions have Regional Specialist Officers (RSO) responsible for overseeing various specialisations at the regional level. Each unit is led by a Head of Unit (HoU), who is elected annually by their peers. The HoU is assisted by a Deputy Head of Unit (DHoU) who serves as the unit's second in command. The current units across the UK, include •	MVS City of London •	MVS Upper Thames •	MVS Lower Thames •	MVS North Ayrshire •	MVS Bangor (Northern Ireland) •	MVS Bristol •	MVS Cardiff City •	MVS Christchurch & Bournemouth: •	MVS East Sussex Sovereign Harbour .       MVS Fleetwood •	MVS Gosport •	MVS Humber •	MVS Isle of Wight •	MVS Port of Manchester •	MVS Medway •	MVS Menai Bridge •	MVS Milford Haven •	MVS Northumbria •	MVS Poole •	MVS Plymouth •	MVS Portsmouth (Founder Unit) .       MVS Rosyth •	MVS Rushden •	MVS Severn •	MVS Shoreham •	MVS Southampton •	MVS Swansea •	MVS Thanet •	MVS Weymouth & Portland The MVS was formed on 1 April 1994, a day after the Royal Naval Auxiliary Service was disbanded. The RNXS operated small ships such as fleet tenders and inshore minesweepers and ran Naval Control of Shipping centres ashore but was disbanded following the end of the Cold War. While many of the best aspects of RNXS operating procedures and traditions survive in the MVS, it is emphatically a civilian, but uniformed, charity whose vessels fly a defaced Red Ensign. However constructive links with the Royal Navy continue at many levels, including University RN Units. There are many ex-RN members in the MVS, and more are always welcome. Over the years MVS volunteers have achieved much. Among the many occasions when they made a difference was during the MSC Napoli salvage when the MVS played a significant role ashore and afloat and was commended by the then SOSREP, Robin Middleton. More recently the MVS had a supporting role during the 2012 Summer Olympics. Its London Units were involved in an extended deployment as part of the Environment Agency's security operation for the Olympic Rowing and Kayak Sprint events held at Eton Dorney Lake. The City of London Unit's Nelson 45 launch, Londinium 1 and three RIBs were based at Boveney Lock on the Non-tidal Thames for two weeks. The MVS craft had the privilege of being invited to take part in celebratory processions for Team GB's many gold medal winners down the river, from the Olympic Venue to Team GB's riverside hotel. The MVS also assisted Weymouth Harbour Authority during the Olympics. Poole Unit's ex-Customs launch Avocet, and RIBS from Portsmouth, Christchurch, Bournemouth, Weymouth and Portland Units worked to the Weymouth Harbour Master's instructions, patrolling the port's busy anchorages and approaches. The MVS's national training vessel East Sussex 1 sailed to Weymouth to act as a floating hotel and control centre for the crews of the other craft. The MVS's work supporting the Olympics was one of the major factors that led to it receiving the Queen's Diamond Jubilee Volunteering Award 2012.   The Maritime Volunteer Service has around 400 members in 27 units around the United Kingdom. Most units meet weekly for training, which is put into practice afloat using a range of craft including RIBs, launches, dories, and the national training vessel East Sussex 1. The MVS maintains strong links with local authorities, harbour boards and other maritime organisations. In 2014 the MVS marked its 20th Anniversary at an official dinner in Portsmouth, where the guest of honour was Vice-Admiral Sir Alan Massey KCB, CBE, RN Chief Executive of the MCA.  On 7 May 1997, the then Armed Forces Minister, Dr John Reid, announced during a visit to the Britannia Royal Naval College, Dartmouth that the Royal Navy would give formal recognition to the Maritime Volunteer Service. In his remarks, he said that the Royal Navy's recognition is a tribute to the important role that the MVS play in the education and training of young people in nautical skills.    In January 2016 the First Sea Lord Admiral Sir Philip Jones KCB ADC issued a new Defence Instruction and Notice again recognising the MVS. On 2 September 1998, a Warrant was issued giving permission for the MVS to wear a Red Ensign bearing the Service's "V" and "Anchor" logo and naval crown. The logo was designed by Commander Bruce Nicholls OBE RN, and this is only the thirty-fifth designed Red Ensign approved for use worldwide. Of that total six are flown by UK public institutions such as Trinity House, the RNLI and the Scout Association, six by dependent territories and five by Commonwealth countries and provinces. The remainder have been granted to privileged yacht clubs around the world. The MVS Ensign accurately reflects the Service's aims in promoting maritime skills amongst local communities in ports and harbours around Britain's coast.   The MVS objects are: To advance the education and training of the members of the charity and the general public in all aspects of maritime and communication skills and knowledge. The protection and preservation of life and property primarily, but not exclusively, within the maritime environment. Each member is issued an individual training log book and members can train in variety of RYA courses including: •	RYA Basic Navigation and Safety Course •	RYA Day Skipper Theory Course •	RYA Coastal Skipper / Yachtmaster Offshore Theory Course •	RYA Diesel Engine Course •	RYA Marine Radio Short Range Certificate Course •	RYA First Aid Members can also train with materials produced by the MVS covering: •	Safety at Sea •	Operation of Inboard and Outboard Motors •	Boat Handling •	Vessel Repair and Maintenance •	Chart Work and Navigation including use of navigation equipment •	Emergency Response such as pollution, incidents and afloat patrols •	Operations room skills including Command and Control •	Use of meteorological information •	Operation of craft electrical systems including fault diagnosis and rectification •	Large craft engines and auxiliary systems •	Control of berthing and berthing parties •	Small ship command and handling •	Deck and Engineering watch keeping Members progress through the various levels in their own time dependent on the amount of time they can commit to their training. Looking to the future, the MVS intend to continue to change lives both for the “Maritime Volunteer” and for their local community. 