The National Museum of Sudan or Sudan National Museum, abbreviated SNM, is a double storied  building constructed in 1955 and established as a museum in 1971. The building and its surrounding gardens house the largest and most comprehensive Nubian archaeological collection in the world including objects from the Paleolithic through to the Islamic period originating from every site of importance in the Sudan.  In particular it houses collections of these periods of the History of Sudan: Paleolithic, Mesolithic, Neolithic, A-Group culture, C-Group culture, Kerma Culture, Middle Kingdom of Egypt, New Kingdom of Egypt, Napata, Meroë, X-Group culture and medieval Makuria. The museum is located on the El Neel (Nile) Avenue in Khartoum in Al-Mugran area near the spot where the White and the Blue Niles meet.  The objects of the museum are displayed in four areas:  Key highlights of the collections include:   Kerma Culture jug with a beak in the shape of a hippopotamus head Stela of the chief of Teh-khet, Amenemhat Female Demon Beset Bronze with gold statue of a Meroitic king as an archer Beginning of CE sandstone-carved Meroitic statue raising its left arm Fresco of Faras cathedral The story from Daniel and of the three youths thrown into the furnace. In the museum garden are rebuilt some temples and tombs relocated from the submergence area of Lake Nasser. The Aswan High Dam built across the Nile River in Egypt created a reservoir in the Nubia area, which  extended into Sudan's territory threatening to submerge the ancient temples. During the UNESCO Salvage Campaign   the following temples and tombs were re-erected in the museum garden according to the same orientation of their original location surrounding an artificial strip of water symbolic of the Nile:  The temple of Aksha:The Pharao worshipping Amun The Buhen temple Temple of Kumma: The ram-headed Khnum (left) and Tuthmosis III (center) running towards Hathor (right) offering her a lapwing Temple of Semna: A New Kingdom graving shows an effigy of Sesostris III on a bark Outside the museum building are set up two granite unfinished colossi from Tabo of the Argo Island.  Due to missing inscriptions they cannot be assigned to any person but they have Roman influence. The lane leading from the museum car parking to the exhibition halls is flanked with meroitic statues of 2 rams and 6 dark sandstone men-eating lions. The lions are from the first century BCE, as shown by the two cartouches from king Amanikhabale engraved on the first lion on the right. As well as the frogs the lions were brought from Basa and represent the warlike lion-god Apedemak. Coordinates: 15°36′22″N 32°30′29″E﻿ / ﻿15.606°N 32.508°E﻿ / 15.606; 32.508 