 The Shahrisabz Museum of History and Material Culture is a museum in Shahrisabz, Uzbekistan. It was founded in 1996 on the 660th anniversary of Amir Timur's birth and contains arcaheological, ethnographic, and numismatic collections. The museum building is located in the complex of madrasah Chubin built in XIV-XVI ages and invested by UNESCO into the list of "Common to all mankind cultural wealth". At that time there were more than 40 madrasahs and mosques in the town where religious and universal sciences were taught as registered in the written sources of Amir Temur and the Timurids’ epoch. In this regard architectural structures of madrasah were very convenient to use them as a museum.  The attitude to historical culture fundamentally changed in the Kashkadaria region since the first years of Republic of Uzbekistan. In 1996 in Shakhrisabz the Museum of Historicy of material culture of Amir Temur was opened.  In 1996 as a result of the archeological excavations in connection with 660- year- old anniversary of Amir Temur, more than 6500 items of unique mosaic, a majolica, ceramic, copper, iron and wooden carved products were collected, they made the greatest collection of museum. Constantly operating exhibition "Amir Temur is the main architect of Shakhrisabz city" is organized in the museum. Written sources and the archeological finds telling about a youth of Amir Temur, his contribution to the history of Shakhrisabz, his constructions of architectural monuments when he was governor are shone here. Archeological expedition for the purpose of definition of historical age of Shakhrisabz was organized at the initiative of museum administration. Archeological researches in Sangirtepa and Uzunkir procceded within 3 years. Scientists of the Edinburgh University  of Great Britain and workers of the Hermitage of Russian Federation took part in them. Archeological expedition defined formation of the ancient city of Kesh - Shakhrisabz begun 2700 years ago, the museum was filled up more than 8500 archeological finds they were the basis for the organization of constantly operating exhibition named as "Shakhrisabz is a coeval of Avesta". 18 architectural monuments of Temurid's epoch in Shakhrisabz are entered in "Universal heritage" of UNESCO list.  In core, formation and definitions of the legal status of a museum, gathering more than 13000 exhibits, definition of scientific orientation directions passed in 1996- 2002 fundamental exhibitions were organized. During 2002-2010 the museum carried out interesting international contacts, increased the professional qualification of workers. Scientific relations with museums of Japan, Borodo-3 University of France, the Russian Hermitage, the Museum of ceramics of Italy, museums of Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Germany, cultural centers "Dashi-Art" of Kazakhstan was established. The museum started to be equipped with modern technologies. Many workers of a museum are trained in Japan, France and Arabian Republic of Egypt. The exhibition of works Saudi Arabia artists, Days of culture of people of Germany were spent in the halls of museum during this period: cooperation with Cultural center "Dashi-Art" was organized. Cultural center "Dashi-Art" is a cycle of seminars on the theme: "Organization of not conventional exhibitions in modern museums and attraction of new technologies". Coordinates: 39°38′54″N 66°58′08″E﻿ / ﻿39.64833°N 66.96889°E﻿ / 39.64833; 66.96889 