Health care in Poland is delivered through a publicly funded health care system called the National Health Fund (in Polish: Narodowy Fundusz Zdrowia), which is free for all the citizens of Poland provided they fall into the "insured" category (usually meaning that they have their health insurance paid for by their employer, or are the spouse or child of an insured person).  According to Article 68 of the Polish Constitution everyone has a right to have access to health care. Citizens are granted equal access to the publicly funded healthcare system. In particular, the government is obliged to provide free health care to young children, pregnant women, disabled people and to the elderly.  However, private healthcare use is very extensive in Poland. Patients who are uninsured have to pay the full cost of medical services. According to study conducted by CBOS in 2016, out of 84% patients taking part in survey, 40% declare to use both private and public health services, 37% use only public health care and 7% use only private health services. 77% of all responders declare using of private health care is caused by long awaiting for public health care services.  The main financing source is health insurience in the National Health Fund. Citizens are obligated to pay insurience fee (redistributed tax) which is 9% deducted from personal income (7,75% is deducted from the tax, 1,25% covered by insured goes directly to the National Health Fund).   National budget covers arround 5% of all health care expenses. Since 2007 emergency rescue services are financed in total from national budged. Total health expenses in Poland are covered in 70% by health insurience in the National Health Fund, where the remaining 30% comes from private healthcare   Structure of health system in Poland is regulated in following acts    :     Stakeholders can be expressed in categories below: According to The Act 240 dated 27.08.2004 about Health Care Public Founding, access to health care services can be provided if patient is able to confirm having health insurance by presenting document like : The basis of health care system is primary care physician (first contact physician), who is most commonly specialist in family health. Primary care physician is responsible for conducting treatment and taking preventive actions for assigned patients. If sickness requires intervention of specialist, first contact doctor issues referral to hospital or other health care unit. Refferal is not needed in units specialised in: Refferal is required to get access to:   Refferal is not required from: Emergency Medical Services (Polish: Ratownictwo Medyczne, RM) in Poland are a service of public, pre-hospital emergency healthcare, including ( ambulance service, provided by the individual Polish cities and counties.  These services are typically provided by the local, publicly operated hospital, and are generally funded by the government of Poland.  In a number of cases, the hospitals contract these services to private operators.  In addition to publicly funded services, there are a variety of private-for-profit ambulance services operating independently. The following is a listing of the clinical and university hospitals in Poland: According to National Health Situation Report 2016 , the main causes of death in Poland are:  National Health Situation Report 2016 points smoking, alcohol abuse and overweight/obesity as main factors contributing to years of life lost in DALY scale:  Smoking itself causes lost of 13,1% life, where behavioral factors takes away 36% of life. Health care system in Poland is experiencing problems from many years. According to Euro Health Consumer Index 2016, Poland is on 31. Place out of  35.  Main problems listed in Health Consumer Index 2016 are:   