The Centre de musique romantique française ("centre for French Romantic music") is a French-administered cultural institution, research centre and concert hall, in Venice, in north-eastern Italy. It is housed in the Palazzetto Bru Zane, an annex to the Palazzo Zane Collalto (it), on the Rio Marin (fr) in the sestiere of San Polo. The centre opened in October 2009.  It is funded by the Fondation Bru, which also bought, restored and renamed the Casino Zane.  The centre uses the name Palazzetto Bru Zane - Centre de musique romantique française. In 1695, Marino Zane (1639–1709) commissioned the construction of a library (no longer extant) and a casino (Italian for ‘small house, lodge’; now the palazzetto) next to the residence of the old-established family Zane, the Palazzo Zane Collalto (it).  The new buildings were intended to house his collection of books and paintings and to serve as a venue for art, music, and amusement. The architect Antonio Gaspari was responsible for the interior decoration of the casino.  The buildings were owned by the Zane family until the end of the Republic in 1797.  In 2006 the Fondation Bru bought the Casino from Dominic Habsburg-Lothringen for eight million euros, and then spent more than four million more on restoring it.   The building now holds offices, studios, a library, and the original concert hall, which now holds an Erard piano from 1902.  The frescoes in the salon and on the grand staircase, now attributed to Sebastiano Ricci, were also restored.  The centre has a staff of fifteen,  and an annual budget of three million euros.  It organises concerts, opera performances, and festivals both in Venice and elsewhere.     It also organises musicological conferences  and publishes books, sheet music,  and musical recordings, either independently or in co-operation with more than 40 labels.  Composers whose works have been brought to light owing to the commitment of the Palazzetto Bru Zane include (in chronological order) Étienne-Nicolas Méhul,  Charles-Simon Catel,  George Onslow, Ferdinand Hérold, Félicien David, Charles-Valentin Alkan, Louis Théodore Gouvy, Théodore Dubois, Benjamin Godard, Florent Schmitt, and Reynaldo Hahn. Female composers, too, have been in the centre of attention, for example Louise Farrenc, Pauline Viardot-García, Marie Jaëll, Augusta Holmès, and Cécile Chaminade. Alongside those lesser-known names, compositions of still popular composers that have been overshadowed by a small number of ‘masterpieces’ have equally been presented by the Palazzetto Bru Zane; this includes music of Charles Gounod, Camille Saint-Saëns, Jules Massenet, Claude Debussy, and Paul Dukas.  An internet radio station, Bru Zane Classical Radio, was launched in May 2016; it broadcasts only French Romantic music.  