The Cours de Civilisation Française de la Sorbonne (CCFS - the Sorbonne French language and civilisation courses) depends on the Foundation Robert de Sorbon, a public utility foundation of private status regulated by the French Law of 4 July 1990 on the foundations. The purpose of this organization is to uphold the French culture around the world by teaching French civilization and French language as a foreign language. Created in 1919, The CCFS is a French foreign language school, or français langue étrangère (FLE). Primarily attended by Americans,  the CCFS regroups today nearly 130 nationalities with a prominent presence of Germans, Americans, Britons, Brazilians, Chinese, Swedes, Koreans, Spaniards, Japanese, Poles and Russians. About seven thousand students attend the institution each year. The foundation Robert de Sorbon has a Supervisory Board, on which sit the Ministers of the Interior and Foreign Affairs, and the Rector of the Academy of Paris, Chancellor of the Universities. The Council shall appoint an Executive Board consisting of two personalities, the President, currently the Rector Jean SARRAZIN, former temporary administrator of the University of Montpellier, Bernard FRANCO, Professor of Comparative Literature at the Paris-Sorbonne University.  The headquarters of CCFS is located in the heart of the Montparnasse district in the House of students at 214 Boulevard Raspail in Paris. The CCFS provide French courses for students of all levels, from complete beginners to professor of French as a foreign language. These courses prepare either to pass various national and international evaluations such as TCF or DELF or to obtain the school own certificates. Various formula of courses are proposed according to the learner teaching intentions and needs. These formulas are made up with various courses association that includes: The CCFS also prepares to pass French tests and diplomas issued by the Minister of National Education that certify French skills of foreign candidates. Some of these tests allow the entrance into the French University. These specialised modules prepare to pass: These courses are designed for students with a good level of French. Some of these specialisations can allow to pass the Paris Chamber of Commerce and Industry's diplomas. The Business French specialisation prepares simultaneously students for both the Sorbonne's French language certificate and the Paris Chamber of Commerce and Industry's diploma by teaching French business language (composition of business documents, study of economics articles...). It enters the wider framework of professional French lessons. Through a partnership agreement signed in 2006, the TCF CIEP-Sorbonne Centre is the only centre affiliated to the International Centre of Pedagogical Studies empowered to pass the French Knowledge Test (TCF) in Paris. Since 2014, CCFS offers TCF examination sessions on computer (TCF-SO). In September 2010, the International Centre for Educational Studies (Centre international d'études pédagogiques - CIEP) and the CCFS signed a partnership agreement that gave birth to the DELF-DALF Exam Center. The DELF-DALF Exam Center is a center affiliated with CIEP empowered to pass the Diploma of French Language Studies (Diplôme d'Études en Langue Française - DELF) and the Advanced Diploma of French Language (Diplôme Approfondi de Langue Française - DALF). In partnership with a number of organizations and universities, the CCFS coordinate linguistic journeys with personalised teachings. CCFS courses are organized into sessions of various duration: 