The First Peoples’ Cultural Council (FPCC) is a First Nations governed Crown Corporation of the province of British Columbia, Canada. It is based in Brentwood Bay, British Columbia on Tsartlip First Nation. The organization was formerly known as the First Peoples' Heritage, Language and Culture Council, but shortened its name in 2012. Established in 1990 through the First Peoples' Heritage, Language and Culture Act, FPCC has been offering services and programs to support Indigenous language, arts, and culture revitalization in British Columbia. The mandate of the organization is to: Base funding for FPCC is provided through the Ministry of Indigenous Affairs and Reconciliation and further funds are raised through partnerships with public and private agencies (including the New Relationship Trust, the BC Arts Council and the Department of Canadian Heritage).  FPCC pursues its mandate through the following programs: FirstVoices is an online indigenous language archive that participating communities can independently develop to house their orthography, alphabet, oral dictionaries, phrases, songs and stories. It also offers an interactive language tutor system. Over 60 communities archive their languages on FirstVoices, and 35 of those are open to the public.  On January 29, 2018, the First Peoples’ Cultural Council announced the relaunch of a beta (preview) version of FirstVoices.com, its online Indigenous language archiving and learning resource. See www.firstvoices.com  FirstVoices Kids FirstVoices Kids is a set of interactive online games providing pre-readers with access to the language resources at FirstVoices.com. It has large colorful pictures, simple language games, and recordings of Elders speaking their language arranged to be usable by pre-readers and their family.  The FirstVoices Kids interface uses pictures to guide pre-readers through a series of simple steps to hear their language spoken and to associate words with pictures. The games also provide small motor development skills for novice computer users. Community-based language recorders select which language resources to make accessible at FV Kids, ensuring that the content is suitable for young audiences.  FirstVoices Apps FirstVoices has developed 13 interactive dictionary apps for Apple's iSO and Android. The apps contain text, audio, image and video content and are available as free downloads from the iTunes and Google Play stores.  The dictionary apps include the following Indigenous languages, which are all spoken in British Columbia: Ehattesaht, Halq’eméylem, Hlg̲aagilda X̲aayda Kil, Ktunaxa, Kwak’wala, Nazko-Dakelh, Nisg̲a’a, Northern St’at’imcets, Secwepemc, SENĆOŦEN, Tla’amin, Ucwalmícwts, Xeni Gwet’in.  FirstVoices Keyboards FirstVoices Keyboards is an Indigenous language app available for free download on Apple and Android mobile devices. Regular keypads on mobile devices are not capable of generating many of the special characters of Indigenous languages, making texting in these languages impossible for most Indigenous people. FirstVoices Keyboards, an evolution of FirstVoices Chat, allows speakers of over 100 Indigenous languages in Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the USA to use their mobile devices to text, email, use social media, and create documents using keyboards designed for their languages. Language Tutor In 2009, FirstVoices launched the FirstVoices Language Tutor, an interactive, online teaching application. The FirstVoices Language Tutor delivers graduated language exercises in vocabulary development, reading comprehension, listening and speaking. Language Tutor lessons are customizable and can be targeted to specific age groups or curriculum. Any word or phrase in an existing FirstVoices language archive can be used in a Language Tutor lesson, or new words and phrases can be added. The Language Tutor also offers a student tracking system that allows teachers to follow the progress of an entire classroom of students.  Language Lab The FirstVoices Language Lab is an iPad-based language-teaching app designed to deliver FirstVoices Language Tutor lesson content via a stand-alone portable language laboratory. No Internet access is required for the Language Lab to run. Language Nests To learn more about this program follow this link  Language Revitalization Planning To learn more about this program follow this link  Mentor-Apprentice Program To learn more about this program follow this links  The Aboriginal Languages Initiative (ALI)  The B.C. Languages Initiative (BCLI) First Peoples' Language Map of British Columbia Silent Speaker Program Language and Culture Camps To learn more about this program follow this link  Endangered Language Project To learn more about ELP see website. The First Peoples' Cultural Council's arts program supports the development of First Nations artists and arts organizations with funding through the Aboriginal Arts Development Awards and Aboriginal Youth Engage in the Arts, by providing mentoring, workshops, resources and organizational capacity building workshops.  Aboriginal Arts Development Award (AADA) In partnership with The New Relationship Trust and the BC Arts Council, the arts program provides grants to Indigenous artists, organizations and collectives, with applications accepted each fall.  Applicants may apply for funding in the following areas: Emerging Individual Artists, Sharing Traditional Arts Across generations, Organizations and Collectives, Aboriginal Arts Administrator and Cultural Manager Internships. Aboriginal Youth Engaged in the Arts (AYEA) An additional funding stream, Aboriginal Youth Engaged in the Arts (AYEA), is also available to applicants. This stream is for projects and programs that encourage youth between the ages of 15 and 30 to participate in artistic and creative activity that also engages with cultural identity.  First Peoples' Arts Map The First Peoples Arts Map is a living interactive environment for Indigenous artists and arts organizations to create an online presence, and be networked to the other participants throughout the province. The site is fully searchable for those wanting to learn more about Indigenous arts practices in B.C. Online Arts Toolkit The online arts toolkit provides Indigenous artists with access to information and materials that can assist them in their careers, such as a grant writing handbook and an arts portfolio handbook.  In addition to developing programs to assist language revitalization efforts and support artists in First Nations communities, the First Peoples' Cultural Council also develops resources to educate the population of British Columbia about Indigenous languages and their endangered status in B.C. 'The First Peoples' Language Map of British Columbia divides the province of British Columbia by approximate language boundary. It also houses comprehensive data on the First Nations and their languages based on Language Needs Assessments, which are filled out by communities seeking language funding from the First Peoples' Cultural Council. The Language Map database continues to grow as communities update and fill out new Language Needs Assessments.  Report on the Status of B.C. First Nations Languages The 2010 Report on the Status of B.C. First Nations Languages provides concrete data on the state of B.C. First Nations languages, including the number of speakers remaining, the number of students learning the languages, the resources available for each language and information on the language revitalization work being done in the province.  The key findings of the 2010 report include: The 2014 Report on the Status of B.C. First Nations Languages, Second Edition acted as a follow up examination of the context presented by the 2010 report. Key findings include: Language Legislation  In December 2016, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced that the federal government would be developing legislation to support the revitalization Indigenous languages in Canada. In his announcement, he stated that, "our government will enact an Indigenous Languages Act, co-developed with Indigenous Peoples, with the goal of ensuring the preservation, protection, and revitalization of First Nations, Metis, and Inuit languages in this country."  The First Peoples’ Cultural Council held regional sessions in May and June 2017 to talk about the promised Indigenous language legislation for Canada. The organization's goal was to ensure that B.C. language experts would be well-informed so that when the national Assembly of First Nations (AFN) conducted its consultations, everyone would be prepared to provide input. FPCC compiled a report based on the information that was gathered at these sessions, and also encouraged First Nations communities to develop their own position papers to submit to the Minister of the Department of Canadian Heritage and the National AFN.  For more information on the Language Legislation, Assembly of First Nations Engagement Sessions, regional engagement and information sessions, and language reports see FPCC's Language Legislation page. First Peoples' Cultural Council's News Room 