Heinrich Pesch House (HPH) is a   Catholic academy in Rhine-Neckar, in Ludwigshafen, Germany. The Jesuit-run centre offers lectures, seminars, workshops and conferences. The conference centre's facilities include 18 seminar rooms with modern media technology, a 120-seat conference room and a 400-seat auditorium. The 76 rooms are available to the general public, when they are not being used for conferences, as a means of maintaining the centre.   The Heinrich Pesch Foundation was founded in 2013 to support the centre and specific programs.  A non-profit organization, HPH is supported by the Diocese of Speyer, the Jesuit Order and the Catholic community of Ludwigshafen and Mannheim.   Heinrich Pesch was a 19th-century Jesuit whose economic theory had a major impact on Rerum Novarum, which was the first Catholic social encyclical.    Mysticism as a Way of Life is a series at Pesch that helps put people in contact with the spiritual dimension of their nature.  The series also covers topics like the Church as an institution in change, offers seminars on the Bible, and hosts inter-religious dialogue.  The Christian-Islamic Circle is an opportunity for encounter and for discussion of current theological, spiritual, and social questions.  HPH also partners with the Protestant Academy of the Palatinate.  HPH, in continuity with the work of Heinrich Pesch, seeks to create a more humane society by addressing topics on economics and society.  For instance, Pesch House hosted an ecumenical conference on topics such as global justice and sustainability.  It is also listed as a center for the social counseling and integration of migrants.  Pesch House offers courses for labor leaders and employee representatives in the southwest of Germany. Topics covered include rights and obligations, effective practices, labour law and collective bargaining. Special sessions are scheduled on topics like bullying, communication, stress and mediation.  One conference focused on the church's treatment of its employees.  Families are offered guidance for all of life's stages and situations by educational offerings  and the information on the centre's website.  One offering, in conjunction with the Bishops' Foundation for the Mother Child, was an exhibition and panel discussion on living with a handicapped child and used research studies on its impact on parents and on society.  Another program was for women in cooperation with Women and Culture.  For its presentations on the life experiences of boys, fathers, and grandfathers, HPH devised and conducted a survey of grandfathers, fathers and sons and collated the findings.  It also sponsors programs for children, youth and adults on celebration of the liturgy.  The Catholic Youth Centre has its offices at HPH,  where awards ceremonies are also held.   The ZEFOG Centre for Ethics, Leadership and Organization Development in Healthcare is run by the Pesch House. It covers issues like ethics, personnel and organization development, and case counselling.  Children of priests have advocated for the HPH to take up their cause.  The Centre for Ignatian Pedagogy teaches Ignatian pedagogy  and develops evaluation tools to improve the quality of teaching.  Schools supported by the Jesuit order and all other interested institutions are welcome.  Additionally, HPH supplies staff to assist in the reflection component of student insertion experiences.  Coordinates: 49°29′4.96″N 8°24′39.64″E﻿ / ﻿49.4847111°N 8.4110111°E﻿ / 49.4847111; 8.4110111  