Indian Social Institute, Bangalore, has been an extension service of the Jesuits in Pune, New Delhi, India, since the 1950s, working for social change in the interests of poor and underserved peoples. In 1993 it became an independent NGO and took its current name. In 1951, Jesuit Fr. Jerome D'Souza, an educator and member of the Indian Constituent Assembly, founded the Indian Institute of Social Order in Pune, India, to contribute to the emergence of a new social order in post-independence India. The quarterly journal Social Action was launched in 1951 and regional training centres were established in various parts of the country, including Bangalore. In 1963 the Institute in Pune moved to New Delhi and in 1967 became Indian Social Institute. Extension services increased especially in the southern states around Bangalore, giving assistance to the cooperative movement and offering consultancy services for development agencies, among other programs. Trainees spent up to three months learning the process of social analysis and skills for social mobilization. Numerous action groups emerged, trained at ISI-B, such as the fisherman's movement in Kerala. Since the 1980s the Documentation Centre of Indian Social Institute functioned out of Bangalore furnishing documentation for activists throughout India. By 1993 the need was realized to make the Indian Social Institute in Bangalore a separate NGO.  In the post-independence era from 1950 to 1990 India had a socialist nuance to its policies, with five-year plans focused on the eradication of poverty, greater food production, and industrialization; the state was the major actor. But the failure of land reform and gradual shift from self-reliance to import dependence led to an economic crisis. Privatization and disinvestment by the government was accompanied by acquisition of land for private and multinational industrial development and for mining operations. Many adivasis, dalits, and farmers became contract laborers or migrated to city slums.  The Institute advocated increased productivity in the small-holder farming sector and growth in the internal market. The primary task of ISI-B in the 1990s was to train members of the working class to resist privatization that might threaten the inclusiveness of the social fabric of the nation.  From 1993 onwards, ISI-B began to organize outreach programs in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu, and later in Telangana.  The units themselves were established only in 2001 after much discussion. Democratization of knowledge is the underlying foundation of these programs which are designed to educate in socio-cultural realities, animation skills, and an egalitarian value perspective. Grassroots activists, leaders of people’s movements, college students, and elected representatives of Panchayati Raj Institutions are among those making use of the outreach programs. They are local in nature, use the local language, and address specific needs.  In 2000, a Human Rights Unit was initiated to advocate at the national  and international levels.  In 2001 the outreach unites were initiated. A women's unit and a research unit were added. The Director in 2008 published his research on the agrarian crisis in India, tracing it in part to India's policy of globalization.   By 2011 the ISI-B was most heavily involved in training programmes,  an Institute of values, extension work, and hosting NGO conferences including affordable accommodation facilities.  In 2011 the general superior of the Jesuits included ISI-B headquarters during his trip to India.  Current ISI-B programs are divided among various units: research,  human rights and training,  labour and migration, women,  and library and documentation.   Included in its priorities are advocacy   and environmental concerns.    It also enjoys the assistance of professional mediators.  Some trained at the Institute have gone on to become leaders for change.  At the golden jubilee celebrations of the Institute in 2013, the goals for the way forward were to train and advocate toward strengthening the plural character of society (no controlling religion,  class, or caste),  to publicize the impact on the poor of the New Economic Policy, to help strengthen the Dalit Movement,  and to join with others on various works in the public interest.  Justice H.N. Nagamohan Das of Karnataka High Court inaugurated the golden jubilee celebrations and Ms. Teesta Setalvad, noted human rights activist, delivered the 7th Volken Memorial Lecture on the theme "A Republic’s Dilemma: Constitutional Principles vs. Majoritarianism."  This was the occasion for regional meetings of former trainees, a workshop on 20 years of neo-liberal policies,  a research study, instituting of a Volken Memorial Golden Jubilee Award for an activist of the year, production of a documentary, initiation of a diploma course, and publication of a book that contains a history of the ISI-B.  ISI-B serves as a publisher for social activists.  