The Sentro Rizal is a Philippine government-sponsored organization whose main objective is the global promotion of Filipino art, culture and language.  Established by virtue of the National Cultural Heritage Act of 2009, its headquarters is located at the National Commission for Culture and the Arts (NCCA) office in Intramuros, Manila. The Sentro Rizal is named in honor of José Rizal, a national hero of the Philippines.  The Sentro Rizal's thrust is to initiate and organize cultural training programs and activities for Filipinos, especially for children overseas, to promote appreciation and understanding of Philippine languages, cultures and the arts. Through the years the Philippines had established cultural centers through the initiative of its diplomatic missions. These include: Berne, Madrid, Prague (established in 2011), Muscat, Vientiane (established in 2012), Hong Kong, Los Angeles (established in 2013), Ankara (established in 2014), Bangkok, Beijing, Berlin, Buenos Aires, Wellington, Xiamen (established in 2015). Moreover, four centers were officially inaugurated by the NCCA, these are in Phnom Penh, Jakarta (established in 2015), Seoul, Yangon (established in 2016). In 2015 the first Filipino language pilot class was conducted in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. Twenty-four students completed the first language class for beginners' level dubbed as "Masayang Matuto ng Filipino". The Commission on Filipinos Overseas has made use of digital media in disseminating Filipiniana for overseas Filipinos, called the "Virtual Sentro Rizal". This is a Filipiniana collection that comprises 250 gigabytes of data including 72 hours of video of Filipino cultural materials covering different genres across regions.  The official logo of the Sentro Rizal is composed of two elements, the balangay and baybayin which are both significant to Filipino heritage. The letters "S" and "R" are rendered in the ancient Filipino syllabic script known as baybayin and are stylized to form a balangay, an ancient Philippine edged-pegged plank boat, reflecting the maritime heritage of the Philippines and depicting the character of Filipino migrants. The balangay also represents the quest of individuals in exploring the real essence of Filipino identity through culture and arts. The Sentro Rizal acts as the balangay which provides overseas Filipinos and their children the means to connect to their roots – instilling a strong sense of nationhood and pride among them in being Filipinos. The color of the Sentro Rizal logo was patterned from NCCA's logo – blue and gold. 