Sound Diplomacy is a London, Barcelona and Berlin-based music agency.  Advisors to the company include Spotify’s Will Page, Scott Cohen and Damon Forbes of Sheer Sound, while further insights come from Shain Shapiro’s research on his PhD thesis entitled ‘The History Of Popular Music Funding In Canada'.   Sound Diplomacy was founded in May 2013 by Shapiro, UK representative for the Canadian Independent Music Association (CIMA, formerly CIRPA),  and the former UK head of Catalan! Arts Jordi Puy.  Katja Hermes became the director of the company’s German office in November 2013.   Sound Diplomacy launched with clients including CIMA, HootSuite, ICEC and Osheaga MEG Pro.  In October 2013, Sound Diplomacy partnered with Martin Elbourne and Spanish promoter Xavi Manresa to launch a new boutique showcase in Catalonia, 'Lleida Sessions Pro'.  Also in October 2013, Sound Diplomacy reached an agreement to represent the Spanish music conference 'Bizkaia International Music Experience (BIME)' in countries such as UK, Canada, Australia, South Africa, Colombia and Uruguay.   In November 2013, Sound Diplomacy established a partnership with Nouvelle Prague, a showcase festival that takes place in Prague, Czech Republic.    In April 2014 Sound Diplomacy hired artist manager Danny Keir, who previously had worked at Black Book Management with artists such as Razorlight, Noisettes, Glitches and Lucy Rose.     In addition, Sound Diplomacy started working on Mixcloud's #Curates conference, the online distribution service Music Kickup, South African festival Parklife, in-flight content for Iberia with content marketing agency Spafax, on the first music business event in Costa Rica called Epicentro, Initiative Musik Germany, the Adam Mickiewicz Institute in Poland and Berklee College of Music and their online degree program.   In November 2013, Shain Shapiro was nominated as a finalist for The Hospital Club's #100 list in the British Council's Creative Entrepreneurs Category for his work at Sound Diplomacy.   Sound Diplomacy were shortlisted for Best Hackney Business at The Mayor of Hackney's Business Awards 2015.   