    The arts are a vast subdivision of culture, composed of many creative endeavors and disciplines. It is a broader term than "art," which as a description of a field usually means only the visual arts. The arts encompasses visual arts, literary arts and the performing arts – music, theatre, dance, spoken word and film, among others. Art, in its broadest meaning, is the expression of creativity or imagination. The word art comes from the Latin word ars, which, loosely translated, means "arrangement". Art is commonly understood as the act of making works (or artworks) which use the human creative impulse and which have meaning beyond simple description.  Art is often distinguished from crafts and recreational hobby activities. The term creative arts denotes a collection of disciplines whose principal purpose is the output of material for the viewer or audience to interpret. As such, art may be taken to include forms as diverse as prose writing, poetry, dance, acting or drama, film, music, sculpture, photography, illustration,  architecture, collage, painting, craft and fashion. Art may also be understood as relating to creativity, æsthetics and the generation of emotion. More about culture, the arts, and art...  Culture and Humanities  – Celebrities • Classics • Critical theory • Language • Movements • Mythology • Philosophy • Popular culture • Traditions • Tourism  Culture – set of shared attitudes, values, goals, and practices that define a group of people, such as the people of a particular region. Culture includes the elements that characterize a particular peoples' way of life.   Arts: Dance: Dances • Dance styles Entertainment: Sports: Shared franchise names • Judo techniques • Martial arts (Weapons) • Gay athletes • Sports leagues, Defunct sports leagues • Ski areas • Surfing • List of sports Gaming: Games, by year (non-video) • Board game publishers • Japanese board games • Mancala variants • Miniature wargames Literature: By year • Publishers • Scientific journals Mythology: Celtic mythological beings • Demigods • Greek mythological characters • Nordic Gods Other: Artworks known in English by a foreign title • Colors • Public Art • Calendars • Gardening • Goethe-Institut locations • Headgear • Holidays • Knots • Mascots • Museums • Paintings (most expensive) • Recordings •   Culture  Arts (Aesthetics) Fashion Recreation and Entertainment  Culture Clothing • Owarai • Wine Architecture  (Classical) • Dance  (Ballet • Partners) • Glass Art • Graffiti • Literary • Motion picture • Music  (Bagpipes • Colombian • Italian (used in English) • Guitar • Jazz and Popular • Eponymous musical terms) • Poetry  (Groups and movements) • Sculpture Anime and manga  • Dune • Jabberwocky • Literary terms • Newspeak words Chess (Problems) • Contract bridge • Go opening • Pinball • Poker • Role-playing games • Sudoku • Solitaire American football • Association football • Australian and New Zealand punting • Baseball • Basketball • Canadian football • Climbing • Cricket • Cue sports (pool, carom billiards, snooker) • Curling • Cycling (Parts) • Darts • Equestrianism • Fencing • Figure skating • Golf • Ice hockey • Rowing • Rugby league • Rugby union • SCUBA and underwater diving • Sports terms named after people • Sumo wrestling • Table tennis • Tennis • Trampolining • Volleyball • Water polo • Wing Chun • Wrestling Conjuring • Notaphily • Numismatics  Culture and The arts 