United Art Rating is a reference book published since 1999 by Artists Trade Union of Russia as one of the instruments of art market regulations.    United Art Rating (before 2012, referred to as United Artists Rating) is a rating published as a periodical reference book, registered as mass media. As of 2016, it has stood 22 printed editions, total number of printed copies is more than 90000.  The electronic version is also available.  On January 1, 2016, United Art Rating included the names, dates of life and rating categories of 58965 artists (painters, graphic and poster artists, theatre decorators, batik painters, illustrators, animators, sculptors, jewelers, ceramists, authors of installations etc.). Editor-in-chief: Sergey Zagraevsky, chairman of Artists Trade Union of Russia, member of Russian Academy of Arts and Russian Academy of Art-critics, Honored culture worker of Russian Federation.  In 2002, United Art Rating was awarded the gratitude of the Minister of culture of Russia.  The Rating Centre acts under Artists Trade Union of Russia and has a status of an independent professional jury, free in its judges and estimations. Defining rating categories is made on the basis of all available information about works of art, biographies, expositions, collections and sales of works, catalogues and Internet and press publications, art historians' and art-managers' opinions, public opinion polls etc. United Art Rating consists of 2 sections: Artists are subdivided into categories "A" and "B": an artist of "A" category does not virtually submit to the market's demand. an artist of "B" category is mainly oriented to the market demand. Each category has its levels from the first (the top of recognition and fame; is referred to the deceased classic artists, whose works of art are widely recognized in museums) to the seventh one (amateur artist). According to the declared principles, defining of rating categories is made on available information about expositions, sales and collections of works, catalogues, publications, biographies, public-opinion polls etc. Rating criteria are: art level of works, their humanistic significance, professionalism, exhibitions, works in museums, recognition by the public, galleries and art critics, social and civil significance of works, price level of works etc. United Art Rating contains pricing recommendations about sale and purchase of works of art. United Art Rating is constantly changed, refined and supplemented. International Art Rating includes the first three categories of United Art Rating (i.e. 1, 1A, 1B, 2A, 2B, 3A and 3B). These artists formed and are forming the history of world art of 18th–21st centuries. International Art Rating includes artists of Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, United Kingdom, Bulgaria, Canada, Colombia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia and former Soviet republics, the republics of the former Yugoslavia, United States, Finland, France, Spain, Switzerland, Sweden, Japan and some other countries, such as Namibia. All famous artists of the period mentioned in the project are represented such as Vincent van Gogh, Pablo Picasso, Henri Matisse, Wassily Kandinsky, Emil Nolde, Joseph Beuys, Andy Warhol just to name a few. From Namibia e.g. the artists Adolph Jentsch, Hans Anton Aschenborn, Dieter Aschenborn and Uli Aschenborn are listed in the project (see  'Internet-project'  under  'External links'  below). The art of the rated artists form the world art heritage.  Internet-project "Greatest world artists of XVIII–XXI centuries" is created on the base of International Art Rating  (about 11000 artists). Before 2014 the project was called "10000 best world artists of XVIII–XXI centuries". 