Don Troiani (born 1949) is an American painter whose work focuses on his native country's military heritage, mostly from the American Revolution, War of 1812 and American Civil War. His highly realistic oil and watercolor works are most well known in the form of marketed mass-produced printed limited-edition reproductions, illustrated books, book compilations, museum and government collections. He is also a militaria collector. Troiani was born in New York City and studied at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts and New York City's Art Students League between 1967 and 1971. Don Troiani's paintings are realistic and academic in style, mostly oil on canvas or Gouache on paper. He uses posed models with clothing and equipment from his collection of original uniforms, equipage, insignia and weapons. Troiani also studies battlefields, weather conditions, and structures depicted in his paintings firsthand. In 1995, he designed the three Civil War battlefield commemorative coins for the United States Mint. His work has also appeared on a U.S. postal card commemorating the anniversary of the U.S. National Guard. Troiani is also a recipient of the Meritorious Service Award of the United States National Guard. Troiani's artwork has appeared on various media including: Troiani has an extensive collection of Civil War, War of 1812, Revolutionary War, and World War II uniforms, equipage, insignia and weapons. He also consults and appraises for museums and collectors on the subject of military artifacts. Items from his militaria collection have appeared in the Time-Life "Echoes Of Glory" series on the Civil War. Other artifacts of his have been loaned for exhibition at the Smithsonian Institution, Delaware Historical Society, Connecticut Museum of History, Pamplin Park, The West Point Museum, Virginia Historical Society, and the National Park Service Visitors Center in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. Troiani has been a consultant on Civil War uniforms and equipage for the feature film, Cold Mountain,   52 Episodes of History Channel's Civil War Journal, and the A&E miniseries The American Revolution. Books authored and co-authored by Don Troiani: 