Open educational practices (OEP) is the use of Open educational Resources for teaching and learning in order to innovate the learning process (Ehlers 2010). They are represented in teaching techniques that draw upon open technologies and high-quality open educational resources (OER) in order to facilitate collaborative and flexible learning.   They may involve students participating in online, peer production communities   within activities intended to support learning   or more broadly, any context where access to educational opportunity through freely available online content and services is the norm.  Such activities may include (but are not limited to  ), the creation, use and repurposing of open educational resources and their adaptation to the contextual setting.    OEP can also include the open sharing of teaching practices  and aim "to raise the quality of education and training and innovate educational practices on an institutional, professional and individual level".  The OEP community includes policy makers, managers/ administrators of organisations, educational professionals and learners.  OEP are also viewed as the next phase in OER development that continues to transform 21st century learning and learners.  A database or repository of open educational resources is not open educational practice (Ehlers 2011). OER have a lifecycle of creation, use, and management. Open educational practices aim to take the focus beyond building further access to OER and consider how in practice, such resources support education and promote quality and innovation in teaching and learning. They focus on reproduction/understanding, connecting information, application, competence and responsibility rather than the availability of good resources.  There is no canonical definition of open educational practice, however various groups and scholars have given their definition or view. One such scholar is Ehlers (2011) who defines OEP "as practices which support the (re)use and production of OER through institutional policies, promote innovative pedagogical models, and respect and empower learners as co-producers on their lifelong learning path".  A definition used by others either in its entirety  or as basis for further development.    Best practice case studies identify a number of OEP areas.  These areas surround the following topics, with other studies identifying categories and elements of Open Educational Practices. topics    categories    elements    Adopting OEP can lead to opportunities for collaborative learning through the affordances of Web 2.0 tools. In this context, open also refers to the learning environment where learner's set their own objectives rather than being restricted by those set externally (a closed environment).  Open educational practices can also provide the experience and tools to help bridge the gap between formal and informal learning, and potentially an open source curriculum or emergent curriculum.  The trajectory to Open Education Practices lies between the use of open pedagogical models and, resource use and creation.:  The Open Educational Quality (OPAL) Initiative define Open Educational Practices (OEP) as "the use of Open Educational Resources (OER) to raise the quality of education and training and innovate educational practices on institutional, professional and individual level".  For the mainstreaming of Open Educational Practices OPAL recommends:  The International Council for Open and Distance Education sees OEP as those practices which support the production, use and reuse of high quality open educational resources and regards that OEP are often achieved through institutional policies, which promote innovative pedagogical models, and respect. Learners are empowered as co-producers on their lifelong learning path. The scope of OEP covers all areas of OER governance: policy makers, managers and administrators of organizations, educational professionals and learners.  Open e-Learning Content Observatory Services (OLCOS) project is a Transversal Action under the European eLearning Programme.  The OLCOS Roadmap focuses on Open Educational Practices, providing orientation and recommendations to educational decision makers on how to develop the use of OER. To further benefit from OERs one needs to better understand how their role could promote innovation and change in educational practices.  The Roadmap states that; delivering OER to the dominant model of teacher-centred knowledge transfer will have little effect in equipping teachers, students and workers with the knowledge and skills required in the knowledge economy and, lifelong learning. Downloading Web-accessible, open teaching materials for classes and, continuing a one-way channel of content provision, will likely mirror the little impact achieved with regard to changing educational practices following the massive investments in the e-learning infrastructure by educational institutions. Open Educational Practices aim to deliver a competency-focused, constructivist paradigm of learning and promote a creative and collaborative engagement with digital content, tools and services to meet knowledge and skills required today.  The Support Centre for Open Resources in Education (SCORE) at the Open University (UK), was the second major initiative to be funded by the Higher Education Funding Council for England (Hefce). (The first being the UKOER programme, jointly run by the Joint Information Systems Committee (JISC) and the Higher Education Academy (HEA)).  Discussions and actions were moving on from how open educational resources are published to how they are used. Placing OER as an enabler, within a wider set of open educational practices. Over a period of three years, SCORE, initiated a series of activities and events that involved several hundred educational practitioners from the majority of the higher education institutions in England.  There has been interest in how educational practitioners would accept and embed open resources into their practices (Geser, 2007 in  ). Sharing is at the heart of the philosophy OER and probably OEP and thus collective and cooperative activities between people and institutions are likely to be a key factor in the sustainability of such practices. SCORE reports it succeeded in raising the profile of OER and OEP within UK higher education institutions by assisting existing communities of practice and by creating new communities of practice to form a much larger network of practice that will be sustained by its participants.  There are many challenges to the adoption of open educational practices. Certain aspects like technology have received greater attention than others  but all of the factors below inhibit widespread use of open educational practices: In order for there to be widespread adoption of OEP, legal and educational policy must change  and OEP needs to become sustainable.    In search for the Open Educator: Proposal of a definition and a framework to increase Openness adoption among university educators.  