In clothing, a train describes the long back portion of a robe, cloak, skirt, overskirt, or dress that trails behind the wearer. It is a common part of ceremonial robes in Academic dress, Court dress or Court uniform. It is also a common part of a woman's formal evening gowns or wedding dresses. Trains in modern (20th and 21st century) bridal wear have their own terminology: Brides of the Ndebele people of Southern Africa traditionally wear long beaded trains hung from the shoulder, known as nyoga (snake).  Trains are a common feature of the Royal mantles of Kings and Princes, as well as the mantles of many chivalric orders. Officers of older, traditional universities generally wear distinctive and more elaborate dress. The Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor may wear a black damask lay type gown with a long train.    In France the train is now usually hooked to the inner side of the robe. The Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, when robed, dresses like a High Court Judge with the distinction of a train to his scarlet robe.  Judges of the Court of Appeal wear the black silk damask gown, trained and heavily embellished with gold embroidery.  French court dress includes a train, now buttoned to the inside of the robe and suspended by fabric bands, a vestige of the former practice of lawyers carrying their trains.  The Lord Chancellor, the Speaker of the House of Commons, and other high dignitaries also wear similar embroidered black robes with trains.  The Lord Mayor of London also wears a robe with a train.  A trained robe, the cappa magna (great cape) remains in use in the Catholic Church for certain ceremonial occasions. Cardinals, bishops, and certain other honorary prelates are entitled to wear the cappa magna, but within the territory of their jurisdiction.  Eastern Orthodox bishops also traditionally use a cloak with a long train known as the  Mandyas, which may have parallels with the development of the Catholic cappa magna. For male peers, the Coronation robe is a cloak of crimson velvet extending to the feet, open in the front (with white silk satin ribbon ties) with train trailing behind.   The Parliament robe of a British peer is a full-length garment of scarlet wool with a collar of white miniver fur, cut long as a train, but this is usually kept hooked up inside the garment.  Court dresses for women were commonly fifteen yards in length.  Court dresses for noble women sometimes had trains both behind and in front of the dress.  Japanese Imperial court clothing, sokutai for men and jūnihitoe for women, both include a long train extending from the back of the robe. It remains in use with the Imperial Household of Japan for ceremonial occasions.  The Lord Chief Justice, 2013 The scarlet robe, with train, Lord Mayor of London Chancellor of the Exchequer Robe of State Mantle of the Knights of the Order of the Holy Spirit, France Coronation robes of an earl, William Pitt Cardinal Rode wearing a winter cappa magna Serbian Orthodox bishop in mandyas King Frederick William IV of Prussia in mantle Isabeau of Bavaria with long ermine-lined train; c. late 14th century or early 15th century Mantua with train, 1698 Pauline Bonaparte manteau de cour, a train attached at chest level, introduced by Napoleon,  1808 Court dress and train, English, 1822 Evening gown with train, 1883 Court presentation dress and train, 1897 Short wedding dress with long train attached. 1920s Japanese bride in a white dress with train, 2007  