Sheikh Ibrahim bin Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz bin Abdullah Al Sowayel (Arabic: الشيخ إبراهيم بن عبد الله بن عبد العزيز بن عبد الله السويّل‎; 1916 – 22 January 1977) was a Saudi Arabian statesman and diplomat who most notably served as the Saudi Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1960 to 1962. Appointed on 22 December 1960 by King Saud, he succeeded the future king, Faisal bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and was succeeded by him again in on 16 March 1961. He was noted for being the first non-member of the Saudi royal family to hold the position of foreign minister. He also served as the Saudi Arabian ambassador to both the United States and Iraq, as the Saudi Minister of Agriculture, and later as a member of the Council of Ministers and an advisor to the Royal Court. Al-Sowayel was born in Unaizah, Al-Qassim Province. His father was Sheik Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz Al Sowayel, an imam at a Unaizah mosque. He graduated from Cairo University, and he was the first Najdi person to attend university. Al Sowayel began his career teaching at a mission school in Mecca, before joining the diplomatic corps of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.  He later served as a political advisor to King Saud, and a diplomat at the Saudi Embassy in Cairo, Egypt. From 1958 to 1960, before being appointed foreign minister, he was the Ambassador of Saudi Arabia to Iraq.  Al Sowayel was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs by a royal decree of King Saud, and took office on 22 December 1960.   His predecessor was Faisal bin Abdulaziz Al Saud (later King Faisal), and a close friend. With Faisal having held the office since its creation in 1930, Al Sowayel became the country's second foreign minister, and the first minister not a member of the Saudi royal family.   Al Sowayel held the office of foreign minister briefly, for less than two years, before returning it back to Faisal, whom he had asked to succeed him.  He left office on 16 March 1962. On 31 October 1962, Al Sowayel took office as the Saudi Minister of Agriculture, serving until 29 August 1964.  When Faisal became King of Saudi Arabia, Al Sowayel was appointed Saudi Ambassador to the United States, serving until Faisal's assassination in 1975.  Faisal's half-brother, Khalid, became king, and Al Sowayel left his ambassadorship and returned to the capital of Riyadh to help aide the new monarch. From 1975 until his death in 1977, he served as an advisor to the Saudi Royal Court and as a member of the Council of Ministers.  Al Sowayel died of complications from emphysema at dawn on 21 May 1977 in Riyadh.  