Javier Perez-Capdevila is a distinguished Cuban scientist, internationally renowned applying mathematics to environmental management, knowledge management, economics and accounting, among other fields of science and life. He is Senior Advisor to the Science, Technology and Environment Ministry; Guantanamo Delegation, Cuba, and Full Professor in University of Guantanamo. He was born on February 7, 1963, in Guantanamo, capital of the province. He accomplished all his studies up to the university level as a student in his natal province, graduated at the Institute of Pedagogical Sciences as a bachelor in Education in the Mathematics specialty, in 1985; he was the first and only student up to that time ever obtaining all the prizes awarded in a graduation. That way, he graduated in sports and culture, in teaching practice, as best assistant pupil, as an undergraduate instructor and of course as the most integral graduate. He received his diploma of hands of the President of Cuba Republic Fidel Castro Ruz, in an act held in Havana, at the Karl Marx  theater in June 1985, in occasion of the First Graduation in Education in the Primary Teachers specialty, attended by relevant students of other specialties.  His work experience now counts more than 30 years, since he was as a pupil assistant  teacher and undergraduate instructor. He has worked as university professor, executive in education, mathematician in the Unit of Analysis and Tendencies in Health and specialist for the control of the scientific activity and technology of the Ministry of Science, Technology and the Environment (CITMA), where he directs nowadays the Science and Technology Unit, in addition, he keeps his links with the university, where he has taught pre-grade courses, master´s and doctorate´s lectures.  Being very young, a university student, he stood out at the scientific investigation's field, obtaining multiple awards and mentions at provincial and national spaces. He has introduced several concepts in fuzzy mathematics and he has exemplified in a creative way its practical application, including:  He has also created two theories which have demonstrated applicability in practice:  The mixture of fuzzy sets, an operation between fuzzy sets where for the first time in worldwide mathematics was demonstrated an operation with the elements of the sets turning them into new elements. It is a new thing in mathematics, and it has universal validity.  He demonstrated the value of diagnosis of his theory in the evaluation of work and professional competences in his first presentation, and he proved the prospective value of the mixture of fuzzy sets, demonstrating how and up to what point the natural, the technological and the human capitals can generate products. In the field of applied mathematics he has achieved important advances regarding the evaluation of the economical effects and control of the exotic invading alien species, and he has accomplished important theoretical contributions. He has contributed to the concepts of individual benefit of an exotic invading alien species, collective benefit of an exotic invading alien species, a priori cost-benefit analysis of an exotic invading alien species, a posteriori cost-benefit analysis of an exotic invading alien species, as well as a method to accomplish those analyses.  He has also accomplished significant theoretical contributions to the applied mathematics's field at the entrepreneurial Management level, emphasizing in the precise and measurable concept of work competences;  he has also introduced the concept of maps of work competences,  a people's classification on the base of the map of work competences; he created a method to evaluate and measure the work competences taking as a starting point the human perception and constructing their map for decisión taking inside the organization.  He created a method to determine the relationship between work competences and salaries,  which evaluates the losses that can be generated due to the lack of competences (whether laboral or professional ). In the same way he constructed a simulating device to relate competences with productivity of the work and quality of work. He designed a fuzzy mathematical method for the SWOT analysis, that surpasses all the limitations of the previous methods, achieving entrepreneurial precise diagnosises for strategic planning.  He has published over 30 scientific papers in reviewed Cuban and foreign magazines, and also the books:  He has participated in 43 scientific international events socializing his findings; the most recent are:  For his relevant works and scientific investigations, he has received the following awards:  Notes 