The Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH) is a British organisation for health and safety professionals. IOSH is the chartered professional body for safety and health in the workplace. It acts as a champion, supporter, adviser, advocate and trainer for those who protect the safety, health and wellbeing of others. IOSH has over 46,000 members, from over 120 countries.  This includes an extensive trainer network. Over 179,000 delegates attended IOSH training courses in 2016.  IOSH was founded in 1945 when the Institution of Industrial Safety Officers (IISO) was formed as a division of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA). The Institution gained its charitable status in 1962 and continues to operate as a not-for-profit organisation. In 1981, the IISO was renamed as the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH), and in 2002 was awarded a Royal Charter. From 2005, IOSH began awarding Chartered Safety and Health Practitioner status to recognise individual professionalism and commitment to continued learning and development.  In 2011 along with other Health and Safety bodies in the UK, IOSH developed the Occupational Safety & Health Consultants Register (OSHCR)  to raise awareness and promote the use of certified health and safety consultants in the workplace. IOSH’s No Time to Lose campaign was launched in 2014 to highlight the causes of occupational cancer and help businesses take action. The No Time to Lose website provides a host of free resources and information on workplace cancer, and offers the opportunity to sign a pledge to make changes and support the campaign.  The Occupational Health Toolkit (OH Toolkit)  is a free resource to help tackle common occupational health problems such as skin disorders, work related stress and non-work related conditions including diabetes and heart disease. The toolkit brings together information, guidance, case studies and training materials. As part of their charitable work, IOSH produce a number of guides, such as Safe Start Up guides  which are designed to help small business with health and safety. IOSH also fund and produce a number of research reports.  IOSH regularly post consultations, where members can respond and have the opportunity to influence national and international policies.  IOSH Blueprint is a framework designed to measure skills and competencies in occupational safety and health.  The tool is currently in a beta testing stage. IOSH members, and a number of select organisations, are using the self-assessment tool to identify training and development needs. IOSH Training and Skills  is a range of courses designed for different aspects of occupational health and safety. The courses are delivered by IOSH licensed trainers. Trainers must have suitable qualifications and experience before being approved to run IOSH courses.  Managing Safely and Working Safely courses are also available in Arabic.  IOSH tailored courses are developed by licensed training providers to meet the demands of specialist industry sectors, roles or skills.  They are assessed and approved by IOSH to make sure they meet IOSH’s standards. Categories of membership depend on a combination of academic qualifications, experience and achievement. Chartered Fellows of the Institution are entitled to use the designation Chartered Safety and Health Practitioner and the designatory letters CFIOSH. This is the highest grade. Chartered Fellows must have demonstrated an outstanding contribution to the discipline and profession of health and safety.  All Chartered Fellows are required to maintain a Continuing Professional Development (CPD) record. Chartered Members of the Institution are entitled to use the designation Chartered Safety and Health Practitioner and the designatory letters CMIOSH.  Chartered Member status requires approved educational qualifications and experience. All Chartered Members are required to maintain a Continuing Professional Development (CPD) record. Graduates of the Institution can use the designatory letters Grad IOSH. These  are academically qualified to become Chartered Members, and are undergoing professional development. Technician Members of the Institution are entitled to use the designatory letters Tech IOSH. They require approved educational qualifications at a lower level than graduates, plus professional experience.  They are required to continue in professional development. Affiliate level is for those who have an interest in, or are employed in occupational safety and health, but are not yet eligible to join at other categories of membership. 