NCRQ (National Compliance and Risk Qualifications) is a qualifications awarding organisation based in Chester. It develops and delivers qualifications in occupational health and safety. It was formed by a collaboration between some of the largest employers in the UK and EU (such as the BBC, Royal Mail and Siemens plc), together with senior officers of the Health and Safety Executive, academics and barristers.  It is headed by the former Chief Executive of the Health and Safety Executive, Geoffrey Podger CB.   NCRQ has developed a suite of degree-level (QCF Level 6) qualifications in occupational health and safety, with a focus on the competence and skills required in the modern workplace. Learners are assessed by assignments and an online validation interview, instead of exams. This contrasts significantly with other health and safety qualifications in the UK which are largely examination-based.  The competence-based qualifications developed by NCRQ rapidly took market share from the previous monopoly provider NEBOSH, and the NCRQ Diploma is now the most popular choice for health and safety professionals in the UK.   The qualifications are accredited by IOSH (the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health)  and IIRSM (the International Institute of Risk & Safety Management).  NCRQ deliver a number of qualifications: The NCRQ Diploma is made up of three units. The first two of these units consist of the two Certificate qualifications above, so that learners can obtain two Certificate-level qualifications as they complete the full Diploma.  NCRQ qualifications are largely self-directed learning with extensive tutor support. Learning is based upon the enhanced discovery learning technique using real life case studies as a basis for analysis and research. It is demonstrated that students are more likely to remember concepts if they discover them on their own as opposed to those that are taught directly.  NCRQ also use an innovative approach to assessment that focuses on critical analysis, research and understanding rather than testing the ability to recall. Learners are presented with a range of scenarios based on real life situations, and must undertake analysis and research to produce a range of written reports for various audiences, assessments, a presentation, and engagement in professional discussion on current issues of public interest. This places emphasis on the competencies required in the workplace, and unlike similar qualifications (such as NEBOSH), the assessment criteria specifically require learners to demonstrate competence in softer skills such as understanding business objectives, justifying decisions, and persuading management.  The use of given scenarios ensures that learners are faced with challenges of an appropriate complexity and depth.  