 Nanjegoundenpudur (நஞ்சேகவுண்டன் புதூர்) is a small hamlet and comes under Anikkadavu (அணிக்கடவு) revenue village of Udumalaipettai Taluk in Tiruppur District of Tamil Nadu, a southern state in India. Nanjegoundenpudur is primarily an agricultural village. It is served by Virugalpatti Post Office. Though the village is located in Tiruppur, it is more connected with Coimbatore as the town is more connected due to the past governance structure. Nanjegoundenpudur is the border village of Udumalpet taluk and located 25 Km North - West of Udumalpet, 7 Km east of East of Periya Negam, and 20 Km North - East of Pollachi.  The village has both red soil and black soil. More than half of the lands of the village is under coconut cultivation and irrigated by wells and deep borewells. Parambikulam - Aliyar Project (PAP) canal serves the irrigation needs of the village and surrounding region. Water is released once in 18 or 24 months from the PAP project. Nanjegoundenpudur has a population of 1,200 based on 2011 census. Primary language is Tamil, through there is a significant population (who settled in this agricultural area around 1500 CE) speaking Telugu language.  Primary religion practiced by the villagers is Hinduism. There are three four Hindu temples established by various communities in the village.  While most of the population is involved in agriculture (farming) as land owners or workers, younger generation is moving to towns and cities after completing their school education. Nanjegoundepudur was under Coimbatore district and added to the newly created  Tiruppur district in 2009. Najegoundenpudur village has more than 1000 voters. It comes under Udumalpet (Udumalaipettai ) assembly constituency and Pollachi parliamentary (Lok Sabha) constituency. The Current elected members of these constituencies are: Anikkadavu is a Panchayat headquarters for nanjegoundenpudur. Anikkadavu has a Panchayat Office, Electricity Board Office and one Post Office. The Tamil Nadu Electricity Board has an officer at the rank of A.E. (Assistant Engineer). The postal code for Nanjegoundenpudur (and Anikkadavu) is 642120. Najegoundanpudur is served by the Gomangalam Land and Property Registration office situated on Pollachi - Udumalpet national highway. Nanjegoundenpudur is connected by asphalt road (1.5 km) to Negamam - Dharapuram main road. It is well served by private and government buses through the Pollachi - Negamam - Dharapuram and Pollachi - Negamam - Udumalaipettai routes. One Tamil Nadu Government bus service (#23) also serves couple of trips to Nanjegoundenpudur directly. Most of the villagers also have two wheelers (motor vehicles) to commute to the nearby towns. All nearby towns namely, Negamam, Pollachi and Udumalaipettai have weekly markets to serve the needs of nearby villages. Pollachi Cattle Market is very popular to buy and sell cattle by the farmers in the villages.  Nanjegoundenpudur is about 60 km from Coimbatore, where main railway station and international airport are located. Pollachi and Udumalaipettai also have railway stations (serving Coimbatore and Madurai), but the trains are not frequent.  Nanjegoundenpudur has a state government run primary school - Gudimangalam Panchayat Union Elementary School. Ramachandrapuram (near Anikkadavu) has a government higher secondary school. Since the village is well connected by roads, private school buses serve the needs of the village students by transporting them to private schools in Negamam, Pollachi, Pethappampatty and Pollachi. 