7 in Asia4 in Australia19 in Europe37 in North America Destiny Fulfilled... and Lovin' It  was the final concert tour by American female R&B trio Destiny's Child, that visited Asia, Australia and North America. The U.S. leg of the tour grossed approximately $70.8 million according to Billboard magazine and was the highest-grossing tour for either a pop or R&B band since TLC's FanMail Tour, where Destiny's Child performed as an opening act in 1999. The tour kicked off in Hiroshima, Japan on April 9, 2005 and ended Vancouver, Canada on September 10. Destiny's Child embarked on the world tour sponsored by McDonald's Corporation,  and performed hits such as "No, No, No", "Survivor", "Say My Name", "Independent Women" and "Lose My Breath".  In addition to renditions of the group's recorded material, they also performed songs from each singer's solo careers, most notably numbers from Beyoncé's debut album, Dangerously in Love.  The stage design afforded 360 degree viewing within the typical arena show venue.  Several interludes by the show's dancers allowed for the expected costume changes; those costumes, often glittering gowns, were designed by Tina Knowles, Beyoncé's mother, and manufactured by House of Deréon. A special set of outfits were designed as a tribute to the Broadway musical Dreamgirls, hinting at the play's "One Night Only (Disco)" scene where Deena Jones & the Dreams wear the same color pants suits. During the last stop of their European tour in Barcelona on June 11, 2005, Kelly Rowland suddenly announced: "This is the last time you would see us on stage as Destiny's Child".  The announcement was surprising to many, as the trio had downplayed rumors of a split in the wake of Knowles' success, although prior plans had called for the members to focus on solo projects at the end of the tour. A performance from the tour was filmed in Atlanta at Philips Arena on July 15, 2005, and the resulting DVD Destiny's Child Live in Atlanta was released on March 28, 2006. RIAA subsequently certified the DVD as Platinum. The concert was also aired in the USA on BET as a television special, on Channel 4 in the UK and on the Dutch television channel AT5. (Video Introduction) (Dance Interlude introducing Male Dancers) (Musical Instrumental) (Beyoncé Intro: Dance Interlude) (Band Introduction) (Video Interlude) (Dance Interlude) (Dance Interlude introducing Female Dancers) (Encore) Source:    Creative Direction  Choreographers  Production Manager Wardrobe and Stylist Tour Manager Band Dancers Security Tour Promoters Tour sponsors 