Foreign Affair: The Farewell Tour (also known as the Foreign Affair World Tour) was the fifth concert tour of American singer, Tina Turner. The tour supported her seventh studio album Foreign Affair. The tour was Turner's first stadium tour and only reached European countries. Overall, the tour drew in nearly four million spectators—breaking the record for a European tour that was previously set by The Rolling Stones.  The tour is notable as Turner's only tour to not reach North America. Since the tour was considered a farewell tour (at that time), Turner wanted to exclusively tour Europe to thank her fans for supporting her career after she left The Revue.  The tour was advertised as a "farewell" tour as Turner began to concentrate on potential acting roles.  During an interview, Turner stated,  "I've always thought this would be the final one but I must admit I now have mixed feelings. I'm the first woman to fill all these stadiums and the feeling from all those fans night after night was fantastic. I don't want to close that door completely. I'm going away for about a year and when I'm ready to return, I just hope the fans will want whatever I have to offer"Turner would return to touring in 1993 with her North American tour, "What's Love? Tour"   The groundbreaking tour was filmed at the Olympic Stadium in Barcelona, Spain and was released on VHS. The concert at Woburn Abbey was filmed and part of which was used in an MTV mini documentary, promoting Turner's tour. The intro to this show was used as part of an interview with Turner and the music video to 'Be tender' is the encore to this show. It is available on YouTube and the single for the song. There are no known copies of the full-length  in circulation. The concert at Pallatrussadi, Milan was filmed and was also used as part of the MTV film. The concert opened with 'The best'. Turner wore a different outfit to the rest of the shows of the tour for this concert. Although the real professional, multi-camera recording is not in circulation, there is a fan-shot, full-length video of the concert on YouTube. 