  The Greatest Hits Tour (also known as The Farewell Tour)  was the twelfth and final concert tour by Irish boy band, Westlife. The tour, visited the Europe and Asia and supported the group's compilation album, Greatest Hits. After the tour finished, the group disbanded after performing for 14 years.  The last show, on 23 June 2012 was aired live via satellite from Croke Park, Dublin to cinemas all across Europe, Ireland, Belgium, the Czech Republic, South Africa, Estonia, Indonesia and Denmark.  Delayed screenings will be shown in cinemas in Indonesia, Australia, and South Africa in July and August 2012.  The encore was also shown again in select cinemas across UK on 26 June 2012.  Each member of the band made £2,000,000 from the tour after tax. They released a DVD from the tour which went to number 1 in the UK and Irish charts, staying for 30 weeks in the charts. The band was the 34th top grossing tour act of the year and 12th in the midyear list with earnings of $35.2 million (€27 million). The farewell tour consisted of 8 dates in China and 33 in the UK and Ireland culminating in 2 nights at Croke Park in June. In total the band sold 489,694 tickets at an average price of $71.85 (€55) each.  The final nights at the said stadium were officially the 11th largest attendance at an outdoor stadium worldwide.   In October 2011, the group revealed plans for the release of a compilation album, spanning their entire career.  Many media outlets speculated the band would tour the album. An official announcement was made on 18 October 2011, a mere week after ending their previous tour in Southeast Asia.  On the statement released on the group's website, it reported they would perform all 14 of their number one hits along with other favourites. After announcing the tour, tabloids rumoured the band would break-up after their tour was done.  On 20 October 2011, the members of the band made an official announcement of their disbanding.  They responded: "We see the greatest hits collection and the farewell tour as the perfect way to celebrate our incredible career along with our fans. We are really looking forward to getting out on the tour and seeing our fans one last time. We would like to thank our fans who have been with us on this amazing journey and are part of our family too. We never imagined when we started out in 1998 that 14 years later we would still be recording, touring and having hits together. It has been a dream come true for all of us." *sales figures based on certification alone^shipments figures based on certification alone  