The Final World Tour is the final concert tour by American thrash metal band Slayer, taking place in 2018 and 2019. The tour was announced on January 22, 2018 through a video featuring a montage of press clippings, early posters and press photos spanning Slayer's entire career.  The first leg of the North American tour was announced the day after, which took place in May and June 2018 and included support from Lamb of God, Anthrax, Behemoth and Testament.  The second leg of the North American tour was announced on March 5, 2018; this leg took place in July and August, and featured four out of five bands from the first leg (Slayer, Lamb of God, Anthrax and Testament) and Napalm Death as the replacement for Behemoth.  On February 20, 2018, Slayer announced the first European date of the farewell tour; it was announced that they would headline the Secret Solstice Festival in Reykjavík, Iceland in June.  A European leg of the farewell tour will take place in November and December 2018, with support provided by Lamb of God, Anthrax and Obituary.   On June 24, 2018, Slayer was announced as one of the first five bands (alongside Manowar, Carcass, Mass Hysteria and Dropkick Murphys) confirmed to play the 2019 edition of Hellfest. This was the band's first show announced for 2019, and according to frontman and bassist Tom Araya and guitarist Kerry King, Hellfest will be their last-ever show in France.    Slayer will also play a one-off show in Mexico at ForceFest in October 2018, with acts such as System of a Down, Alice in Chains, NOFX, Carcass, Dee Snider, Dokken, Hatebreed, Exodus, Danzig and three-fourths of the bands who opened for Slayer on the first two North American legs of the farewell tour (Lamb of God, Anthrax and Testament).   Slayer will continue touring into 2019; in addition to Hellfest, they plan to perform in countries the tour had not yet visited, including South America, Australia and Japan.  There has also been reported talk of the band participating in a rebooted Clash of the Titans tour with Megadeth, Sepultura and Testament,      as well as least one more Big Four show with Metallica, Megadeth and Anthrax.       