The Khazar University School of Humanities and Social Sciences (SHSS) is the largest academic division at Khazar University and offers undergraduate and graduate degree programs in a wide range of disciplines. The primary language of instruction and research is English and the curricula correspond to the standards of leading higher education institutions in the West. Students, faculty and researchers are capable of keeping pace with global developments in their fields, using best practices and effectively communicating with scholarly communities all over the globe. Its degree programs are highly respected and recognized throughout the region. The idea of the School of Humanities developed in a year after Khazar University was founded. The importance of nourishing the younger generation of specialists in humanities was prioritized by the University in 1992 and several departments were established henceforth. The school chose as its mission learning, preserving and spreading Azerbaijani national and cultural values embedded in our heritage as well as appreciating diversity and welcoming universal values. In 2004, the idea of merging the School of Humanities with several departments at the School of Law and Social Sciences was discussed; in 2005 the School of Humanities transformed into the School of Humanities and Social Sciences. The School of Humanities and Social Sciences (SHSS) is the largest academic division at Khazar University and offers undergraduate and graduate degree programs in a wide range of disciplines. At SHSS students have an opportunity to gain knowledge and polish skills across a variety of disciplines in Humanities and Social Sciences, including languages and literatures, Political Science, International Affairs, History, Journalism, Religious Studies and Philosophy programs. In addition, a wide range of courses are offered in Sociology, Psychology, and Anthropology. In addition to well-developed Bachelor programs in English Language/Literature, Translation Studies, and Journalism, the Bachelor of Arts in English/Arabic and in English/Persian are offered by the Department of English and the Department of Eastern Languages and Religious Studies. The Bachelor of Arts in Journalism/English is an interdepartmental degree program offered jointly by the Department of Journalism with the Department of English. The Department of Political Science and International Relations offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in Political Science with concentration in Political Theory, Peace and Conflict Studies, and Area Studies, such as Middle Eastern Studies and European Public Affairs. The Department also offers separate degree programs in International Relations, both on undergraduate and graduate levels. The programs leading to the Master of Arts degree include Linguistics, Area Studies, Political Science, International Relations, Translation Studies, Journalism, Interlingua Relations. The preparations are underway to initiate undergraduate and graduate degree program majors and minors in Philosophy, Psychology, Applied Arts, Music and other fields. All students admitted into the graduate programs with a BA degree must enter the MA course of study, which also serves as the first phase of the Ph.D. program. Then Ph.D. programs are developed for students with strong research interest in the field. The students admitted to non-English graduate should take at least two English language courses (minimum of 6 credits) offered by the English Language and Literature Department if their level of English is not advanced. The SHSS has an excellent reputation. The faculty of SHSS is drawn predominantly from teachers and scholars with solid Western European and North American training. Since the primary language of instruction and research is English and the curricula correspond to the standards of leading higher education institutions in the West, students, faculty and researchers are capable of keeping the pace with global developments in their fields, using best practices and effectively communicating with scholarly communities all over the globe. Its degree programs are highly respected and recognized throughout the region. Graduates of the SHSS are highly regarded in Azerbaijan and around the world. The SHSS alumni work for state and social institutions. Among the top national employers are the President’s Administration, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Ministry of Education. Most of the school graduates work for leading local academic institutions.  