Leticia Lee See-yin (Chinese: 李偲嫣, born 17 August 1964) is an outspoken pro-establishment figure in Hong Kong. She holds several positions, including the chairperson of the Federation of Parent-Teacher Associations of Yau Tsim Mong District, the spokeswoman of the anti-gay organization Anti-reverse discrimination Major League, as well as the vice chairperson of Hong Kong Education Dynamic, director of Hong Kong New Power Media Limited, the chief editor of the Christian publication Love Family Weekly (distributed free of charge in all Sun Hung Kai Properties shopping malls), and a member of the pro-Beijing Kowloon Federation of Associations and Women’s Commission. She comments openly on Hong Kong's education and moral issues often arousing controversy. Lee was an adamant advocate of the highly controversial moral and national education (MNE) program in Hong Kong, which was proposed in 2011 but was later shelved due to heated public criticism. "If we back down on the [implementation of] moral and national education subject, I don't know what our society, our children will see themselves as in the future," she said at a pro-national education rally in October. "We are always Chinese. Our root is always China."   In a special meeting of the Legislative Council on 27 June 2011, Lee suggested that the Administration could consider implementing MNE as a core extracurricular activity or a monthly small-group learning activity, and students should not be examined on the subject.  In addition to the aspect of students, she stressed the importance of providing teachers with adequate teaching resources on MNE to ensure the quality of teaching. She also added that the Administration should attach importance to moral education which should be taught in schools starting from junior primary levels.  Lee is extremely homophobic. She complained that legislation against sexual orientation discrimination might make it illegal for schools - especially religious ones - to teach that homosexuality is wrong.  Lee had sought talks with the Family Planning Association which she says publishes booklets advocating same-sex marriage. She objected that they were saying it was fine to be gay and that the booklets would brainwash impressionable children.  Lee also wrote many articles on the website of anti-gay religious group the Society for Truth and Light. At a concert in January, she said she had received many calls after she opposed a motion calling for public consultation on the proposed new law. As a pro-establishment activist, Lee organized a number of social movements so as to support the Hong Kong government and Police Force and to protest against the Occupy Central movement. Lee, as then convenor of Justice Alliance (established on October 27, 2013), began an 'indefinite hunger strike' on June 22, 2014 at government headquarters at Tamar, in order to voice her opposition to Occupy Central and urge a stricter government response to it and the protest organised by the pan-democrats earlier that month inside the Legislative Council building.  She said during the hunger strike, "Protesters don't think they are violent since they have something to voice out. Does that mean they can rob if they have no money, and do such acts in the name of justice?" The hunger strike only lasted three days since she "passed out" on June 25 and was sent to hospital that night.   On 2 March 2016, the Justice Alliance announced the expulsion of Lee, its president, on the ground of embezzlement.  There was an increasing level of discontent on Hong Kong Police Force among the society due to the methods used by the police to deal with the pan-democratic protests and the controversy on whether the police violated the rule on using minimum force. In response to rising social discontent aimed at the Police Force after its use of force against democracy protests, Lee established Alliance in support of our Police Force in early July 2014.   Its stated aim was to support the police to enforce the law. She served as one of its convenors. A demonstration was held on August 3, 2014 in support of the police and the organisation set August 4 as the 'Support the Police Force Day'. .  On the first anniversary of that day, the alliance was not reported to have turned out in support of police to face down 200 protesters incensed by a magistrate's conviction of a woman protester for assaulting a male police officer with her breast.  Lee was also the convenor of the Blue Ribbon Movement. This movement was formed as a response to the wearing of yellow ribbons by supporters of Occupy Central.  The wearing of a blue ribbon in Hong Kong symbolises opposition to the Occupy Central democracy movement and support for the Hong Kong Police Force. A number of incidents have been reported involving Blue Ribbon Movement supporters attacking protestors participating in Occupy Central, as well as news reporters.  On October 25, 2014, a gathering was held by the anti-Occupy Central organizations, while reports claimed that reporters from Radio Television Hong Kong (RTHK) and Television Broadcasts Limited (TVB) were attacked by those who supported anti-Occupy Central. Responding to the incident, Lee, who had helped organise the Tsim Sha Tsui event, condemned the attackers but offered that they were isolated incidents.  