YoWorld (Formerly Yoville) is a browser-based virtual world game which was released on May 8, 2008. It is currently developed by Big Viking Games.  The game operates on the freemium model, and is supported through microtrasactions, as well as a voluntary in-game ad program. The game itself is free-to-play, however, players can purchase in-game currencies or enroll in special programs and offers to improve their game-play experience or help them progress faster, using real money.  Users can create a virtual avatar, and enter the virtual world. Within YoWorld, players can earn virtual coins and currencies (like YoCoins and YoCash) in-game by completing various jobs and tasks in-game. They can also purchase more with real money. YoWorlders can then use these funds to purchase and decorate new homes, purchase more clothing and gear for their avatars, adopt pets, or even take advantage of the game's virtual economy, and make investments by buying, selling, and trading items with other players. Other activities in-game include mini-games, hosting parties, socializing and chatting with other users, and role-play. The game is currently available on the social media platform, Facebook, as a browser-based game. It can also be accessed through Facebook's Game Room platform. The game was originally released and developed by Tall Tree Games in 2008. That same year, the game was purchased by gaming giant Zynga, inspiring other later titles like FarmVille and CityVille.    Tall Tree Games was the original name for the game's current company, Big Viking Games, who sought to acquire the game back from Zynga after its closure was announced on January 10, 2014.  The announcement of the game's closure led to months of organized virtual in-game protests, and boycott threats from passionate fans towards Zynga.  Throughout these months, negotiation took place between Zynga and Big Viking Games, which eventually concluded with the decision to allow the game to continue running with Big Viking Games as its new developers.   The acquisition came with re-branding the game, from YoVille to YoWorld.   Within the virtual world, users can do a variety of things. These include purchasing new homes, building new homes, decorating them, stylizing their avatar however they see fit, adopting pets, role-playing, meeting new people, and socializing. The game is pretty much a life-simulation, and players can live it as they please.  To keep the game interesting, the developers regularly release new "themes" within the game. Themes are new furniture, clothing, pets, and housing lines that are released all in correlation with one another. Themes can be based on or inspired by a number of things, such as holidays, real-life locations, time periods and eras, stories and folklore, lifestyles, artistic movements, and genres of fiction.  To make money, players can take on jobs, or perform daily tasks and collect bonuses, like opening free mystery chests they receive from friends. They can also participate in the game's virtual economy by buying, selling, and trading virtual goods, such as furniture and clothing. Watching ads is also another way of making free YoCoins within the game.   YoWorld has its own map filled with public locations, as well as various hangouts players can go to meet new people, such as, but not limited to, a vintage diner and a nightclub. YoWorlders can also make posts and participate in discussion on the YoWorld Forums, where they can give feedback for new themes, features, and assets they'd like to see in-game. 