Emakimono (絵巻物, emaki-mono, literally 'picture scroll'), often simply called emaki (絵巻), is a horizontal, illustrated narrative form created during the 11th to 16th centuries in Japan. Emakimono combines both text and pictures, and is drawn, painted, or stamped on a handscroll.  They depict battles, romance, religion, folk tales, and stories of the supernatural world.  The handscroll and the hanging scroll are the two most common forms of Japanese painting.   Handscrolls are painted on paper or silk, backed with paper. The farthest (left) end is fitted with a roller around which the scroll is rolled.  When rolled up, the scrolls are secured with a braided silk cord and can be safely carried, placed on shelves, or stored in a lacquerware box. Handscrolls range in size, averaging 30 centimeters (1 ft.) in height and 9 to 12 meters (30 to 40 ft.) in length.  A normal story covers one to three scrolls. Emakimono are read by exposing an arms-length of the scroll at a time, from right to left, as Japanese is written.  It was common for there to be a written account of the story being illustrated either at the start of the scroll, or interspersed between the pictures.  It is expected that the person viewing the scroll will re-roll the scroll back in its original form, much as one is supposed to rewind video tape after viewing it. Emakimono also serve as some of the earliest and greatest examples of the otoko-e (Men's pictures) and onna-e (Women's pictures) styles of painting. There are many fine differences in the two styles, appealing to the aesthetic preferences of the genders. But perhaps most easily noticeable are the differences in subject matter. Onna-e, epitomized by the Tale of Genji handscroll, typically deals with court life, particularly the court ladies, and with romantic themes. Otoko-e, on the other hand, often recorded historical events, particularly battles. The Siege of the Sanjō Palace (1160), depicted in the painting "Night Attack on the Sanjō Palace" is a famous example of this style. The most often discussed example of emakimono is the Genji monogatari emaki dating from about 1130.  This emaki illustrates Murasaki Shikibu's epic The Tale of Genji.  Written about the year 1000, the novel deals with the life and loves of Genji and the world of the Heian court after his death.  While only 15% of the original scrolls remain, the fragments are protected as national treasures. The Chōjū giga (Scroll of Frolicking Animals) is unusual in its own medium, as it does not contain any text, only pictures.  It depicts scenes of animals in amusing scenes, analogizing Japanese society in the 12th century. 