 Some writers have had prolific careers with hundreds of their works being published.  While some best-selling authors have written a small number of books that have sold millions of copies, others have had lengthy careers and maintained a high level of output year after year. Dame Agatha Christie, the most-published novelist in history, is estimated to have sold 4 billion books, having written 69 novels and 19 plays.  Her works were published between 1920 and 1976, equating to around three publications every two years. Dame Barbara Cartland has also sold millions of copies of her books but wrote many more than Christie.  She spent 80 years as a novelist with 722 books published, averaging one book released every 40 days of her career.  While Cartland wrote a significant number of full-length novels, other authors have been published many more times but have specialised in short stories. Spanish author Corín Tellado wrote over 4,000 novellas, selling 400 million copies of her books.  Not all authors work alone. Groups of writers, sometimes led by one central figure, have published under shared pseudonyms.  The Stratemeyer Syndicate, started by Edward Stratemeyer in 1905, created numerous book series including 190 volumes of The Hardy Boys and 175 volumes of Nancy Drew.  More than 1,300 books were published by the group, and although Edward L. Stratemeyer wrote several hundred, he also employed ghostwriters to keep up with the demand.  These writers were given storylines and strict guidelines to follow to ensure a level of consistency within each series.  Amongst the writing team was Howard R. Garis, who contributed several hundred books to the collection, one of the most active authors.  Sales were estimated at over two hundred million copies before the syndicate was sold to Simon & Schuster in 1984.  Most authors carefully craft their work, writing and rewriting several times before publication.  Some authors simply use pen and paper, while others such as Isaac Asimov spent hours at a stretch working at a typewriter.  Philip M. Parker, by one measure the world's most prolific author, has an entirely different approach.  Parker has over 200,000 titles listed on Amazon.com, having developed an algorithm to gather publicly available data and compile it into book form.   The computer-generated nature of the books is not detailed on the sales page and the books are printed only when ordered.   ^a  Asimov celebrated his birthday on 2 January but his true date of birth is unclear. 