MA, theater studies, Sorbonne Nouvelle Paris III,1996, PhD in performance studies and art history, Friedrich Alexander University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, 2000 Sigrid Pawelke is a curator and a performance and art historian, regarded as one of the leading experts of the Bauhaus Stage and its influences on the arts in North America. In 2015 she was part of the Black Mountain show at the Hamburger Bahnhof, Museum of Contemporary Art Berlin, contributing fifteen film interviews of former Black Mountain students (such as Ati Gropius, choreographer Anna Halprin and Yvonne Rainer).  Born in Germany, she currently lives in France where she taught art history at the School of Visual Arts in Aix-en-Provence from 2011 until 2016.  She has worked with artists Jochen Gerz and Michelangelo Pistoletto and has organized workshops with choreographers VA Wölfl, Philippe Decouflé, Angelin Preljocaj, Rachid Ouramdane, Marcos Morau, Niv Sheinfeld and Oren Laor, among others.  Sigrid Pawelke has been trained in Dance and Performance. She studied Art History, theater and film studies at the University of Erlangen-Nuremberg and at the Sorbonne Nouvelle Paris III, and was a research fellow at the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University. She received her Doctor of Art History and Performance Studies (PhD) in 2000 for her thesis entitled "Influences of the Bauhaus Stage in the USA".  It investigates the connection between the Bauhaus stage, avant-garde performance and Postmodern dance in the USA, focusing particularly on aesthetic and pedagogical aspects. Pawelke examines the interdisciplinary ideas fostered by the Bauhaus, that were expressed in the programs at Black Mountain College, and that led for instance to the emergence of John Cage's first "Happening". Her work was the first study to consider the relationship between the European Bauhaus and the American experimental stage in rigorous scholarly detail. Pawelke has taught performance art in theory and practice at Sorbonne Nouvelle III, the University of Paris VIII, the Parsons School of Design Paris, and Art History at the School of Visual Arts in Aix-en-Provence. Pawelke is active internationally, and regularly gives talks, lectures and workshops in cities such as Beirut, Berlin, Budapest, Rouen, Stockholm, Vilnius. She has been a guest speaker at the Centre Pompidou in Paris,  the Kunst-Werke Institute for Contemporary Art Berlin, and the Bauhaus Dessau.    Pawelke has overseen projects and produced programs for the Fondation de France,  the Bauhaus Dessau Foundation, Alfred Toepfer Foundation, and the Federal Agency for Civic Education Germany. Between 2006 and 2010 she initiated and developed the program "New Patrons" (Nouveaux Commanditaires) in Germany. In collaboration with six high-profile curators and major art institutions (i.e. Deichtorhallen Hamburg) she advanced the European platform "New Patrons" from France, Belgium and Italy into Germany with the aim of initiating art of-and-for civil society. Sigrid Pawelke has come to specialize in art projects in the urban realm and the ecological sphere. She worked at PS1 Center of Contemporary Art in New York, the Fondazione Pistoletto in Biella  and is especially interested in the social relevance and impact of her projects and interventions. 