Cumbia Ninja is a Colombian supernatural, mystery-thriller television series created for Fox by Andrés Gelós and produced by Nelson Martínez and María Gowland.  The series premiered on Fox on September 5, 2013, and the first season concluded on November 13, 2013.  In January 2014, Fox renewed the series for a second season which aired from October 2, 2014.  The series is produced by Fox Networks Group and Fox Telecolombia.   The first season focuses on Juana Carbajal and Hache. Juana Carbajal is a rich teenager and daughter of prominent businessman Victor Carbajal. She is a girl who has led a life of money without needs, including an overprotective mom. When her family is killed by gunmen sent by her own uncle Leon Carbajal, she must then live with her nanny Elba who rescues her, the only survivor of the slaughter, changing her name to Nieves and her image completely, to look like a street teenager. Hache is a young man with dreams of being a singer who lives in La Colina, a poor neighborhood, and full of problems between rival gangs. He is found by Willy Vega, a manager of talented people at the concert Pin-Piranhas and decides to return him into the great leader of a new band that would replace the Pin-Piranhas after a serious accident: Cumbia Ninja, consisting of Chopín, keyboardist; BitBox, bassist; Karate, guitarist; and Tomb, drummer; Hache being the vocalist. The day of the concert (and also the day of the murder of Carbajal), his brother Chico, gang leader of El Cruce, is murdered, and Hache should assume the role of leader of the gang, but between the mission to lead his new band and lead the gang becomes hard for a bit. His first song in honor of Chico, made the Dragon Sungaku wake after thousand years of being dormant under the Chinese house on the hill. Hache and Nieves meet, and a great love is born, despite the jealousy of Chopín who is also in love with her. Nieves seeps into the house of her uncle, Leon, to find evidence that he was the one who killed or ordered the killing of her family, and Hache, meanwhile, rivaling the leader of the enemy gang, Salmon, which suspected he has something to do with the death of his brother. Nieves is discovered by Ítalo a confidant of Leon, who falls for her. Italo, discovering the affair Nieves and Hache, decide to get to Nieves at all costs, thus signifying the death of several people by him. Salmon, his girlfriend and his partner Talita Jhon Alex, discover the secret under the Chinese cottage of Xiang Wu, the teacher and mentor of Cumbia Ninja, and Sungakus keeper. After several events, Nieves decides to leave to go with Italo. Hache, who convinces going to teIl her is dying and locked to her best friend, Ursula, leaving heartbroken Hache. Master Wu finally makes known to Sungaku Cumbia Ninja, saying that trouble is brewing and that they must protect the dragon with their lives, it is a secret that must not fall into the wrong ears. The second season focuses on Leon Carbajal and the precious secret of El Dorado. Leon, the villain of the story, along with Italo seek the secret of Dorado to become richer and in turn take revenge on The Hill. Juana, to save his best friend Ursula from the clutches of Italo, will have to reveal his true identity and at the same time pretend that lost memory. This causes Hache Juana doubt and think if it was it true everything they had lived together. Juana has to live with his Uncle Leo but still looking for evidence to incriminate him as the murderer of his family, who later also serve to shed light on the death of Chico. The Cumbia Ninja will have a new manager, Felix Villalba, who will replace Willy this go with Ursula away from Ítalo. But Felix has a split personality and a dark secret that only tries to sink the band. Sungaku teaches Cumbia Ninja "Five Impossible Beats," which will have to use against the enemy. Juana face a struggle between the thirst for revenge and his heart. Hache lead El Cruce more than ever and finally end 2200 once and for all, mainly salmon, and find out that Jane never lost his memory and that he has always been in his mind and that he loves. He also learns of the relationship Chico's death with the death of the family of Juana, mainly with Victor. Jhon Alex die betrayed by Talita, who proclaimed himself as the owner of La Colina, but Carmenza, mowed fury and suffering of knowing that Talita killed his son Chico, will put an end to the leader of the 2200. The remaining gang members Domis of 2200 bands, they will make a peace deal and will join El Cruce, and will help Hache to give their final battle against Italo, who has kidnapped Juana. On the day of the Battle of the Bands, the Ninja Cumbia are disqualified when confronted with a major problem: Leo is the pyramid, but falls into the ambush of Juana and Hache, who along with Sungaku, they make Carbajal get their comeuppance. The Cumbia Ninja give a great concert at La Cima with the rival gang, Globulin. Finally, Leo is arrested, and Jane and Hache distance themselves again. Felix, he starts preparing his revenge on the hill, but mainly against Sungaku. The third season focuses on the ancestral fight between the Dragon and the Jaguar. A year after the death of Chico, La Colina is at peace. The Cumbia Ninja become as great music idols, now having Jessica as a member of the band after BitBox left. Hache still feel that the neighborhood, the band and especially Sungaku still expect more from him. But since he left to go to Juana and nothing interests him, not even music. Hache feels responsible for everything that has been happening. In turn, it did not get peace Juana expected. His time at La Colina left her broken inside and return to his previous life is not enough. Without love and revenge that boost to go ahead, Juana lost in the excesses of wealthy heiress, endangering his life. Juana is in a stage of much self-destruction and an identity crisis, but eventually will find a guide, someone who will help you move forward: Felix, which will advise pursue revenge for the death of his family She is telling him that everything was not guilty of Leon, but the secret of Sungaku. Leon will rot in prison until the power of Balam will help to be respected there. Italian finally awakens after being helped by Felix, and seek revenge on the Ninja Cumbia, mainly Hache. Now a hidden power appears from the shadows and both come to discover the truth of the mysterious force that caused tragic events in La Colina and also to Carbajal, the force that makes opponents. Felix Juana will train with the power of Jaguar to become his successor. In turn, Wu Xiang Hache will train with the power of the Dragon for the battle ahead. Leon will have its deserved and will be killed in prison after betraying Balam. It will reveal that Felix is actually the ancient enemy of the Dragon Sungaku, the Jaguar Balam, after this murder Xiang Wu. Balam appear for a final battle, a confrontation is inevitable but the only ones who can save the fate of La Colina be Juana and Hache. They decide to end it all and to achieve last game where the forces of the Dragon and the Jaguar they leave forever, thus obtaining Balam death at the hands of Italo paddling. Finally, everything ends, and then scatter the ashes of Wu Xiang, Hache and Juana leave to live a happy life together. In January 2015, Fox announced the cast of the series including actors Brenda Asnicar and Ricardo Abarca were.   The first season series premiered on September 5, 2013, and ended on November 28, 2013, with 13 episodes aired on Thursdays.  In a prinicipio it was scheduled only 13 episodes. But due to the success, Fox decided to renew the series for a second season.  Cumbia Ninja is the first scripted original series on FOX.  The series creator and showrunner Andrés Gelós, who also directed the pilot and other episodes.   The first part of the second season began on October 2, 2014, and ended on November 20, 2014, with eight episodes aired.  The second part was scheduled to begin on January 22, 2015, until March 19, 2015.  But according to Fox, there was a change of plans and then announced that the second part aired from March 2015.   On December 3, 2014, Fox confirmed the third season of the series and began filming on January 15, 2015.   The third season premiered on October 29, 2015, and ended on December 17, 2015.   