Emerald Star is the 2013 sequel to Hetty Feather and Sapphire Battersea written by best-selling British author Jacqueline Wilson and illustrated by Nick Sharratt.  The story starts with Hetty arriving at an inn in her late mother's old village a few weeks after the events of Sapphire Battersea. The story starts with Hetty Feather searching for her long lost father a few weeks after her mother's death in her mother's old village of Monksby to find her long lost father. Soon she then manages to find her father, Bobbie Waters. However, he already has a wife and two children, Mina and Ezra. She and Katherine, her father's wife, who doubts her parentage, start to develop a hatred for each other. To confirm her parentage Hetty writes to old friend Miss Smith as she is a governor at the Foundling Hospital. Miss Smith soon replies to confirm her parentage.  After deciding she didn't fit in with her family in Monksby, she leaves to reunite with Jem, for her foster father's funeral. During the funeral, she befriends Jem's childhood friend, Janet. After the funeral, she then starts living with Jem and taking care of their disabled mother while Jem works at the farm. Soon after, Gideon her foster brother, returns from the Army with a missing eye. Hetty starts to become fed up with doing the same things everyday. Jem and Hetty spend Christmas with Janet's family. Hetty soon finds Janet's diary and discovers that Janet is in love with Jem. The circus returns and Hetty reunites with her childhood idol, Madame Adeline  and meets a little girl called Diamond, who is terrified of her master, Beppo, who often beats her. After falling in love with the circus all over again. Hetty joins the circus as the ringmaster. After a final goodbye to Jem, Hetty leaves for a new life. Although originally intended to be the last in the series, it is followed by Diamond, a story which follows Diamond, a girl Hetty met in the circus during Emerald Star.  Which is then followed by Little Stars which follows both Hetty and Diamond after the events of Diamond.   