Krishna Gopeshvara is the first book in a proposed Krishna Trilogy by Sanjay Dixit. The book was soft launched by unveiling the cover of the book by Sanjay Dixit with the publishers Bloomsbury Publishing on 18 November 2017 in the second edition of The Jaipur Dialogues event.  The book has now been published on 29th May 2018. The sub-title of the book was initially publicised as "Rationalist of Vrishnis", but has now been changed to "The Truth of Vrishnis". According to Dixit, the book aims to explore Krishna's life events from a rational perspective.  Krishna Gopeshvara follows the trend of historical fictions made popular by Amish Tripathi with his Shiva Trilogy and Ram Chandra Series. It is an action packed thriller set in the Mahabharata era. According to Dixit, the book is an attempt to create a logical explanation around the engaging persona of arguably the most complex of characters in the Hindu pantheon. During the launch of the book, he stated that there is much truth in the saying that 'Listen to Krishna, but follow Rama'. He said in the soft launch that Rama was a linear personality who set examples of his own conduct for others to follow, whereas Krishna was in a higher state of evolution as Yogeshvara whose actions cannot be easily understood or followed by lay people, but his teachings are in an exalted state which can be followed by everyone from Yogi to Gopi. According to Amazon, "'Krishna Gopeshvara' is first part of a trilogy on Lord Krishna. It covers the life events of Lord Krishna from roughly Kansa's capture of the Mathura throne, to Kansa's killing by Krishna. It is written in the genre of historical fiction. Krishna and Kansa are not presented as some extra-terrestrial beings, but as human beings pursuing their narratives according to their understanding of the world around them. The script is presented as a clash of two narratives - one the dharmic narrative symbolized by Krishna, and the other being a totalitarian narrative symbolized by Kansa. Radha comes in as an inspiration to the young Krishna. The story is presented as a rational explanation of events around Krishna's early life. Things that look impossible to an ordinary person have been reconfigured as plausible events. The only assumption that has been made is that Krishna was a highly gifted young man. Fictional characters have been added to enhance the totalitarian narrative espoused by Kansa. However, the script never leaves the template of history and geography of Aryavarta in the Mahabharata times. Care has been taken that the philosophy associated with Sanatana Dharma comes out in small conversations." In an interview given to Swarajya (magazine), Dixit refuted the charge that by attacking violent monotheism of Kutila Dharma, he was indirectly hinting at something . He stated in the interview that tendency for using violence to deify is as old as Hiranyakashipu in the Indian tradition, so it is wrong to say that violent monotheism did not exist in the ancient era. He made a distinction between monism and monotheism and between monotheism and violent monotheism. There is a minor controversy over the way the Swastika is depicted on the cover, being anti-clockwise instead of the usual auspicious clockwise depiction. When asked, Dixit refused to reveal the reason before the book hits the market. Rather enigmatically, he said that one would have to read the book to know the reason. He said that at this point, he would not like to unravel the mystery behind the reverse Swastika.  However, in a pre-order launch carnival held in Jaipur on 13 April 2018, Dixit rebutted the criticism by saying that Vilom Swastika or Reverse Swastika was very much part of the Indian tradition. A video of the discussion during the event was released by Dixit for clarifying some of the mysteries surrounding the book.   The book was launched on 3rd June 2018 by the Indian Premier League superstar Rishabh Pant and the author Sanjay DixitThe book is now readily available in stock at all major bookstores and online marketplaces like Amazon , Flipkart and Snapdeal. The book is priced at INR 399. The book is also available at all major e-commerce platforms like Flipkart and Snapdeal. Dixit had revealed that the Book contains 6 Parts and 51 Chapters. The foreword has been written by David Frawley. The Book has an interesting Sanskrit shloka below the sub-title which is a straight take on the last shloka of the Bhagwadgita:  'यत्र गोपेश्वर: कृष्णो यत्र राधा योगिनी। तत्र मुक्तिरानंदम् ध्रुवाप्रीतिर्मतिर्मम।।' 'yatra gopeshvarah krishṇo yatra rādhā yogini/ tatra muktirānaṅdam dhruvāpritirmatirmama' Translation: Where there is Krishna, the lord of the cowherds, and where there is Radha the practitioner of yoga; there in my opinion you will get liberation, bliss, and a firm feeling of love.  A video has been released by The Jaipur Dialogues that showcases an in-depth discussion on the book featuring David Frawley, Sandeep Balakrishna and Sanjay Dixit; with questions asked by Sonal Mansingh among others.  The next two books in the Krishna Trilogy are going to be Krishna Yogeshvara and Krishna Gyaneshvara. The 51 Chapters of the book begin with a Chapter titled 'Asti and Prapti' in which the two queens of Kaṃsa are shown fleeing Mathura to the safety of the kingdom of their father, Jarasandha. Once they reach their father's place, the story of Krishna is narrated by the patron sage of Magadha. The book uses two streams of narration in third person. Kaṃsa is tutored by an evil saint called Kuṭil Muni into a totalitarian doctrine called Kuṭil Dharma that was alien to Bharatavarsha.  The Chapters are divided into six parts. The book ends with the young Krishna preparing to leave for his higher education to the Ashram of his future Guru, Sandipani. The next part of the Trilogy, Krishna Yogeshvara would presumably have this ending dovetailed at some point. The first Part deals with the flight of Mathura queens, wives of Kaṃsa to their paternal home in Magadha and start of the story of Kaṃsa's accession to the throne. The second Part deals with the formal introduction of Kuṭil Muni into the story, and his travel to Āryāvarta for conquest and establishment of his narrative. The third part deals with Krishna's early childhood. The fourth Part deals with Kaṃsa coming increasingly under the influence of the evil narrative of his newfound mentor, Kuṭil Muni. The fifth Part deals with Krishna's early adolescence and Kaṃsa's anxiety, leading to Kaṃsa's slaying by Krishna. The sixth Part deals with the aftermath of Kaṃsa's death. The book ends with Uddhava preparing to go to Vrindavana to console the Gopis before Krishna leaves Mathura for his higher education to Sandipani Ashrama Swarajya magazine carried the first review of the book  written by Aravindan Neelakandan. Aravindan sees the book as an important literary attempt to look at the life of Sri Krishna as told in Bhagavata, and which reflects the present problems faced by the Hindus. Writing as 'The Avatar Versus the Prophet', Aravindan says that "The book is an important literary attempt to look at the life of Sri Krishna as told in Bhagavata from the perspective of the clash of religions as is happening in India right now. So Kamsa, the maternal uncle of Krishna, is transformed into a veritable Constantine running an inquisition for Kutil Muni who in turn is an expansionist predatory cultist. His religion is based on intolerant premises – no image worship, destruction of temples, apocalypse, last day, final judgment, eternal hell - not for bad behaviour but for disbelief in the cult and so on. He spreads his cult through the monarch Kamsa. ‘One God, One Book, One King’ is surely a great way to control people, and every dictator of pre-monotheist society would love to have such a weapon handed over to him. Kamsa is no exception and there is one danger to this great plan to make entire ‘Aryavarta’ fall into submission unto the one god (and hence one emperor and his dynasty). A lovable dark hued cowherd among a pastoral community poses a threat. The novel in the form of a narration goes through the different deeds of Krishna – removing the supernatural elements and substituting them with natural explanations". He goes to on to say that "This first literary attempt by the author is in a way looking at the present existential problems faced by Hindus through the ancient history of Krishna. One example: the way Kutil Muni tries to use the Arya-Naga divide to convert the Nagas shows how the author sees through the Bhagavata – the present day challenge the dharmic society faces – particularly when evangelising religions use the social fault lines to further their agenda. The Nagas when at last faced with the rapine predatory Kutil dharma, realise that they have more in common with the so-called Arya dharma than with the expansionist monocultural Kutil dharma. The more than 300 pages novel is filled with such parallels". Aravindan concludes by saying that "what makes this interpretation important is the fact that the dharmic society is facing relentless attacks from the Kutil-dharma like cult-like religions. So this interpretation of Krishna, which has been implicit or involuted in the Bhagavata itself, has been expanded and presented in a modern literary form by Sanjay Dixit in an interesting way. Krishna in Bhagavata is all these and much more. He is of infinite possibilities and he can manifest through infinite ways to provide solutions to the crises that the dharmic society faces". 