Rebecca F. Kuang (born 1996) is a Chinese-American fantasy writer.  She emigrated to the United States from Guangzhou, China, with her family when she was four years old.   Kuang's father grew up in Leiyang, in Hunan province; her mother grew up on Hainan Island.  Her mother's father fought for Chiang Kai-shek.  Her father's family experienced the Japanese conquest of Hunan.   Kuang grew up in Dallas, Texas and graduated from the Greenhill School in 2013.   She went on to Georgetown University, attracted by the college's well-known debating team.   Halfway through college, Kuang was 19 when she began writing Poppy War during a gap year in China, where she worked as a debate coach; the book was published when she was 22.    Kuang graduated from the Odyssey Writing Workshop in 2016 and attended the CSSF Novel Writing Workshop in 2017.  She graduated from Georgetown's School of Foreign Service in June 2018.  She spent the summer after graduation coaching a debate camp in Colorado.     She is atttending the University of Cambridge as a recipient of a 2018 Marshall Scholarship, where she plans to pursue a Master of Philosophy in Chinese Studies.     Her debut novel The Poppy War, a Chinese military fantasy, was published by Harper Voyager in 2018 and is the first book in a planned trilogy.  The Poppy War has received mainly favorable reviews, with Publishers Weekly calling it "a strong and dramatic launch to Kuang’s career".  As of May 2018, the draft of Kuang's second book is finished.  The Poppy War, a grimdark fantasy, draws its plot and politics from mid-20th-century China,    with the conflict in the novel based on the Second Sino-Japanese War, and an atmosphere inspired by the Song dynasty.  Harper Voyager’s editorial director David Pomerico acquired the novel after a heated auction on Kuang’s 20th birthday.   The novel centers on a poor orphan Rin who trains in secret to test into the elite Sinegard Academy.  Kuang said Rin’s life is meant to parallel the trajectory of Mao Zedong.  Grounded in the real-world history of Chinese wars and adding a fantasy drug element inspired by the Opium Wars,  The Poppy War is a dark and fatalistic tale of warfare.  When a conflict surfaces between the Nikara Empire and their neighboring nation, Mugen, Rin is called to the front lines. She must decide whether to make a deal with the gods to unleash her shamanic powers. Her decision may change the war but result in the loss of her humanity.  Kuang wrote The Poppy War while teaching debate in China and graduated with a degree in Chinese History from Georgetown University a few days after its release.  Her studies in Chinese military strategy and collective trauma inspired her to write the novel.   She said, "I chose to write a fantasy reinterpretation of China's twentieth century, because that was the kind of story I wasn't finding on bookshelves".  