The failure of the Warsaw Uprising and subsequent Capitulation agreement left Warsaw almost uninhabited. The city was almost totally destroyed with no major monuments left standing. This, however, was not the end. The Home Army was in disarray and unprepared to deal with the Soviet NKVD which subsequently took control of Poland and sent many of the former resistance fighters to their deaths in Siberian gulags. The political effect is a matter of controversy. Some[who?] claim that without the uprising, Poland would have become a Soviet republic, whilst others claim that the uprising itself was the mistake which enabled Joseph Stalin to arrange for his enemies to destroy his inconvenient allies and left Poland fatally weakened. Some people were hiding in the remnants of the city, e.g. Władysław Szpilman, who later wrote his memoir The Pianist, filmed by Roman Polanski (The Pianist, 2002). They became known as the Robinson Crusoes of Warsaw. Due to lack of cooperation and often the active aggressive moves on the part of the Soviets and several other factors, Warsaw Uprising and Operation Tempest failed in their primary goal—to free part of Polish territories, so that a government loyal to Polish government in exile could be established there instead of a Soviet puppet state. There is no consensus among historians if that was ever possible, and if those operations had other lasting effect. Some[who?] argue that without Operation Tempest and Warsaw Uprising, Poland would end as a Soviet republic, a fate definitely worse than that of independent puppet state, and thus the Operation succeeded at least partially in being a political demonstration to Soviets and Western Allies. Most soldiers of the Home Army (including those who took part in the Warsaw Uprising) were persecuted after the war; captured by the NKVD or SB, interrogated and imprisoned, awaiting trials on various charges. Many of them were sent to Gulags or executed. Most of those sent to POW camps in Germany were later liberated by British, American and Polish forces and stayed in the West, including uprising leaders Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski and Antoni Chruściel, who stayed in London and the United States, respectively. Some chose to return to Poland in the hope of rejoining their families. In many cases, those who returned shared the fate of their comrades who had spent their entire time in Poland. The courage of the Warsaw Uprising, kept anti-Soviet sentiment high in Poland throughout the Cold War. The post-war Communist regime attempted to counter this sentiment with extensive propaganda that downplayed and even outright denied Soviet culpability. Nevertheless, memories of the uprising helped to inspire the Polish labour movement Solidarity, which led a peaceful movement against the Communist government during the 1980s, leading to the downfall of that government in 1989 and the emergence of democracy. 