The UCLA Language Materials Project (LMP) maintains a web resource about teaching materials for some 150 languages that are less commonly taught in the United States. The project, funded by the U.S. Department of Education, was created in 1992. It is part of the UCLA Center for World Languages.  The website provides full bibliographic information for over 7000 items, including textbooks, readers, phrasebooks, grammars, dictionaries, and supplementary materials that are distributed in print, audio, video, web and computerized instruction formats. It offers detailed descriptions of the content and other features of each material, to help users find the most appropriate tools for their individual teaching and learning needs. Items can be located quickly through menus displayed at the top of each webpage, or through an advanced search. The LMP does not sell the materials listed in the database, but does provide information on retailers and distributors where the materials can be obtained.  The website also provides citations of about 1000 Authentic Materials, language materials originally intended for native speakers rather than second-language learners. Because such items reflect current culture and actual language usage, they are much valued as teaching tools. The database presents native-language posters, signs, advertisements, product labels, games, maps, schedules, and brochures that can be downloaded for free from the LMP website. There are also links to selected external websites that offer native-language audio, video, and print resources. The Authentic Materials page provides a guide to using those materials in the classroom, including sample lesson plans.  Each LMP language has its own webpage, providing a language profile, a direct link to the LMP citations for that language, and links to relevant external websites for teachers and students of the language. The profile provides a map, a description of key dialects, grammatical features, relationship to other languages, a linguistic history, and sociolinguistic information. These reports provide a numeric summary of the categories of materials cited for each language in the database. They are used by publishers and policy makers to assess the U.S. availability of teaching materials for a given language. A direct link to the University of Minnesota's database of the courses in less commonly taught languages offered by over 2000 schools, colleges and other programs in the U.S. and Canada. CARLA stands for Center for Advanced Research on Language Acquisition.  An additional database of teaching materials for less commonly taught languages, produced by the Center for Applied Linguistics in Washington, DC, and hosted by the LMP. It offers brief summaries of materials for languages beyond the 150 in the LMP database. The LMP website offers selected links to language resource centers, professional language teachers' associations, scholarly publications, and distributors of language-teaching materials. A separate portal for people teaching less commonly taught languages to students in kindergarten through 12th grade. Offerings include a section on curricular frameworks and standards, links to dozens of outside resources for K-12 language teachers, and a year's worth of free lesson plans for teachers to download and adapt to their own classrooms. The lessons are grouped into thematic units (e.g. 10 lessons on school, 5 lessons on likes and dislikes, 15 on friends and relationships), and offer lively activities for learning to communicate in the target language. 