   Top of the Lake is a mystery drama television series created and written by Jane Campion and Gerard Lee, and directed by Campion and Garth Davis. It aired in 2013, and the sequel, entitled Top of the Lake: China Girl, in 2017.  It marks Campion's first work for television since An Angel at My Table in 1990.  Season 1 follows Detective Robin Griffin (Elisabeth Moss) and deals with her investigation of the  disappearance of a pregnant 12-year-old girl in New Zealand. Season 2,  China Girl, is set in Sydney four years later, as Detective Griffin investigates the death of an unidentified Asian girl found at Bondi Beach.   Top of the Lake was co-produced for BBC Two in the UK, BBC UKTV in Australia and New Zealand, and Sundance Channel in the United States.  It has been generally very well received.  Actress Jennifer Ehle auditioned for the role of GJ, which went to Holly Hunter. Jane Campion originally offered the role of Robin to Anna Paquin, who had worked with her on The Piano (1993). Paquin declined due to her pregnancy, and the role went to American Elisabeth Moss.  The series was originally intended as a co-production with the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. But after Moss was cast as Robin, the network pulled their funding before production began, citing a prior agreement to put an Australian actress in the lead.  Australian-based channel UKTV, owned by BBC Worldwide, filled the funding gap left by the ABC.  Philippa Campbell was the New Zealand-based producer. Filming took 18 weeks and was shot entirely on location in Queenstown and Glenorchy, in Otago, on the South Island of New Zealand. While Queenstown is referred to during the series, Glenorchy doubles as the fictitious town of Laketop. The scenes in the women's commune were filmed at Moke Lake.  In early 2013, co-creator Jane Campion said that Top of the Lake comes to a distinct ending, and there would be no additional series.  Despite this, it was announced in October 2014 that the series had been renewed for a second season.  China Girl began shooting on location in Sydney, Australia in December 2015.   Campion returned as co-writer and co-director. Gerard Lee returned as co-writer. The original co-director, Garth Davis, was replaced by Ariel Kleiman due to scheduling conflicts.  Philippa Campbell returned as producer. Actress Nicole Kidman joined the cast for China Girl, which is the second time she has worked with Campion. Kidman "plays an Australian mother, Julia, whose story dovetails with that of Detective Robin Griffin", played by Elisabeth Moss.  Christie, a fan of Campion's The Piano, joined the cast after sending a letter through a mutual friend.  Top of the Lake screened in its entirety at the January 2013 Sundance Film Festival, in a single seven-hour session with one intermission and a break for lunch.  This was the first such screening in the history of the festival.  Top of the Lake was additionally shown at the 63rd Berlin International Film Festival. The US premiere was on the Sundance Channel on 18 March 2013,  in Australia on BBC UKTV on 24 March 2013,  and in New Zealand on 25 March, also on BBC UKTV.  China Girl was screened in its entirety at the May 2017 Cannes Film Festival.  In the UK, it premiered on BBC Two on 27 July 2017, and the entire series was released on the  BBC iPlayer immediately afterwards.   In the US, it premiered in September 2017, on Sundance TV,  and each episode will be available on Hulu the day after its screening on SundanceTV.  In Canada, China Girl premiered on 25 October 2017, on CBC Television.  Reviews of Top of the Lake have been positive, referring to the series as "masterfully made", "beautiful", "mysterious", "riveting", and "a masterpiece".       It received a score of 86 out of 100 from Metacritic  and a score of 93 per cent from Rotten Tomatoes.  There were also some less positive reviews.  Mike Hale of The New York Times criticized the "elaborately introduced plotlines" and described Tui's disappearance as "less a story element than a metaphor for the kind of armed resistance to male hegemony that constitutes the central idea of Ms Campion’s body of work."  Top of the Lake was lauded by feminist critics  for its explicit effort to analyse rape culture  as well as its radical construction of narratives entirely foregrounding the experiences of single women.  