Jaime Duque Park is a family-oriented amusement park located in the Tocancipá municipality of the Metropolitan Area of Bogotá, Colombia. The park contains the Jaime Duque Zoo, the Museum of Mankind, as well as replicas of several major locations and buildings from around the world.  A monorail runs through the park to help get guests from one area to another.  The park also has an outdoor stage for live performances. Here, the park has hosted performances by musicians such as Kylie Minogue, Guns N' Roses, Jamiroquai, The Killers, David Guetta, Paulina Rubio and Evanescence. The park first opened on February 27, 1983 and was founded by Jaime Duque Grisales, a personality of Colombian civil aviation and the first head of the Avianca airline pilots.  He wanted to create a cultural and recreational space for the whole family, with the aim of generating profits to help institutions serving families. ARC Córdoba, a ship that was used during World War II,  and an Avianca DC6 aircraft are on display. The park contains replicas of the Taj Mahal in India, as well as replicas of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, including the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, the Lighthouse of Alexandria, the Temple of Artemis, and the Pyramids. It also has giant figures, including a large hand holding a globe, which is meant to represent the hand of God. There is a relief map of Colombia on a scale of 1:25000, located near the aviary. There is also a map of the Caribbean Sea. The park's zoo contains several birds and monkeys as well as species native to South America, such as the capybara.  This park was inaugurated in 1991. It is managed by Jaime Duque Park under technical and professional supervision from La Salle University. Wakatá is a unit dedicated to conservation activities and environmental education. It trains students from different professions in the study and management of wild species and serves to support environment by providing a foster home for animals that have been confiscated authorities. Coordinates: 4°56′52″N 73°57′47″W﻿ / ﻿4.9477°N 73.9631°W﻿ / 4.9477; -73.9631 