An amusement park is a park that features various attractions, such as rides and games, as well as other events for entertainment purposes. A theme park is a type of amusement park that bases its structures and attractions around a central theme, often featuring multiple areas with different themes. Unlike temporary and mobile funfairs and carnivals, amusement parks are stationary and built for long-lasting operation. They are more elaborate than city parks and playgrounds, usually providing attractions that cater to a variety of age groups. While amusement parks often contain themed areas, theme parks place a heavier focus with more intricately-designed themes that revolve around a particular subject or group of subjects. Amusement parks evolved from European fairs, pleasure gardens and large picnic areas, which were created for people's recreation. World's fairs and other types of international expositions also influenced the emergence of the amusement park industry. Lake Compounce opened in 1846 and is considered the oldest continuously-operating amusement park in North America. The first theme parks emerged in the mid-twentieth century with the opening of Santa Claus Land in 1946, Santa's Workshop in 1949, and Disneyland in 1955. Do you have a question about Amusement parks that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. Coast Rider and Surfside Gilders opened in May 2013 as part of the boardwalk expansion. GhostRider at night Adventureland(exterior of Tortuga Tavern) Dorney Park and Wildwater Kingdom's in Allentown, Pennsylvania Narrow gauge mining train going through Calico Ghost Town The resort's monorail system and ferryboats transport guests to and from the Magic Kingdom. Minimum height requirement sign 120px Wood carver Andy Anderson with Sad Eye Joe in the Ghost Town area of the park, 1941 Hooks Lagoon View of Silver Bullet from Sky Cabin Hotel Kintetsu Universal City (left) and Hotel Keihan Universal Tower (right) Vauxhall Gardens, founded in 1661 as one of the first pleasure gardens 120px The Samsung Wheel, Avianca Boeing 727 plane and Double Loop Roller Coaster at Salitre Mágico, Bogotá, Colombia. Dreamland tower and lagoon in 1907 120px Wild West Falls at Warner Bros. Movie World, Queensland, Australia 120px Charlene Parker demonstrating a spinning wheel in Ghost Town, 2011 120px 120px Walt Disney World's Magic Kingdom in Florida is the most visited theme park in the world, and Cinderella Castle, the park's icon, is one of the most photographed structures in the United States Big Foot Rapids is located in the Wild Wilderness section of the park. Aerial view, with the large Wave Pool visible to the right Oaks Amusement Park in Portland, Oregon Lounge chairs (have since been replaced) Melbourne Luna Park Knott's Scary Farm event Universal CityWalk Osaka Blackpool Beach in 1895 4-D Theatre The Boardwalk area including Hangtime under construction Frontierland(theming for Big Thunder Mountain Railroad) Knott's first theme park logo: a prospector, with pack mule. The historical theme park Puy du Fou in France won the 2014 Applause Award from the IAAPA A view of The Boardwalk following its 2013 expansion 120px Butterfield Stagecoach's entrance Photochrom of the Promenade c. 1898 Tomorrowland The former E.T. Adventure Universal Studios Japan entrance Magic Kingdom entrance. Shoot-the-chute ride at Dreamland, Coney Island c. 1905 120px Hooks Lagoon Wonder Mountain at Canada's Wonderland Roller coasters, such as Behemoth at Canada's Wonderland, have fast and steep drops from high altitudes Main Street, U.S.A. Rameses Revenge at Chessington World of Adventures, Greater London, is a Huss Top Spin ride and was the first of its kind to feature a water element Steel Pier circa the 2010s Fantasyland's dark ride The Little Mermaid: Ariel's Undersea Adventure Liberty Square(Hall of Presidents) Stunt Fall at Parque Warner Madrid, Madrid, Spain 3 ft (914 mm) gauge Six Flags & Texas Railroad in operation in 2007 Dark Forest entrance at Alton Towers theme park, Alton, England Knotts Berry Farm Denver & Rio Grand steam locomotive, added as Ghost Town & Calico Railroad in 1952 Bud Hurlbut in Calico Mine Ride engine, circa 1960 Stagecoach circa 1950, added as the first ride in 1949 Fantasyland(Bavarian theming) Wave Pool The original Ferris Wheel, World's Columbian Exposition, 1893 120px Peanuts cartoonist Charles M. Schulz (center) visits the construction site of "Camp Snoopy" with daughter Jill Schulz, Marion Knott and others, circa 1983 Splash Mountain in Frontierland Steel Pier circa the 1910s Main entrance to Dorney Park & Wildwater Kingdom, Allentown, Pennsylvania, 1950 Main Street, U.S.A., with Cinderella Castle in the far distance. Frederick Savage's 'Sea-On-Land' carousel, where the riders would pitch up and down as if they were on the sea, was the first amusement ride installed in Dreamland Margate in 1880 120px The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 