Romon U-park (Chinese: 罗蒙环球乐园) is a 200,000 ㎡ amusement park located in the south of Ningbo, China. By its size it can be considered as one of the largest urban indoor theme parks in the world.  It is funded by the leading Chinese clothing manufacturer Romon Group.  Romon U-park consists of a 57.4m high indoor park and an outdoor park “Legend Island”. There are six differently themed zones in the park; Romantic Avenue, Fantasy Dream, Mystery Land, Adventure Challenge, Festival Plaza and The Island of Legends. In all there are over 30 attractions, 30 specialty restaurants and 20 specialty shops. Etymology: Romon is a Chinese clothing manufacturer and the "U" in "Romon U-Park" is for "Universal".  The total cost of the project was over 3 billion RMB.  This hotel is the brand’s first project in Ningbo and functions as a hotel for the Romon Fairyland theme park. Special attention was given to make both family and business travelers feel at home. The dramatic spiral staircase on the ground floor creates the graceful spine of the camphor tree inspired main entrance.  The most fascinating attraction of the park are multimedia shows.  "The Source of Light" show is about the adventures of two Romon panda bears “Romon” and “Romie”. The bears discover a magic ball inside the Romon park Pyramid. This magic ball is the “Source of all Lights” and takes the pandas on a journey through strange worlds. The different worlds are experienced by the audience through the combination of the multimedia effects. “Zheng He is coming”, the second multimedia spectacle tells the tale of Zheng He, a Chinese admiral and diplomat of the 15th century. Zheng He commanded massive expeditionary voyages to Southeast Asia, South Asia, the Middle East, and East Africa from 1405 to 1433. Zheng He commanded a large fleet of ships. His first voyage is estimated to have had over 300 total ships and nearly 28,000 men. Some of the ships were large treasure ships estimated to be over 400 feet long and 170 feet wide. That's longer than a football field! They had ships to carry treasure, ships to carry horses and troops, and even special ships to carry fresh water. Certainly the civilizations that Zheng He visited were amazed at the power and strength of the Chinese Empire when this fleet arrived. Both shows include video projection mapping, laser beams and laser graphic effects, digital water screen, fire bursts, lights, fog, music and sound effects.  Shows are technically based on 10x Barco video projectors projecting onto the 30x30 meters pyramid, the 20 meters wide pyramid stage screen and the back wall, 2x High-End video servers, 12x full colour laser projectors, 48 moving lights, 20x flame bursts and 18 meters digital water screen all centrally controlled and synchronized. Both multimedia shows became a core attraction of the Romon U-Park. Emotion Media Factory was responsible for all aspects of project planning, from a rough sketch of the idea through design and installation all the way to full show production, as well as system operation and maintenance.  Music was created by Selcuk Torun.  In October 2015 “Zheng He is coming” multimedia show by Emotion Media Factory becomes a finalist of the Brass Rings Awards by IAAPA.  The equivalent of the Oscars for the Amusement Park Industry, the award is to be given to multimedia attractions with a budget of $1 million or more. 