The Themed Entertainment Association (TEA) is an international non-profit association that represents creators, developers, designers and producers of themed entertainment.  Its mission, as stated in its bylaws, is to facilitate dialogue and communication among its members, to stimulate knowledge and professional growth, and to expand the size, diversity and awareness of the themed entertainment industry.  Every year since 2007, the TEA has hosted SATE (Story + Architecture + Technology = Experience), a lecture-based industry conference.   The TEA was founded in 1991 by Monty Lunde, a former special effects designer for Disney who had gone on to start the special effects company Technifex with his business partner Rock Hall. Lunde was finding it difficult to negotiate contracts with large corporations and wanted to organize small businesses in the industry to share best practices, establish common contracts, and facilitate better dialogue with customers.    The TEA annually presents Thea Awards to projects that exemplify the highest standards of excellence and achievement, including individuals, parks, attractions, exhibits, and experiences in the themed entertainment industry. The Thea Awards began in 1994 with a single honoree: Harrison “Buzz” Price, the first recipient of the TEA Lifetime Achievement Award.  That award is now called the Buzz Price Thea Award for a Lifetime of Outstanding Achievements in his honor.  The second recipient was Marty Sklar in 1995. In 1996, the Awards for Outstanding Achievement (AOA) were introduced, and ten were distributed. In the years since, additional special categories of AOA have been created, ensuring a multi-award event.  Anyone can nominate a project, but judging is conducted by a committee that includes all past lifetime achievement honorees, one board liaison, and nine members-at-large appointed to three-year terms.  Award recipients are announced in November and formally presented the following spring. In 2016, Theas were awarded to the following:  In 2015, Theas were awarded to the following:  In 2014, Theas were awarded to the following:  In 2013, Theas were awarded to the following:  In 2012, Theas were awarded to the following:  In 2011, Theas were awarded to the following:  In 2010, Theas were awarded to the following:  In 2009, Theas were awarded to the following:  In 2008, Thea Awards for Outstanding Achievement were awarded to the following:  In 2007, Theas were awarded to the following:  