 Make Everything Great Again is a street art mural by artists Dominykas Čečkauskas and Mindaugas Bonanu.    It is located on the wall of a barbecue restaurant in the railway station area of old town of Vilnius in Lithuania.    The mural depicting then US Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump giving a French kiss to the Russian president Vladimir Putin was made known to the broad public on 13 May 2016. The caption Make Everything Great Again plays on Trump's campaign slogan "Make America Great Again".  This image draws inspiration from the 1979 kissing video which itself inspired the 1990 graffiti painting My God, Help Me to Survive This Deadly Love portrayed on the Berlin Wall by Dmitri Vrubel.    The artwork was first unveiled on 13 May 2016.  Make Everything Great Again appeared on the wall after Vladimir Putin and Donald Trump exchanged statements of mutual admiration, with the President of Russia describing Donald Trump as "a very colorful person, talented without any doubt,"    with Donald Trump replying that it was "a great honor to be so nicely complimented by a man so highly respected within his own country and beyond."   One of the artists, Dominykas Čečkauskas, owned the restaurant Smoking Pig that had asked for the artwork.    He said in an interview: "We saw similarities between the two heroes (Trump and Putin). ... They both have an ego that is too big, and it is funny that they get along well." Čečkauskas said "We are in a sort of a Cold War again, and America may get a president who will want to be friends with Russia."  The artists, with the help of the mural, predict that if Russia and the US would ever "make out, it would happen in the Baltic states ... with tongues or with tanks.”.  Vilnius Mayor Remigijus Šimašius emphasized the values of civil liberties in his city in a statement to Lithuanian media organization LTnews.net: "There is no censorship in our city. That’s why I support the idea of making this graffiti. It shows that Vilnius is the city of freedom, love and beauty."  Šimašius further remarked on a post to his Facebook: "Vilnius is a city of freedom, where we don't have to be afraid of weapon rattling just several dozen kilometres away and express what we believe in without censorship."  The work rapidly became viral and commented upon both within its home country and in global newspapers.    BBC News commented, "Once the initial shock has passed of seeing such testosterone-fuelled survivors of Cold War tension kissing, a closer look at the mural reveals a level of subtle political commentary that cuts against the superficial sensation."  Esquire called it "a provocative mural, to say the least."  Market Watch noted the mural had the impact of "sending a few ripples across the globe."   