Bojówka pacyficzno-reporterska (Pyta.pl) is a group of Polish reporters and performers. It was founded in 2005 by Mikołaj Janusz, Piotr Kozerski and Rafał Grad. It conducts reports on public political events, asking controversial questions of participants. In 2006 Pyta.pl established a YouTube channel. In 2012-2013, episodes were first broadcast on RBL.TV, and posted on the Internet. In 2013, the performers recorded some reports under the program Dzięki Bogu już weekend (lit. Thank God It's The Weekend) on TVP2. The greatest opposition to Pyta.pl is found among demonstrators from Far-left politics.  Originally, the band was called Rogale Michała Białka (Michał Białek's croissants).  The name Pyta.pl is a wordplay, misinterpreted as a reference to word pytać (to ask) when in fact, it refers to a male member.  Its full name is bojówka pacyfistyczno-performerska Pyta.pl.   Its alternative names are bojówka pacyfistyczna and antyestablishmentowe komando . Pyta.pl publishes on its YouTube channel video recordings of interviews, commentaries, reports, street probes and columns.  The most popular are reports of protests the authors took part in as reporters asking controversial questions.   The goal of Pyta.pl is to act against what it calls political correctness.  and to show how bad its perceived radicalism is.   Similar opinions were uttered by Zespół Filmowy Skurcz, formed in 1988. Accoriding to Jaok, the range of Pyta.pl activity has increased thanks to the internet.  The originator of Pyta was Piotr Kozerski.  In his opinion, the activity under the name Pyta.pl initially was only for fun .  Kozerski was inspired by Yucko the Clown and he went to one of the demonstrations to insult its participants.  After that, he made contact with Mikołaj "Jaok" Janusz via suchar.net and started a cooperation with him. In 2005, he registered a domain name and set up a website Pyta.pl.  On May 4 2006, Pyta.pl founded a YouTube channel called pytadotpl.  In September 2006 the band gained notoriety when Kazimiera Szczuka hit Koza.   In 2007, the magazine Przekrój cite the video as one of the three best on the Internet.   Pyta.pl prepared street surveys for Tele5, conducted weekly program "PTOK" on Radio TOK FM and worked with RBL.TV. In 2014-2015 the group hosted the program Pyta Not For Breakfast (Polish: Pyta nie na śniadanie).  In addition, Pyta.pl recorded videos commenting on events under the program Dzięki Bogu już weekend (lit. Thank God It's Weekend) on TVP2.   In the middle of 2016, internal conflict led the band to break up.  Janusz left the group on July 2, 2016.   The next day Jaok decided to continue the group's activity and created a new YouTube channel called pyta.pl. He provided archival recordings to which he had copyrights.   The new Pyta.pl team was completed by Marcin Drabek and Piotr Dejneko. In 2013, Pyta.pl founded its own musical representation called Pytong (the original Krwiokał). It is considered to be a precursor of Pop Grind in Warsaw.   The band's most popular songs are „No i chuj” (as a paraphrase of „Let It Be”), „Wymasuj mi drąg” („It Must Have Been Love”), „Gej-czarodziej” („Light My Fire”).  In 2007, the weekly Wprost mentioned Pyta.pl among five potential stars of the Polish Internet.  Radio Medium Publiczne characterized the program as a piece of Polish Internet history and even journalism.  In 2012, the weekly Newsweek mentioned Pyta.pl as a controversial video blog.  In turn, the magazine CKM described them as the authors of "the cult video website".  In September 2006, the daily Życie Warszawy stated that Pyta.pl sympathized with right-wing politics in Poland, specializing in provocations directed against left-wing politics.  In turn, in 2013, the magazine Komputer Świat wrote that its films "masterfully expose the naivety and complexes of some social groups, mainly locating on right-wing politics".  Pyta.pl created the foundations for successes of subsequent Polish artistic groups e.g. AbstrachujeTV.   Moreover its original format (going to demonstrations and trying to ridicule their participants) is also used by other Polish YouTube artists.  According to Jaok Pyta.pl performs in a style that it pioneered.  