"Rājamati" (Devanagari: राजमति) is a traditional Nepalese ballad about an unsuccessful love quest, and is the most well known song in Newar society of Nepal.  Written by an unnamed composer, it dates from the early 19th century and is based on a true story. The song in Nepal Bhasa also gained fame because it was played in London during the state visit of Nepalese Prime Minister Jung Bahadur Rana to England in 1850.     It was first recorded on gramophone disc by maestro Seturam Shrestha in Kolkata in 1908. A movie of the same name and based on the story of the song was released in 1995.  Rajamati is the name of a girl from Kathmandu whose beauty attracted many suitors. However, a devious matchmaker gets her married off despite her protests, and she ends up in a poor family. Rajamati was born at Taha Nani in Itum Bahal, a historical neighborhood in central Kathmandu.    Art of Rajamati by Uday Charan Shrestha in 1995. His research started in 1993 and finally after two years, he finished his oil canvas art after almost 6 month of work on it. Poster was published in 1996 in the samdhyatimes on the occasion of nepal sambat new year. During research time Artist found evidence from Archaeology Department of Nepal Government. Rajamati bada widow woman sold 64 moharu. Her house of Taabaa is located at lagan in 1884 BS. Wilawati Bada(son) and Bhajumati Bada(uncle in law) were evidence during her sold. Similarly Guthi land (dyaguthi) also sold in 1892 BS of 60 moharu. In the song, an infatuated man expresses his love for Rajamati, and threatens to leave home and go to Kashi and become an ascetic if he doesn't get to marry her. Then he describes her hair, eyes, complexion and moles on the cheek. The song also mentions a celebrated episode connected with Rajamati, how she went to fetch water from the water spout at Maruhiti and tripped on a large stone and fell flat on her back.  A movie of the same name and based on the song and directed by Neer Shah was released in 1995. It is the second big screen film to be made in Nepal Bhasa.   Prem Dhoj Pradhan composed and sang Rajamti song in his own style, and sang in various stages and functions for many many years made it very popular .He recorded Rajamati song in 1962 in Calcutta Indian,  on 78 rpm gramophone disc.  Since then, the song has been recorded by many artists. 