"Sitalā Māju" (Devanagari: सितला माजु) is a traditional Nepalese song based on an historical event, and recounts the expulsion of children from the Kathmandu Valley by the king who feared they would spread smallpox.    Written by an anonymous composer, the lament in Nepal Bhasa dates from the early 19th century.   The song describes how the king ordered the children and their parents to be rounded up and driven to eastern Nepal and across the Tama Koshi River (तामाकोशी). They suffered great hardships on the journey as they had no food, clothes or place to stay. The soldiers drove them forward by beating them with stinging nettles. Children died of cold and they were not allowed to be cremated or buried. So the parents had to throw the dead bodies into the Tama Koshi River.   The deportees were driven from Kathmandu to Bhaktapur, Banepa, Palanchok, Dolaghat, Dolakha and across the Tama Koshi. They were ordered to leave Nepal Mandala (Nepal Proper), whose eastern boundary is marked by the temple of Bhimsen in Dolakha.  Many Newar settlements in the towns outside the Kathmandu Valley can be traced to this forced relocation.  The song's lilting tune and heart-rending words have made it an enduring classic.  Sitalā Māju is one of the most well-known songs in Newar society.  It is one of the six seasonal songs and is sung in the winter (December-January).  Children in the Kathmandu Valley were banished at the order of King Rana Bahadur Shah (reigned 1777-1805) to protect his infant son Girvan Yuddha Bikram Shah Deva (reigned 1799-1816) from catching smallpox. According to another version, the king was afraid that his wife would be infected, and so he had all the children in the valley sent away. Nevertheless, both Girvan Yuddha and the queen died of the disease.    Rana Bahadur was so enraged at the deities for not saving his wife despite his prayers that he had the image of Harati (alternative name: Ajima Dyah) (अजिमा द्य:) at Swayambhu desecrated.  The epic poem's title Sitalā Māju refers to the name of the goddess of smallpox according to Hindu and Buddhist traditions.  