  Ayushman Bharat Yojana or National Health Protection Scheme  is a program which aims to provide a service to create a healthy, capable and content new India. Presently it is running as a pilot project in Uttar Pradesh from 4 September 2018.   It has two goals, one, creating a network of health and wellness infrastructure across the nation to deliver comprehensive primary healthcare services, and another is to provide insurance cover to  at least 40 per cent of India's population which is majorly deprived of secondary and tertiary care services.   Indu Bhushan appointed as a Chief Executive Officer (CEO).This centrally sponsored flagship scheme aims to provide an annual health cover of up to Rs. 5 lakh to vulnerable 10 crore families (approximately 50 crore persons – 40% of country’s population) based on Socio Economic and Caste Census database.  Ayushman Bharat Yojana will be launched on 25 September 2018. Beneficiaries will receive Ayushman Bharat Family Health Cards   The key stakeholders in the scheme besides the consumers or beneficiaries are the Healthcare Providers, state governments and Insurance companies without whose support and involvement the execution of this scheme cannot happen.  Ayushman Bharat consists of two major elements.1. National Health Protection Scheme. 2. Wellness centres. National Health Protection Scheme will provide cashless treatment to patients. And wellness centres will provide primary care to the patients. In fact, the government will upgrade existing Public Health Centres to Wellness Centres. According to news reports, the welfare scheme will be rolled out on August 15. The government has roped in multiple agencies to ensure seamless coordination between the centre and states.   It offers the benefits as under : Prior to launch of Ayushman Bharat Scheme RSBY (Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana) has been the only scheme in India launched on a Pan India basis, which aimed at Universal Health Coverage.  In recent years, several developing countries have introduced tax-financed health insurance coverage to their poor populations  India too, joined this effort in 2008, with the Indian Ministry of Labour and Employment (MoL&E) launching the ‘Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana’ (RSBY) to protect poor Indian households from financial risks associated with hospitalization expenses. By September 2016, more than 41 million families (about 150 million people) out of a targeted 65 million families, were enrolled in RSBY.  NHPS will subsume the ongoing centrally sponsored schemes such as Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY) and the Senior Citizen Health Insurance Scheme. Dubbed as Modicare, the scheme would be the largest state-funded health insurance scheme and a massive leap forward toward UHC, by decreasing OOPE and protecting around 40% vulnerable population from catastrophic health-care expenditure.  The impact of the scheme can only be evaluated post roll out of the scheme when all variables constraints would come into play, learnings can be had and improvement areas will discovered by the government.   Ayushman Bharat Scheme Package List 1,350 packages under 23 medical specialities will be provided under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. 253 packages offered under general surgery while 161 packages offered under Urology. The Package cost includes Room and bed charges, nursing care, procedure cost and physician fee, consultation and diagnostics pre-hospitalisation, two-week medicine, stitch removal and follow-up consultancy for two weeks after discharge.  