  Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi PariYojana Kendra(PMBJPK) is a campaign launched by the Department of Pharmaceuticals, Govt. Of India, to provide quality medicines at affordable prices to the masses through special kendras known as Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Kendra. Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Pariyojana Kendra (PMBJPK) have been set up to provide generic drugs, which are available at lesser prices but are equivalent in quality and efficacy as expensive branded drugs. BPPI (Bureau of Pharma Public Sector Undertakings of India) has been established under the Department of Pharmaceuticals, Govt. of India, with the support of all the CPSUs for co-coordinating procurement, supply and marketing of generic drugs through Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Kendra.  “Jan Aushadhi” is the novel project launched by Government of India in the year 2014 for the noble cause – Quality Medicines at Affordable Prices for All. The campaign was undertaken through sale of generic medicines through exclusive outlets namely “Jan Aushadhi Medical Store”in various districts of the country. In September 2015, the 'Jan Aushadhi Scheme' was revamped as 'Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Yojana' (PMJAY). In November 2016, to give further impetus to the scheme, it was again renamed as "Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana" (PMBJP). Year-wise Phasing of Expenditure (Rs. in crores)  The Jan Aushadhi initiative will make available quality drugs at affordable prices through dedicated stores selling generic medicines which are available at lesser prices but are equivalent in quality and efficacy as expensive branded drugs. Some comparative prices are: Prices in Rs. as of (Sep 2013)  Jan Aushadhi Store (JAS) can be opened by State Governments or any organization / reputed NGOs / Trusts / Private hospitals / Charitable institutions / Doctors / Unemployed pharmacist/ individual entrepreneurs are eligible to apply for new Jan Aushadhi stores. The applicants shall have to employ one B Pharma / D Pharma degree holder as Pharmacist in their proposed store. The following financial support is available: NGOs/agencies/individuals establishing Jan Aushadhi stores in Government hospital premises where space is provided free of cost by Government to operating agency:  BPPI will provide one time financial assistance up to Rs. 2.50 lakh as per details given below Jan Aushadhi stores established anywhere else by private entrepreneurs / institutions / NGOs / Trusts / Charitable organizations which are linked with BPPI headquarters through internet.  The concept of Jan Aushadhi Kendra, which was launched at government hospitals to provide patients with medicines at affordable rates, has miserably failed to serve its purpose at Civil Hospital, Ludhiana. Only 20 per cent patients at Civil Hospital are able to benefit from this facility.  Most of the stores, set up under the Jan Aushadhi Scheme to provide non-branded generic medicines to all, haven’t stocked common medicines for months for lack of supply. These include medicines for seasonal infections, gas, cough, cold, etc. Officials said the shortage of medicines is due to logistical issues.  