Knowledge sharing is an activity through which knowledge (namely, information, skills, or expertise) is exchanged among people, friends, families, communities (for example, Wikipedia), or organizations.    Organizations have recognized that knowledge constitutes a valuable intangible asset for creating and sustaining competitive advantages.  Knowledge sharing activities are generally supported by knowledge management systems.  However, technology constitutes only one of the many factors that affect the sharing of knowledge in organizations, such as organizational culture, trust, and incentives.  The sharing of knowledge constitutes a major challenge in the field of knowledge management because some employees tend to resist sharing their knowledge with the rest of the organization.  In digital world many websites or application like Khan Academy, Sparkyn (www.sparkyn.com) enables knowledge or talent sharing between individuals and/or within teams. The individuals can easily reach the people who want to learn, share their talent and get rewarded. Although knowledge is commonly treated as an object, Dave Snowden has argued it is more appropriate to teach it as both a flow and a thing.  Knowledge as a flow can be related to the concept of tacit knowledge,    While the difficulty of sharing knowledge is in transferring knowledge from one entity to another,   it may prove profitable for organizations to acknowledge the difficulties of knowledge transfer and its paradoxicality, adopting new knowledge management strategies accordingly.  Explicit knowledge sharing occurs when explicit knowledge is made available to be shared between entities. Explicit knowledge sharing can happen successfully when the following criteria are met: Tacit knowledge sharing occurs through different types of socialization. Although tacit knowledge is difficult to identify and codify, relevant factors that influence tacit knowledge sharing include: Embedded knowledge sharing occurs when knowledge is shared through clearly delineated products, processes, routines, etc. This knowledge can be shared in different ways, such as: Knowledge constitutes a valuable, intangible asset for creating and sustaining competitive advantages within organizations.  Several factors affect knowledge sharing in organizations, such as organizational culture, trust, incentives, and technology.  Knowledge sharing activities are commonly supported by knowledge management systems, a form of information technology (IT) that facilitates and organizes information within a company or organization.  Knowledge sharing can sometimes constitute a major challenge in the field of knowledge management.  The difficulty of knowledge sharing resides in the transference of knowledge from one entity to another.   Some employees tend to resist sharing their knowledge  because of the notion that knowledge is property; ownership, therefore, becomes very important.  In order to counteract this, individuals must be reassured that they will receive some type of incentive for what they create.  However, Dalkir (2005) demonstrated that individuals are most commonly rewarded for what they know, not what they share.  Negative consequences, such as isolation and resistance to ideas, occur when knowledge sharing is impeded.  To promote knowledge sharing and remove knowledge sharing obstacles, the organizational culture of an entity should encourage discovery and innovation.  Information technology (IT) systems are common tools that help facilitate knowledge sharing and knowledge management.  The main role of IT systems is to help people share knowledge through common platforms and electronic storage to help make access simpler, encouraging economic reuse of knowledge. IT systems can provide codification, personalization, electronic repositories for information and can help people locate each other to communicate directly. With appropriate training and education, IT systems can make it easier for organizations to acquire, store or disseminate knowledge.  In economic theory, knowledge sharing has been studied in the field of industrial organization and in the field of contract theory. In industrial organization, Bhattacharya, Glazer, and Sappington (1992) have emphasized the importance of knowledge sharing in research joint ventures in a context of imperfect competition.  In the theory of incomplete contracts, Rosenkranz and Schmitz (1999, 2003) have used the Grossman-Hart-Moore property rights approach to study how knowledge sharing is affected by the underlying ownership structure.    