Am I Right is a popular music and humor website dedicated to topics as song parodies,  misheard lyrics (mondegreens),    and album cover parodies, and can submit their own without registering. It was created by Charles R. Grosvenor Jr.  (born July 7, 1972, known as Chucky G) The site was first launched March 23, 2000   and has since grown considerably. Am I Right is a community based website, with all the content contained on the website created by visitors. New material is submitted online by individuals and reviewed by a group of "editors" who remove entries that don't conform to community standards regarding obscene content or spam. In 2006, a sister site called Am I Wrong was opened which allows the users to create their own quiz. Since the website's inception, the site has offered the possibility for visitors to submit misheard lyrics, aka "mondegreens", to the site; these are displayed along with the true lyrics. As of October 11, 2007, there are a total of 101,716 misheard lyrics.  There is a section where contributors admit their more embarrassing misheard lyric mishaps and the moment they came upon their mistakes. Another section associated with misheard lyrics includes "Misheard Lyrics in Film", where visitors recall moments where actors or actresses recall lyrics as misquoted by actors in either film or television from famous songs. The recordings section is for recorded performances of parodies or other musical comedy pieces.  Am I Right does not host the files, so the section is essentially an index of other sites that contain recordings. All entries in this section are submitted to the site by the original authors. A recent addition to the site, the Album Cover parody section lets people humorously edit an album cover from an original artist's album, thanks to Amazon.com's Music section. This section is focused on strange and funny facts about various songs and performers. Most pages consist of songs of performers that have certain commonalities in common such as songs that have been banned, performers that have criminal records, or songs that have backwards messages recorded in them. This section deals with band name origins,  pseudonyms, names of the offspring of famous musicians, song and band name parodies, user-created band names, inventive portmanteaux of individual band or performer names, inappropriate commercial soundtrack selections, proposed duets, inappropriate songs to play while on hold, adding, removing, or changing letters from titles to create new titles, lyrics that are literally impossible, and the use of song titles as questions and answers. The "real lyrics" section contains lyrics that fit certain categories, such as those which are "Misrhymed", "Insincere", or "Dirty". Two books which each gather over 500 misheard lyrics submitted to the site have been published. Hold Me Closer Tony Danza (and Other Misheard Lyrics) (October 28, 2007). Charles R. Grosvenor Jr, Sasquatch Books, ISBN 1-57061-533-0 and Hit Me With Your Pet Shark (and Other Misheard Lyrics) (October 1, 2008). Charles R. Grosvenor Jr, Sasquatch Books, ISBN 1-57061-576-4 Each book has several pages with information pulled from the various sections of the site including:  Am I Right has been mentioned in various articles and other publications over the years. Owing to the success of the website, a sister site called "Am I Wrong" was opened which allows the users to create their own quiz. The site uses the slogan "Where Pop Culture meets its match". Visitors can choose from over 16,600 quizzes and see how much they know about music and pop culture. 