Isla presidencial (English: Presidential Island) is an adult web animation page from Venezuela. The political satire follows the heads of state of Latin America and Spain who are stranded on an island. The three seasons amassed more than 50 million views on YouTube.  Several presidents met at the 74º Ibero-American Summit, and have a cruise after it. The cruise crashes with an iceberg, and all the presidents arrive at a desert paradise island. The episodes focus on their attempts to survive in the wild or escape from the island. Several presidents who were not included in the first episodes were added later, with a plane crash. Hugo Chávez disappears from the island, kidnapped by Barack Obama for unmentioned reasons. A malfunctioning robot that impersonates Chávez leaves Obama's secret base, until he manages to turn him off. Many presidents died during an attack of "Chávez-raptors" (savage hybrid dinosaurs with the face of Chávez), and they are finally rescued at the end of the second season. At the beginning of the third season, the presidents are stranded on another island free of dinosaurs. Several presidents were killed off in the second and third season (corresponding to the end of their terms in real life). The show parodies pop culture, such as Jurassic Park and El Chavo del Ocho Almost all of the characters were voiced by Emilio Lovera. The third season was released on NuevOn, one of the YouTube Original Channels. Hugo Chavez mentioned an episode of the series to Evo Morales in 2011, with ABC News quoting him: "You've got to see this show, Evo!" Chávez boomed to his staff, laughing about how Morales was left snoring while "Hugito" sang until sun-up. "They sound just like us!"  Nicolás Maduro, president of Venezuela, was portrayed as a man of limited intelligence, twisted speech, and capable of talking with birds. This is a reference to a comment made by Maduro during the 2013 elections in Venezuela, when he said that the late Chávez had reincarnated in a little bird and talked to him to bless his candidacy.  Maduro criticized his portrayal in the animation. He said that it was not an accurate representation of his face, his moustache, of his voice.  