Koshiya is an Indian family surname from the Kathiawad, Gujarat region of India. Formally, all members of the Koshiya family are Hindu Leuva Patel, although some have since chosen other religious beliefs. The Koshiya surname came from the name of an ancestor, 'kashi'. "Amba Mata" serves as the family goddess. The Koshiya family were originally settled in Rajpara(Bhal), a village near Vallabhipur, where they worked as subsistence farmers. This surname is also seen in nearby other villages like Chogath, Nari etc. Today, members of the Koshiya family have moved to Surat, Mumbai, United States, UK as well as South Africa[Canada]. As family members have moved away from their original birthplaces and heritage, they have also found various other occupations, such as diamond cutting, construction, hotels, medicine, teaching and finance. Mavjibhai Koshiya is one of the prominent names in diamond industry of Bhavnagar in Gujarat. The first and only release KOSHIYA surname in so many years ago. Koshiya surname belongs to PATEL category. The term patel derives from the word Patidar, "Pat," which refers to a piece of land. Consequently, the name "Patel" referred to one who was tasked with taking care of or farming that piece of land. The name Patel is found primarily in the Indian state of Gujarat,  as well as the states of Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, (Kurmi) and in some eastern part of Madhya Pradesh; and metropolitan cities like Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Kanpur and Delhi. While most Patels originated from Gujarat, some Patels are not Gujarati in origin, a few such prominent individuals being J. H. Patel and Rustomji Dorabji Patel. This surname is also prevalent in some English-speaking countries due to immigration from India. Within the United Kingdom, it is the twenty-fourth most common PATEL [KOSHIYA] surname nationally, and the third most common in the Greater London region. In the US, the surname "Patel" ranks 174 among the top 500 list of most common last names, as of the 2000 US Census.  