The Apollo 20  hoax is a faux story told in a series of YouTube videos about an American, manned, lunar mission that discovered evidence of an extraterrestrial civilization on the far side of the moon. In April 2007, videos began appearing on YouTube under the username "retiredafb" telling the extraordinary story of Apollo 20, a secret lunar mission that definitively proved the existence of intelligent, alien life on the moon.   Then, on May 23, 2007, Italian ufologist Luca Scantanburlo interviewed a man who identified himself as William Rutledge, a retired American astronaut living in Rwanda. Rutledge claimed to be the commander of the Apollo 20 crew and to be the owner of the "retiredafb" account. However, Scantanburlo never met Rutledge in person because he conducted the interview over Yahoo! Messenger.  During the interview, Rutledge claimed Apollo 20 was a top-secret mission launched in mid-August 1976 from Vandenberg Air Force Base in Santa Barbara, California, conducted jointly by the United States and the former Soviet Union. He alleged the other mission members were American Leona Snyder (an apparently fictitious person) and former Soviet cosmonaut Aleksei Leonov, the first human being to walk in space. The purported landing site of the mission was near Guyot crater, a feature near the much larger Delporte crater. Rutledge said the videos show that he and Leonov discovered the remains of an ancient lunar civilization.   He also said they brought back artifacts to earth for study, including a hibernating, female humanoid. The first Apollo 20 videos appeared on YouTube on April Fool's Day, a hint that the story was nothing more than an elaborate prank. The videos, however, were then moved to Revver.com (another defunct website) also under user name retiredafb. Other videos are scattered throughout YouTube posted by several different account users, making it difficult to determine the true identity of the hoaxer. Each video continues to draw thousands of views. Despite the realistic appearance of the videos, amateurs have easily debunked them on YouTube and elsewhere on the internet.  The videos are short, each only lasting a few minutes. If viewed in their intended sequence, they tell a partial story of the faux mission, starting with astronauts boarding Apollo 20 and ending with the extraordinary "discoveries" on the moon. They include the following images: International Business Times writer Mary-Ann Russon has suggested the self-confessed perpetrator of the hoax is French videographer/artist Thierry Speth.  However, the website with Speth's admission, Need2know.eu, no longer exists nor does Speth's personal website. Also, more videos associated with other accounts have appeared on YouTube about Apollo 20, suggesting that more than one person is keeping the hoax alive. Like many hoaxes, this story is a mixture of facts and fiction. The starting point for it are photos that NASA astronauts took in 1971 while in lunar orbit during the Apollo 15 mission, the fourth American mission that landed men on the moon. The photos show what look like a cigar-shaped object resting in a lunar crater. The hoaxer apparently used these photos to create the image of a pock-marked alien spacecraft on the moon. The NASA photos are real.  However, NASA never claimed they include images of alien spacecraft. The object in question is apparently nothing more than a natural part of the lunar terrain. Apollo 16 photos of the same crater taken a year later show no evidence of artificial structures. In truth, Apollo 20 was a mission that never got off the ground—literally. It was one of three lunar missions NASA cancelled due to lack of funding along with Apollo missions 18 and 19. The last NASA lunar mission was Apollo 17, launched in 1972. The next Apollo mission, not counting the Skylab missions, was the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project, coordinated by the United States and the former Soviet Union in 1975. However, its mission was to remain in low-Earth orbit and to dock with a Soviet Soyuz spacecraft, something it accomplished successfully. Some mistakenly refer to that mission as Apollo 18. Some of the stages for the Saturn V rockets intended for NASA’s three cancelled lunar missions had already been constructed before their cancellation. According to the hoaxer's story, these were all used for the lunar landings of Apollo missions 18, 19 and 20. In reality NASA used one of these to launch Skylab into orbit in 1973. The others are on display at three American space centers: the John F. Kennedy Space Center near Cape Canaveral, Florida; the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas and the United States Space & Rocket Center in Huntsville, Alabama.  The 'recreation' mission patch suggests the crew's names as, "Rutledge - Snyder - Leonov" (William Rutledge - Leona Marietta Snyder - Alexei Leonov), with a Latin phrase from Virgilio’s “Bucoliche” (IX, 50), carpent tua poma nepotes, which translates as, —your grandsons (descendants) will gather your apples.  The patch deviates from the actual planned, yet aborted, Apollo 20 mission NASA textile patch, with the primary crew embossed as, "Roosa - Lind - Lousma" (Stuart Roosa - Don Leslie Lind - Jack R. Lousma), which had been planned to land at Tycho crater to test a rendezvous mission with an earlier unmanned lander.    The design also seems to suggest an Egyptian sarcophagus being mutually lifted-up by an Apollo-era Lunar Module and Command Service Module out of a shadowy crater with a blue tomb cloth falling away. The center of the design resembles the Egyptian hieroglyph, albeit reversed, named: bier with body s(dj)r "stchr"   with black impact craters in the sarcophagus. The Apollo 20 hoax was discussed on "Aliens on the Moon: The Truth Exposed", a TV documentary directed by American television producer Robert Kiviat which was released on July 20, 2014 on the SyFy Channel.  