 The dihydrogen monoxide parody involves calling water by the unfamiliar chemical name "dihydrogen monoxide" (DHMO), or "hydroxyl acid" in some cases, and listing some of water's effects in a particularly alarming manner, such as accelerating corrosion and causing suffocation. The parody often calls for dihydrogen monoxide to be banned, regulated, and labeled as dangerous. It illustrates how a lack of scientific literacy and an exaggerated analysis can lead to misplaced fears.  The parody gained renewed popularity in the late 1990s when a 14-year-old student, Nathan Zohner,  collected anti-DHMO petitions for a science project about gullibility.  The story has since been used in science education to encourage critical thinking and discussion of the scientific method.   A 1983 April Fools' Day edition of the Durand Express, a weekly newspaper in Durand, Michigan, reported that "dihydrogen oxide" had been found in the city's water pipes, and warned that it was fatal if inhaled, and could produce blistering vapors.  The first appearance of the parody on the Internet was attributed by the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette to the so-called "Coalition to Ban Dihydrogen Monoxide",   a parody organization at UC Santa Cruz following on-campus postings and newsgroup discussions in 1990.  This new version of the parody was created by Eric Lechner, Lars Norpchen, and Matthew Kaufman—housemates while attending the University of California, Santa Cruz in 1989–1990,  [better source needed] revised by Craig Jackson in 1994,  and brought to widespread public attention in 1997 when Nathan Zohner, a 14-year-old student, gathered petitions to ban "DHMO" as the basis of his science project, titled "How Gullible Are We?"  Jackson's original site included the following warning:   Dihydrogen monoxide: Despite the danger, dihydrogen monoxide is often used: A mock material safety data sheet—a list of information about potentially dangerous materials used in research and industry—has also been created for H2O.   The water molecule has the chemical formula H2O, meaning each molecule of water is composed of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom. Literally, the term "dihydrogen monoxide" means "two hydrogen, one oxygen", consistent with its molecular formula: the prefix di- in dihydrogen means "two", the prefix mon- in monoxide means "one", and an oxide is an oxygen atom attached to another atom in an ionic compound.  Using chemical nomenclature, various names for water are in common use within the scientific community. Some such names include hydrogen oxide, as well as an alkali name of hydrogen hydroxide, and several acid names such as hydric acid, hydroxic acid, hydroxyl acid, and hydroxilic acid. The term "hydroxyl acid" used in the original text is a non-standard name. [not in citation given] Under the 2005 revisions of IUPAC nomenclature of inorganic chemistry, there is no single correct name for every compound.  The primary function of chemical nomenclature is to ensure that each name refers, unambiguously, to a single substance. It is considered less important to ensure that each substance should have a single unambiguous name, although the number of acceptable names is limited.  Water is one acceptable name for this compound, even though it is neither a systematic nor an international name and is specific to just one phase of the compound (its liquid form). The other IUPAC recommendation is oxidane,  which is used by hoax industry groups promoting DHMO as a safe industrial chemical while hinting at dangers and government conspiracies.   