 Million Dollar Extreme (MDE) is an American sketch comedy troupe.  They are known for their online videos, anti-comedy, and public pranks.  The members are Sam Hyde, Charls Carroll, and Nick Rochefort.  On May 7, 2015, it was announced that MDE were slated to have their own live action 15-minute sketch show on the cable network Adult Swim.  It was to be set in a post-apocalyptic nightmare world that satirizes the current political climate.  Titled Million Dollar Extreme Presents: World Peace, the series premiered on August 5, 2016.  World Peace was subject to internal controversy at Adult Swim due to MDE's documented ties    to the alt-right. Three weeks later, it was announced that the show would not be renewed for a second season.  The troupe has run into various issues with online terms of service violations due to their content and fanbase. On May 4, 2018, the MDE channel was permanently removed from YouTube for a violation of the community guidelines.  On September 10th, 2018, the group's subreddit on Reddit was permanently removed for violations of their policy regarding violent content.  Christian Williams of The A.V. Club describes them: "Some videos borrow Wonder Showzen's toolkit, wielding subliminal blips and eye-straining text in service of subversive ends. Some make use of the Tim And Eric Awesome Show, Great Job! aesthetic, and some are surprisingly slick, with excellent, eardrum-shredding music courtesy of talented mystery-men like Orangy and Vaervaf."  In the view of Philly Mag's Andrew Thompson: "The mission of Million Dollar Extreme has always seemed a spin on afflicting the comfortable, except its targets usually aren’t the comfortably powerful. To the extent that satire exists in MDEs comedy, it feels like more of rationalization than a reason for the shock itself."  Robert Mariani wrote at The Federalist that the group's comedy style is an example of post-irony: "Figuring out the intentions of the ironist is easy: whatever is being shown is being mocked. But the post-ironist folds over on his own sincerity with exaggeration, using the ironic not just to ridicule, but also to enjoy the absurdities of what he genuinely appreciates."   