The following is a list of stories featuring The Shadow, a fictional vigilante. A list of pulp magazine novels featuring The Shadow.  All of these novels were written by Walter B. Gibson, unless otherwise noted, and originally appeared in The Shadow Magazine and its variants, published by Street and Smith.  Novels that have been reprinted are noted accordingly-see "Reprint history" below for more information. A list of original novels featuring The Shadow and published as paperback books by Belmont Books. These have been numbered 326 to 334.  The first of these novels, Return of the Shadow, was the only one written by Walter B. Gibson. Finally listed are two short stories featuring The Shadow, and published as anthology items.  These have been numbered 335 and 336.  Both of these short stories were written by Walter B. Gibson. The first three Shadow novels were issued in small hardcover versions in 1935 by the Ideal Library. The next reprints of the original pulp stories did not appear until after the original stories ended in 1949: The Weird Adventures of The Shadow was published in 1966 by Grosset and Dunlop.  This anthology, however, considerably edited the three stories contained therein.  Grosset also published one story, "The Grove of Doom" as a Tempo paperback 5320, crediting Walter GIbson as author. From 1969 to 1970, Bantam Books published seven reprints of early Shadow stories. The stories contained minor edits. In 1974, Pyramid Books began reprinting early Shadow stories. The series, which consisted of 23 volumes, lasted through 1978.  None of the reprints followed the original sequence of the pulp series. In 1975, two Shadow stories were published in a facsimile magazine published by Dover. Eight Shadow stories were reissued in hardcover anthologies by the Doubleday Crime Club in the 1970s. These reprints give sole credit to Walter Gibson as the author, rather than using the Maxwell Grant pseudonym on the cover. In 1984, Mysterious Press published The Shadow and the Golden Master, a hardcover anthology that reprinted "The Golden Master" and "Shiwan Khan Returns". Dover Books would later reprint this in paperback.  In 2006, Sanctum Books in association with Nostalgia Ventures began reprinting the original pulps in near-replica editions. Each issue reprints two stories (sometimes 3) and contains the original interior illustrations from the pulps as well as the original covers on the front and back. In late 2008, Nostalgia Ventures chose to end their association. Sanctum Books is continuing it on their own. As of August 2018, 133 volumes including 2 annuals have been published.  Each Nostaligia Ventures and Sanctum volumes reprint two novels each except for volumes 50, 60, 75, 86, 100 and Annual 2 which reprint three novels each.