This is a list of the stories in Pavel Bazhov's collection The Malachite Box. The first edition, released on 28 January 1939, consisted of 14 stories,   based on the oral lore of the miners and gold prospectors.  After the initial publication, the author continuously added new stories to the collection.  The Cossacks come to the Ural Mountains and are faced a tribe of the "Old People" who do not know the value of gold. This skaz introduces Poloz the Great Snake, the master of gold. A young the factory worker named Stepan meets the legendary Mistress of the Copper Mountain, the patroness of miners.  The Mistress of the Copper Mountain punishes the bailiff for his cruelty. A greedy miner Vanka Sochen searches for the Mistress of the Copper Mountain's rare gemstones. The Mistress appears before him and allows to gather some stones provided that he will bring them directly to the bailiff. When Sochen gets to the bailiff and opens his bag, there are no gemtones there. A rich promiscuous woman gets interested in a young worker named Mark, who is already married to Tatyana.  A talented stone-craftsman Danilo finds out about the beautiful Stone Flower that grows in the domain of the Mistress of the Copper Mountain. Stepan's daughter Tanyushka inherits the Mistress's Malachite Casket. An old man Kokovanya and an orphan girl Daryonka find the grey goat Silver Hoof, who stamps with his silver hoof and leaves chrysolites on the ground. It was first published as "The Tale of Itkul" (Russian: Сказ про Иткуль, tr. Skaz pro Itkul). This is one of the few stories that are based on the Bashkir folklore. After Danilo the Craftsman leaves the village for the Mistress of the Copper Mountain's domain, Katyenka, his betrothed, moves in into his former house. She learns stone craft from Danilo's old teacher Prokopich. After his death she starts working as a craftsman. One day she meets the Mistress and asks her to return Danilo to her. The Mistress arranges a meeting between them and presents Danilo with a choice: "If you go with her you forget all that is mine, if you remain here, then you must forget her and all living people".  Danilo chooses to return to the village, saying that he remembers Katyenka every minute. A daring hunter Ailyp snatches his ladylove Golden Hair away from her father, Poloz the Great Snake. Men start disappearing from the factory on their way to Sysert, and a young brave girl Dunyakha goes looking for them. Unfortunately that area is packed with wolves. One of the Sysert miners tells Dunyakha that there might be a safe passage near the Galyan swamp, because "The Earth Cat roams from Galyan to Dumnaya". The Earth Cat, a creature with fiery ears that lives in the sands where copper mixes with gold, doesn't harm people, but wolves are afraid of it. Dunyakha does as she is told. Once the wolves start surrounding her, she sees two blow flames that look like cat's ears. She realizes that they are The Earth Cat's ears, and the Cat itself moves beneath the ground. Dunyakha follows the flames and that decision saves her life. It continues the story of the two brothers from "The Great Snake". It was first published as "The Key Stone" (Russian: Ключ-камень, tr. Kljuch-kamen). The Fire-Fairy helps shows herself to the eight-year-old boy Fedyunka and the old gold prospector Yefim. The Fire Maid, who shows herself only if there's gold in that place, helps them to find gold and live in wealth for many years. The main character of the skaz is the son of Katyenka and Danilo the Craftsman from "The Stone Flower" and "The Mountain Craftsman". Katyenka marries Danilo and gives birth to eight boys. When the landlord doubles the family's quit-rent, the third son Mitya becomes a stone craftsman. He proves to be a talented worker, quickly surpassing his teacher. One day he decides to make a tree branch from inexpensive stone (mostly serpentine), drawing inspiration from a gooseberry bush. The resulting gooseberry twig looks incredibly well-made and lifelike, and the landlord wants it for his daughter. He takes it by force, but quickly finds out that Mitya used the cheapest of stones for it. The landlord feels offended that the serpentine would touch his daughter and steps on the twig, crushing it to dust. Mitya disappears from the village.  The smiling maiden Veselukha, who can be found on the blossoming meadow, can treat the miner to a glass of wine and help the master with a beautiful pattern. However she is very unwelcoming towards strangers.  The protagonist is Vasily Torokin, the real worker from the Kaslinsky Plant. The talented worker Timokha Maloruchko decides to try every single craft. The characters are real historical figures, the talented Russian metallurgist P. Anosov and his assistant N. Shvetsov. It was first published as "The Ore Whirlwinds" (Russian: Рудяные вихорьки, tr. Rudjanye vikhorki).  