A website content writer or web content writer specializes in providing relevant content for websites. Every website has a specific target audience and requires different content. Content should contain key words (specific business related terms  which internet users might use in order to search for services or products) aimed towards improving a website's SEO. Most story pieces are centered on marketing products or services, though this is not always the case. Some websites are informational only and do not sell a product or service. Informational content aims to educate the reader with complex information that is easy to understand and retain. There is a growing demand for skilled web content writing on the Internet. Quality content often translates into higher revenues for online businesses. Website owners and managers depend on content writers to perform several major tasks:  Website content writing aims for relevance and search-ability. Relevance means that the website text should be useful and beneficial to readers. Search-ability indicates usage of keywords to help search engines direct users to websites that meet their search criteria. There are various ways through which websites come up with article writing, and one of them is outsourcing of the content writing. However, it is riskier than other options, as not all writers can write content specific to the web. Content can be written for various purposes in various forms. The most popular forms of content writing are: The content in website differs based on the product or service it is used for. Writing online is different from composing and constructing content for printed materials. Web users tend to scan text instead of reading it closely, skipping what they perceive to be unnecessary information and hunting for what they regard as most relevant. It is estimated that seventy-nine percent of users scan web content.  It is also reported that it takes twenty-five percent more time to scan content online compared to print content.  Web content writers must have the skills to insert paragraphs and headlines containing keywords for search engine optimization, as well as to make sure their composition is clear, to reach their target market. They need to be skilled writers and good at engaging an audience as well as understanding the needs of web users. Website content writing is frequently outsourced to external providers, such as individual web copywriters or for larger or more complex projects, a specialized digital marketing agency.  Digital marketing agencies combine copy-writing services with a range of editorial and associated services, that may include brand positioning, message consulting, social media, SEO consulting, developmental and copy editing, proofreading, fact checking, layout, content syndication, and design. Outsourcing allows businesses to focus on core competencies and to benefit from the specialized knowledge of professional copywriters and editors. 