The Jean E. Coleman Library Outreach Lecture presented at the annual conference of the American Library Association is tribute to the work of Jean E. Coleman to ensure that all citizens, particularly Native Americans and adult learners, have access to quality library services. Dr. Coleman directed the American Library Association, Office for Literacy and Outreach Services (OLOS) which serves the Association by identifying and promoting library services that support equitable access to the knowledge and information stored in our libraries.  OLOS focuses attention on services that are inclusive of traditionally underserved populations, including new and non-readers, people geographically isolated, people with disabilities, rural and urban poor people, and people generally discriminated against based on race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identification, age, language and social class. In support of this mission OLOS sponsors the Jean E. Coleman Library Outreach Lecture each year at the annual American Library Association conference. The Jean E. Coleman Library Outreach Lecture series is an opportunity for library workers to learn more about their roles in providing equity of access. The Social Responsibilities Round Table Action Council of the American Library Association approved the following testimonial to the work of African American librarian Jean Coleman in outreach during her work from 1973 to 1986 for the ALA Office for Library Outreach Services (now Office for Literacy and Outreach Services: OLOS): So important were her contributions to the world of diversity in librarianship, that in 1999 it was noted that the Smithsonian Institution accepted two items for its collection from Coleman's estate, including two Apache toy cradle boards, and a sand painting  For background on the development of outreach services in U.S. libraries  The evolution of library outreach 1960-75  provides historical background in the context of the War on Poverty. Jean Coleman's legacy is the evolving mission of the Office of Literacy and Outreach Services. This also includes the ideals of equity of access. Carla Hayden took equity of access as her theme when she was American Library Association president (2003–04). A book written during Hayden's presidency, From outreach to equity innovative models of library policy and practice includes an introduction coauthored by Jean E. Coleman's successor, Satia Orange (director, OLOS). The book suggests reframing`outreach based on `equity rather than underserved populations.  Another project highlighting the work of OLOS initiated by President Hayden was the report,  Rocks in the Whirlpool: Equity of Access and the American Library Association.  which examines unifying visions for equity of access and making new technologies work for human development. 