Miji (autonym: Dmay ), also Dhammai or Sajolang, is a cluster of possibly Sino-Tibetan languages in Arunachal Pradesh, northeastern India. "Dialects" include at least two distinct languages, which are not particularly close, with only half of the vocabulary in common between the languages of East Kameng District and West Kameng District. Long assumed to be Sino-Tibetan languages, they may be a small independent language family.  There are 3 varieties of Miji.    According to Ethnologue, Miji is spoken in the following areas of Arunachal Pradesh. I.M. Simon (1979:iii)  lists the following Miji villages from the Census of 1971. Smaller hamlets include Dishin [Dícin], Devrik [Dívih], Diyung [Diyong], Nazang [Natsang], Nanthalang, and Otung [Uthung]. Some Mijis have also live in Aka villages such as Dijungania, Buragaon, Tulu, Sarkingonia, and Yayung. Blench (2015),  citing Ramya (2012),  lists the Bangru (Northern Miji) villages Bala, Lee, Lower Lichila, Upper Lichila, Machane, Milli, Molo, Nade, Namju, Palo, Rerung, Sape, Sate (saːtəː) , Wabia, and Walu’, as well as Sarli Town. Traditionally, the Bangru lived in the ‘thirteen Bangru villages’ (Bangru language: ləwjɛː neːpeː rəŋleː kətə̃ĩŋ).  In China, Bangru (transcribed in Chinese as Bengru 崩如) is spoken in the area of Bixia 比夏, southern Longzi County 隆子县, Shannan Prefecture 山南地区, Tibet — in the villages of Jieli 结列, Baluo 巴洛, Xiade 夏德, Li 利, Lilaqi 利拉齐, and Gelangge 嘎朗洛 (Li 2003).  Bangru is also spoken by many of the nearby Sulung people, who live in San'an Qulin Township 三安曲林乡 of Longzi County. Names of Bangru include ləʔ31 wai55 (autonym), pɤn31 ru55 (Bangni exonym), and bu33 zuai55 bi33 (Sulung exonym).  There are also 6 people living in Douyu Village No. 1 (斗玉一村) on the Chinese side. Li (2003) reports that there are about 1,600 Bangru people as of 1980, and about 2,000 as of 2003. As with more than 90% of the residents of Kurung Kumey District, most Bangru speakers can also speak Nyasang, a Nyishi language variety.  Bangru speakers make up about 40% of the population of Sarli circle, which also has small numbers of Puroik speakers. The Bangru refer to themselves as the taːdə or taːdʑuː baŋruː, and to the Eastern Miji and Western Miji as waːduː baŋruː.  The Bangru claim that they are the descendants of one of the sons of the Grandmother Sun (ʔaseː lədʑuwjɛː), while the Miji are the descendants of the other son who migrated to the Lada Circle area in East Kameng district. There are five Bangru clans:   Bangru traditional religion revolved around reverence of the sun and moon ("our Grandfather Moon" ʔaloː ləbãĩ and "our Grandmother Sun" ʔaseː lədʑuwjɛː; see also Donyi-Polo), but it is now being replaced by Christianity.  In all Miji languages the "p" "f" "t" and "k" sounds are always aspirated.  The Miji languages have a relatively simple tonal system with only two tone: high and low. There is a third rising tone but it is so scarcely used that in some of the languages it is disregarded completely.  