  Family Educational Services Foundation (FESF) is a non-profit, educational organization based Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan. It is working in Pakistan since 1984.  FESF provides educational services, with particular focus on Deaf children and youth. FESF is registered as a non-profit organization with the SECP and is tax exempt. The organization’s main projects are: Upwards of nine million people in Pakistan (5% of pop.) have some form of hearing loss. Of this group, there are approximately 1.5 million profoundly deaf children of school age – the majority of whom suffer from no educational opportunities.  The Deaf Reach Program was established in Pakistan in 1998, initially working informally with deaf youth and young adults.  The first Deaf Reach School  was established by FESF in Karachi in 2005, and the program has grown rapidly to where there are now seven Deaf Reach Schools and Training Centers located in Karachi, Hyderabad, Sukkur, Nawabshah, and Lahore, with a new large campus in Rashidabad, Tando Allahyar.  These schools are providing free education and training to over 1,200 deaf children and young adults from low-income families in both urban and rural areas. There is an important focus on girls attending school, with a  female enrollment of 48%. Deaf Reach is the only school for the Deaf in Pakistan that has a branch network, providing educational opportunities in rural areas. Training is also provided for all parents and families in learning how to communicate and care for their children. There is also an active Financial Inclusion program for deaf young adults with training in marketable skills leading to employment and financial independence.  In 2014, FESF launched a Pakistan Sign Language (PSL)  lexicon referencing 5,000 words. The PSL Lexicon received the 2014 P@SHA Award in e-Inclusion & e-Community category.  The Motivated Volunteer Empowerment (MOVE) Program is aimed at high school and university students but is also effective as a training program. The training courses are organized and implemented by Family Educational Services Foundation (FESF).  The MOVE program is an educational development resource, which focuses on leadership, soft skills and volunteerism. The program meets the need for developing committed volunteers and engaging youth voice in solving social problems. The six training sessions are followed by two project planning workshops. At least one community development project is carried out by participants from each MOVE program. Theoretical training along with practical experience is a vital ingredient of MOVE. To this effect, FESF coordinates field implementation projects for the students in partnership with local institutions around the country. Many of the MOVE graduates have gone on to be actively involved in their community with some initiating and sustaining highly effective volunteer projects on a regular basis.  A few programs that are regularly organized are: All of these programs are achieved with the help of volunteers. FESF, in collaboration with NOWPDP  launched a master trainer program in Jan. 2010, "Instructing and Guiding Children with Special Education Needs." The program objective is capacity building for teachers who impart special education in government and private schools countrywide. 10 master trainers were developed who went on to conduct courses for 226 teachers from 25 different institutes in Karachi and Islamabad. Family Educational Services Foundation is exempt from taxation under the Pakistan law. FESF receives the majority of its funding via donations and sponsorship from individuals, businessmen, corporate sponsorship and foundations. 