Eastern Medical College (EMC) (Bengali: ইস্টার্ন মেডিকেল কলেজ) is a private medical school in Bangladesh, established in 2005. The main campus is located beside the Dhaka–Chittagong Highway at Kabila in Burichang Upazila, in the Comilla District of Chittagong Division. It is affiliated with University of Chittagong. It offers a five-year course of study leading to a Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) degree. A one-year internship after graduation is compulsory for  all graduates. The degree is recognised by the Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council. The Kabila campus has an attached hospital with 300 beds, and the Race Course campus in Comilla has an attached hospital with 250 beds. Shah Md. Salim established Eastern Medical College in 2005.   The main campus is located beside the Dhaka–Chittagong Highway at Kabila in Burichang Upazila, in the Comilla District of Chittagong Division.  The Kabila campus has an attached 300-bed hospital, and the Race Course campus in Comilla has an attached 250-bed hospital.  The college is affiliated with Chittagong University.   The chairman of the college is Shah Md. Salim. The principal is Golam Samdani.  The college offers a five-year course of study, approved by the Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council (BMDC), leading to a Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) degree from Chittagong University. After passing the final professional examination, there is a compulsory one-year internship. The internship is a prerequisite for obtaining registration from the BMDC to practice medicine.   In October 2014, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare capped admission and tuition fees at private medical colleges at 1,990,000 Bangladeshi taka (US$25,750 as of 2014) total for their five-year courses.   Admission for Bangladeshis to the MBBS programme at all medical colleges in Bangladesh (government and private) is conducted centrally by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS). It administers a written multiple choice question exam simultaneously throughout the country. Candidates are admitted based primarily on their score on this test, although grades at Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSC) level also play a part. As of July 2017, the college is allowed to admit 116 students annually.  When the 2014 admission deadline passed, 15% of the allowable annual intake remained unfilled.  