Prof Dr Md Abdul Ahad The Khulna Medical College (KMC) (Bengali: খুলনা মেডিকেল কলেজ) is a government medical school in Khulna, Bangladesh. It is affiliated with Rajshahi University. It is located in the city of Khulna, near the inter-district Bus Stand at the entrance to the city. Khulna Medical College was established in 1992. The current principal is Professor Dr Md Abdul Ahad. This institute is recognized by BCPS (Bangladesh College of Physicians and Surgeons) for postgraduate training and it has been included in WHO directory of medical colleges. As such graduates from this college can take part in USMLE examination in USA. The academic building, adjacent to the hospital, is a four-story building which houses both administrative and academic sections: administration, students' areas, and office of the Principal. For educational purposes, there are classrooms, galleries, a library, and an audio-visual unit. There are four large galleries for combined classes and six student residences, along with quarters for staff and officers of the college and hospital. Khulna Medical College is affiliated with University of Rajshahi. Prospective students take an admission test conducted by the Ministry of Health. Students selected are then admitted on the basis of their choice. The students receive a MBBS degree from University of Rajshahi after the completion of their fifth year and after passing the final Professional MBBS examination. This college is directly regulated by Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council, an affiliate of the Bangladesh Ministry of Health. Every year students and different organization of KMC arrange many cultural and religious programs. Every batch of KMC celebrate their 5th year ending program. Every year students of KMC celebrate 16 December the victory day of Bangladesh, 21feb International Mother Language Day, 15 August – the national mourning day Bangladesh and other historical and significant days of the country. Besides this they  celebrate Eid ul Fitr, Eid-ul-Azha, Eid E Miladunnabi and other Islamic festivals. The Hindu students of KMC also celebrate Saraswati puja every year.  In addition, all the cultural and political organizations arrange many programs throughout the year. Last President :Tanvir Ahmed (K-20) Current General Secretary: Dr. Ashraful Islam Robin (K-22) Current Preisdent: Ashanur Islam (K-23) Boys hostel New boys hostel  