  North East Medical College (NEMC) (Bengali: নর্থ ইস্ট মেডিকেল কলেজ) is a private medical school in Bangladesh, established in 1998. It is located in South Surma Upazila, on the southern fringes of Sylhet. It is affiliated with Shahjalal University of Science and Technology (SUST) under the School of Medical Sciences. It offers a five-year course of study leading to a Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) degree. A one-year internship after graduation is compulsory for all graduates. The degree is recognised by the Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council. North East Medical Private Ltd. established North East Medical College in 1998.  The college is located in Dakshin Surma Upazila, on the southern fringes of Sylhet, 300 metres (980 ft) south of the Dhaka–Sylhet Highway.  The main buildings on campus are an academic building and North East Medical College Hospital, the college's 800-bed teaching hospital. North East Nursing College shares the campus. It offers a three-year Diploma in Nursing Science and Midwifery, a four-year Basic Bachelor of Science in Nursing, and a two-year Post-basic BSc in Nursing.  The college is affiliated with Shahjalal University of Science and Technology (SUST) under the School of Medical Sciences.   The chairman of the Governing Body is Professor Farid Uddin Ahmed. The principal is Md. Nurul Ambia Chowdhury.  The college offers a five-year course of study, approved by the Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council (BMDC), leading to a Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) degree from SUST. After passing the final professional examination, there is a compulsory one-year internship. The internship is a prerequisite for obtaining registration from the BMDC to practice medicine.   The academic calendar runs from July through June.  In October 2014, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare capped admission and tuition fees at private medical colleges at 1,990,000 Bangladeshi taka (US$25,750 as of 2014) total for their five-year courses.  Admission for Bangladeshis to the MBBS programme at all medical colleges in Bangladesh (government and private) is conducted centrally by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS). It administers a written multiple choice question exam simultaneously throughout the country. Candidates are admitted based primarily on their score on this test, although grades at Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSC) level also play a part. Admission for foreign students is based on their SSC and HSC grades.  As of July 2014, the college is allowed to admit 120 students annually.  Since 2004, the college also offers postgraduate training recognised by the Bangladesh College of Physicians and Surgeons (BCPS).  