Shaheed M. Monsur Ali Medical College, Sirajganj (SMMAMC) (Bengali: শহীদ এম. মনসুর আলী মেডিকেল কলেজ, সিরাজগঞ্জ) is a public medical school in Bangladesh, established in 2014. It is located at Sirajganj District.  The college is affiliated with the University of Rajshahi under the School of Medical Science. It offers 5 year MBBS course and admits 51 students every year. The college was formed as "Sirajganj Medical College, Sirajganj". Soon, It was renamed to its current title. It was named after Muhammad Mansur Ali, a former renowned Bangladeshi politician who was also a close confidante of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.  In the year 2014-2015, Bangladesh government approved to establish 6 new medical colleges at Sirajganj, Manikganj, Jamalpur, Patuakhali, Tangail and Rangamati with a view to improve the healthcare services throughout the country.  Shaheed M. Monsur Ali Medical College, Sirajganj is affiliated with the University of Rajshahi. The students receive their MBBS degrees from the University of Rajshahi after completing 5th year of study and passing the final professional MBBS examination. This college is directly governed by Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council (BMDC) - an affiliation of the Ministry of Health. The professional examinations are held under the university and results are given thereby. Internal examinations are also taken on regular intervals namely items, card completions, terms end and regular assessments. The admission process of undergraduate MBBS course for all government medical colleges in Bangladesh is conducted centrally by the Director of Medical Education under DGHS under the Ministry of Health. The test comprises a written MCQ exam, which is held simultaneously in all government medical colleges on the same day throughout the country. Candidates are selected for admission based on national merit, district quotas, freedom fighter quotas, tribal quotas etc. For foreign students, admission process is through the embassy of Bangladesh in their respective countries. The academic calendar for different years is maintained by the respective departments. The admission test consists of a written MCQ exam.  