Shaheed Ziaur Rahman Medical College (Bengali: শহীদ জিয়াউর রহমান মেডিকেল কলেজ হাসপাতালে) is a government medical school in Bangladesh, established in 1992. It is located in Bogra town. It is affiliated with the University of Rajshahi. It has a 5-year medical education course leading to an MBBS. One-year internship after graduation is compulsory for all graduates. The degree is recognised by the Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council Shaheed Ziaur Rahman Medical College was established in 1992. At first, it was started as a medical college collaborating with Mohammad Ali Hospital, Bogra. In 2006, a brand new hospital and college campus was constructed on the outskirts of Bogra city, beside the Dhaka-Rangpur highway, named on the basis of Shaheed President Ziaur Rahman who was born at Bogra. On 31 August 2006, the new campus at Silimpur started its journey. Previously about 50 students could get the chance to study there through nationwide examination for admission to public medical colleges of the country every year. From 2005, the numbers increased to about 150.  The principal is the administrative head of the institution. The other sanctioned posts for faculty and staff members are one Vice-Principal, 16 Professors, 19 Associate Professors, 14 Assistant Professors, 2 Curators, 42 Lecturers, 2 Pathologists, one Biochemist, and one Pharmacist. In addition to one Health Educator and one Secretary/ Administrative Officer, there are about 161 technicians, laboratory assistants and auxiliary staff to run the administrative and academic programmes of the college.There are 2 boy's hall, 2 lady's hall,a big playground,a volleyball court,a badminton court, a beautiful mosque & a college building attached canteen for the students.Every year about 2-5 students of this college take place in various professional examinations under Rajshahi university.The current principal is Professor Dr.Ahsan Habib; (head ; dept. of community medicine). A new dental unit will be opened here very soon.In 2017-18 session, the 27th batch will be admitted here. Every year many foreign students (from Pakistan, Bhutan, Nepal) come here to study MBBS. Already 21st batch has completed their course & started their internship. The institution has gifted the nation till about 1640 doctors. Many of them has become established doctors & turned into professors, associate professors, assistant professors, lecturers, registrars, teachers etc. It also provides post graduation degree such as Diploma in Anesthesiology(DA),Paediatrics(DCH),Orthopedics(D.Ortho),Cardiology(D.Card),ENT(DLO) etc. for MBBS doctors. 1 of the 3 cancer institutes of Bangladesh is situated in here.  