Tairunnessa Memorial Medical College (TMMC)  (Bengali: তাইরুন্নেসা মেমোরিয়াল মেডিকেল কলেজ) is a private medical school in Bangladesh, established in 1995. It is an institution of the Tairunnessa Memorial Medical Centre. It was founded by M. Shamsul Hoque, named after his mother, the late Tairunnessa, a social reformer. There is a girls' school in her name in Balaganj as well. It offers a five-year course of study leading to a Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) degree. A one-year internship after graduation is compulsory for  all graduates. The degree is recognised by the Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council. M Shamsul Hoque was born in January 1943 in Hamidpur of Rajnagar Upazila in Moulovibazar which was then part of greater Sylhet. He helped the religious minorities to flee the country with a small ship he owned. As a result, he was wanted by the Pakistani army in 1971. He established a School named Tairunnessa Girls' High School in Balaganj in 1977. Tairunnessa Memorial Medical Center started as a small outpatient department at Konya, Gazipur District in 1995 which over the years has turned into a hospital and research center; TMMC Hospital, a 500-bed hospital complex, a 9 storied college building and an administrative block, a ladies' hostel. It is now one of the renowned Medical colleges in Dhaka with all departments. Tairunnessa Memorial Medical College is listed in the World Directory of Medical Schools,  published by the World Health Organization (WHO) and now maintained as the Avicenna Directory for Medicine and also listed in the International Medical Education Directory (IMED).   IMED (International Medical Education Directory) recognition allow TMMC medical students/ graduates to apply for USMLE examination by ECFMG,  USA for employment and for post-graduate training in the United States and Canada as well as can apply for PLAB,  AMC  and NZREX  examinations etc. Also Graduates of TMMC are eligible for limited registration with the General Medical Council of United Kingdom. A Nursing institute was formed in 2008, awarding a B.S.C nursing degree.  This became a unit of Tairunnessa Memorial Medical College in 2013. The TMMC has around 600 students, including students from Nepal and India. The hospital has expanded to 500-beds, and provides a 24-hour emergency service, with additional trauma center, EPI etc. 255 MBBS doctors have passed till 2014 December.  