Fasli Calendar or Fasli era, Fasli (Urdu: فصلی‎, Arabic: فصلى‎) and (English: meaning Harvest) it is an Arabic  word Imported to Urdu language.  Fasli year means period of 12 months from July to June. Adding 590 to Fasli year comes to Gregorian calendar, corresponding Gregorian year for Fasli year 1410 was from July 2000-June 2001.  The calendar formation year is considered as 963 Hijra Year, Islamic Calendar and from that year forward it has been followed as a solar year or Samavat Calendar. The name and number of the Days and the Months are same as Islamic calendar. The first day of the year is 7 or 8 June.  The Fasli calendar dated from Akbars accession year. Thus the beginning of Fasli era is equal to below calendars.  Fasli which means (harvest) is derived from the Arabic term for division, which in India was applied to the groupings of the seasons.  Fasli Calendar is a chronological system introduced by the Mughal emperor Akbar basically for land revenue and records purposes in northern India, The differences in records dates due to the Muslim lunar calendar because of moon sighting have led him to introduce an alternate calendar which follows simultaneously with Islamic Lunar calendar and Hindu Samavat solar Calendar. Which can give the fix dating system.  Akbar insistence to equalize the Fasli calendar according to Islamic Lunar calendar accordingly with Hindu Samavat Calendar, thus he took 649 years from the Samavat Calendar year in order to make the Fasli year 963. Since then, the Fasli calendar proceeded according to the Samavat Calendar. Shah Jahan the grandson of Akbar, introduced Fasli Calendar in 1630 AD, to Deccan Suba ( South India),  which continued as an official calendar of Asif Jahi rulers of Hyderabad State, until last Nizam, Osman Ali Khan, Asaf Jah VII annexed Hyderabad State to  Indian Union.  After India annexed Hyderabad State, last Nizam, Osman Ali Khan, Asaf Jah VII was made rajpramukh who used to follow and mention Fasli Calendar in his official sanctions and records. Currently Andhra Pradesh State Wakf Board, Nizam Trust follows Fasli Calendar simultaneously with Gregorian calendar and Islamic calendar to maintain records.  The Andhra Pradesh Government, Karnataka Government and the Tamil Nadu Government still follows Fasli Year in all of their revenue and judiciary purposes.   