To fill out this checklist, please add the following code to the template call: This page contains text taken from the public domain article at http://tycho.usno.navy.mil/leapsec.html  Gentlemen, Interesting article, will be useful to include a historical note about why exist  60 seconds in a minute? Milton 22:03, 28 Jan 2004 (UTC) Now, I'm pretty sure a second is actually defined as the time it takes light to travel a specific fraction of a meter in a vacuum, I'll google and add it Thunderbolt16 22:17, Mar 20, 2004 (UTC) The article twice defines the ground state of the cesium atom.  First, as the state when there is zero magnetic flux, and then as the state when there is zero magnetic field.  I don't think these two statements are equivalent, and I'm curious if anyone knows which definition is more correct?  --ABQCat 00:31, 30 Aug 2004 (UTC) What does January 0 mean in this article?? Georgia guy 02:38, 27 Feb 2005 (UTC) Interesting... SI uses the term 'derived units', but apparently some other field does not? Which would then be the preferred term? See also SI derived units. Radiant_* 12:58, May 26, 2005 (UTC) Is this really appropriate?  This is just some info on metric prefixes.  Notthe9 07:29, 13 August 2005 (UTC) Is there a word for a hundredth of a second? --Revolución (talk) 23:29, 13 August 2005 (UTC) Can we add this information as well as re-add the information about other ___seconds. Such as was: http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Second&diff=14261799&oldid=14261381? Hyacinth 09:59, 14 December 2005 (UTC) I was wondering if there was the need for a short passage on the abbreviations for second (i.e. s, sec, ") because articles from these pages link to here. GoldenTie 10:53, Christmas Eve 2005 (GMT) agree something about " as abbrv should be added - this is one of those things that is so common that it is never noted  —Preceding unsigned comment added by 108.7.165.143 (talk) 15:18, 8 October 2010 (UTC)  The article currently neglects a second meaning of second: The period of time (i.e., the set of all instants) between two fixed instants of time, being fixed by UTC. For example, "the first second of a day" refers to the period of time beginning at a certain instant (the beginning of a day) and lasting 1s (duration). Johannes Simon 2006-02-25 14:10 (UTC) The article says This definition refers to a caesium atom at rest at a temperature of 0 K As far as I know attaining this temperature is impossible,But can someone quote a source that this was indeed adopted as req. for standard def. of second.Holywarrior 12:28, 3 July 2006 (UTC) Please don't remove multiples, for consistency they are in all seven base SI units. Much like other standard units of measurement, I believe a table for milliseconds, microseconds, nanoseconds etc. would be a useful addition. Of all the info on wikipedia, I was a little surprised to see no entry for nanosecond. Milliamp Removed the bit on pi*1E7 being within 0.5% of the number of seconds in a Julian year. Pi isn't related to the length of the year and it's just a coincidence. pi*10 is approximately equal to the length of the month of January. Shall we have that too?  I'm by no means an expert in this area, so I may be missing something obvious. The definition of a second seems to be ignoring issues regarding relativity as discussed in the  GPS article. As noted there, a cesium clock in orbit will exhibit different behavior than one on the ground. Which is considered "correct" by the standard? The article makes mention of a cesium atom at rest, but at rest compared to what? —Preceding unsigned comment added by 71.146.43.85 (talk)  The history section describes how certain ancients are known to have divided up the day but surely why they divided up the day way must be a matter of pure speculation. The section kind of implies that the ancients took a day and subdivided it and the result of that subdivision was the second. I suspect that it is coming to the concept from competely the wrong direction.  The thing I would say about the time division we commonly refer to as a second is that it is about the time to say a normal word at normal speed as in counting. In other words the time between one word and the second word is one second. As all humans can relate to speaking I would conject that the humans would have had the concept of a second long before anyone decided how many seconds there were in an average day and then devised the system for counting subdivisions of days into hours and minutes and seconds.  Etymologically speaking the word second comes from Old French but I am not sure if the word had both meanings in Old French as it still has in English. Deuxième is I think modern word for the ordinal whereas second is the time interval.--Tom (talk) 14:02, 26 January 2008 (UTC) What cannot be ignored here is the divisions of a degree. Far more practical than minutes & seconds of time would have been minutes & seconds of arc. I have seen articles that assert that temporal units were derived from the geometric/geographical/astronomical ones --JimWae (talk) 07:11, 28 January 2008 (UTC) If just a little more speculation were tolerated here, then I would add: there must be some historical reason why the second is so close to the heart rate of a very healthy, very relaxed person.  Get a ticking clock for your workspace (as I just did) and you'll see what I mean.  Okay, okay, no original research, but c'mon, someone somewhere must have studied a connection.  Bob Stein - VisiBone (talk) 18:33, 30 September 2008 (UTC) IS there any evidence that these tiny units (halakim, barley-corn, and double-hour) were units of time & not (only) units of arc? The term double-hour seems strange too - its 4 minuts, but an hour was 60. In what base is 15 times smaller than something equal to double something? - --JimWae (talk) 06:28, 11 December 2008 (UTC) Looking again at "The Babylonians did not use the hour, but did use a double-hour": How could they use the term "double X" without using the term "X" ?? --JimWae (talk) 07:50, 11 December 2008 (UTC) "...such as the minute, hour, and day increase by multiples of 60 and 24" -- the day article uses the phrase "approximately" here 78.86.37.93 (talk) 00:06, 31 May 2009 (UTC) What does 3 1/3 mean in the article?--Ssola (talk) 22:09, 23 October 2009 (UTC) Multiplicating of each subsequent UNIQUE number from composite number sequence: http://www.research.att.com/~njas/sequences/b003418.txt as follows: 1x2x6x12x60 thus stopping before first three-digit number 420 results in 8640, giving value exactly ten times smaller than 86400. That shows that alternate divisions of day without altering the SI second are possible. That can be mentioned in article. 83.22.141.99 (talk) 18:55, 12 January 2010 (UTC) I just looked at the article for Second, and it appears there is a distinction being made there between quantum vacuum and free space, and the implication that the definition of both the meter and the second is based on the latter, said there to be an unattainable abstraction, which I find surprising.  This seems a bit like the controversy that caused such a ruckus here in Talk:speed of light, if I am understanding right.  When I read the SI specification document, I don't see any mention of free space in either definition, but perhaps I am missing something.  CosineKitty (talk) 21:47, 28 January 2010 (UTC) Wikipedia is about verifiability (WP:VERIFY), not truth.  It is up to the people at BIPM to persue truth.  Wikipedia merely reports what they say. I happen to know that they are very concerned with "Can we measure it?".  This is manifest in the defintion of the kilogram - philosophically speaking, defining the kilogram in terms of a Carbon-12 atom is better that using a hunk of metal that is locked away on international territory just outside Paris.  However there is a practical problem with counting several zillion atoms of carbon to make up one kilogram, so they still use the hunk of metal (maybe until 2011 when they might switch to a Hall Effect force-balancing method).  I believe it to be the same when measuring the speed of light - they are using the "best" vaccuum that can be achieved using practical means.  —Preceding unsigned comment added by Martinvl (talk • contribs) 12:04, 29 January 2010 (UTC)  (redent) The paragraph has gone now, so there's nothing to worry about. I found this link from the UK National Physical Laboratory which strongly implies that no correction is made to the observed frequency for the Lamb shift, and indeed that precise measurement of the Lamb shift is an ongoing topic of metrology research. The 1997 addendum to the definition of the second makes it clear that there are two corrections to be made to the measured frequency: one for Lorentz time dilation (the caesium atoms are not at rest relative to the observer in a caesium fountain atomic clock) and the second for the perturbation due to black body radiation. I don't know if people make a correction for the Stark shift: possibly this was too obvious (or, alternatively, too small) to be relevant in the definition. Physchim62 (talk) 11:36, 30 January 2010 (UTC) I've just noticed that the article states that the SI second is defined as the second on the geoid: that's not true! The SI second is the unit of proper time as defined by the caesium transition wherever you measure it. The second as corrected for gravitational time dilation to the geoid is the TAI second. I'll see if I can fix this, but I'll note it here in case people have any comments (or in case I'm making a huge blunder somewhere!) Physchim62 (talk) 11:36, 30 January 2010 (UTC) Someone recently added a link to caesium-133, which I find singularly unhelpful compared to the existing links to caesium.  Take a look at both of those and see if there is any justification for a dedicated article about the only stable isotope of this element, and if there is anything in the former article that is not far better covered in the latter.  I removed the link, and I am supporting merging caesium-133 into caesium.  CosineKitty (talk) 00:41, 18 March 2010 (UTC) Jagged 85 (talk · contribs) is one of the main contributors to Wikipedia (over 67,000 edits), and practically all of his edits have to do with Islamic science, technology and philosophy. This editor has persistently misused sources here over several years. This editor's contributions are always well provided with citations, but examination of these sources often reveals either a blatant misrepresentation of those sources or a selective interpretation, going beyond any reasonable interpretation of the authors' intent. Please see: Wikipedia:Requests for comment/Jagged 85. That's an old and archived RfC. The point is still valid though, and his contribs need to be doublechecked. I searched the page history, and found one edit by Jagged 85 in July 2008. Tobby72 (talk) 22:59, 18 June 2010 (UTC) The article defines the second as 1/86400 of the rotational period of the earth.  The second is rather 1/86400 of the average length of a day (noon to noon).  This is closely related but not exact.  In a (julian) year of 365.2425 days, the earth rotates 366.2425 times which makes the rotational period about 23 hours 56 minutes.  This is because earth also rotates around the sun and it advances a little less than one degree a day.  Earth has to rotate for 361 degrees that the sun is over the same meridian again and it takes about 4 minutes to rotate the additional degree.   As an additional complication, the angle earth advances each day varies over the year, because earth is in an elliptic orbit and rotates faster when closer to the sun.  That makes the time from noon to noon much less stable than the rotational period of Earth. Therfore the length of the day has to be averaged over one year to define a stable day on which the second was based Sconden (talk) 17:00, 22 June 2010 (UTC) Sorry, but I find the flashing GIF illustration very annoying - would it be possible to remove it, or at least to have it switched off by default with a button to switch it on if desired?  — Preceding unsigned comment added by Samsite (talk • contribs) 12:31, 14 June 2011 (UTC)   I have removed the abbreviations from the lede.  I do not believe that the annreviation "sec" is a "common" abbreviation (as per WP:LEDE) other than in the spoken word (and is therefore probably slang).  The double prime is used for seconds of arc. Martinvl (talk) 08:09, 24 March 2012 (UTC) I think it is not a good idea to not have the current definition appear until the 3rd paragraph. WP:LEDE seems to make the same point.--JimWae (talk) 19:16, 24 March 2012 (UTC) There is a problem with the phrase "Between 1000 and 1960 the second was defined as 1/86,400 of a mean solar day" that Joe Kress introduced today. I'm pretty sure that in 1000 clocks were not good enough to distinguish between a mean solar day and an apparent solar day. The mean solar day came into use when good clocks came into use, which I suppose was the 18th century. Jc3s5h (talk) 13:24, 25 March 2012 (UTC) This edit by User:RoyGoldsmith modified a sentence to read "Thus the second became firmly defined as one-sixtieth of a minute or 1/86,400th of a day." in the context of good-quality pendulum clocks. But an excellent 17th century clock kept mean solar time. The added sentence does not specify what kind of day, a mean day or an apparent day. Jc3s5h (talk) 14:08, 24 May 2012 (UTC) Jim Wae made an edit which changed This definition abandoned any explicit relationship between the scientific second and the length of a day, as most people understand the term.to There are 31,556,925.9747 seconds in 365.24220 24-hour days.The point of the existing version was a change in the nature of the definition. The definition had been based on mean solar time, which in practice was found by recording the time when stars crossed the observing plane of a meridian circle, and converting the observed sidereal time to mean solar time according to an equation derived by Simon Newcomb. Any changes in the rotation rate of the Earth would be reflected in mean solar time. The new definition essentially means that the second is the length it needs to be to make Newcomb's tables for the positions of the planets and the Moon come out right. So it was measured by observing the position of the planets, and especially, the position of the Moon. The rotation of the Earth became irrelevant. However, this definition was not very practical; the calculation of the results meant that time, Ephemeris Time, was not available for months after the observations. That explains why this definition was quickly abandoned in favor of atomic clocks, which can be used in real time. Jc3s5h (talk) 00:55, 6 June 2012 (UTC) The reference al-Biruni contains no mention of the second. Is this reference correct?  — Preceding unsigned comment added by Shantnup (talk • contribs) 11:42, 21 August 2012 (UTC)  In the article:  Keeping Time: Why 60 Minutes? http://www.livescience.com/44964-why-60-minutes-in-an-hour.html There is a quote: "The 11th-century Persian scholar Al-Bīrūnī tabulated times of new moons on specific dates in hours, 60ths (minutes), 60ths of 60ths (seconds), 60ths of 60ths of 60ths (thirds), and 60ths of 60ths of 60ths of 60ths (fourths)."  that seems to suggest a different definition of "thirds" and "fourths".  Which is correct?--Filll (talk | wpc) 00:34, 25 April 2014 (UTC) used in excess of 35 x in WP articles.GinAndChronically (talk) 05:42, 26 June 2014 (UTC) The sentences below appear to mix up year and second definitions. The use of the word second in English began in the late 16th century. The definition remained unchanged (and still applies in some astronomical and legal contexts)   from 1000 until 1960, at which time it was defined as "the period of the Earth's orbit around the sun in the year 1900". Not sure if the intent is to suggest that the 'year' upon which the second was defined changed, or that in 1960 the definition of a second was changed to something besides a fraction of a year. In any event, a year is not a second.  — Preceding unsigned comment added by Teleksterling (talk • contribs) 22:18, 22 November 2015 (UTC)  Hello fellow Wikipedians, I have just added archive links to one external link on Second. Please take a moment to review my edit. If necessary, add {{cbignore}} after the link to keep me from modifying it. Alternatively, you can add {{nobots|deny=InternetArchiveBot}} to keep me off the page altogether. I made the following changes: When you have finished reviewing my changes, please set the checked parameter below to true to let others know. Y An editor has reviewed this edit and fixed any errors that were found.  Cheers.—cyberbot IITalk to my owner:Online 13:55, 27 February 2016 (UTC) "The phrase "One Mississippi, Two Mississippi" is one of several similar phrases used to measure time verbally." Why is this in this article? And if it is to be kept in, should it not at least note that it is a way of measuring seconds, not just time? GeneCallahan (talk) 23:41, 21 July 2017 (UTC) I, for one, have absolutely no idea what a "period of the radiation corresponding to the transition between two hyperfine levels" is, and I doubt most of our readers do either. Should we not explain briefly - or at least try to explain briefly - what the current definition actually means? According to MOS:JARGON and WP:TECHNICAL, articles should strive to be understandable for a wide array of readers and minimize the use of jargon, and although this article overall is friendly enough, the definition carries an exception. I say someone should write a subsection to International second such as Explaination of definition, which explains some fundamental particle physics to give the reader a minimal idea of what actually defines the second. Rich with wikilinks to articles about atomic physics for further reading, of course. Anyone that can give me and our readers a hand in explaining transitions of hyperfine levels?Gaioa (talk) 15:19, 14 August 2017 (UTC) Yuck.  I don't think this can be fixed in any form.  It's better to start over.  What goes here?  Atomic clocks keep better time than the earth. And if it makes sense, how much better time. Saying 10^10 of any unit doesn't make sense because nothing in our ordinary experience is 10^10 bigger or smaller than something else in our ordinary experience.  At that level, it's just "millions of times better".  Even mention of microwaves is suspect - while microwave ovens are an everyday experience, most people don't have a clue how they do what they do. Sbalfour (talk) 04:24, 22 January 2018 (UTC) Sbalfour (talk) 18:04, 23 January 2018 (UTC) This article is about the common clock interval second, and just barely about the SI unit. The section SI multiples says SI prefixes are commonly used to measure time less than a second, but rarely for multiples of a second, but then goes on to jabber:  Thus a megasecond is 11 days, 13 hours, 46 minutes and 40 seconds, which is roughly of the order of a week....  No, 11-3/4 days isn't any kind of week.  And listing powers of ten multiples of seconds is absolutely useless anyway. It's marginally useful or just interesting to list ordinary units of time in multiples of seconds, i.e., an hour is 3600 seconds, a day is 86,400 seconds, a year is 31.5 million seconds, a century is a little over 3 billion (3.15*109 seconds, and the age of the universe is about 434 trillion seconds.  It may also be useful  conceptually to list a few  common events in terms of seconds: the fastest human sprinters take about 10 seconds to run 100 meters; a stone falling from rest falls about 4.9 meters in a second; sound travels about 343 meters in a second; ocean waves in deep water travel about 23 meters in a second.   Listing all metric prefixes here (and presumably in all 7 + 22 articles on metric base and derived units) is purely duplicative.  There's a place to list those, and that would be in the article on the SI itself, or an article on metric prefixes.  Here, it's just filler - nothing better to say, so say anything. Sbalfour (talk) 17:44, 22 January 2018 (UTC) The History section is over 80% of the article, but this is an article about an everyday thing, not an article on history.  For that, we have articles like History of timekeeping devices.  Proportionately, history would occupy only a fraction of a topical article about a common thing, like mouse or baseball.  The section is elaborate and distracting.  It would perhaps be plausible to merge the entire section into the named article above, because the history of the second is mostly the history of devices that realize the second, i.e. clocks.  The article as it stands cannot support such a section. It needs to shrink by about a factor of 5, and even if it did, it'd still be almost half the article.   Sbalfour (talk) 18:57, 22 January 2018 (UTC) Fraction of lunar month section is curious for having only two obscure references to natural philosophers "defining" seconds. In that sense, anyone writing and publicizing (expensive in those days) could define a second.  But definition and realization were different things: it'd require a clock that could keep time to the second for a month between recalibrations. Not only that, but a meaningful definition is one that is adopted by law, by practice, or realized by a scientific or metrologic body for use by others. France in the 18th century briefly flirted with decimal time adopted by law, for example. The experiment lasted less than three months.  I'd consider that a definition of units of time. There's no evidence I can find of seconds as part of a lunar cycle in popular timekeeping systems or devices.  I think this section should be moved to a footnote at best. It's scholarship in the abstract; lunar calendars are notable, but seconds (and minutes) as part of lunar timekeeping are not. Sbalfour (talk) 17:46, 24 January 2018 (UTC) Realization by mechanical clocks Squishy-fudgy. The second was ever only based on three things: 1/86,400 of mean solar day, fraction of ephemeris year, and 9.2ghz cesium clock frequency.   Mechanical clocks realized the second, but when they failed to keep good time, they were recalibrated to the solar day.  Fraction of a solar day section is essentially about sundials, though it muddles about other things.  It's unrealistic to try to divide a 1/12 of a circle or 300 (an hour) by more than about ten divisions.  That's still 6 minutes.  There was no effective way to time repeatable short events.  As noted, none of these old divisions of time was a predecessor of the modern second.  I think we can stop there; the only thing we borrowed from the Babylonians and their predecessors was their sexagesimal counting system and history of dividing calendar time as well as arcs in terms of it. Sbalfour (talk) 21:06, 24 January 2018 (UTC) Fraction of an ephemeris year section contains some superfluous, wordy and partly duplicative text in the last two paragraphs.  Tables of the sun/moon are stated three times for example. Sbalfour (talk) 00:00, 25 January 2018 (UTC) This section is bullet items, like we'd find in an appendix or technical footnote.  An encyclopedia article, especially one about an everyday thing, is expected to be narrative text.  There's a readable way to write this, so I'm going to replace the subsections with text.  An SI unit like becquerel isn't an everyday thing, so probably should be omitted; a baud is kind of an antiquated electronic term, and isn't that familiar either, in the sense that most people probably couldn't give it an adequate definition. Sbalfour (talk) 17:48, 23 January 2018 (UTC) This article on second is too small to form a proper article. Other than history, which is debatably WAY too big, the article is more or less an extended dictionary definition.  I think there should be one article for clock time, including seconds, minutes, hours, and maybe quarter hours and half-hours, and another article calendar time including days, weeks, months, and years, and another article for larger time intervals: decade, century, millennium (1000), epoch (million) and eon (billion).  There's already a threadbare article on units of time, though including historical units of time, there are just too many of these to cover in detail in a single article. Sbalfour (talk) 22:27, 26 January 2018 (UTC) ADD: DAMMIT I WAS NOT LOGGED IN!!!!! Please see signature, last anon IP edit was mine! mike4ty4 (talk) 09:04, 31 January 2018 (UTC) Hi. I am posting this because there now seems to be some back-and-forth starting between this poster and another one here, User:Sbalfour, regarding the content of this particular article. In particular, the other poster made some rather sweeping changes that seemed to have the effect of dethroning the SI definition of the second in favor of some general notion of "clock time", and then I thought some of the points were valid - in particular User:Sbalfour wanted to make it more accessible which is commendable, but at the same time it seemed to change the focus away from the SI which today forms the generally-accepted standard as to what "a second" is, and modern clocks are made based to tick SI seconds, since they are based on variously either synchronization to the atomic clock (which ticks such seconds or the best realization we have thereof), or a quartz oscillator calibrated to the SI definition (unless you have some sources explaining that the oscillators of modern clocks are commonly set to some other interval in which case you should present such here) within its range of accuracy. I then re-edited it to bring back the SI focus but without trying to compromise the new information brought in. In general I do think that some WP articles can get too technical, and I'd also like to try for a similar remake of articles like about the metre, for example, which does not give a lot of intuition for what exactly that distance is and while that may be a common thing to like 95% of the World population or so, there is some 5% at least who does not know it and is disproportionately concentrated in the Anglosphere to which this encyclopedia, being English, would be most primarily well-received in (although those from other nations who speak English due to its prominence as a second language can also avail themselves of it, of course.). I think it's pretty uncontroversial that the second as a unit is the SI base unit for time, and it's what almost all clocks manufactured now tick in. To me, saying the "second is an interval of clock time" is like saying a "metre is the length of a metre stick". That's true, but it's defining it by something which is based on how it is defined. So I'd like to bring it here for discussion. To start that I left another very minimal revert edit limited to the lead sentence only restoring that it is the SI base unit of time and am offering to hear from User:Sbalfour his objections to this. mike4ty4 (talk) 09:04, 31 January 2018 (UTC) 