Null Island is a name for the area around the point where the prime meridian and the equator cross; in the WGS84 datum, this is at zero degrees latitude and longitude [0°N 0°E﻿ / ﻿0°N 0°E﻿ / 0; 0. ] (the location is in the Gulf of Guinea off the west African coast). The name 'Null Island' serves as both a joke based around the suppositional existence of an island there (in reality, only a buoy [pictured] exists there), and also as a name to which coordinates erroneously set to 0,0 are assigned in placenames databases in order to more easily find and fix them. The nearest land is Annobón island, at 1°25′S 5°38′E﻿ / ﻿1.417°S 5.633°E﻿ / -1.417; 5.633. In the latter capacity it was added to the Natural Earth public domain map dataset    circa 2010-2011, after which the term came into wide use (although there is evidence of it being used previously ); since then, the 'island' has through fiction been given a geography (based on the setting of the video game Myst), history, and flag.  Natural Earth describes the entity as a "1 meter square island" with "scale rank 100, indicating it should never be shown in mapping."  The name 'Null' refers to the two 0 co-ordinates, both of which are sometimes known as null in mathematics. The location is used by mapping systems to trap errors.  Such errors arise, for example, where an image artifact is erroneously associated to the location by software which cannot attribute a geo-position, and instead associates a latitude and longitude of "Null,Null" or "0,0".  Other data mapped to the location include activity events from the Strava fitness-tracking app, apparently (as reported in January 2018 by Bellingcat) mapped to the location due to users entering "0,0" coordinates to disguise their real location.  The only actual non-oceanic feature in that region is a moored weather and sea observation buoy, part of the PIRATA system operated jointly by the United States, France, and Brazil.  The depth at this place is around 4,940 metres (16,210 ft).  