Agrivoltaics is co-developing the same area of land for both solar photovoltaic power as well as for conventional agriculture.  This technique was originally conceived by Adolf Goetzberger and Armin Zastrow in 1981.  The coexistence of solar panels and crops implies a sharing of light between these two types of production. In 1981, Adolf Goetzberger and Armin Zastrow were the first to propose the concept of a dual use of arable land for solar energy production and plant cultivation  in order to improve overall production.  They were addressing the ongoing discussion on the competition for the use of arable land between solar energy production and crop. The light saturation point is the maximum amount of photons absorbable by a plant species. As more photons won’t increase to the rate of photosynthesis, Akira Nagashima suggest to combine PV systems and farming to use the excess of light. He developed the first prototypes in Japan in 2004.  The term “agrivoltaic“ was used for the first time in a publication in 2011.  The concept is known under several names in the world: "agrophotovoltaics" in Germany,   "agrovoltaics" in Italy,   "solar sharing" in Asia.   Facilities such as photovoltaic greenhouses can be considered as agrivoltaic systems. There are three types of Agrivoltaics that are being actively researched: solar arrays with space between for crops, stilted solar array above crops and greenhouse solar array.  All three of these systems have several variables used to maximize solar energy absorbed in both the panels and the crops. The main variable taken into account for agrivoltaic systems is the angle of the solar panels-called the tilt angle. Other variables taken into account for choosing the location of the agrivoltaic system are the crops chosen, height of the panels, solar irradiation in the area and climate of the area.  The solar panels of Agrivoltaics affects crops and land they cover in ways more than providing shade. Two ways are affecting water flow and heat. They also allow for more revenue per acre to be created.  For example, grape farms with appropriate spacing could increase revenue 15 times.  In experiments testing evaporation levels under PVP for shade resistant crops cucumbers and lettuce watered by irrigation, a 14-29% savings in evaporation was found.  Agrivoltaics could be used for crops or areas where water efficiency is imperative.  A study was done on the heat of the land, air and crops under solar panels for a growing season. It was found that while the air beneath the panels stayed consistent, the land and plants had lower temperatures recorded.  With rising temperature from climate change this may become important for some food crops.  Simulations and studies on Agrivoltaics indicate electricity and shade-resistant crop production do not decrease in productivity, allowing both to be simultaneously produced efficiently. Dinesh et al. found lettuce output was found to be comparable in Agrivoltaics to monocultures. Agrivoltaics work best for plants that are shade resistant, with potential functioning crops being "hog peanut, alfalfa, yam, taro, cassava, sweet potato" along with lettuce.  Simulations performed by Dupraz et al. found the potential of land productivity to increase by 60-70%.  Furthermore, Dinesh et al. found that the value of solar generated electricity coupled to shade-tolerant crop production created an over 30% increase in economic value from farms deploying agrivoltaic systems instead of conventional agriculture.  It has been postulated that Agrivoltaics would be beneficial for summer crops for the microclimate they create and the side effect of heat and water flow control.  Shade resistant crops are not typically grown in industrial agricultural systems.  For instance, wheat crops do not fare well in a low light environment, meaning they would not work with Agrivoltaics.  Agrivoltaics do not yet work with greenhouses. Greenhouses with half of the roof covered in panels were simulated, and the resulting crop output reduced by 64% and panel productivity reduced by 84%.  