Care farming is the use of farming practices for the stated purpose of providing or promoting healing, mental health, social, or educational care services.  [non-primary source needed] Care farms can provide supervised, structured programs of farming-related activities, including animal husbandry, crop and vegetable production and woodland management. [non-primary source needed]  Some farms attempt to alleviate the effects of the unrecognized medical condition nature deficit disorder. [non-primary source needed] Recently, agricultural multifunctionality has given a boost to the development of care farming.  Benjamin Rush (1746–1813) is said to be one of the first medical scientists referring to the positive effects of the practice of horticultural therapy on the well-being of mentally diseased.[by whom?] Rush published 5 books in a series of Medical Inquiries and Observations, the last being concerned with The Diseases of The Mind (1812). In this volume, the practice of horticulture is mentioned twice. [better source needed]   It has been remarked, that the maniacs of the male sex in all hospitals, who assist in cutting wood, making fires, and digging in a garden, and the females who are employed in washing, ironing, and scrubbing floors, often recover, while persons, whose rank exempts them from performing such services, languish away their lives within the walls of the hospital. Farm types range from dairy farms to poultry farms, from livestock keeping for meat production to manege / horse riding schools, from orchards and vineyards to market gardens.  Care farms may be large scale or small scale, both in terms of agricultural production as well as in number of clients for the care services provided. In general however, there are less care farmers to be found in large scale, intensive, industrial agriculture.  A significant number of care farms focus on organic farming.   Because care farms participate in market-oriented agricultural productivity (providing agricultural produce for the market), there are numerous care farms where the farm activities are subservient to the therapeutic process.  Depending on what the focus of the farm is, the activities that are offered on the farm may depend on the type of clients the farm targets or the type of available agricultural processes on the farm. Some care farms serve as animal sanctuaries to provide homes for formerly abused animals.  