European Commission definitions of energy efficiency,  are given below:  According to article 2(d) of the Regulation (EC) No1099/2008 on energy statistics: European Commission requirements regarding energy use across the EU (Directive 2012/27/EU) establish a common framework of measures for the promotion of energy efficiency within the European Union to: The directive also: Provides for the establishment of indicative national energy efficiency targets for 2020Key measures with implications for the agricultural sector: In the framework of the AGREE project  , several state of the art studies on the energy efficiency of specific agricultural production systems of different types (arable crops, agro-forest, greenhouses, and animal husbandry) were executed in 2012-13 in Europe based on existing data from six countries and were combined in one report. A stakeholder and driver analysis on energy efficiency in agriculture in all six countries and separate reports Finland, Germany, Greece, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal) are available. Energy efficiency measures were proposed for each agricultural system and presented in an  overview report. A synthesis and summary report   on state of the art, drivers and stakeholders of energy efficiency in agriculture, and potential of energy saving hours is also available. The most directly effective measures were taken into account in reporting their effect on energy consumption per unit of product in certain case studies in all seven countries taking into account trade-offs regarding GHG emissions and final farm cost. The results are presented in a report named Economic and environmental analysis of energy efficiency measures in agriculture – Case Studies and trade-offs. An intensive stakeholder process, by organising national stakeholders meetings in six countries, revealed the opportunities and drawbacks for a future energy efficient agriculture in Europe. The results of this process are presented for six countries at special reports, one for each country (Finland, Germany, Greece, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal). The results of all reports are summarized in a synthesis report on transnational value of national stakeholders meetings. The integration of the perspectives of representatives of different EU regions to achieve a future energy efficient agriculture in Europe, an output of a European transnational stakeholder meeting, is summarized in the Agenda for transnational collaboration. This represents the shared views on how to improve energy efficiency in European agriculture. According to the work done in AGREE, suggestions were given on the definition of energy efficiency in agriculture 