The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to agriculture: Agriculture – cultivation of animals, plants, fungi and other life forms for food, fiber, and other products used to sustain life.  Agriculture can be described as all of the following: Farm equipment – any kind of machinery used on a farm to help with farming. Fishing – activity of trying to catch fish. Fish are normally caught in the wild. Techniques for catching fish include hand gathering, spearing, netting, angling and trapping. Forestry – interdisciplinary profession embracing the science, art, and craft of creating, managing, using, and conserving forests and associated resources in a sustainable manner to meet desired goals, needs, and values for human benefit. Ranching – practice of raising grazing livestock such as cattle or sheep for meat or wool. Agricultural chemistry – study of both chemistry and biochemistry which are important in agricultural production, the processing of raw products into foods and beverages, and in environmental monitoring and remediation. Agricultural communication – field of study and work that focuses on communication about agricultural related information among agricultural stakeholders and between agricultural and non-agricultural stakeholders. Agricultural economics – originally applied the principles of economics to the production of crops and livestock — a discipline known as agronomics. Agronomics was a branch of economics that specifically dealt with land usage. It focused on maximizing the crop yield while maintaining a good soil ecosystem. Throughout the 20th century the discipline expanded and the current scope of the discipline is much broader. Agricultural economics today includes a variety of applied areas, having considerable overlap with conventional economics. Agricultural education – instruction about crop production, livestock management, soil and water conservation, and various other aspects of agriculture.Farmers acquire adequate knowledge required on the correct amount use of agrochemicals and other agriculture related technologies. Agricultural universities and colleges – tertiary agricultural educational institutions around the world Agricultural engineering – engineering discipline that applies engineering science and technology to agricultural production and processing. Agricultural philosophy – discipline devoted to the systematic critique of the philosophical frameworks (or ethical world views) that are the foundation for decisions regarding agriculture. Agricultural policy – set of laws relating to domestic agriculture and imports of foreign agricultural products.  Agronomy – science and technology of producing and using plants for food, fuel, feed, fiber, and reclamation. Horticulture – art, science, technology and business of intensive plant cultivation for human use. Agricultural soil science – branch of soil science that deals with the study of edaphic conditions as they relate to the production of food and fiber. Agroecology – application of ecological principles to the production of food, fuel, fiber, and pharmaceuticals and the management of agroecosystems. History of agriculture – developed at least 10,000 years ago, although some forms of agriculture such as forest gardening and fire-stick farming date back even earlier to prehistoric times. Food industry – complex, global collective of diverse businesses that together supply much of the food energy consumed by the world population. Pulp and paper industry – comprises companies that use wood as raw material and produce pulp, paper, board and other cellulose-based products. 