Dr. RAC Paul (August 19, 1941—September 30, 1986) was an Indian doctor and a missionary who did medical and evangelical work among the Bondo tribes in Malkangiri. Paul was born in Sawyerpuram on August 19, 1941 to parents Paul Ratna Samy and Gladys . He had four siblings—two older sisters named Priscilla and Nirmala, a younger sister named Ramani, and a younger brother named Dhanapaul.  In 1957, he passed SSLC and attended Madras Veterinary College . After becoming a doctor, he joined Virudhunagar veterinary hospital and received a degree in 1963.  He also attended Emmanuel Methodist Church at Veppery, Chennai.   Dr. RAC Paul was introduced to his future wife Dr. Iris Paul by her college friend Chandra . Her father Mr. Walter went to Malkangiri in order to meet Paul and approved of him due to his hospitality and politeness. He then gave Paul permission to marry his daughter. RAC and Iris were wed on January 24, 1972 at Emanuel Methodist Church  . Their first child, son “Remo” (meaning “man” in the Bondo language), was born in 1974. Their second son, Manoranjan, was born in 1977. The couple adopted two Bondo children during their work as missionaries among the Bondo tribes. They named these children David Livingstone and Mary Smrutha .  As a young child, Paul had not initially accepted religion. When he fell ill, however, he turned to religion and prayed to live. This influenced him to become a doctor and work as a medical and religious missionary. He wanted to spend his life in "the Lord's service" .  After the birth of his second son in 1977, Paul fell ill with kidney problems. He needed a kidney transplant, which he received in the USA. After the transplant, he and Iris returned to their work in India. Paul suffered a paralytic attack on January 24, 1980. He suffered from ill health, including typhoid and jaundice, until his death in 1986. In the hospital, when he felt well enough, he told nearby patients the gospel . He ultimately died during by-pass surgery.  Paul learned of a need for a missionary in Orissa (present-day Odisha) through IMS News Bulletin in Muthumalai magazine.  The notice in the magazine asked for missionaries to go work in Orissa. He applied immediately.  Upon being selected, he left for service on January 15, 1967 and arrived at Malkangiri on January 23, 1967 . He started medical work with the Koya, Bondo, Santhali and Poraja tribal groups. He met Munshi, a Bengali christian, in the village MV3 and taught bible lessons there . After their wedding, on February 9, 1972, Dr. Iris and Dr. RAC Paul journeyed together to Malkangiri to begin medical work on the Bondo tribes. They left IMS and joined Indian Evangelical Mission, which sent two other missionaries to work with the Pauls: Bros Sasi Kumar and Jeyapaul Sithar .   The Pauls went to Bondo Hills, lived there, and did the ministry during the week and medical work on Sundays. They returned to Malkangiri once per week. The local tribal people were isolated and known as murderous. Paul was determined to reach them with religion. He became close with the locals, and they endearingly called him "Mr. Tall" .   Together, RAC and Iris treated and helped with many health problems, including the following: Malaria, Tuberculosis, skin diseases, dysentery, and the delivery of babies.   After Paul’s kidney transplant, IEM shut down the work in Malkangiri . Dr. Iris and RAC Paul then resigned from IEM and returned to the base at Malkangiri. They continued medical and gospel work in Malkangiri but could no longer work with the Bondo tribes. Without the support of IEM, the Pauls faced financial difficulties, in addition to Dr. RAC Paul’s own medical problems .   Paul suffered a paralytic attack on January 24, 1980, and from then on, he had to stay at home and assist Iris in her medical work . He told patients the gospel but was no longer able to continue his work in the ministry. He died in 1986.  Dr. RAC Paul translated the New Testament into the Bondo language . The Bondos have been able to continue practicing Christianity.   At an IEM promotional meeting, slides of Dr. RAC Paul and Dr. Iris Paul were shown to a group of aspiring missionaries. At the time, Dr. RAC Paul was receiving medical treatment at CMC Vellore. One attendee of this meeting recalled being inspired by the following declaration, which was given by the man giving the presentation: "If a dying man is willing to keep on serving the Lord in a dry land, where there was no fruit, or benefit, what about you young people who have good health and strength?"    His wife, Dr. Iris Paul, continued working with the Bondos upon Paul’s dying wish that she and their children would continue working as missionaries . Dr. Iris Paul received the Yoke Fellow Award from the Direct Mission Aid Society in 1988 and eight years later, she received the Robert Pierce International Award for Christian development work by World Vision International .     Iris founded the Reaching Hand Society . Now, Remo Paul and his wife Dr. Susan Sunalini Paul run the RHS as Executive Secretary and Medical Superintendent, respectively. The Reaching Hand Society provides medical care, sets up local village churches, and spreads health education for the people in over 700 out of 926 villages in the district of Malkangiri .        