ADDitude Magazine is the quarterly consumer publication about attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADD ADHD) created and distributed by New Hope Media in New York, NY. It contains feature and service articles about ADD, ADHD and learning disabilities like dyslexia. It addresses topics including: diagnosing ADHD in children and adults, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder treatments including medication and/or alternative therapies, parenting children with ADHD, learning disabilities and school challenges, and living with adult ADD. ADDitude Magazine is described by child psychotherapist Keath Low as "The happy, healthy lifestyle magazine for people with ADD."  The official web site for ADDitude magazine was launched in April 2007, and now contains free searchable archives,  expert Q&As,  ADHD bloggers,  ADHD discussion forums,  and a directory of ADHD service providershttp://directory.additudemag.com/. ADDitude was founded by Ellen Kingsley (an Emmy-winning television journalist) in 1998 to serve the parents of America's 2-3 million schoolchildren  with ADD and ADHD, as well as adults, with the disorder. Kingsley founded ADDitude as a web site a few years after her oldest son, Teddy, was diagnosed with severe ADHD.  ADDitude became a print magazine two years later. Kingsley succumbed to breast cancer on March 8, 2007. In her honor, ADDitude magazine started the Ellen Kingsley Award for ADHD Advocacy the same year.  The ADDitude editorial and design staff includes:  Editor in Chief: Susan Caughman Editor: Wayne Kalyn Creative Director: Mark Gentile Managing Editor: Eve Gilman Designer: Orin Brecht Copy Editor: Gene Jones Assistant Editor: Joanna Yeung Editorial Assistant: Caitlin Ford Members of the magazine's scientific advisory board review all scientific or medical information contained in ADDitude prior to publication: Chairman: Larry Silver, M.D. (Georgetown University Medical School) Russell Barkley, Ph.D. (Medical University of South Carolina) Carol Brady, Ph.D. (Baylor College of Medicine) Thomas E. Brown, Ph.D. (Yale University School of Medicine) Edward M. Hallowell, M.D. (The Hallowell Center) Peter Jaksa, Ph.D. (ADD Centers of America) Peter Jensen, M.D. (Center for the Advancement of Children's Mental Health, Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons) Rachel Klein, Ph.D. (Child Study Center, New York University Medical School) Harold S. Koplewicz, M.D. (Child Study Center, New York University Medical School) Michele Novotni, Ph.D. (Wayne Counseling Center) Patricia Quinn, M.D. (National Center for Gender Issues and AD/HD) Karen Wagner, M.D., Ph.D. (University of Texas Medical Branch) Timothy Wilens, M.D. (Harvard Medical School) The official web site for ADDitude magazine was relaunched in April 2007, and now contains free searchable archives,  expert Q&As,  ADHD bloggers,  ADHD discussion forums,  and a directory of ADHD service providers.  