Military Medical Business (Военно Санитарное Дело) was one of the professional medical journals of the Worker's and Peasant's Red Army (RKKA). The journal was published monthly in Moscow. Between 1938-1940, each issue cost 1 ruble and 50 kopecks. A 12-month subscription to the journal for the year 1939 cost 18 rubles. The Moscow publishing house published a total of 33 different professional medical journals for the RKKA in the year 1939. The Leningrad publishing house published five different journals that same year. Four different serials were also published by the Moscow publishing house under the title Central Medical Abstract Journal.  By the end of 1940, the price of a single issue of Military Medical Business had increased to 2 rubles. The Moscow publishing house advertised 33 different journals, the Leningrad publishing house advertised 5 journals, and the Kazan publishing house advertised 1 journal for the year 1941. A 12-month subscription to Military Medical Business cost 30 rubles in 1941. The Moscow publishing house also advertised four serials under the title Central Medical Abstract Journal for the year 1941.  In 1938, Military Medical Business published articles on the following topics: The political and organizational questions of the cadre and general questions, Therapeutic-prophylactic questions, Medical tactics, Questions of medical support of aviation and the mechanized unit, Questions of medical support of the Navy, Questions of medical-chemical defense and anti-aircraft defense, Questions of hygiene, epidemiology and disinfection, and general reviews of articles. The following titles are examples of the 21 articles published on The political and organizational questions of the cadre and general questions: Examples of the 93 articles and 13 abstracts on Therapeutic-prophylactic questions include: An example of the 29 articles and 9 abstracts on Medical tactics: Among the 33 articles and 13 abstracts on Questions of medical support of aviation and the mechanized unit include the following titles: The following is an example of the 4 articles on Questions of medical support of the Navy: An example of the 5 articles and 1 abstract on Questions of medical-chemical defense and anti-aircraft defense: The following two titles are examples of the 40 articles and 6 abstracts on Questions of hygiene, epidemiology and disinfection: The 4 reviews of articles includes: A complete listing of all published articles, abstracts, and article reviews was not published in the final issue of Military Medical Business in 1939. The following are titles of articles from the various issues published in 1939. In 1940, Military Medical Business published articles on the following topics: The political and organization questions of the cadre and general question, Medical tactics, Therapeutic-prophylactic questions, Questions of medical support of aviation and the mechanized unit, Questions of medical-chemical defense and anti-aircraft defense, Questions of hygiene, epidemiology and disinfection, and general article reviews that were not classified under any of the above headings. Examples of the 19 articles and 3 abstracts on The political and organization questions of the cadre and general question include: The following are titles of some of the 33 articles and 8 abstracts on Medical tactics: The following titles were among the 98 articles and 13 abstracts on Therapeutic-prophylactic questions: Included among the 51 articles and 21 abstracts on Questions of medical support of aviation and the mechanized unit are: There were 5 articles and 4 abstracts on Questions of medical-chemical defense and anti-aircraft defense, including the following title: Among the 41 articles and 7 abstracts on Questions of hygiene, epidemiology and disinfection were the following titles: The following titles were among the 15 reviews of articles not classified under the previous headings: 