Whole Living was a health and lifestyle magazine geared towards "natural health, personal growth, and well-being,"  a concept the publishers refer to as "whole living."  The magazine became a part of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia in August 2004.  The magazine was originally launched as the New Age Journal in 1974.  The magazine was first rebranded as Body+Soul beginning with an edition in early 2002.  In 2004, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia acquired the magazine and other publishing assets from Thorne Communications.  The magazine became Whole Living in May 2010. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia has announced it intends to cease publication of Whole Living.   The final installment will be the January/February 2013 issue. A $2.5 million offer to buy the title from private equity firm OpenGate Capital fell through and no other buyers have appeared. The content from Whole Living will be included in Martha Stewart Living. New Age Journal, or New Age: The Journal for Holistic Living was an American periodical prominent in the late 20th century, and defining itself as covering topics related to the period's "New Age"; it has been succeeded, in turn, by Body & Soul. It described itself around the late 1990s as concerned with "achievement, commitment, health, creative living, and holistic nutrition".  It was founded in 1974  by Peggy Taylor and other editors of East/West Journal,  and based in the Boston metropolitan area. In 1994 it won an Alternative Press Award for General Excellence from the Utne Reader.  Its publishing of work by Joseph Campbell, Ram Dass, Andrew Weil, Christiane Northrup, Deepak Chopra, and Cheryl Richardson is said to have come before they were respectively widely known.  Under new editorship, it was "relaunched" in 2002 as the bi-monthly Body and Soul or Body & Soul.  In 2004, it was bought by Martha Stewart's Omnimedia, which as of  2009[update] publishes Body+Soul (presented on its cover as "whole living | body + soul") eight times per year. In 2010, the magazine was relaunched as Whole Living. In 2000, Robert Scheer created the website New Age Journal, which states that "We are not affiliated with any magazines printed on paper."  Its editors included: 