Women's Health, published by Rodale in Emmaus, Pennsylvania, is a magazine focusing on health, nutrition, fitness, sex, and lifestyle. It is published 10 times a year in the United States and has a circulation of 1.5 million readers. The magazine has 13 international editions spanning 25 countries and reaching more than 8 million readers globally.  The magazine features multiple different sections, such as fitness, sex & love, food, weight loss, Eat This!, health, beauty and style.  The magazine allows women an organized approach to keeping their lives on track and staying healthy. The Fitness section showcases how-to workouts with detailed moves so the reader can replicate the activities effectively. The fitness section also covers topics such as injury prevention, getting started with fitness, cardio, toning, and seasonal tips for working-out in certain conditions. The Sex & Love section covers topics including relationship advice, tips for better sex and an array of topics on women’s health. The Food section focuses on topics such as metabolism, organic foods, recipes, ways to boost energy and more. Weight Loss looks at a wide variety of topics that focus on anything from food to work-outs to sleep, in relation to losing weight. The Eat This! section, which teaches readers ways to substitute their current meals for healthy alternatives, is based on Rodale Inc.’s Eat This, Not That book series. This topic looks at the ingredients and nutritional values, so consumers can make healthy eating choices while. The Health section covers topics such as seasonal colds, women’s heart health, foods that benefit your health, energy boosting tips, eating disorders and more. The Beauty section covers topics such as skin health, hairstyles, make-up tips and affordable beauty products.  Women’s Health features a celebrity each month that exudes the lifestyle of a healthy, active woman. Past Women’s Health cover models include Elisha Cuthbert, Ashley Greene, Anna Kournikova, Michelle Monaghan, Zoe Saldana and Elizabeth Banks.  Women's Health was created in 2005   as the sister publication of Men's Health magazine. The test-issue team was headed by Bill Stump, a former Men’s Health editor who was then the head of Rodale Inc.’s "New Product Development" department. The magazine's founding editor-in-chief was Kristina Johnson, previously the original executive editor of Teen People.  Within a year, the circulation reached 750,000 readers. David Zinczenko, editor-in-chief of Men's Health magazine, was named editorial director. Jack Essig, SVP/Publisher of Men's Health, was named SVP/Publisher of Women's Health in March 2009.   Since its creation, the magazine has been building its brand to encompass a digitally advanced website including a Facebook and Twitter page, and downloadable apps and workouts for its viewers. Women’s Health is published internationally in the following 14 countries: United States, Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Latin America, China, Germany, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Poland, South Africa, Thailand and Turkey.  The German edition was launched in April 2011.  On the Women's Health website viewers can access videos, print-outs, MP3s and personal trainers to use for working out and living a healthy lifestyle. Women’s Health is connected with nearly 500,000 viewers on Facebook and Twitter. The website also offers almost two million viewers with monthly newsletters. Women’s Health uses their digital resources to connect with their consumers and provide them with the tools they need to succeed in their active lives.  The editors at Women’s Health have teamed together to produce helpful DVDs for their consumers to aid in weight loss, toning or just getting in better physical condition. Some of their DVDs include: Look Better Naked, Ultimate Abs Workout, The Tone-up Workout, The Wedding Workout, and Train for Your Body Type. In conjunction to DVDs, the Women's Health editors have also published health and fitness books. Women’s Health has pushed its brand with books such as: The Women’s Health Diet, The Big Book of Exercises, The Big Book of Abs, Look Better Naked, and Six Weeks to Skinny Jeans.  Women’s Health  Are you game? is an event that focuses on women’s fitness, nutrition, beauty and style. This all-day event takes place in Chicago and New York City, and features work-out classes, a fashion show, cooking demos, chair massages and more.  Women’s Health is a media sponsor for the ZOOMA race. This race features a half marathon, a 5K and 10k race, and a post-race celebration. ZOOMZ 2012 took place in Annapolis, Atlanta, Texas, Cape Cod and The Great Lakes. ZOOMA is an event that celebrates the personal triumphs of women and provides some well-deserved pampering and partying after the race.   Summer Streets NYC is another event that Women’s Health helps sponsor, this event shuts down some of the streets in New York City to traffic. This gives people the opportunity to explore more of the city via bike or foot. This event was designed to encourage people to explore alternate modes of transportation in the city.  The launch of Women’s Health magazine was one of the most successful today. Currently, WH is ranked #4 on Adweek Media’s “Hot List,” as well as #2 on Advertising Age’s annual “A-List.” Both recognize magazines for their superior performance in advertising and circulation.  In March 2008, Women’s Health finished #1 on Adweek’s “10 under 50” Hot List. The magazine was named #2 on Advertising Ages 2008 A List. In 2009, the magazine was named "Magazine of the Year" by Advertising Age. In 2011, Women's Health took home a National Magazine Award for "General Excellence."  Founding editor-in-chief, Kristina Johnson, guided Women’s Health from its inception in 2003 until her departure in 2008. Under Johnson, the magazine was named the #1 hottest publication in its circulation category by Ad Week and #2 by Advertising Age (both in 2008).  In January 2009, Michelle Promalayko took over the title. 