Eleventh grade, junior year, or grade 11 (called Year 12 in the UK) is the eleventh, and for some countries final, grade of secondary schools. Students are typically 16–17 years of age, depending on the country and the students' birthdays. In Australia, Year Eleven is typically the twelfth year of education and fifth (except South Australia, which it is the fourth) year of high school education. Although there are slight variations between the states, most students in Year Eleven are aged around fifteen, sixteen or seventeen. Queensland year-eleven students are the youngest in the country, as they usually enter at age fifteen. In New South Wales, Year Eleven is the shortest year as it only lasts three whole terms. Year Twelve begins its first term where Year Eleven would have its fourth. Year Eleven is followed by Year Twelve, the final year of high school. Grade eleven is the first year of college in Bangladesh. Students in this grade are sixteen to seventeen years old and get the chance to study in this grade after passing the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) or equivalent exam. In Bangladesh this grade is also referred as 'Class 11' or 'Inter first year' or 'Intermediate first year' or 'HSC first year' etc. In Belgium, the 11th grade is called "5ème secondaire" in the French speaking part of the country, and "5de middelbaar" in the Dutch speaking part. In Brazil, the 11th grade is called "Segundo Ano do Ensino Médio", which means 2nd year of medium school (not to be confused with middle school). Students tend to be 16 years old. In Bulgaria, the 11th grade it's the penultimate year of the high-school (gymnasium) stage. Students tend to be 17-18 years old. In all provinces and territories, except Quebec, a student continues to Grade 12 to complete their high school, or secondary, education. In Quebec, Grade 11 (sec. 5) is the final year of secondary education, followed by college, a pre-university level unique to Quebec. The eleventh grade is the last year in secondary education. In this year, all students are required to do an internship in any subject field. To differentiate from Universities' internships, the practice is called 'alphabetisation'; most of the time is related to community services, such as teaching in schools, or assisting in hospitals or libraries. Students also do the ICFES National Test and they present to the draft for the Colombian Army. By law, the army cannot recruit under-age students; most of eleventh-graders are aged 16-17, and the draft is almost changed for the payment of a monetary fee. This year is called the senior year. In Finland there are three years of high school, which starts in 11th grade at the age of 16. 10th grade is usually skipped.  The equivalent is the Première, which is the penultimate year of Secondary education in France (followed by the Terminale). In Hong Kong, 11th grade is called Form 5. In India, after appearing for the boards, the percentages determine the streams in which the student can study.  There are three streams: The combination of streams can vary from Institutions. But in abroad places, the streams are determined by the model exam, which is under the school. The stream which the students opt for are the basis of which degree they can study. Generally eleventh grade is known as +1 which originates from the term 10+1. This year is generally the continuation of grade 9 and grade 12 is the continuation of grade 10. A student can also change his stream in the middle of the academic year from Science to other streams, but the reverse cannot be done.  In Grade 11, students prepare for the entrance tests of various colleges and universities across the country. It is Fifth Year or Cúigú Bhliain of Secondary School (for 15- to 17-year-olds as there is an optional year beforehand). In this year, students prepare for the Leaving Certificate. In Italy, eleventh grade is called *Terza superiore*  (3rd class of the Superior/High School, two years left). In Malaysia, 11th grade also known as Form 5 in secondary school. The students at this stage are 17 years old, and it is the fifth and last year in the secondary school. (Compare to Form 6 or known as 12th grade) In some parts the eleventh grade is the second year of high school. Most students enter this grade as 16 year olds, but some might enter early as 15 and late as 17. In Norway, the eleventh year of education is the first year of Videregående skole, equivalent to high school. It is very rarely referred to as the eleventh grade, but rather the first grade of Videregående or VG1. Although Videregående skole is not compulsory for Norwegians, approximately 93% of people aged 16-18 enroll.   There is no upper age limit for starting or finishing Videregående skole, but students cannot enroll earlier than the year they turn 16. In New Zealand, Year 12 is the equivalent of eleventh grade, with students aged 16 or 17 during the years. It is the fourth year of secondary school and the twelfth year of compulsory education. During Year 12, most students complete Level 2 of the National Certificate of Educational Achievement (NCEA), the country's main national qualification for secondary school students. Students in Year 12 typically study English (or Te Reo Māori) and a minimum of five elective subjects with mathematics highly recommended. Grade eleven is the first of two years in college (grade twelve being the last and final year before postgraduate and university education) and is equivalently referred to as "first year." Students in this year level are fifteen to sixteen years old. Students get to select from the following subjects: Pre-medical (Biology, Physics, Chemistry) Pre-engineering (Math, Physics, Chemistry) Commerce Humanities Science Home economics  Arts And the compulsory subjects are Urdu, Islamic studies(1st year only) and Pakistan studies (2nd year only). The students can select the preferred subject on the basis of SSC result (9th and 10th grade) In the Philippines, Grade 11 is the first year of Senior High School. Topics discussed depend on the four tracks and their strands. Since school year 2016-2017. Students are usually 16–17 years old. The eleventh grade is final year of secondary education, the end of the high school, and it is an examinational year, when training to USE is being more powerful, than in tenth grade. Priority of education in this year is given to repeat the material learned in high school (Fifth to Tenth years) in Mathematics, Russian language and in exam subjects by pupils' choice. In Singapore, 11th grade is equivalent of Secondary 5 level. Only people taking N Levels (normal academic levels) will go to secondary 5, those in express streams will take their O levels (ordinary levels) in secondary 4, and then continue to a Junior College for 2 years or Polytechnic for 3 years. The closest equivalent to the eleventh grade is the first year of Bachillerato. It is for pupils aged 16 to 17. It is a year of many changes when pupils can start to choose what they would like to study in the future at university. This is the second year of Upper Secondary School. Year 12, or Lower Sixth form, is comparable to the 11th grade in the US. It is the sixth and penultimate year of secondary education. For students who entered secondary school before September 2008,  it is not compulsory to attend these last two years. During Year 12, three Advanced Subsidiary units are completed per subject (either written exams, coursework or a mixture, depending on subject). Often students choose four AS-Level subjects in Year 12 (some students may decide to take three or five). Students then enter Year 13 (equivalent to 12th grade) and may choose to drop a subject,  going on to complete three subjects. Successful completion generally results in the award of A-Level qualifications, though BTECs can be received. In Scotland, fifth year (of secondary education) or S5 is optional, where pupils will generally sit Higher qualifications which form the core entry requirements for university. It is followed by an optional final sixth year (also known as S6). The students ages normally range from 16-17 in this year. The system is similar to the English one at this age. Lower Sixth Form (Year 13), pupils start on a two-year course, at the end of which they will hopefully have gained three 'A' Levels in their chosen subjects. In the US, a student in the eleventh grade is typically referred to as a third year high school student or junior . The vast majority of students who are classified as juniors take the SAT Reasoning Test and/or ACT in the second semester of their third year of high school. Math students usually take Algebra II, but classes like Trigonometry or Precalculus are sometimes offered for students who wish to take Advanced Placement math classes in their fourth year aka senior year of high school. Depending on the location there may be a combination of any of the listed subjects. They may also take easier courses such as Algebra I and Geometry if they do not have the required prerequisites for the more advanced courses that are listed above. Students who are advanced in mathematics often take Calculus or Statistics.  In science classes, third year students are taught usually Biology, Physics or Chemistry especially Lab Chemistry. Atoms, molecules, and Stoichiometry is taught as well. Some school districts will have these certain subjects as a required science credit while others will begin to have the option of science electives. In English class, a college-preparatory curriculum would also include American literature. Often, English literature (also referred to as British literature) is taught in the third year of high school. Books and authors learned include The Glass Menagerie, The Scarlet Letter, The Crucible, The Great Gatsby, Of Mice and Men, The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, The Grapes of Wrath, Jonathan Edwards, Amy Tan, and Lorraine Hansberry. In a social studies curriculum, third year students in the United States are usually taught US history or the world from the 1870s to the 21st Century. They may also acquire more advanced world culture and geography knowledge, along with some more-advanced social studies such as psychology, economics, sociology and government. Many high school third year students in the United States opt to take a foreign language, even though it is not required in many secondary schools curricula. While normally followed by twelfth grade, some colleges will accept excelling students out of this grade as part of an early college entrance program. Alternatively, some students may choose to graduate early through standardized testing or advanced credits. 