An ambigram is a word, art form or other symbolic representation whose elements retain meaning when viewed or interpreted from a different direction, perspective, or orientation. The meaning of the ambigram may either change, or remain the same, when viewed or interpreted from different perspectives. Douglas R. Hofstadter describes an ambigram as a "calligraphic design that manages to squeeze two different readings into the selfsame set of curves." Different ambigram artists (sometimes called ambigramists) may create completely different ambigrams from the same word or words, differing in both style and form. The earliest known non-natural ambigram dates to 1893 by artist Peter Newell. Although better known for his children's books and illustrations for Mark Twain and Lewis Carroll, he published two books of invertible illustrations, in which the picture turns into a different image entirely when turned upside down. The last page in his book Topsys & Turvys contains the phrase THE END, which, when inverted, reads PUZZLE. In Topsys & Turvys Number 2 (1902), Newell ended with a variation on the ambigram in which THE END changes into PUZZLE 2. The Verbeek strip "The UpsideDowns of old man Muffaroo and little lady Lovekins" used ambigrams in 3 consecutive strips in March,1904, but otherwise the format of this strip prevented the use of word balloons. From June to September, 1908, the British monthly The Strand published a series of ambigrams by different people in its "Curiosities" column.  Of particular interest is the fact that all four of the people submitting ambigrams believed them to be a rare property of particular words. Mitchell T. Lavin, whose "chump" was published in June, wrote, "I think it is in the only word in the English language which has this peculiarity," while Clarence Williams wrote, about his "Bet" ambigram, "Possibly B is the only letter of the alphabet that will produce such an interesting anomaly."  In 1969, Raymond Loewy designed the rotational NEW MAN ambigram logo, which is still in use today.   The mirror ambigram DeLorean Motor Company logo was first used in 1975.   John Langdon and Scott Kim also each believed that they had invented ambigrams in the 1970s.   Langdon and Kim are probably the two artists who have been most responsible for the popularization of ambigrams. John Langdon produced the first mirror image logo "Starship" in 1975.   Robert Petrick, who designed the invertible Angel logo in 1976, was also an early influence on ambigrams.  The earliest known published reference to the term ambigram was by Hofstadter, who attributed the origin of the word to conversations among a small group of friends during 1983–1984.  The original 1979 edition of Hofstadter's Gödel, Escher, Bach featured two 3-D ambigrams on the cover. Ambigrams became more popular as a result of Dan Brown incorporating John Langdon's designs into the plot of his bestseller, Angels & Demons, and the DVD release of the Angels & Demons movie contains a bonus chapter called "This is an Ambigram".  Langdon also produced the ambigram that was used for some versions of the book's cover.  Brown used the name Robert Langdon for the hero in his novels as an homage to John Langdon.  In music, the Grateful Dead have used ambigrams several times, including on their albums Aoxomoxoa and American Beauty. In the first series of the British show Trick or Treat, the show's host and creator Derren Brown uses cards with rotational ambigrams. These cards can read either 'Trick' or 'Treat'. Although the words spelled by most ambigrams are relatively short in length, one DVD cover for The Princess Bride movie creates a rotational ambigram out of two words: "Princess Bride," whether viewed right side up or upside down.  In 2015 iSmart's logo on one of its travel chargers went viral because the brand's name turned out to be a natural ambigram that read "+Jews!" upside down. The company noted that "...we learned a powerful lesson of what not to do when creating a logo.”   Ambigrams are exercises in graphic design that play with optical illusions, symmetry and visual perception. Some ambigrams feature a relationship between their form and their content. Ambigrams usually fall into one of several categories: There are no universal guidelines for creating ambigrams, and there are different ways of approaching problems. A number of books suggest methods for creation (including WordPlay  and Eye Twisters ). Computerized methods to automatically create ambigrams have been developed. The earliest, the 'Ambimatic' created in 1996,  was letter-based and used a database of 351 letter glyphs in which each letter was mapped to another.  This generator could only map a word to itself or to another word that was the same length: because of this, most of the generated ambigrams were of poor quality.  However, the Ambimatic has been almost completely taken down (it was available on Ambigram.com, but they deleted that site and it is now a redirect to FlipScript.com), it's only available as an app for Android. In 2007, software developer Mark Hunter developed the ambigram generator at FlipScript.com (and licensed to other companies).  It uses a more complex method of creating ambigrams,  with a database containing more than 5 million curves,  and multiple lettering styles. In 2016, software developer Saransh Kejriwal composed a tutorial on designing rotational ambigrams, wherein he demonstrated a technique to count the number of vertical lines in the individual letters of the word to find the point of symmetry of the ambigram, which he called the Line technique.  Ambigrams have also been called, among other things: Rotational ambigram, Vegas Mirror-image ambigram, Wiki Three-dimensional ambigram, ABC Perceptual shift ambigram, Wave and Particle Spinonym, neun (German for nine) 9 Rotational ambigram, Two in One Mirror ambigrams reading Red, Orange, Yellow, Green, Blue, Indigo, Violet, Doug (for Douglas Hofstadter, signature) Mirror and rotational ambigram of an arithmetic operation, 2+1+5=8 Mirror ambigram Love Song in a book Ambigram tattoo on a wrist, no worries 