  A spoonerism is an error in speech in which corresponding consonants, vowels, or morphemes are switched (see Metathesis) between two words in a phrase.   These are named after the Oxford don and ordained minister William Archibald Spooner, who was famous for doing this. An example is saying "The Lord is a shoving leopard" instead of "The Lord is a loving shepherd." While spoonerisms are commonly heard as slips of the tongue, and getting one's words in a tangle, they can also be used intentionally as a play on words. It is named after the Reverend William Archibald Spooner (1844–1930), Warden of New College, Oxford, who was notoriously prone to this mistake.   The term "Spoonerism" was well established by 1921. An article in The Times from that year reports that, The boys of Aldro School, Eastbourne, ... have been set the following task for the holidays: Discover and write down something about: The Old Lady of Threadneedle-street, a Spoonerism, a Busman's Holiday... In 1937, The Times quoted a detective describing a man as "a bricklabourer's layer" and used "Police Court Spoonerism" as the headline.  A spoonerism is also known as a marrowsky, purportedly after a Polish count who suffered from the same impediment.  Most of the quotations attributed to Spooner are apocryphal; The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations (3rd edition, 1979) lists only one substantiated spoonerism: "The weight of rages will press hard upon the employer" (instead of "rate of wages"). Spooner himself claimed  that "The Kinquering Congs Their Titles Take" (in reference to a hymn)  was his sole spoonerism. Most spoonerisms were probably never uttered by William Spooner himself but rather made up by colleagues and students as a pastime.  Richard Lederer, calling "Kinkering Kongs their Titles Take" (with an alternative spelling) one of the "few" authenticated Spoonerisms, dates it to 1879, and he gives nine examples "attributed to Spooner, most of them spuriously."  They are as follows: A newspaper column  attributes this additional example to Spooner: "A nosey little cook." (as opposed to a "cosy little nook"). In modern terms, "spoonerism" generally refers to any changing of sounds in this manner. Shel Silverstein's book Runny Babbit is almost completely written in spoonerisms, from character names to anything else. In his poem "Translation," Brian P. Cleary describes a boy named Alex who speaks in spoonerisms (like "shook a tower" instead of "took a shower"). Humorously, Cleary leaves the poem's final spoonerism up to the reader when he says, He once proclaimed, "Hey, belly jeans" When he found a stash of jelly beans. But when he says he pepped in stew  We'll tell him he should wipe his shoe. In Samuil Marshak's poem What an Absent-Minded Guy (Вот какой рассеянный), the titular character uses spoonerisms at one point ("Глубокоуважаемый Вагоноуважатый! Вагоноуважаемый Глубокоуважатый!"). The character is based on the Russian scientist Ivan Kablukov, who was prone to spoonerisms himself. Comedian F. Chase Taylor was the star of the 1930s radio program Stoopnagle and Budd, in which his character, Colonel Stoopnagle, used spoonerisms. In 1945, he published a book, My Tale Is Twisted, consisting of 44 "spoonerised" versions of well-known children's stories. Subtitled "Wart Pun: Aysop's Feebles" and "Tart Pooh: Tairy and Other Fales," these included such tales as "Beeping Sleauty" for "Sleeping Beauty." The book was republished in 2001 by Stone and Scott Publishers as Stoopnagle's Tale is Twisted.  As complements to spoonerism, Douglas Hofstadter used the nonce words kniferism and forkerism to refer to changing, respectively, the vowels or the final consonants of two syllables, giving them a new meaning.  Examples of so-called kniferisms include a British television newsreader once referring to the police at a crime scene removing a 'hypodeemic nerdle'; a television announcer once saying that "All the world was thrilled by the marriage of the Duck and Doochess of Windsor";  and during a live broadcast in 1931, radio presenter Harry von Zell accidentally mispronouncing US President Herbert Hoover's name as "Hoobert Heever."   Usage of these new terms has been limited; many sources count any syllable exchange as a spoonerism, regardless of location.  Sir Stafford Cripps was once mistakenly called Sir Stifford Crapps by McDonald Hobley  on the BBC.  