Latch refers to how the baby fastens onto the breast while breastfeeding. How the baby latches is more important than how the baby is held during nursing. A good latch means that the bottom of the areola (the area around the nipple) is in the baby's mouth and the nipple is back inside his or her mouth, where it's soft and flexible. A shallow, or poor, latch happens when the baby does not have enough of the breast in his/her mouth or is too close to the tip. A shallow latch causes the sensitive nipple skin to press against the bones in the top of the baby's mouth. That can cause the development of cracked nipples. The nipples are sore, and bleed.  Assuming a comfortable position helps the baby to latch properly.   It takes practice to get a good latch. The best nursing hold that works best for mother and baby is sometimes discovered through trial and error.  Getting a good latch for breasting can be learned. Recommendations for nursing mothers is to: Latching on is facilitated by secretions from the nipple that are reported to help align the infants' head with the mother's breast and thought to promote latching and sucking.  Pain or pinching is a good indication of a poor latch.  If the pain lasts longer than a few seconds, the latch is probably too shallow. The technique for getting a good latch is to gently break the suction by placing a clean finger into the baby's mouth and help the baby latch on again. It is normal for the nipple to look slightly elongated or drawn-out. When the baby latches, it can feel like a pinch that goes away. If it's more painful than that, it's probably a bad latch. A bad, uncorrected latch damage the nipple and compromise milk flow for the baby.   Sometimes, a baby's tongue is stuck to the bottom of the mouth by a band of tissue, which means the baby can't open his or her mouth wide enough to get a good latch. Checking for tongue-tie isn't a standard newborn test. If the baby isn't latching on well and doesn't seem to be gaining weight mothers are advised to contact the pediatrician or nurse to ask about this. Fortunately, it's a very simple fix. Once tongue-tie is treated by a medical professional, breastfeeding improves.  Infants will naturally move their head while looking and feeling for a breast to feed. There are many ways to start feeding the infant, and the best approach is the one that works for the mother and the infant. The steps below can help with getting the infant to "latch" on to the breast for feeding. Hold the infant against a bare chest. Dress the infant in only a diaper to ensure skin-to-skin contact. Keep the infant upright, with his or her head directly under the chin. Support the infant's neck and shoulders with one hand and his or her hips with the other hand. The infant may try to move around to find the breast. The infant's head should be slightly tilted back to make nursing and swallowing easier. When his or her head is tilted back and the mouth is open, the tongue will naturally be down in the mouth to allow the breast to go on top of it. At first, allow the breast to hang naturally. The infant may open his or her mouth when the nipple is near his or her mouth. The mother also can gently guide the infant to latch on to the nipple. While the infant is feeding, his or her nostrils may flare to breathe in air. Do not panic—this flaring is normal. The infant can breathe normally while breastfeeding. As the infant tilts backward, support his or her upper back and shoulders with the palm of the hand and gently pull the infant close.  A good latch is important for both effective breastfeeding and comfort. Review the following signs to determine whether the infant has a good latch: Not only is a poor latch painful but it can also lead to blocked milk ducts, mastitis, and other infections. A poor latch also is not good for the baby, as it means he or she isn't getting enough milk. So if poor latching has been occurring for more than a few days breastfeeding mothers can get help. There are resources available at no or low cost.  