An adult-gerontology nurse practitioner (AGNP) is a nurse practitioner that specializes in continuing and comprehensive healthcare for adults across the lifespan from adolescence to old age.  Following educational preparation at the master's or doctoral level, AGNPs must become board certified by an approved certification body.  Board certification must be maintained by obtaining nursing continuing education credits.   To align with the Consensus Model for APRN Regulation developed by the National Council of State Boards of Nursing, certification exams and credentials are in transition.  Prior to the consensus statement, adult health nurse practitioners (NPs) and gerontological NPs were educated and certified separately. The consensus model combined these into a single population focus. The specialty is further divided into primary care and acute care. In the US, board certification is provided either through the American Nurses Credentialing Center (awards the AGACNP-BC credential for acute care and the AGPCNP-BC credential for primary care), through the American Association of Nurse Practitioners certification program (awards the NP-C credential for primary care), or through the American Association of Critical-Care Nurses (awards the ACNPC-AG credential for acute care).  AGNPs deliver a range of acute, chronic and preventive healthcare services. In addition to diagnosing and treating illness, they also provide preventive care, including routine checkups, health-risk assessments, immunization and screening tests, and personalized counseling on maintaining a healthy lifestyle. AGNPs also manage chronic illness, often coordinating care provided by specialty physicians. AGNPs that work in acute care settings often care for hospitalized patients in collaboration with physicians and other providers. AGNPs can be found practicing in a variety of medical facilities including hospices, long-term care facilities, hospitals, home-based care, correctional institutes and primary practices.  The scope of practice varies from state to state because nurse practice laws and regulations are specific to the state the nurse practitioner practices in.  