Flaggers are one of the several pro-Confederacy groups that operate openly in the United States (as of 2018). The best-known others are the Sons of Confederate Veterans and the United Daughters of the Confederacy. Flaggers usually operate at the state level. Their primary purpose is to make the Confederate battle flag as visible as possible. They carry it at demonstrations and other public events, and erect it on private land. These flags are frequently visible from major highways, and have often been the subject of controversy and legal efforts to have them removed.    They (as individuals) lobby or appear at meetings to speak against removal of Confederate monuments and memorials. They are anti-Abraham Lincoln and for the right of states to secede, i.e., that the Confederacy was legitimate under U.S. law.  See Lost Cause of the Confederacy. The earliest documentation of a flagger group as an organization is the Virginia Flaggers, whose Web site says they were founded in 2011. However, the flagger movement first appeared, spontaneously and unorganized, in Georgia in 2001. The flag of Georgia from 1956 to 2001 incorporated the Confederate battle flag. Responding in part to pressure from civil rights groups who threatened an economic boycott of Georgia, African-American Governor Roy Barnes "ramrodded" a flag change bill through the Legislature.  The new, hastily-designed flag, which even many of its supporters thought ugly,  was in use from 2001 to 2003. The North American Vexillological Association called it the worst-designed state flag in the country.  It included the Confederate battle flag as just one of five flags that have flown over Georgia. There was widespread opposition to the new flag, deemed the "Barnes flag". It led, according to Barnes himself, to his defeat for reelection two years later; the flag was a major issue in the election.  A new flag was designed. In a non-binding 2004 referendum, 73% of the voters expressed a preference for the new flag, based on the First Confederate national flag, the Stars and Bars, over the 2001 design. (A return to the 1956 flag with the Confederate battle flag, desired by some, was not on the ballot.) Flaggers, as they were soon called,  began displaying the Confederate battle flag, or the 1956 Georgia flag which contained it, in 2001. They appeared at political rallies and at public appearances of legislators who had voted for the Barnes flag. An undated video showing a parade of the day, with flaggers and a lesser number of supporters of the Barnes flag, Is available on YouTube.  As of 2018, the active flagger groups are: 