Beijing Forestry University (BFU, or BJFU) (Chinese: 北京林业大学) is a university in Haidian District, Beijing focusing on forestry.  It is an environmentally friendly university sharing knowledge of sciences, engineering, laws, arts and languages to the world. It is one of the Project 211 universities (top 100 China's universities in the 21st century), and it provides a wide range of courses, such as Artificial Intelligence, Automation, Biology, Computer science, Economics, Electronics, Environmental Science, Forestry, Languages, Laws, Management, Mathematics, Physics and Psychology, to students. To share its environmental friendly mind to the world, the university is now providing modern technologies for people to protect the earth.    It was ranked 281 in Asia by the QS World University Rankings: Asia 2018.  It is a Chinese Ministry of Education Double First Class Discipline University, with Double First Class status in certain disciplines.  Beijing Forestry University was founded as the Forestry Department of the Imperial University of Peking in 1902. In 1952, it had become an institute and was renamed as Beijing Institute of Forestry. In 1985, it was renamed as Beijing Forestry University, and it started to focus on a wide range of new subjects, including Electronics, Computer Science, Psychology, Economics, etc. Now it has 14 schools providing more than 60 undergraduate taught programs, more than 120 postgraduate master programs and more than 40 Ph.D. programs to students. The university has 14 schools: Since its establishment over 50 years ago, more than 30,000 Chinese and a number of foreign students have graduated from Beijing Forestry University. Of that number, 11 have attained the position of academician. The university faculty consists of 956 full-time teachers, including five academicians and 496 full and associate professors. While upholding traditional disciplines, the university has also established a large number of new disciplines to meet society's needs. The university consists of 15 schools; the graduate school, biological science and technology, landscape architecture, forestry, environmental science and engineering, soil and water conservation, industry, information science, material science and technology, science, conservation, economic management, humanities and social sciences, foreign languages, vocational training and continuing education. The university features a computer center, a computer network center, an educational center, an audio-visual teaching center, a biological center, a micro-technology center, a forest-organism center and a tree farm for teaching and research (the Jiu Feng National Forest Park). Attached to the university are the Foreign-Language Training Center of the State Forestry Administration, the Research Center of Soil Control Technology of Loess Plateau in China and the Training Center of Desertification Control of China. BFU is a well-equipped institution, featuring the Central Building of Teaching, a gymnasium, laboratories, and a high-speed campus network. A computerized checking system exists for library books, and also in the library building is the Imported Teaching Materials Center for forestry universities and colleges nationwide. Construction of a high-rise student apartment building and a new classroom building was completed in 2001. In recent years, nearly 200 discoveries in scientific research received awards from national, provincial and ministerial authorities, and more than 20 achievements of teaching were rewarded by the national and municipal governments. BFU is engaged in international academic exchanges and cooperation with more than 150 universities and research institutions in over 20 countries, providing opportunities for contacts between China and the outside world in the fields of forestry and environmental studies. BFU provides an atmosphere for teaching and learning, combining the acquisition of professional knowledge with an improvement of all-round abilities (with an emphasis on forging a rigorous, creative academic style). Systems of optional courses, subsidiary courses, course exemption, and bachelor-to-master continuing education have been established so students may develop according to their own interests and desires. The university also offers extracurricular activities to enrich campus life; these are organized by student societies and associations in fields including science and technology, art, sports, environmental protection, and politics. Some groups have become influential, including the Society of Scientific Exploration and Wilderness Survival and the Association of Beijing College Volunteers for Environmental Protection. The former received the Prize of the Earth, the top prize from the National Bureau of Environmental Protection. In recent years, BFU students of BFU won four consecutive prizes at the College Students' Landscape Gardening Architecture Design Competitions (sponsored by UNESCO and the International Association of Landscape Gardening Architects), the Golden Prize in International College Students' Architecture Design and prizes in garden-design competitions. Achievements were also earned in domestic competitions for scientific inventions, mathematics, and art. Notable alumni include: Coordinates: 40°00′05″N 116°20′43″E﻿ / ﻿40.00139°N 116.34528°E﻿ / 40.00139; 116.34528 