Institut Pertanian Bogor (IPB or Bogor Agricultural University) is a state-run agricultural university based in the city of Bogor, Indonesia. The institute began as an agricultural school formed by the Dutch colonial regime in the early 20th century. After independence it was part of the Universitas Indonesia before becoming an independent institute on September 1, 1963.   Prof. Dr. Ir. Herry Suhardiyanto, M.Sc. serves as its director.  The first school in Bogor was established in 1876 under Rudolph Scheffer, under the name landbouwschool te Buitenzorg (agriculture school).  New schools for different fields were opened in the following years for Native Indonesians. The institute started in the early 20th century as a veterinary medicine and agricultural school.  Before World War II, the institutions were known as Middelbare Landbouwschool (secondary agricultural school), Middelbare Bosbouwschool (secondary forestry school) dan Nederlandsch Indiche Veeartsenschool (veterinary school).  H. J. Lovink's appointment as department director of agricultural education in 1910 marked a curriculum shift toward training for the government and private sides of colonial agribusiness, including basic biology classes augmented with practical education about cultivation techniques and technologies.  Lovink argued that department officials in the Ministry of Agriculture "needed to familiarize themselves with Javanese farming practices."  In 1940, the Dutch government founded an Institution of Agricultural Higher Education in Bogor with the name Landbouw Hogeschool, which later on 31 October 1941 was called Landbouwkundige Faculteit (Agronomy Faculty). However, the school was closed down during the Japanese occupation (1942-1945). The Nederlandsch Indische Veeartsenschool remained in operation, but its name was changed to Bogōru jūigakkō (ボゴール獣医学校) (Bogor Veterinary School).  Sometime after the declaration of independence in 1946, the Ministry of Social Welfare of the new Republic of Indonesia upgraded the Veterinary School in Bogor to the College of Veterinary Medicine (PTKH).  The Netherlands returned to Indonesia and retook control of the institution in 1947, thus Landbouwkundige Faculteit was reopened as the Faculteit Voor Landbouw-Wetenschappen, which had majors in Agriculture and Forestry. In 1948 the PTKH or College of Veterinary Medicine was changed to Faculteit voor Diergeneeskunde under Universiteit van Indonesië (later the University of Indonesia).   After Indonesia gained its independence in 1950, Landbouw-wetenschappen became the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Indonesia, with three departments — Socio-Economics, Physical Sciences, and Forestry. In 1957 the Department of Land Fishery was formed. Meanwhile, Faculteit voor Dieergeneeskunde became the Faculty of Veterinary Medicines and Animal Husbandry.  IPB was founded on September 1, 1963 by the decision of the Minister of Science and Higher Education No. 92/1963 and was approved by President Sukarno's decree No. 279/1965.  At the time, the two faculties of University of Indonesia which is in Bogor were separated into an independent institution. The new university (IPB) has five faculties: Agriculture, Veterinary Medicine, Fisheries, Animal Science, and Forestry. In 1964 the Faculty of Technology and Mechanization of Agriculture was added.  On December 26, 2000 the Indonesia government changed IPB's autonomy status to a state-owned university. In 2005, IPB applied the minor and major system instead of the national curriculum system.   This allow IPB students to take more than one department field.  The logo consist of "Institut Pertanian Bogor" text, a tree with three branches and five leaves, and an open book which are all lined by a white circle on a blue background. The logo reflects IPB as an academic institution, source of knowledge and technology, with the "Tridarma Perguruan Tinggi" obligation. The basic blue color symbolizes IPB as a science and technology university, the open book symbolizes IPB as a source of knowledge, the circle symbolizes that science has no limits and always growing, the three branches growing from the book symbolize Tridarma Perguruan Tinggi (IPB's three commitments: Education, Research, and Community Service), and the five leaves represent the first five faculties of IPB and symbolize Tridarma Perguruan Tinggi which is based on Pancasila.  The Institut Pertanian Bogor main flag is yellow with IPB emblem in the middle. Each faculty has its own logo and flag based on the IPB logo and flag.  Faculties have a white IPB emblem in the middle, except the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Science. The Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Science have a blue colored IPB emblem in the middle.  Institut Pertanian Bogor has agricultural, livestock, veterinary, and life science studies. IPB consist of nine faculties providing an undergraduate program.  Graduate and postgraduate programs are managed by a separate graduate school. In 1972, IPB implemented a four-year undergraduate curriculum and, in 1975, opened the first graduate school in Indonesia. IPB undergraduate new students are required to pass a Common First Year Program (Tingkat Persiapan Bersama (TPB)) before entering any faculties or department although they are enrolled as a student of specific faculties and department.  They are also required to live in dormitories during the first year. Institut Pertanian Bogor has a diploma program that is separated from the faculties and managed under the Directorate of Diploma Program. Unlike the undergraduate students, a common first year program is unavailable for diploma program students. The Faculty of Forestry   in 1963 consisted of two departments: Forest Management and Exploitation; and Forest Products Processing. Which later became the Department of Forest Products in 1969 and then the Department of Forest Products Technology in 1983, when Department of Forest Resources Conservation was formed. In 2005, Faculty of Forestry developed into its present four departments:  It offers bachelor's and master's degrees and doctorates in forest management science, fiber and composite technology, forest product quality improvement and engineering, tropical biodiversity, ecotourism and environmental services management, and tropical silviculture. The Faculty of Human Ecology (FEMA) is the youngest faculty in IPB; it was established on August 2, 2005 by the Rector’s decree no. 112/K13/OT/2005.  his establishment was IPB’s answer to changes that were taking place toward the era of higher education autonomy (IPB BHMN) which granted the university the power to form new study programs, departments, and faculties. The roots of FEMA IPB were the former Department of Community Nutrition and Family Resource (GMSK) of Faculty of Agriculture; Study Program of Agriculture Extension and Communication of Socioeconomy Department, Faculty of Agriculture; and socioeconomic study programs of all the other faculties in IPB. The Department of Community Nutrition and Family Resource (GMSK) of Faculty of Agriculture was developed into Department of Community Nutrition (GIZ) and Department of Family and Consumer Sciences (IKK). While the Department of Agricultural Socioeconomy (SOSEK) of Faculty of Agriculture was transformed into Department of Communication and Community Development (KPM), Department of Agribusiness, and Department of Environmental Resource Economy (ESL). Furthermore; through the clustering process; the Department of Community Nutrition (GIZ), the Department of Family and Consumer Sciences (IKK), and the Department of Communication and Community Development (KPM) merged up to become the Faculty of Human Ecology (FEMA). FEMA IPB is the first and only faculty of its kind in Indonesia and it is one of the three faculties of human ecology throughout South East Asia. The others are in the College of Human Ecology University of Philippines at Los Banos (UPLB) and the Faculty of Human Ecology, Universiti Putra Malaysia (UPM). Mandate: To develop human nutrition science and its application in individual, family and community that involves agriculture, food, nutrition, and health. Sections: The university plans develop a Seed Center at Leuwikopo, Dramaga, Bogor due to Indonesia has to import seeds so far and facing a problem of seed supply. The center will develop agricultural seeds, plantation seeds, animal husbandry and fishery.  Starting on September 1, 2015 no ordinary fuel-vehicles are allowed to enter Green Campus Area. The authority provides 1,500 rental bikes, 44 electric cars and 20 gas-fueled buses. Electric cars and buses should have their fare paid electronically.   