 Gadjah Mada University (Hanacaraka: ꦈꦤꦶꦥ꦳ꦼꦂꦱꦶꦠꦱ꧀ꦓꦗꦃꦩꦢ, Indonesian: Universitas Gadjah Mada; abbreviated as UGM) is a public research university located in Yogyakarta, Special Region of Yogyakarta, Indonesia. Officially founded on 19 December 1949, Gadjah Mada University is one of the oldest and largest institutions of higher education in the country.   It has been credited as one of the most prestigious universities in Indonesia, along with the Bandung Institute of Technology and the University of Indonesia.    When the university was established in the 1940s under Dutch rule, it was the first medicine faculty freely open to native Indonesians,   at a time when native education was often restricted.  Comprising 18 faculties and 27 research centers, UGM offers 68 undergraduate, 23 diploma, 104 master and specialist, and 43 doctorate study programs. The university has enrolled approximately 55,000 students, 1,187 foreign students, and has 2,500 faculty members.   UGM maintains a campus of 882 acres (357 ha),  with facilities that include a stadium and a fitness center.  The university is named after Gajah Mada, a 14th century leader of the Majapahit Empire of Java, considered by some historians to be the nation’s first unifier;   the university’s name still reflects the old Dutch-era spelling.  The seventh and current President of Indonesia, Joko "Jokowi" Widodo, earned his degree in forestry at UGM.  UGM was the first state university in Indonesia, established as Universiteit Negeri Gadjah Mada (UNGM) when Indonesia was still facing threats from the Netherlands, who wanted to regain control. At the time, the capital of Indonesia had moved from Jakarta to Yogyakarta.  UGM was established through Government Regulation (PP) No. 23 of 1949, regarding the merger of colleges to form a university. Although the regulations were dated 16 December, UGM's inauguration took place on 19 December, intentionally chosen to coincide with the anniversary of the Dutch invasion of the city of Yogyakarta, exactly one year prior on 19 December 1948. The intentional date was meant to show that one year after the Netherlands had invaded the city, the government would establish a nationwide university there.  When it was founded, UGM had six faculties: Medicine, Dentistry, and Pharmacy; Law, Social and Political Sciences; Engineering; Letters, Pedagogy and Philosophy; Agriculture; and Veterinary Medicine. From 1952 until 1972, the Faculty of Law, Social and Political Sciences was split into two faculties: the Surabaya branch of the Faculty of Law, Social, and Political Sciences; and the Faculty of Education and Teacher Training, which was integrated into IKIP Yogyakarta (now Universitas Negeri Yogyakarta).  During its initial years of Dutch resistance, the university taught literature and law in the buildings and other facilities belonging to the palace of Sultan Hamengkubuwono IX, who volunteered his palace for the university’s use.  UGM gradually established a campus of its own in Bulaksumur, on the northern side of Yogyakarta, and now occupies an area of three square kilometres.  The UGM main building is called the Balairung (rectorate building), in Sleman. Nearby is the Graha Sabha Pramana, a large building utilized for graduation ceremonies, with an adjoining square used for sport and recreation.  There is also a university library and a sports center, consisting of a stadium, tennis court, and basketball field. The UGM administration is divided into 18 faculties, offering study programs from the undergraduate to doctoral level.  There is also a vocational school offering vocational study programmes.  In 1988, UGM opened a master's programme in management (MM-UGM), to train students in business practices. The business school is a collaboration with the University of Kentucky and Temple University. The Faculty of Medicine at Universitas Gadjah Mada is one of the oldest medical schools in Indonesia, having been established on 5 March 1946. It is ranked number 72 by the Times Higher Education Supplement 2006 for biomedicine.  In 2002, UGM began offering an English-language-based medicine programme for overseas and Indonesian students to study medicine with an international standard curriculum.  The International Medicine Programme is over five years, with the first three and a half years being study and a further one and a half years of clinical rotations. The programme is designed around a problem based learning approach, making use of small study groups. CSIUP began in the 2012 academic year. It offers undergraduate computer science classes in English. It teaches algorithm and software design, intelligent systems, programmable logic and embedded systems, and mobile computing. The Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences has been teaching Computer Science courses since 1987 (BSc), 2000 (MSc), and 2003 (PhD), organized jointly by the Department of Mathematics and the Department of Physics, which has also offered courses in Electronics and Instrumentation since 1987 (BSc). In 2010, the Department of Computer Science and Electronics (DCSE) was formed by merging Computer Science resources within the Department of Mathematics with the Electronics and Instrumentation group within the Department of Physics. Students of DCSE have won gold medals in robotics competitions both nationally and internationally (in Korea in 2012 with a humanoid robot, and in the USA in 2013 with a legged robot). UGM has 27 university-level research centers:  UGM maintains the Integrated Research and Testing Laboratory (LPPT), which is the university’s central laboratory.  In 2013, the chemistry undergraduate program received accreditation from the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) in the United Kingdom, the largest European-based international organization devoted to the advancement of chemical science. The first such international accreditation received by the university, it is effective from 5 March 2013 until March 2018.  The university was ranked 391st in the world be QS World University Rankings in 2018.  UGM organizes a community service called KKN-PPM, which is obligatory for undergraduate students. KKN-PPM is a research-based community service offered three times each academic year, in the middle of both the odd semester and even semester and between these two semesters. Not only local students joining the KKN, but also international academicians, including lecturers and students, are involved in KKN-PPM UGM. In 2011, 150 international students participated in KKN-PPM, coming from many countries, such as South Korea, Australia, France, the USA and Norway.  The Sports Activities Unit is coordinated by the Secretariat of Joint Sports, and the Arts Unit is coordinated by the Joint Secretariat of Arts.  Sports activities include swimming, diving, inkai karate, kenpō, the Indonesian martial art pencak silat (including the variants of pencak silat merpati putih, self periasi pencak silat, pencak silat pro patria, and pencak silat setia hati terate), taekwondo, judo, hockey, soccer, softball, volleyball, basketball, athletics, equestrian, bridge, badminton, chess, and tennis. Arts activities include Arts Gaya Yogyakarta (Swagayugama), Art Style Surakarta, Balinese dance, creative dance, photography, Gamma Band, marching band, ‘’keroncong’’, student choir, theatre, and others arts. Other activities include Publisher Student Press Agency, Mapagama, Student Health Unit, Scout, Satmenwa, Cooperative Students "Kopma UGM", and AIESEC. Spirituality activities include the Unit of Islamic Spirituality (Jama'ah Shalahuddin), Unit of Catholic Spirituality, Christian Spirituality Unit, Hindu Spirituality Unit, Buddhism and Spiritual Unit. Reasoning activities include the Interdisciplinary Unit of Scientific Reasoning, Gama Scholar Reasoning Unit, and English Debating Society. UGM Campus Mosque is a mosque owned by UGM and situated within its campus. It was designed entirely by the students of UGM Architecture Engineering department. It holds maximum capacity of 10,000 pilgrims, making it one of the largest mosques in Southeast Asia. Madya Stadium, the softball/baseball field, and the tennis courts are located in the valley of UGM. The stadium can be used for football, athletics, hockey, and other activities. These facilities are available to UGM students, staff and the public.  The Student Center Hall is used for sports activities such as basketball, volleyball, badminton, and martial arts, and for exhibitions and artistic performances. The open field in the valley of UGM can be used for musical performances or other student activities that require a wide open space. The Yogyakarta Principles, a set of principles launched in Geneva, Switzerland intended to apply international human rights law guidelines for the human rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people, were developed at Gadjah Mada University.   However, Yogyakarta communities, civil societies and the Sultanate of Yogyakarta have never approved that their official name as symbolic identity of the Monarchy, the Special Administrative Region and Yogyakarta people, are being taken advantage as a lobbying tools for this objective. The principles deemed against the Constitution of Indonesia and Pancasila ideology. There are efforts and indications by House of Representatives (DPRD) as well as Islamic and religious groups, backed by public prosecutors, Human Rights groups and NGOs that they will pursue comprehensive and large-scale legal actions based on international treaties against groups which are manipulating Human Rights principles by using the name Yogyakarta Principles.   Coordinates: 7°46′10″S 110°22′44″E﻿ / ﻿7.76944°S 110.37889°E﻿ / -7.76944; 110.37889 