Henan Agricultural University (Chinese: 河南农业大学; pinyin: Hénán Nóngyè Dàxué) is a public university in Zhengzhou, Henan, China. It was established in 1912 under the name Henan Public Agricultural Major School. The school area is approximately 144000 square meters. The university has established intercollegiate ties with universities in the United Kingdom, United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Thailand, the Netherlands and other countries.      The university consists of 10 departments: Agricultural, Engineering, Management, Economics, Laws, Science, Arts, Education, Medical Science, Musical Art. It is equipped with 20 colleges. The university has level 1st, level 2nd and national key discipline, 34 provincial key disciplines, six postdoctoral research bachelors, five level 1st Ph.D. degree authorization subjects, 28 Ph.D. points, 18 level 1st master's degree authorization subjects, 73 master's degree programs, and 54 degree courses. A national wheat engineering technology research center, national corn improvement (zhengzhou) branch, the national tobacco cultivation physiological and biochemical research base on 24 national and provincial research center and the key laboratory. Strong professors, more than 1700 teaching staff currently, including 11 double-hired academicians, more than 400 professors and associate professors, three 1st and 2nd level experts of national “key talent project”, the experts obtain ‘Chinese agriculture talent award’, four national outstanding contribution young and middle-age experts, 34 people have special allowance from the state council of China, two national key teachers, 11 provincial class doctors, 34 province administrating outstanding experts, seven provincial innovative talents, 29 provincial academic technology leaders, and 68 provincial key teachers. In January 2017, Henan Agricultural University and the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT, Texcoco, Mexico) signed a long-term collaborative agreement which will expand on the knowledge and capacities of each institution by setting up shared research programs in these important row crops.  Scientists from CIMMYT and the university will collaborate and publish in a new state-of-the-art research center, benefiting the world of agricultural research as well as the smallholder farmer in wheat and maize growing regions around the world. Henan Province produces over 6 million hectares of wheat and over 3 million hectares of maize, equating to more than 25% of China's wheat production and 10% of its maize. The CIMMYT collaboration will focus on scientist training and research as well as technological innovation in the plant sciences. The campus of Henan Agricultural University is at center of Zhengzhou, the area is approximately 144000㎡. The design is made of themed parks on each side of campus. The design makes a good use of the drainage system and the natural environment; it makes students to have a better life in the campus. The school started to receive foreign students in 1987. To enable the foreign students to better adapt to university's life, they can start special courses as soon as possible. International Education College of Henan Agricultural University set up a Chinese training program in 2004. They have created a good environment and opportunities to study Chinese and understand Chinese culture. 