Khulna University (Bengali: খুলনা বিশ্ববিদ্যালয়) is a public university in Bangladesh.  It is situated at Gollamari, Khulna, Bangladesh, by the river Moyur, beside the Khulna-Satkhira highway. The academic programs of Khulna University started on 31 August 1991 with 80 students in four disciplines.  Khulna University has 28 disciplines under six schools and one institute. It is the only university in Bangladesh where student politics is not allowed. Students passing the Higher Secondary Certificate examination are very much interested in their admission in Khulna University for this politics-free environment. Khulna is an administrative division as well as the third largest metropolitan city in Bangladesh. The Mongla Sea Port, the Shipyard, the Bangladesh Naval Base are in Khulna. Khulna is an industrial city and famous for the  Sundarbans. In 1974, the Kudrat-e-Khuda Commission stated the importance of establishing a public university in Khulna Division in its final report. The government finalized the programme of establishing a university at Khulna on 4 January 1987 and the Khulna University Act was passed in the Bangladesh National Parliament in July  1990.  Distinctive law named খুলনা বিশ্ববিদ্যালয় আইন (The Khulna University Act, 1990) passed in the parliament empowers the university.  The university started its formal inauguration of academic activities on 25 November 1991. The academic program of the university commenced in August 1991 with four disciplines: Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), Architecture, Business Administration (BA), and Urban and Rural Planning (URP). In the following year, Forestry and Wood Technology (FWT) and Fisheries and Marine Resources Technology (FMRT) disciplines started up. Now there are 28 disciplines under five schools and one institute. The medium of instruction is English. There are six schools in Khulna University, which have 28 discipline: Agrotechnology Discipline started its academic activities in 1996 with a production-oriented course curriculum having provisions for field crops, horticultural crops, fisheries, agribusiness, livestock, agricultural extension as a whole integrated curriculum offering four years undergraduate course leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Agriculture. The Discipline has started enrolling students for MS in Agronomy, MS in Horticulture & PhD in Agronomy, Horticulture and some other major subjects of agriculture. Architecture Discipline is the second architectural discipline in Bangladesh and one of the first four disciplines opened at Khulna University, which formally launched its academic activities under SET School in 1991. The curriculum of Architecture provides the students with knowledge of man, his society, his physical environment and the technological development round the world. The Bachelor of Architecture (B.Arch.) program of the discipline is designed for a period of five years.There is also an opportunity to have a master's degree Bangla discipline was introduced in the year 2010-2011. It offers B.A.Hons. in Bangla Language and Literature. An MS program will be introduced soon. Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering (the then Biotechnology) Discipline launched its academic activities in 1995. In 2003, the discipline was renamed as "Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering". The discipline offers a four years professional B.Sc. degree in Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering and two year MS degree in Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering. The Business Administration Discipline began in 1991. The university offers a 4-year bachelor's degree in Business Administration (BBA).  The university has run management training programs for the Bangladesh naval officers since 1995.  The school introduced a regular MBA program in 2002, and an Executive MBA (EMBA) program in 2005. BAD offers a contemporary quality admission process to have the brilliant students to be a part of it & the University. Chemistry discipline started in the academic session 2009–2010. It has a B.Sc.(Hons.) in chemistry program. It also offers M. Sc. in Chemistry program. In 1991, the Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) Discipline of Khulna University started its academic activities with 20 undergraduate students in Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Engineering. Since then around 600 undergraduate students (of 17 batches) have graduated from the discipline. A perfect 100% of graduates work in government and private organizations as well as in teaching professions in home and abroad.  CSE discipline takes 40 students at the undergraduate level in each year. With the support from the Ministry of Science and Information Communication Technology, CSE discipline has run a postgraduate Diploma in Information Technology (PGD-IT) program since 2001. The discipline has achieved its target by producing around 200 PGD-IT professionals. In 2011, CSE discipline has introduced an M.Sc.Engineering (CSE) degree. Students of M.Sc.Engineering (CSE) will benefit from the memorandum of understanding between the CSE discipline of Khulna University and the Department of Computer Science of University of Saskatchewan, Canada. Students of CSE have a computer club named Club for Updated Search on Computer (CLUSTER). CLUSTER arranges seminar, programming contest and publishes  magazines. Khulna University is the second public university in Bangladesh which offers Bachelor of Development Studies BSS (Hons.) program. Development Studies Discipline offers a four-year BSS (Hons.) in Bachelor of Development Studies under Social Science School. This discipline was introduced in the academic year 2011-2012. Development Studies discipline now takes 45 students at the undergraduate level in each year. In accordance with the information of 2017, there are about 6 batches under Bachelor of Development Studies BSS (Hons.) program. 1st batch of this discipline is known as DS'12, sequentially- DS'13, DS'14, and others. This discipline has a lot of achievements in extra-curricular activities (mostly in sports) among the inter-discipline events. The Development Studies discipline has Bachelor in Development Studies and Masters in Development Studies programs. The curriculum of this discipline has been framed by blending both theoretical and practical courses. The discipline is offering four years Bachelor of Social Science BSS (Hons.) in Economics degree, two years Masters in Economics degree and 1.5 years Masters in Development and Policy Studies (MDPS). Electronics and Communication Engineering was offered in 1997 under School of Science, Engineering and Technology (SET) of Khulna University. This discipline is the first of its kind in Bangladesh (i.e., it is the first discipline in Bangladesh that offers undergraduate degree Electronics mean of communication subjects as well as Electronics). Beside regular study curriculum it conducts a project fair every year at the world telecommunication day. The students bring their electronics based projects to the fair. The best ones are  rewarded. The discipline has a seminar library, a digital electronics lab, an electrical lab, an analog communication lab, a digital communication lab, a biomedical engineering lab, a computer lab, Microwave and Antenna lab. ECE discipline offers a four-year BSc. Engineering. degree in Electronics and Communication Engineering. Till 2015, 16 batches have completed their studies. In April 2012, ECE discipline commenced an M.Sc. Engineerin. in ECE program with focus on Electronics and Communication Engineering. Ph.D. Programs in Electronics and Communications Engineering has already been launched from the academic year 2016-2017. Students of ECE has operated a club named "ROUTER" for Updated Search on  ICT Based Technology. ROUTER arranges seminar, project fair, and publishes ICT based magazines. ROUTER is the  club of the students of Electronics & Communication Engineering Discipline of  Khulna University. Which  elaborates as "Roaming Over the Universe Through Electronic Roadway." The theme line of the club is "In search of  a new frontier." Khulna University includes English Literature and English language in its curriculum. English discipline came into existence in 1998, but the academic activities started from 1999. A language centre was established. In Bangladesh, English Literature is a celebrated curriculum preferred by the students. The discipline is GPA-oriented. Under Arts and Humanities School, English discipline offers one undergraduate and two postgraduate programmes; one of the two MAs is MA in English, with courses in contemporary literature in English, linguistics, and literary theory; the other is MA in English Language that teaches current theoretical and practical courses in English language and linguistics. Environmental Science as an undergraduate teaching programme is relatively a new one in this country. Khulna University opened the discipline in 1997. The subject incorporates physical, chemical and biological sciences, engineering and technology, socio-economics and management. The discipline offers a four-year undergraduate (Bachelor of Science in Environmental Science) and one and half years postgraduate (Master of Science in Environmental Science) degrees and offers a PhD programme. The greater Khulna region, the south west part of Bangladesh has been characterised by a blend of aquatic habitats; fresh, brackish and marine waters supporting a diversity of biological and physical resources. Situated a few kilometres away from the Bay of Bengal this region is blessed with Sunderbans, the world largest mangrove forest crisscrossed by creeks and canals. Understanding the potential of such resources to the prospects of the country, the Fisheries and Marine Resources Technology Discipline was established in 1992 with a mandate to establish an avenue for research and academic programs in all aspects of fisheries for the second time in the country after Chittagong University. Chittagong University introduced undergraduate and postgraduate level education in Marine Science under the Institute of Marine Science and Fisheries (IMSCU) in early seventies . Over the last fourteen years the FMRT Discipline has experienced substantial growth resulting in a reputation for training and research, particularly with respect to coastal aquaculture and mangrove ecosystem. The course followed in the discipline has provisions for education in biology, ecology, culture and post harvest fisheries. The course, in addition, involves socio-economics, statistics, GIS and remote sensing, computer application etc. The teaching staff of the discipline possess knowledge in fish biology, marine science, aquaculture, fisheries management, genetics and fish breeding, ecology, oceanography and post harvest technology. The FMRT discipline is now preparing to launch PhD courses in addition to B.Sc and M.S. ones. After the Institute of Forestry and Environmental Sciences of Chittagong University Forestry and Wood Technology (FWT) discipline launched its academic activities in 1992, offering a four-year Bachelor of Science (Honours) degree in Forestry and a one-year Master of Science (MS) degree in Forestry. The discipline is close to the world’s largest single-tract mangrove forest, Sundarbans, and the forest-deficient northern region of the country where forest extension and social forestry programmes are increasingly realized. Given this geographic consideration, the mission of FWT discipline in education and research stresses on mangrove forestry, social forestry, forest management, forest tree improvement and wood science and technology. History and Civilization Discipline will start their journey from the academic year 2016-2017, offering a 4-year Bachelor of Arts degree (abbreviated as B.A. (Hons.)) in History and Civilization. Human Resource Management (HRM) is a newly introduced discipline in Khulna University. The discipline will begin a Bachelor program from the academic year 2015-2016. Khulna University has the legacy of a century old art educational school in Bangladesh. The institute enjoys the distinction of being the only seat of art excellence, in art education, in the southern part of Bangladesh. General Information Institute of Fine Arts offers a four-year undergraduate course leading to the bachelor's degree of Fine Arts (BFA). At present, there are three disciplines: Law and Justice discipline is another new discipline of Khulna University, offering 4 years LLB(Hons) course from the academic year 2016-2017. Their LLM program will start soon. Mass Communication and Journalism (MJ) discipline is a newly introduced discipline, commencing a Bachelor program from academic year 2015-2016. The Mathematics (Math) discipline was opened from the academic session 1998–99, offering a four-year undergraduate course leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Mathematics, abbreviated as B.Sc.(Hon's) in Mathematics and Masters of Science in Applied Mathematics abbreviated as M.Sc. in Applied Mathematics. This discipline also offfers PhD program from researchers. Most of the present day medicines are directly or indirectly obtained from plants of local origin and those of the Sundarbans, a large source of medicinal plants. Some of the reported medicinal plants enjoy their use in the herbal preparation. But most of the plants need to be scientifically evaluated. To this end, Pharmacy Discipline started its academic activities in 1997 under Life Science School offering a four years Bachelor of Pharmacy (Hons.) degree with an aim of proper evaluation of the plants of medicinal value available in the mangrove forest as well as of medicinal plants in the native southern region. Physics discipline started in the academic session 2009–2010. This discipline currently offers B.Sc.(Hons.), M.Sc. in Physics. This discipline is also enrolling students for M.Phil and PhD program in Physics. Started in 1999, the Soil Science discipline is the last discipline of the Life Science School with a single domain, soil. In 2017, it has been renamed as Soil, Water and Environment Discipline. The course and curriculum provide graduates with knowledge in the field of Pedology, Hydrology, Soil Physics, Soil Chemistry, Soil Biochemistry, Soil Microbiology, Soil Ecology, Soil Mineralogy, Soil Survey, Land Evaluation, Soil Conservation, Sustainable Land use, Watershed Management, Irrigation & Drainage Technology, Groundwater Hydrology, Agronomy, Soil Fertility, Plant Nutrition, and Soil Management and others environmental related courses. The discipline offers a four-year undergraduate programme leading to the B.Sc.(Hons.) in Soil, Water and Environment degree. In 2008, a Masters programme was started. Started in 2003, Sociology is one of the prominent disciplines of Khulna University under the Social Science School. The discipline offers a four-year Bachelor of Social Science (B.S.S.) Honors in Sociology degree as well as 1.5 years Masters of Social Science (M.S.S.). It also teaches students of almost all other disciplines of Khulna University to fulfill their course requirements. Statistics Discipline under Science, Engineering and Technology (SET) School is one of the new disciplines in Khulna University. It initiated its journey in 2011-2012 academic session. At undergraduate level, statistics discipline offer majors in statistics, and decision science which can be taken in B.Sc. (Honors) degrees. At postgraduate level, advanced courses majoring in statistics have also been offered. The discipline is distinguished by the faculty’s strong interest in the application of statistics to such diverse areas such as public policy, economics, engineering, medicine and life sciences, law, and the social and behavioral sciences.The research areas which are mainly focused here include- Data Mining, Econometrics and Quality Control, Demography and Research Methods, Experimental Design and Inference, Sampling Techniques, Inferences and Multivariate Analysis, Time Series Analysis and Forecasting, Demography, Stochastic Process, Computer Package and Programming, Biostatistics and Reliability Theory, Health Statistics, Epidemiology, Bio-informatics, Environmental Statistics and so on. The Urban and Rural Planning (URP) discipline was the earliest academic discipline in the country to impart planning education at undergraduate level, was established in Khulna University in 1991. It is one of the four disciplines with which Khulna University started its academic programme. The urban and rural planning discipline offers a four-year undergraduate degree in urban and rural planning. The discipline offers a master's degree programme in urban and rural planning.   The institute of Education and Research has begun its journey from the academic year 2017–2018, by offering postgraduate degrees in teachers' training. They are offering the following degrees: Khulna University Central library was established in 1987. Before, it was housed at Academic Building I, D block. The library room has a floor space of 5,000 sq. ft. (465 sq meters). The library has its own building now. The reading room has accommodation for 125 students, 25 teachers and research scholars working simultaneously. Khulna University library has a collection of 25,000 reading materials, including 23,000 books and 200 bound volumes of journals. The university library has a computer network for communication with  national and international universities and institutions through the Internet. The library is linked with the Automation and Networking of Science Technology Libraries in Bangladesh (BANSLINK) a pilot project of the Ministry of Science and Technology, government of Bangladesh and Bangladesh National Scientific and Technical Documentation Center (BANSDOC) is the executing agency of the Project. Khulna University also linked with Bangladesh Education and Research Network. (BERNET) Project organized by University Grants Commission (UGC), Bangladesh. The central library is a Wi-Fi hotspot. The university has four halls of residence for the students. Two more student halls (one for male and another for female) are under process:  