Makerere University, Kampala (/məˈkɛrəri/ ;  MUK) is Uganda's largest and third-oldest institution of higher learning, first established as a technical school in 1922. In 1963, it became the University of East Africa, offering courses leading to general degrees from the University of London. It became an independent national university in 1970 when the University of East Africa was split into three independent universities: University of Nairobi (Kenya), University of Dar es Salaam (Tanzania), and Makerere University. Today, Makerere University is composed of nine colleges and one school offering programmes for about 36,000 undergraduates and 4,000 postgraduates. U.S. News & World Report has ranked Makerere University as the eighth best university in Africa and the 569th best university worldwide. The Times Higher Education World University Rankings for 2016 ranked it as the fourth best university in Africa.  Makerere University was alma mater to many post-independence African leaders, including Ugandan president Milton Obote and   Tanzanian presidents Julius Nyerere and Benjamin Mkapa. The president of the Democratic Republic of the Congo,  Joseph Kabila, and Kenyan president Mwai Kibaki are also Makerere alumni. In the years immediately after Uganda's independence, Makerere University was a focal point for the literary activity that was central to African nationalist culture. Many prominent writers, including Nuruddin Farah, Ali Mazrui, David Rubadiri, Okello Oculi, Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o, John Ruganda, Paul Theroux, V. S. Naipaul and Peter Nazareth, were at Makerere University at one point in their writing and academic careers. Because of student unrest and faculty disenchantment, the university was closed three times between 2006 and 2016. The final time was on 1 November 2016 when President Yoweri Museveni declared it closed indefinitely.  The trade school that became Makerere University began operating in 1921 with the first classes in carpentry, building construction and mechanics.  In 1922 it was founded as the  "Uganda Technical College" with additional courses in the arts, education, agriculture and medicine.   That same year it was again renamed as Makerere College.   In 1928, the vocational classes were separated from the college and renamed Kampala Technical School.  In 1937 the college began offering post-secondary education certificate courses.  In 1943, the British Protectorate government proposed the university, which led to a controversial struggle.  It was described as "a plot to steal African soil for European settlement," by the Bataka Party.  In response to this campaign, there was rioting in the capital of Kampala.  In 1949 Makerere College was granted university status and its name became Makerere College, University of East Africa.   In the same year, the Bataka Party had been banned by the British Protectorate government, because of acts of riot and arson committed after a Bataka protest gathering.  The university was closed three times between 2006 and 2016.  Beginning on 1 August 2016, the non-teaching staff went on strike demanding their back pay.  The strike lasted three weeks and the government agreed to pay them by the end of October; however, the government failed to do so.  This was but one more broken promise in the cycle of failed promises, strikes and more promises.  That strike was followed by a strike of the lecturers over unpaid incentive pay, and that strike was joined by students in solidarity. This led to President Yoweri Museveni closing the university "indefinitely".  Additional protests, including from parents whose children were left hanging in mid-semester, led to Museveni appointing a special commission to try to rectify the situation but with no promises of reopening.  The commission's report is due in late February 2017.  Directorate of Research and Graduate Training.  As of September 2015, the halls of residence at Makerere University included the following:  In January 2010, the university announced the opening of two new campuses, one in the city of Fort Portal, approximately 310 kilometres (190 mi), by road, west of Kampala, and another one in the city of Jinja, approximately 85 kilometres (53 mi), by road, east of Kampala. The following courses will be offered at the upcountry campuses:  https://www.facebook.com/Makerere/ 