Green, Red, White Moi University is a public university located in Kesses, Uasin Gishu county, in the former Rift Valley Province of Kenya. It was established in 1984 by the Moi University Act of the Parliament of Kenya, after recommendations from the McKay Commission. The current chancellor of the university is Professor Miriam Were while the vice-chancellor is Professor Isaac Sanga Kosgey. Moi University was first established in 1984. In its first year of existence, there was only one department - the Department of Forestry, which had been transferred from the University of Nairobi. The enrollment that year was 83.  The university's first VC was Professor D. Odhiambo, who served from 1984 to 1988.  The university's school of medicine was established in 1996, and was the second school of medicine established in the country.  Most of the university's campuses became fully fledged universities in the early 2010s. The Garissa University College terrorist attack of 2015 happened at the university's Garissa campus and this helped so much in academic accommodation of students who were the victims of the attack and this shows more golden side of understanding power and compassion by the entire moi university fraternity.  From its founding, the University had no officially recognised mascot. However, in early 2017, students from the School of Engineering chose the Nandi Bear to be their mascot and, pending consensus from other Schools, the University's mascot. It was chosen for its legendary status among the Nandi people (the university was founded in Kesses, which was predominantly settled by the Nandi) and was given a temporary name - "Kerit the Bear". The university emphasizes science and technology. It has the following schools: Graduation ceremonies are held each year at the Graduation Pavilion. Visiting the waterfall that can be found south of the university is an activity that has been practiced by dating couples since the University's first years. Most visits to Falls are done on Sundays, although there is no discrimination against those who prefer solo visits. Boat rides in Kesses dam are popular among students. Dating students, student clubs as well as individuals can enjoy a boat ride at the dam offered by local dam guides at a small fee. A nearby shopping centre called "Stage" supplies most of the students' economic needs. There can be found minimarts, nightclubs, convenience stores and other economic activities here. The origin of the name is from the time when the area was a stop for matatus that plied the Kesses-Eldoret Town route.  An online shopping platform, Unimall, was in early 2017 launched to cater for students' shopping needs .  Religious services are available at the Grace Chapel ('GC', protestant), Lecture Hall 1 (Christian Union) and at St. Michael's Chapel (Catholic). . Some of the newspapers/publications are The 3rd Eye, "Legacy", among others. There are numerous societies for student engagement, such as Enactus, etc. The student radio station is 103.9MUFM. The Moi University Students Organisation (MUSO) serves the student community in the pursuit of academic and social welfare. Elections are held at the end of every academic year (October/November.   Vincent Makori; Francis Gichuri; Ongechi J. Makori; Laura Achieng; Alex Chamwada; Samuel Siringi; Judy Kosgei; Anne Soy; Mercy Kandie; Willis Raburu; Sam Gituku 