Northeast Forestry University (NEFU; simplified Chinese: 东北林业大学; traditional Chinese: 東北林業大學; pinyin: Dōngběi Línyè Dàxué), located in Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, is an institution of higher education and research under jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China, serve as the largest forestry university in China and a key university within the scope of national "211 Project". It is a Chinese Ministry of Education Double First Class Discipline University, with Double First Class status in certain disciplines.  Founded in 1952, Northeast Forestry University (NEFU) was formed by the combination of both Zhejiang University and Forestry Department of Northeast Agricultural College, and one of the three oldest institutions for forestry education and research all over the country. Northeast Forestry University is located in the city of Harbin, the center of the region with China's largest state-owned forests. Its campus covers more than 136 hectares with teaching buildings, scientific research laboratories and practice sites. In addition, there are several practice centers which include the Maoershan Experimental Forestry Center (Maoershan National Forest Park) and the Liangshui Experimental Forestry Center (Liangshui National Nature Reserve) etc. Therefore,the university has a total area of 33,000 hectares. The campus covers 136 hectares, there are 15 dormitories, and only one dining hall. As a university which has more than 20,000 undergraduate students enrolled, the population density is larger than other universities in China. NEFU is presently a multidisciplinary university with forestry as its leading field and offers a unique specialization in forestry engineering. NEFU has also specializes in forestry-related aspects of agriculture, science, engineering, economy, management, liberal arts and law. The university at present is composed of sixteen schools and two departments．There are five post-doctoral scientific research programs, four first-level and thirty-two second-level doctoral degree programs. In addition, there are also ten first-level, seventy-five second-level master's degree programs, three types of special discipline master's degree programs in nine fields and fifty-seven undergraduate programs. NEFU has two national first-level key disciplines, two national second-level key disciplines, six key disciplines authorized by the State Forestry Administration, two key discipline groups authorized by Heilongjiang Province, four Heilongjiang Provincial first-level key disciplines, and fifteen Heilongjiang Provincial subordinate key disciplines. With the approval of National Planning Commission and Ministry of Education, NEFU runs the national training centers of life science and technology. In addition, NEFU operates the teaching and research centers of basic sciences particularly in biology, which are also approved by the Ministry of Education. NEFU has excellent facilities for teaching, research and practice, with one national scientific observation key station (Maoershan forestry ecological system location station), three key laboratories of Ministry of Education, four key laboratories of the State Forestry Administration, and forty-nine research institutions. There are also nine practice sites within the school, including the Maoershan Experimental Forestry Center and Liangshui Experimental Forestry Center and 180 bases outside the school. Forestry Forest Engineering Provincial Key Discipline Groups Provincial First-level Key Disciplines Provincial Second-level Key Disciplines There are now more than 28,000 students of various backgrounds in NEFU. Since its founding in 1952, NEFU has cultivated over 70,000 students and has become the largest national training center for personnel engaged in advanced sciences relating to forestry. The university has 1,269 full-time teachers, including eight academicians of Chinese Academy of Engineering and visiting academicians and two specially invited professors of Changjiang Scholar Program. In recent years, some members of NEFU faculty have received special honors, including three national-level Excellent Teacher award, four provincial Famous Teacher award,five provincial-level Excellent Teacher award and two Provincial Model Teachers. Northeast Forestry University has made great development in international communication and cooperation. It has established intercollegiate cooperative relations with fifty-eight universities and institutions. In recent years, NEFU has invited more than 300 foreign experts and scholars from more than thirty countries and regions (including the United States, Canada, Russia and Sweden, etc.) to teach, lecture, research, visit and tour the university. Chinese Training Center of Northeast Forestry University offers courses on different levels for overseas students, including oral Chinese, listening, Chinese Literature, Writing, International Trade, Intensive Reading and HSK Training. The center has basic, elementary, intermediate, advanced level class as well as short-term classes. The students will attend a total of 20 hours of class per week. Each class will have no more than 16 students. The teaching will focus on conversation competence. Teachers will adjust arrangement to students on different level. These measures will rapidly improve overseas students’ comprehensive skills of listening, speaking, reading and writing. Applicants must abide by Chinese laws and regulations of NEFU. It opens to those who are healthy, no more than 60 years old and hold a high school diploma or equivalent. Learn more at   Since 2001, NEFU has won more than 140 awards of varying levels in scientific researches, including two National second-place awards for Technology and Innovation, three National second-place awards for Advancements in Science and Technology, two Ho Leung Ho Lee Foundation award for Advancements in Science and Technology, six Liangxi prizes awarded by Chinese Society of Forestry, seventy-four other provincial and departmental awards and has obtained sixty-nine national patents. NEFU has been titled the Provincial-level Civilized Unit for a continuous thirteen years. The university was also awarded the honorary title of "National Advanced Unit of Spiritual Civilization Construction" in 1999 and 2003 by the central government. In recent years, NEFU has been honored with the National Advanced Collective of "Cultivating Students in Three Aspects," the National Model Home of Workers and Staff (the National Model Labor Union), the National Advanced Collective of Teacher's Morals Construction, the Advanced Unit of Campus Landscaping among Heilongjiang universities and has also won the honorary title of "the National Advanced Unit of Social Practice" twelve times in succession. NEFU will carry on the "DongLin (short form of the Northeast Forestry University in Chinese) spirit" of "working hard in unity, self-inspiration, utilizing advantages to the fullest and competing for the top" and fulfill the school motto of "promoting excellent learning and noble virtue." The university will continue to uphold and enrich these qualities and seek to build itself into a nationally top-rated research-oriented university with influence in the international university community by the year of 2032, i.e. its 80th anniversary. Wan, Gang 万钢; Minister of Science and Technology of the People's Republic of China Coordinates: 45°43′26″N 126°38′25″E﻿ / ﻿45.7240°N 126.6403°E﻿ / 45.7240; 126.6403 