 The Rottenburg University of Applied Forest Sciences (in German: Hochschule für Forstwirschaft Rottenburg) is a Fachhochschule (university of applied sciences) in Rottenburg am Neckar, in the German state of Baden-Württemberg. The special profile of the university is the principle of sustainable development. In April 2008 the university was winner of the contest "Profile and Cooperation – excellence strategies for small and middle universities". The contest was announced by the "Founder's Organization for German Sciences" and the "Heinz Nixdorf Foundation".  Sustainability – Basis for Successful Studies Studying at Schadenweilerhof – hardly any other university offers such a unique atmosphere: personal interaction instead of massive crowds. Historical walls and the most modern research facilities, surrounded by 2,500 ha of research forest. With appr. 850 students, the University of Applied Sciences Rottenburg is small but precisely because of this it is an innovative university. With a clear forestry science profile and six pioneering degrees: • Forest Sciences, Bachelor of Science • BioEnergy, Bachelor of Science • Water Resource Management, Bachelor of Science • Applied Wood Technology, Bachelor of Science • Sustainable Rural Development and Regional Management, Bachelor of Science • SENCE (Sustainable Energy Competence), Master of Science The goal of each degree is sustainable management when using natural resources. The University of Applied Sciences Rottenburg has been awarded several times for these leading edge study programmes by the UNESCO. The close cooperation with several other universities in the region, as well as having worldwide contacts, provide students the opportunity to gain overseas experience and work on international research projects. The University of Applied Sciences Rottenburg’s future concept was awarded for winning the university competition "Excellency Strategies" from the Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft. Schadenweilerhof 72108 Rottenburg a. N. Tel. +49 (0) 74 72 / 951-0 Fax +49 (0) 74 72 / 951-200 hfr@hs-rottenburg.de www.hs-rottenburg.de Admission only applies for the Winter Semester Applications close on 15 July The University of Applied Sciences Rottenburg works together with the following institutions: - Within the university region Tübingen-Hohenheim, with Tübingen and Hohenheim Universities, as well as the universities Albstadt-Sigmaringen, Nürtingen-Geislingen and Reutlingen. - Ulm University of Applied Sciences - Stuttgart University of Applied Sciences - Van Hall Larenstein, Part of Wageningen, Velp (The Netherlands) In addition, there exist collaborations with many universities worldwide. In 1954 the State of Baden-Württemberg founded a forestry school in Rottenburg am Neckar. In the 1970s the school was commuted to a vocational school of forestry. And finally in 1979 it was made a Fachhochschule (University of Applied Sciences). In the beginning the university served only as a training school for forest officers in the upper grade of the civil service of the states Baden-Württemberg, Rhineland-Palatinate and Saarland. Since 1995 the university is publicly available. The university is located in the "Schadenweilerhof" (Schadenweiler estate) about two kilometers (ca. one mile) southern of the town, near the Rammert forest. On the place where the university is located today, the village Schadenweiler was situated until the 15th century. The village was donated to the Hirsau Abbey around 1100. By the 15th century Schadenweiler vanished, the villagers vacated. In 1570 Werner von Themar established a noblemen's estate on the boundary. During a siege in the 17th century the estate was nearly entirely destroyed. Later on the estate devolved to the Spital and the Town of Rottenburg. The manor burned down several times. Coordinates: 48°27′29″N 8°56′39″E﻿ / ﻿48.45806°N 8.94417°E﻿ / 48.45806; 8.94417 