Sichuan Agricultural University (SAU) is a university located in Ya'an city, Sichuan province, China, and part of the “Project 211”, specialized in biotechnology and agricultural sciences, as well as offering degrees in physical science, engineering, economics, management, veterinary medicine, liberal arts, pedagogy and law. It is a Chinese Ministry of Education Double First Class Discipline University, with Double First Class status in certain disciplines.  The institution was founded in 1906 as Sichuan Tong Sheng Agricultural School. It is the first public agricultural college in Sichuan Province. In 1935, it became a component of National Sichuan University. In 1956 it moved from Chengdu to Ya'an, where Sichuan Agricultural College was founded as an independent institution in 1956. In 1985 it was renamed as Sichuan Agricultural University. Nowadays, Sichuan Agricultural University (SICAU) has three campuses, respectively located in Chengdu city, Ya'an city, and Dujiangyan city.  SICAU belongs to the 211 State Key University Group in China.  The group member universities was officially selected by Chinese Central Government for priority funding as these universities were evaluated to rank in the top 100 in China for their distinguished achievements in research and education. With a total area of 4,500 mu (300 ha.) and an educational population of about 40,000, SAU consists of three branches, i.e. the base campus in Ya’an city, the Dujiangyan campus in Dujiangyan city and the Wenjiang campus in Chengdu.  Ya'an Campus is the main campus of Sichuan Agricultural University, which covers an area equivalent to almost a quarter of the downtown of Ya'an City. Most colleges, undergraduate and graduate programs are organized here. Dujiangyan Campus(Sichuan Forestry College for the original) mainly include some generally and specialist undergraduate education. Chengdu Campus located in Wenjiang District, Chengdu, Sichuan, which covers an area of 600 acres. The university governs 18 colleges, 10 research institutes and centers. The university possesses 7 stations for post-doctoral research, 40 disciplines with the power to award doctoral degrees, 86 specialized disciplines for masters and 74 for undergraduates. At present, SICAU has 760 senior tutors for doctorate and master students. Among the 760 are 2 academicians of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, 5 national outstanding senior experts, one awardee of the “National Scientific Fund for Outstanding Young Fellows”, 7 national middle-aged and young experts awarded for their outstanding contribution to the country, 9 academic candidates of the national “Bai-Qian-Wan Talents Project” (100-1000-10,000 Talents Project) and one renowned teacher at the state level.   