 Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA) is a public university in Morogoro, Tanzania, specializing in agriculture.   The university is named after the country's second prime minister Edward Sokoine. Sokoine University of Agriculture was established on 1 July 1984 by Parliamentary Act No. 6 of the same year. It is 3.0 km from the centre of Morogoro Municipality, which is about 200 km west of Dar es Salaam. The university is made up of four campuses and one constituent college. The campuses are the  SUA has six mandates: selling, customs care, training, research, consultancy and outreach. SUA offers training that lead to awards of certificates, diplomas, bachelors, masters, and doctorates. Non-degree programmes include Diploma in Information and Library Science, Diploma in Records, Archives and Information Management, Diploma in Animal Health and Production, Diploma in Laboratory Technology. The Sokoine National Agricultural Library is SUA's Library and the Tanzania National Agricultural Library. The library provides services to the university community and other stakeholders in the agricultural and related sectors, it also offers undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in Information Sciences. The university traces its roots back to 1965 in Morogoro, where it initially began as an Agriculture college offering diploma training in agricultural practices. After the dissolution of the East African Community in 1970, the University of East Africa, which was the only university in East Africa offering Agriculture degrees in the region was also dissolved. This forced the Government of Tanzania to create a domestic institution, which let to the establishment of the Faculty of Agriculture at the University of Dar es Salaam. Sokoine Agriculture college fell under this umbrella and under the mandate of the University of Dar es Salaam, started to offer Bachelors of Science in Agriculture.  Further progress continued to develop in the Faculty of Agriculture and in 1974 the Division of Forestry was established and in 1976 the division of veterinary science was established. This led to the Faculty being renamed to the "Faculty of Agriculture, Forestry and Veterinary Sciences." With growing enrollment numbers, the parliament decided to separate the Faculty and create a fully fledged university to help boost agriculture growth in the country.   Through the Parliamentary Act No. 6 of 1984, the faculty was then transformed into a university and today is known as Sokoine University of Agriculture. The university trains students at undergraduate levels leading to undergraduate degree awards in the following 24 academic disciplines; The university offers the following master's degree programmes leading to a master's award in the following 38 academic disciplines; The University offers PhD programmes by research in areas of specialization and PhD by coursework and Research in Soil and Water Management. The Institute of Continues Education (ICE) in collaboration with faculties, centers and other institutes offers short-term in-service programmes to field and operational staff as well as training and extension services to farmers and community leaders. It also coordinates outreach programmes.     6. http://www.lib.sua.ac.tz/ 