European University AssociationCouncil of Higher Education (Turkey) International Association of Universities  Süleyman Demirel University (SDU) (Turkish: Süleyman Demirel Üniversitesi) is a public university located in Isparta, Turkey. Established in 1992, the university, with around 70.000 students, is the second  largest academic institution in Turkey. SDU is known for its programs in agricultural research, medicine, engineering, and business sciences. The university (Institution Code: TR ISPARTA01) is approved by the Erasmus programme for participation and funding. SDU is a member of European University Association.  SDU was founded on 11 July 1992 in Isparta. The university is named after Süleyman Demirel. The faculty of Engineering and Architecture is the first faculty in the university which was formerly known as Isparta State Engineering and Architecture Academy founded in 1976.  The academic structure of SDU contains fifteen faculties,  twelve vocational high schools, two higher schools, and four graduate schools. The list of faculties   in the university: Süleyman Demirel University ranks 10th in Turkey in the 2014-2015 URAP ranking.  Additionally, U.S. News & World Report ranks Süleyman Demirel University 14th in the Best Global Universities in Turkey rankings.  The QS World University Rankings  recognized Süleyman Demirel University as one of the top universities in Turkey.  The SDU aims to be a research-oriented university, according to its strategic plan. 29 research and implementation centres are operating in scientific and technological areas and form the basis for the implementation of this strategic goal.  SDU's priority research areas cover environmental sciences, biotechnology, energy and technology sciences. The SDU's main campus is located in, and occupies most of, the Çünür suburb of Isparta. The university has 300000 square meters built area in 10000 decare land.   Most of the university's centers and faculties are on campus. Information centre (IC) occupies 8000 square meters and has 950-seat capacity.  IC academic collection consists of  100000 books, 64500 e-books, 1310 journal subscriptions, 39000 e-journal subscriptions, 2500 CD-DVDs and 53 online databases.  The 400-bed capacity SDU Research Hospital was established on November 1, 2000. The technocity is a science park project. It is located on both east and west campuses. Lakes District Technocity is a member of International Association of Science Parks.  The city of Isparta offers somewhat limited entertainment options, so students spend their free time participating in on-campus activities and in neighbor city Antalya. Süleyman Demirel University's on-campus housing includes several dormitories. Every year, the university hosts a spring festival in May and an international jazz festival in December. SDU offers several scholarships to students. 750 students receive food scholarship annually from the university. In addition to that, 219 students receive cash scholarship by the General Directorate of Credits and Dormitories.  There is a university-run part-time work system which offers four hours of work per week during academic semesters to eligible students.  The main campus has a sports hall, a football pitch, two artificial grass football pitches, a beach volleyball  court, six tennis courts (four open and two indoor), mini golf fields, an athletics track, a running track, a fitness centre and two open basketball courts.  The 2500-seat sport hall's facilities include an aerobics and steps hall, a gymnastics hall, a squash court, an artificial climbing wall, individual sports halls, a cafeteria, a university merchandise store, and massage and sauna rooms.  SDU has a horse riding club with free membership for students. SDU has two student broadcasting operations: SDU Radio  and ScienceTV.  SDU Radio Television Research and Implementation Center oversees the operations of student broadcasting.  SDU has 64 student clubs,  including: Rock Community,  Industrial and Quality Club, Aviation Club, Turkish Folklore Club, Theatre Club, Radio Club, Mountaineering and Orienteering Club, Chess and Bridge Club, Skiing Club, Technology Club, Diving Club, Dance Club, Economics and Management Club, Book Club, Biology and Environment Club. Honorary doctorates from Süleyman Demirel University include: 