 The Université de Moncton (abbr. U de M, transl. University of Moncton) is a French-language university located in Edmundston, Moncton and Shippagan, New Brunswick, Canada serving the Acadian community of Atlantic Canada. It is the only francophone university in New Brunswick and is one of only two such universities in the Maritimes, the other being the Université Sainte-Anne in Pointe-de-l'Église, Nova Scotia, Canada. It is also the largest French-language university in Canada outside Quebec.  Founded on 19 June 1963, the modern Université de Moncton is the result of the merger of three colleges: Collège Saint-Joseph (Memramcook, 1864), Collège du Sacré-Cœur (Caraquet, 1899 then Bathurst, 1915), and Collège Saint-Louis (Edmundston, 1946).  In 1989, the Université of Moncton founded undergraduate degrees in adult education. Alan Beddoe designed the university coats of arms.  The National Film Board of Canada documentary Acadia Acadia ?!? (1971), co-directed by Michel Brault and Pierre Perrault, documents how student protests at the university in 1968–69 sparked an awakening of Acadian nationalism.  The university is divided into three campuses The university is a member of L'Association des collèges et des universités de la francophonie canadienne, formerly L'Association des universités de la francophonie canadienne (en: Association of Colleges and Universities of the Canadian Francophonie, formerly Association of Universities of the Canadian Francophonie), a network of academic institutions of the Canadian Francophonie. The main campus at Moncton has eight faculties: The University of Moncton's Faculty of Law is one of only two French-language common law schools in the world. (The University of Ottawa also offers a common law education in French.) The school was founded in 1978 in order to respond to the needs of francophone communities outside Quebec. As Quebec practices civil law, there was a need to instruct francophone lawyers in common law to practice in other parts of Canada. The University of Ottawa law school teaches both common and civil law, as does McGill; thus the University of Moncton's Faculty of Law is the only exclusively French, exclusively common law school in Canada.  U de M offers both the JD and the graduate LLM. The school also offers joint degrees: the JD-MBA (Masters of Business) and JD-MEE (Masters of Environmental Studies). As well, students who already possess a civil law degree (an LL.L or a BCL) from a Canadian school can enroll at U de M for two semesters to complete an LLB.  The University of Moncton's Medical Training Centre is the first francophone school of medicine in  Atlantic Canada. It is a joint medical programme, offered with the Université de Sherbrooke. L'École de nutrition et d'études familiales has an accredited dietetic program. The university is accredited by a professional organization such as the Dietitians of Canada and the university's graduates may subsequently become registered dietitians. List of universities with accredited dietetic programs The faculty of Sciences is located in the Rémi-Rossignol building and covers all cores science subjects, such as: Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biochemistry, Biology, as well as Computer Science. There are six libraries and resource centres across the three campuses: Bibliothèque Champlain (Moncton), Bibliothèque Michel-Bastarache (Moncton), Centre d'études acadiennes Anselme-Chiasson[fr] (Moncton), Centre de ressources pédagogiques (Moncton), Bibliothèque Rhéa-Larose (Edmundston) and Bibliothèque Shippagan.  All records from these libraries are gathered into one catalogue: Catalogue Éloïze.  Two of these libraries, Michel-Bastarache and Centre de ressources pédagogiques, are special libraries, catering to the Faculty of Law and the Faculty of Education, respectively. The Centre d'études acadiennes, found on the lower level of Bibliothèque Champlain, is a world-renowned and primary resource and archive centre for Acadian studies.  The university is represented in U Sports (Atlantic University Sport conference) by the Moncton Aigles Bleu. The Aigles Bleus have a male and female hockey team, a male and female soccer team, a male and female athletics team, a male and female cross country running team and a female volleyball team.  Coordinates: 46°06′18″N 64°46′55″W﻿ / ﻿46.105°N 64.7819°W﻿ / 46.105; -64.7819 