The University of Kordofan (Arabic: جامعة كردفان ) (informally Kordofan University) is one of the largest universities in Sudan located in El-Obeid 560 km to the southwest of Khartoum. It was founded in 1990. University of Kordofan is recognized as one of the top universities in Sudan. It features several institutes, academic units and research centres including Gum Arabic Research Centre, Centre for Intermediate Technology in Agriculture and Deanship for Research and Postgraduate Training. It is a member of the Federation of the Universities of the Islamic World.  There are four campuses: Undergraduate admission policy is governed by the national Board of Higher Education of Sudan, which sets the minimum admission requirement for secondary school students based on their national origin (Sudanese vs. non-Sudanese) and the secondary-school certificate board. The Faculty of Medicine grants the degree of MBBS for its students after finishing six years of studying. With its community-based system, it pays great interest to the community medicine as it starts in the first year and finishes by the end of the fifth year of study. The first batch was admitted in 1992; by 2010, 13 batches had graduated and in 2010 the junior batch has the number 20. Clinical training takes part in hospitals in the city of El-Obeid and other rural hospitals in the State of North Kordofan: The department of Medical Laboratory grants its enrolled students the degree of BMLS after finishing four years of study. Those who qualify for the fifth year will graduate with honors degree. The department of Public health grants its enrolled students the degree of BPH after finishing four years of study. Faculty of Natural Resource and Environmental Studies grants bachelor's degree in a number of disciplines such a University of Kordofan Library has four branches that are divided on the campus according to the fields of interest and the studying specialty. The main library resides in the Central campus and it serves students from all other campuses as it has a wide variety of sources and textbooks. Attached to each library a computer lab that serves as an online source of knowledge. Coordinates: 13°12′18″N 30°14′16″E﻿ / ﻿13.2050°N 30.2379°E﻿ / 13.2050; 30.2379 