The University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences, Vienna, or simply BOKU (derived from its German name, Universität für Bodenkultur Wien, German pronunciation: [ˌunivɛʁziˈtɛːt fyːɐ̯ ˈboːdn̩kʊlˌtuːɐ̯ viːn] ( listen)), founded in 1872, is an education and research centre for renewable resources in Vienna, Austria. BOKU combines fundamental and applied expertise in the fields of natural sciences, engineering and biotechnology as well as social and economic sciences to enhance the knowledge basis for sustainable management of natural resources. It is a member of the leading Euroleague for Life Sciences (ELLS) university network and the United Nations Academic Impact (UNAI) promoting international cooperation. There are currently around 12,500 students from over 100 countries enrolled at BOKU.  After 27 years at Palais Schönborn the City of Vienna decided in 1896 to build a new campus at Türkenschanzpark in the 18th district. The departments of sustainable agriculture, soil science, horticulture, animal husbandry, economics and social sciences are still headquartered at this original campus. Another city campus, located at Muthgasse in the 19th district near the Heiligenstadt underground station, is the headquarters for the biotechnology, chemistry, plant sciences, water resource management, waste management and food sciences departments. There is also a research facility complex in Tulln, north of the city, with biotechnology and agricultural sciences laboratories and facilities. Other important locations and testing fields are Groß-Enzersdorf (Lower Austria), Jedlersdorf (Vienna), Knödelhütte (Vienna), Heuberg/Rosalia (Burgenland) and the Water Cluster Lunz am See (Lower Austria).  Hochschule für Bodenkultur, today's Gregor-Mendel-Haus (1896) Türkenschanzpark (original campus) Gregor-Mendel-Haus (original campus) Wilhelm-Exner-Haus (original campus) Armin-Szilvinyi-Haus (Muthgasse campus) 15 Departments of BOKU   Research Units and Initiatives   BOKU offers 8 BSc programmes and 28 MSc programmes.  Most of them allow various specialisations and possibilities for majors. The language of instruction is partly German, partly English. For many MSc programmes the language of instruction is English only. In general, programmes start each year in October and take three years for a BSc diploma with 180 ECTS credits and two years for a MSc diploma with 120 ECTS credits. Studies are in the field of natural resources management, life sciences & biotechnology, civil & environmental engineering, landscape planning, agriculture, forestry and winemaking. The PhD programme is a three-year programme with 180 ECTS credits which consists of a research component (conducting research under supervision and writing a thesis) and a smaller education component. In order to guarantee adequate supervision, the research subject must fit the research programme of BOKU and its institutes. Due to BOKU's extensive world-wide engagement, the university offers many international MSc programmes as joint or double degree. It is also a member of the Euroleague for Life Sciences university network, partnering with University of Copenhagen, Faculty of Science (SCIENCE), Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU), Czech University of Life Sciences Prague (CULS), University of Hohenheim (UHOH), Warsaw University of Life Sciences (WULS-SGGW), Wageningen University and Research Centre (WUR), China Agricultural University (CAU), Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Robert H. Smith Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Environment (HUJI), Lincoln University, New Zealand (LU) and Cornell University, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS). Coordinates: 48°14′12″N 16°20′14″E﻿ / ﻿48.23667°N 16.33722°E﻿ / 48.23667; 16.33722 