Prof. Ahmed Mohamed Suleiman University of Khartoum (shortened to UofK) (Arabic: جامعة الخرطوم‎) is a multi-campus, co-educational, public university located in Khartoum. It is the largest and oldest university in Sudan. UofK was founded as Gordon Memorial College in 1902 and established in 1956 when Sudan gained independence. Since that date, the University of Khartoum has been recognized as a top university and a high-ranked academic institution in Sudan and Africa.  It features several institutes, academic units and research centers including Mycetoma Research Center, Soba University Hospital, Saad Abualila Hospital, Dr. Salma Dialysis centre, Institute of Endemic Diseases, Institute for Studies and Promotion of Animal Exports, Institute of African and Asian Studies, Institute of Prof. Abdalla ElTayeb for Arabic Language, Development Studies and Research Institute and U of K publishing house. The Sudan Library, a section of the university's library, serves as the national library of Sudan. In 1898 after Britain gained dominance in Sudan as part of a condominium arrangement, Lord Kitchener proposed founding a college in the memory of Gordon of Khartoum, who was killed in the Battle of Khartoum. Gordon Memorial College was founded in 1902 with primary education being its sole program. By 1906, the college was offering programs for training assistant engineers, land surveyors and primary school teachers. The first equipped laboratory for bacteriological analysis was added in 1905, with donations from Sir Henry Wellcome, an American-British pharmaceutical entrepreneur and archaeologist. In 1924, the college incorporated programs in Sharia, engineering, education (teachers training), clerical work, accounting and science. The Kitchener School of Medicine, the first medical school in Sudan, was established. In 1936, the School of Law was established. In 1947, the college was affiliated with The University of London as the first overseas participant in its "special relationship" scheme.  The first graduates to receive University of London degrees completed their programs in 1950. The next year, Gordon Memorial College was formally renamed University College Khartoum, which incorporated the Kitchener School of Medicine. When Sudan gained independence in 1956, the new Parliament passed a bill to award university status to Khartoum University College. It officially became Khartoum University on 24 July 1956. The eminent horticultural scientist John Pilkington Hudson was a visiting professor in 1961-3, who founded its department of horticulture.  On 5 April 1984, the Government announced the closure of all faculties of the university. The university was reopened fully on August 1.  The university was closed several times after the 1989 military coup d'état for the intensive participation of its students in pro-democracy rallies. The university has 16,800 undergraduate students in 23 faculties, schools and graduate research institutes. The annual admission rate is 3,500 students, 55% of whom are female. There are 6,000 graduate students (graduate diploma, M.Sc. and Ph.D.). It has 850 teaching staff (faculty), 20 research fellows and 500 teaching assistants. There are four campuses: Undergraduate admission policy is governed by the Board of Higher Education of Sudan, which sets the minimum admission requirement for high school students based on their national origin (Sudanese vs. non-Sudanese) and the high-school certificate board. For post-graduate studies, the requirements are on the university admission webpage.  Students of University of Khartoum engage in Workshops, Lectures, Debates, Forum Activism, book clubs and Political Parties. Sporting Activities include university sports championship tournament and Sudan colleges championship tournament. The Faculty of Medical Laboratory Sciences was founded in 1966 under the name “School of Medical Laboratory Technicians” as a joint venture between the Faculty of Medicine, University of Khartoum and the Ministry of Health. Its development was continued until in 1993 an ordinance was passed for the establishment of the College of Medical Laboratory Sciences an independent institution affiliated to the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research.In 1997, it was merged with the University of Khartoum as the Faculty of Medical Laboratory Sciences (FMLS). The Faculty of Medical Laboratory Sciences offers preparation for careers in medical (clinical) laboratory sciences. A career in medical laboratory sciences is a great way to combine an aptitude for science with the desire to help others. Medical Laboratory Scientists, also known as clinical laboratory scientists, are highly skilled professionals who perform analytical tests on blood, tissue, and body fluids to provide laboratory information for the detection, diagnosis, and treatment of human diseases. There also is a growing trend for medical lab scientists to perform wellness laboratory testing aimed at preventing disease. Degrees Awarded: General B.Sc.: 4 years Honor B.Sc.: 5 years M.S.c: By courses M.Sc.: By research PhD: By research Departments of the Faculty of Medical Laboratory Sciences: 2.1- Department of Microbiology: It is one of the biggest departments in FMLS, it includes the following disciplines: Medical Bacteriology, Medical Virology, Medical Mycology, Immunology. 2.2- Departments of Haematology and Immunohematology: Deals with all aspects related to blood, its components and related diseases such as anaemia, cancer, and also blood transfusion. 2.3- Department of Parasitology and Medical Entomology: Teaches the knowledge of pathogenic parasites such as malaria, worms such as Schistosomes and insect vectors of diseases. 2.4- Department of Chemical Pathology: Deals with everything related to body chemistry including but not limited to chemical shifts in the body due to diseases, hormonal  balance, enzymes, trace elements and toxicology. 2.5- Department of Histopathology and Cytology: Focuses on identifying the composition of cells and tissues of the body and the change in their composition due to chronic cases. Division of the Department: Cytopathology, Histotechniques, Immunohistochemistry, Cytogenetics, Molecular Pathology, Cellular pathology Faculty of Dentistry was established in 1971 as a school that belong to the Faculty of Medicine. It was the first in Sudan to provide dental training. In 1992 it upgraded to a separate faculty. The school now has approximately 60 outstanding faculty and staff and 600 students enrolled in BDS degree programs, 90 postgraduate and 90 dental technology. By the end of 2011, Faculty of Dentistry became the only center in Africa for examinations of the Diploma of Member of Faculty of Dentistry, Royal College of Surgeon in Ireland (MFDRCSI). Part 1 exam is held twice a year and Part 2 is once a year. In all the previous exams, faculty graduate achieved outstanding grades. Faculty of Dentistry Student have an association through which they can realize a lot of their activities. It is a member in the International Association of Dental Students (IADS). ADSUK organized  one of the most successful IADS' conferences in Khartoum in 2006. One of the most programs arranged by ADSUK are the Health Field Trip where students as well as staff member travel to rural areas and stay there to give distant citizens dental services and to educate them. University of Khartoum plays a leading role in scientific research and development through a number of specialized research centers and institutes: University of Khartoum Library, known as the "Main Library," is one of the biggest and oldest libraries in universities in Sudan and Africa. The library building represent the historical and iconic heritage of U. of K. In addition to the Main library, there are small libraries in each faculty and institute as well as Altegany Almahi library for postgraduate students and Sudan Library. University of Khartoum has an Information Technology and Communication Center which is responsible for developing and managing of the ICT infrastructure of the university. All university campuses are connected by dedicated high-speed links (fiber optics); WiFi covered most of the campuses and electronic registration on the university website. In addition to the ICT centre, the Faculty of Mathematical Sciences has its own Information Technology research unit which is active in developing and promoting Open Source software in Sudan. Since the independence of Sudan, highly qualified Sudanese were appointed to the position of University of Khartoum vice chancellor. The first one was Dr. Nasr El Hag Ali and the most notable one is Prof. ELnazeer Dafalla. University of Khartoum plays a great role in building and qualifying most of the Sudanese leaders.  Media related to University of Khartoum at Wikimedia Commons Coordinates: 15°36′44″N 32°32′32″E﻿ / ﻿15.61222°N 32.54222°E﻿ / 15.61222; 32.54222 