  University of Chittagong (Bengali: চট্টগ্রাম বিশ্ববিদ্যালয়) situated on about 2100 acres of hilly land in mouza Jangal Paschchim-Patty of Fatehpur union under Hathajari Upazila, 22 kilometre north of Chittagong city. This is the third largest public university of the country. The academic activities of the university was formally began its on 18 November in 1966. It has approximately 23,000 students and more than 1000 faculty members.   University of Chittagong is located in Fatehpur Union, Hathazari Upazila about 22 kilometres north  of the Chittagong city around 1753.88 acres of hilly and flat land.  From the beginning of the 20th century the enlightened section of local people was pressing to set up a university in Chittagong. Necessary grants for the construction of Chittagong University were allocated on 9 March 1964 in the meeting of National Economic Council.  Professor of History, University of Rajshahi and Ex-Curator of Varendra Research Museum Dr Azizur Rahman Mallick was made the Project Director of Chittagong University on 3 December 1965. He set up the project office of the university at a building 'Kahkashan' on road no 3, Nasirabad Housing Society, Chittagong. All the officers and staffs of the university wing, Department of Education were transferred to the Chittagong University Project office through a gazette notification issued on 14 December 1965. A master plan of the university was prepared through 'Bastukala', an organisation led by Architect Mazharul Islam. Initially a two-storeyed administrative building, departmental offices, classrooms and a library building were built. Student hostels and a teachers' dormitory were also constructed in the first phase. Dr. Azizur Rahman Mallick was appointed as the first Vice Chancellor of Chittagong University through the Chittagong University Ordinance promulgated on 25 September 1966. The classes of M A (preliminary) of Bangla, English, History and Economics departments under the Faculty of Arts began first from 18 November 1966 with only 200 students and seven teachers. Dr. Abdul Karim joined as the Reader and head of the Department of History while Mohammad Ali and Dr. Shafiul Alam were appointed as Reader and Head of the Departments of English and Economics respectively. Abul Kalam Manzor Morshed joined as a Senior Lecturer in Bangla. Professor Syed Ali Ahsan was the first full professor of Chittagong University.  Dr. Iftekhar told , “Our main target is to explore the modern education and research, ensuring information and technology-based study and according to the light of digital thinking of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina”. “University is a family. So, we need cooperation of all the members to run the institution fairly”, he added.  Earlier on June 2, 2015 President of the country M Abdul Hamid, also chancellor of the CU, had appointed Dr. Iftekhar Uddin as the 17th VC of the university. He thanked President Abdul Hamid, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Education Minister Nurul Islam Nahid. Born on July 1, 1955, at North Kattoli of the port city, Dr. Iftekhar achieved PhD in Sociology from University of Tsukuba in Japan in March 1988. The new VC completed his masters and bachelor degrees from Sociology Department in Chittagong University in 1981 and 1976 respectively.  He also got Bachelor of Law (LL.B.) from the same university in 1978. Dr Iftekhar was a pro-VC from May 30, 2013 to June, 2015. He served as the chairman of Sociology Department, president of Chittagong University Teachers’ Association (CUTA), and a secretary general of Bangladesh University Teachers’ Federation.  Different faculties of Chittagong University conduct course work and examinations on behalf of several other bodies like Bangladesh Military Academy, (Bhatiari), Bangladesh Marine Academy (Patenga), Bangladesh College of Forestry (Sholoshahar), Chittagong College of Fine Arts and Bangladesh Navel Academy (Patenga). The University of Chittagong awards honours, post-graduation, MBBS, DVM degrees and diploma beside higher degrees like MPhil, PhD, MD and MPH. The teachers, students, officials and staff of Chittagong University had played a significant role during the war of liberation in 1971. A council of the University was constituted to intensify the struggle for liberation in a meeting held on 8 March 1971 with Vice Chancellor Dr AR Mallick in the chair. One teacher, eleven students and three staff members of the university embraced martyrdom in the war of liberation. Mohammad Hossain, an employee of the Engineering department of Chittagong University was honored with the gallantry award of 'Bir Protik' for his heroic role in the war of liberation. Chittagong University regularly publishes some journals and research periodicals. These include the Chittagong University Studies a research publication centrally published by the university; Pandulipi published by the Department of Bangla and Eco by the Department of Economics. The central library of the university has over 300 thousand books, 3500 journals and Internet facilities. The Chittagog University Museum set up beside the library has been playing a leading role in preserving the archaeological objects discovered in this region. Students of the University regularly participate in various creative activities, cultural competition, sports, debate competition, bncc and Rover Scouts program beside the academic activities. In 2010, Chittagong University had nine residential halls for the students, one hostel and residential quarters for teachers and staffs. It had 18,781 students, 648 teachers and 1947 supporting staffs and officers. The first convocation of Chittagong University was held in 1994. Earlier in 1981, a special convocation was held to award an honorary DSc degree to Nobel Lauriat physicist and world famous scientist Abdus Salam. A special professor's chair has been created in Chittagong University after the name of national poet kazi nazrul islam. [Fayezul Azim]  Following is the complete list of the Vice-chancellors.  The Chittagong University Library is situated on the university campus, and since 1990, has been housed in its own building of 56,700 square feet. The library is managed by a 14-member Library Committee. The library collection consists of about 350,000 books and over 40,000 bound journals.  The Chittagong University Museum was established on 14 June 1973. The museum started with a collection of artifacts from the History Department. It collected fossils from Nasirabad hills. The museum build up a collection of historical artifacts and painting.   There are currently 12 residential halls at the University of Chittagong, out of which 7 are boy's halls and 3 are girl's halls with two Under construction.       A. F. Rahman Hall Shahjalal Hall Suhrawardy Hall Shah Amanat Hall Masterda Surya Sen Hall Shamsun Nahar Hall Pritilata Hall Deshnetri Begum Khaleda Zia Hall Sheikh Hasina Hall Shaheed Abdur Rab Hall Govinda Gunalanker Hostel Swaran University Central Martyrs Monument Intellectuals Memorial Independence Memorial Mural Prof. Dr. M. Kamaluddin Nursery & Research Centre Faculty of Biological Science Chittagong University Road Teachers' dormitory Chittagong University Library 