The International Social Science Council (ISSC) was an international organisation promoting the social sciences, including the economic and behavioural sciences.  It was founded in 1952, under the auspices of UNESCO. 6-9 Oct 1952, Paris (France), following a Resolution at the 6th UNESCO General Conference in 1951. Statutes: adopted 19 Sep 1972; completed and revised 14 Nov 1979; revised: 17 Dec 1985; 3 Dec 1992; 27 Nov 1998; 8 Nov 2006; 10 Dec 2010. Registered in accordance with French Law. In 2018 the ISSC merged with the International Council for Science (ICSU) to create the International Science Council. The mission of the ISSC was to advance the social sciences - their quality, novelty and utility - in all parts of the world:  The activities of the Council were guided by the principles of academic freedom, pursuit of excellence, equitable access to scientific information and data, unfettered conduct of science, open communication and transparency, accountability, and the use of knowledge for societal value. In addition, the Council sought to support the participation of women, minorities and others under-represented in social science research. The ISSC was governed by a General Assembly, comprising the Council’s membership. The General Assembly met every three years to review the Council’s activities and determine the general direction of its future work. The ISSC Executive Committee was elected by the General Assembly and acted as the Council’s governing body. It consisted of the President, two Vice-Presidents and a Treasurer, as well as ten further members (Ordinary Members).  The General Assembly, on recommendation of the Executive Committee, approved the appointment of the Executive Director, who headed the Council’s Secretariat, and served as an ex-officio member of the Executive Committee and of all appointed (standing or ad hoc) committees of the ISSC. The Council was advised and guided by individuals from around the world who volunteered their time to serve on various ISSC Committees and Working Groups. The ISSC led a number of flagship activities and was a partner on many collaborative initiatives. The ISSC produced the World Social Science Report every three years, as part of its strategic partnership with UNESCO. The reports aim to address important social science challenges, take stock of social science contributions and capacities, and to make recommendations for future research, practice and policy. The ISSC convened the World Social Science Forum. These events gather researchers, funders, policymakers, and other stakeholders to debate topics of global significance and to determine future priorities for international social science.  Transformations to Sustainability (T2S) is a research programme supporting social-science-led research on social transformations to greater sustainability. The programme is funded by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida) and has supported 38 seed projects (September 2014 to March 2015) and three Transformative Knowledge Networks (December 2015 to December 2018). The programme aims to build on the networks of knowledge gathered through the seed projects and Transformative Knowledge Networks to create and leave behind a lasting global knowledge base.  The Transformations to Sustainability programme contributes to Future Earth. The ISSC initiated and supported several international research programmes with the objective of fostering comparative, interdisciplinary research by setting up networks of social scientists from different disciplines and regions of the world.The ISSC co-sponsored a number of international research programmes and networks around various themes, such as the environment, disaster risk, poverty and gender. These initiatives were undertaken in partnership with various partners and other organisations around the world.  The ISSC awarded two prestigious international prizes: the Stein Rokkan Prize for Comparative Social Science Research and the Foundation Mattei Dogan Prize for Excellence in Interdisciplinary Research. Nominations for the prize were made by ISSC members or other professional associations in various disciplines, as well as by universities and academic institutions. The selection of a winner is made by an international jury of scholars. From 2012 to 2015 the ISSC led the World Social Science Fellows programme, an international scientific programme to support early-career researchers in the social sciences, with the aim of fostering a new generation of globally-networked research leaders who will collaborate in addressing global problems with particular relevance for low and middle income countries.  