Blenheim Palace has frequently been the setting for books, TV programs and films and other events presumably enjoyed by the paying public. These include: Architectural historian Dan Cruickshank selected the Palace as one of his four choices for the 2002 BBC television documentary series Britain's Best Buildings.  Blenheim Horse Trials is an annual three-day event rated CCI*** (the second highest level of eventing), and Blenheim hosted the European Eventing Championships in 2005. The Wakestock 2008 music and wakeboarding festival took place at the front of Blenheim Palace in June 2008 Film & TV productions that have shot scenes at Blenheim Palace, include the following: A number of sources also credit the Berlin book-burning rally in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade as having been filmed at Blenheim Palace. However, these scenes were actually filmed at Stowe School in Buckinghamshire. The Roman Style Bridge features in synthpop band OMD's music video for their 1981 single, Souvenir. Other parts of the video show band member Andy McCluskey driving his Volkswagen Karmann Ghia through the grounds. The BBC Radio Four programme Just a Minute was recorded (twice) at Blenheim with Clement Freud, Derek Nimmo, Peter Jones and Kit Hesketh-Harvey. They were broadcast in 1998. American musician Barry Manilow performed a concert for over 40,000 fans on the grounds of the Palace on August 27, 1983.  The recorded concert was released on VHS and later on DVD as "Barry Manilow: The Concert at Blenheim Palace." The British painter John Piper (1903–1992) was commissioned to paint scenes in the grounds of the palace during the 1980s. In 2012, an exhibition of the artist's work entitled John Piper at Blenheim Palace was held in a room at the palace to commemorate the 20th anniversary of Piper's death.  In October 2004, British jazz-pop pianist Jamie Cullum released "Live at Blenheim Palace," a 145-minute live concert DVD of his performance at the Blenheim Palace Music Festival on 1 July 2004.    