The Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications (BUPT) (Chinese: 北京邮电大学) is a key national university distinguished by the teaching and research in the field of cable communications, wireless communications, computer, and electronic engineering. BUPT is ranked as one of the top engineering schools in China. In 2017 the U.S. News & World Report "Best Global Universities" rankings, BUPT is ranked 28th in computer science around the world, topping UW-Madison, UCLA and UIUC. BUPT comprises 17 schools, and has an international school program with Queen Mary University of London. It is a Chinese Ministry of Education Double First Class Discipline University, with Double First Class status in certain discuplines.  The university was created in 1955 under the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications and the Communications Department of the General Staff Department of the People's Liberation Army. The name was changed from Institute to University in 1993. It is the most famous and renowned university in the field of telecommunications in China. BUPT is one of the 73 Key National Universities under the administration of the Chinese Ministry of Education. The university was founded in 1955 as the Beijing Institute of Posts and Telecommunications. It was the tertiary institution for teaching and research in the post and telecommunications fields. In 1993, it was renamed to Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications (BUPT). The university offers a wide range of subjects including engineering, management, humanities and sciences. Most of its subjects and disciplines are related to applied science and engineering. BUPT enjoys a nationwide reputation for innovation and excellence in advanced research and learning in information and communication technology. It serves as one of the most important teaching and research bases for the information technology and telecommunication industry in China. Directly administered by the Ministry of Education, BUPT is one of the first 61 universities that were listed in the Project "211" Universities in 1995, which aims at strengthening 100 National Key Universities as a national priority for the 21st century. Since then, BUPT has greatly improved its quality of education, scientific research, management and institutional efficiency. In order to provide favorable academic environment, BUPT has established a complete campus network embracing the library, staff rooms, research centers, dormitories etc. Great efforts have also been made in bringing up a number of academic leaders and competent teachers who have high academic attainments and are prestigious both at home and abroad. In particular, the training of young academic leaders has been accelerated, and more and more outstanding talents are attracted to work at BUPT. BUPT is one of the 56 universities in China that are authorized to formally form a Graduate school by the General Office of the Academic Degree of the State Council after a long time of painstaking experiment. The Graduate School has developed complete graduate programs that cover the disciplines of engineering, science, economics, administration, law and philosophy. It is also one of the earliest universities in China that has officially been authorized to offer doctoral and master programs. In the 2005–2006 academic year, BUPT offers 33 undergraduate programs, 34 postgraduate programs, two professional degrees - MBA and Master of Engineering and 12 doctoral programs to the domestic and overseas students. (As the official website of BUPT announces ) School of Information and Communication Engineering School of Electronic Engineering School of Computer Science School of Automation School of Modern Post School of Software Engineering School of Cyberspace Security School of Digital Media and Design Arts School of Sciences School of Optoelectronic Information School of Economics and Management School of Humanities School of Public Management School of Network Eductation International School School of E-learning (Continuing Education) School of Ethnic Minority Education Teaching and Research Center of Marxism Institute of Network Technology Institute of Information Photonics and Optical Communications Institute of Perception Technology and Industry Yepeida School Sports Department There are over 230 professors and 426 associate professors out of the total of 1066 faculty members, among which honorary professor Gao Kun, one of the 2009's Nobel Prize winners of physics, Professor Ye Peida, senior academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), Professor Zhou Jiongpan, academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE), Professor Chen Junliang, academician of both CAS and CAE, Professor Fang Binxing, academician of CAE, and Professor Xu Daxiong, academician of the National Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Kirgizstan are in the forefront of the outstanding professors, among many other notable scholars such as Yixin Zhong, Xiaomin Ren, Wanyi Gu, Wenbo Wang, Yixian Yang, Qiaoyan Wen, and Jun Xia. Currently, BUPT has over 16,200 full-time students and 12,000 long-distance and E-learning students, among full-time students there are 10,800 undergraduate students, 4650 master students and 805 doctoral students. BUPT endeavors to foster students mentally and academically. Except for their daily academic studies, students take an active part in various national and international contests. Every year BUPT students take part in the National Undergraduate Electronic Design Contest, National and International Undergraduate Math Modeling Contest and many other contests. Their achievements are always among the best of the successful higher learning institutions competing in China. In the International Math Modeling Contest in the United States in 2004, four delegations of BUPT won the First-Class Award and two delegations won the Second-Class Award, taking first place among the institutions of higher learning that participated in the contest. BUPT’s graduates boast the top employment rate among Chinese universities, about 98%, and most of them are employed by famous IT companies at home and abroad. In the 2001 national assessment, the following four second-grade subjects of BUPT: "Communication and Information System", "Electromagnetic Field and Microwave Technology", "Signal and Information Processing" and "Circuit and System" were accredited as national-level key subjects. Among them, "Communication and Information System" ranked No.1. Again, in the 2002 national assessment, two BUPT first-grade subjects-"Electronic Science and Technology" and "Information and Communication Engineering" ranked second and third. BUPT has one ministry-level Engineering Center under the leadership of Ministry of Education-"Research Center of Information Network Engineering", and one National University Science Park-"Information Valley". And BUPT is one of eight universities that took part in the initiation construction of "China Education and Research Network" (CERNET) in 1994. It also takes part in the demonstrating project of the CERNET2, a model project of the next-generation Internet (NGI), which adopts the pure Ipv6 protocol. BUPT possesses all the top-end experimental instruments necessary for Information and Communication sciences, with one of the highest instrument-value to student ratios among all of China’s higher educational institutions. And BUPT’s library houses 970,000 books of 152,000 kinds, notably providing first-class modern data retrieval and information inquiry services. BUPT is also engaged in business through its Telecomm Enterprises Group and BUPT Logistic Industry and Service Group.  Coordinates: 39°57′35″N 116°21′07″E﻿ / ﻿39.9598°N 116.3520°E﻿ / 39.9598; 116.3520 