Chongqing University of Posts and Telecommunications (Simplified Chinese: 重庆邮电大学; abbreviation: CQUPT) is a public university in China's fourth municipality: Chongqing. It focuses on the research and education in the field of information and communications and enjoys a nationwide reputation in the study of posts, telecommunications and information technology, especially for its research and commercialization in 3G mobile technologies, optical sciences and related digital research.  It is one of the four universities of Posts and Telecommunications in China and the only one of its kind in the Southwest China. It enjoys a very good reputation in the ICT industry in China due to its high quality education and research and the large number of alumni working in the ICT industry. Due to its achievements and contributions in the field of Information and Communications, especially in the development of China's own digital communications systems, CQUPT is considered as the cradle of China's digital communications.  CQUPT was founded in 1950 along with the foundation of the People's Republic of China and the communist takeover of Chongqing. It was initially founded in the name of Chongqing Institute of Posts and Telecommunications. In 1965, it was entitled to have postgraduate programs as one of the first 10 colleges that had the right to have such programs in the then Sichuan Province (Chongqing separated from Sichuan Province as a Municipality in 1997). In 2000, under the university system reform in China, the university became co-governed and co-financed by the Chinese Central Government with the Chongqing government. In 2006, CQUPT contracted with MIIT (Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of China) to become one of the universities supported by Ministry and Province (Municipalities) government.  CQUPT has 15 schools and institutes  with  the Chongqing International Institute of Semiconductor established in 2010.  A list of schools at CQUPT and the academic programs each offer can be found at the webpage 'School Navigation' from CQUPT's website. CQUPT is the origin of the China's digital communications systems.  In the very recent years, over 600 scientific projects in the ICT field have been done in the university and 80 of them were granted the "Scientific Research Achievement Awards" by the government. CQUPT is the only Chinese university participating in the development of China's own 3G standard: TD-SCDMA. The world's first TD-SCDMA chip and mobile phone were developed at CQUPT. The university played a key role in the establishment of China's first national "EPA Communication Standard for Industrial Measurement and Control System", which was recognized by the IEC as international standard in the field of industrial automation. The university's spin-off company Chongqing CYIT Communications Technologies Company (CYIT) is among the first companies doing research on TD-SCDMA and TD-LTE in China and is already a frontrunner in the field nowadays.  The university's strength also lies in areas such as computer science, automatic control technology, microtechnologies, and others, as one of the first academic institutions doing research in these fields in China. Research at CQUPT is done in about 30 research platforms. Each of the research platforms may contain several laboratories or research groups. Research at CQUPT is closely linked to the industry. In 2010, the Chongqing International Institute of Semiconductor, which is in and hosted by CQUPT, was founded with the participating of nearly 50 partners in industry from around the world, including Qualcomm in USA, Eplida in Japan, the International Association of Semiconductor Equipment and Materials European Microelectronics Center in Taiwan among others. The research at CQUPT is widely done in cooperation with other academic or industrial partners in the form of joint research centers or laboratory. Academic institutions which have founded joint research centers with CQUPT include the Chinese Science Academy (CSA), the Nanyang Technological University (NTU) in Singapore, Essex University in UK, Inha University in South Korea, etc. The university's industrial partners, which have founded joint research centers or laboratories include Oracle, Cisco, Lenovo Mobile, Maipu Communications, and others.  The university boasts 11 Key Disciplines of ministry and provincial level, and 16 key laboratories, engineering research centres and humanities & social science bases. 'Research Institutions' on CQUPT's website offers a complete list of research platforms and research institutions at CQUPT. Over the 60 years since the establishment of university in 1950, CQUPT has educated over 70,000 students in the field of Information and Communication, many of whom are in the high positions of China's telecommunications companies. The university is deemed as the cradle of talents of ICT industry in China. It boasts its high employment rate among Chinese universities.  Even though the university is featured with excellence in the area of Information and Communications, it is striving to offer a wide range of other subjects including science, engineering, economics, management, arts and education, most of which are related to applied science and engineering. The university offers 45 undergraduate programs, 37 postgraduate programs and Master of Engineering programs; it was also authorized to confer doctor’s degrees in the disciplines of Information and Communication Engineering, Computer Science and Technology, Electronic Science and Technology, Control Science and Engineering, Management and Engineering. CQUPT has about 20,000 students, including more than 3,000 postgraduates. CQUPT has established good cooperative relations and links with over 30 prestigious universities in USA, Russia, UK, Italy, Canada, Korea, Singapore and so forth. Some examples of joint research centers co-founded with other academic institutions out of China include the Joint Research Center of 4G Mobile Communications co-founded with Nanyang Technological University (NTU) in Singapore, the Sino-Korean Institute of Spatial Information Systems founded with Inha University and Seowon University in South Korea, the Sino-Europe Joint Laboratory for Intelligent Systems and Robotics with the Essex University and Open University in UK. Research at CQUPT is also widely collaborated with famous companies in the industry. Many companies found joint laboratories or centers with CQUPT such as Oracle (CQUPT-Oracle Joint Laboratory of Database Technology), Lenovo Mobile (CQUPT-Lenovo Moile Internet Application Research Center), Cisco (CQUPT-Cisco Joint R&D Center of Green Technology).  In July, 2010, the School of Computer Science and Technology signed a collaboration contract with Cornell University and founded the CU-CQUPT Joint Lab of Intelligent Computing.  Other education or research partners include IBM, Ericsson, Lenovo Mobile, Nokia, China Silian Group, Maipu Communications, Foxconn Technology, ProMOS Technologies and many others. To deepen the relationship with local industry, the university also establishes a good relationship with the local high-tech industry parks like Chongqing Liangjiang New Area, Chongqing Xiyong Microelectronics Industrial Park and Chayuan Industrial Park. In 2010, the university founded the university board. The board of the university include China Telecom, China Mobile, China Unicom, China Post, Huawei, ZTE, DaTang, China Putian, Lenovo and other industry partners.  Coordinates: 29°32′18″N 106°36′06″E﻿ / ﻿29.5383°N 106.6016°E﻿ / 29.5383; 106.6016 