Institut Mines-Télécom is a French public institution dedicated to Higher Education and Research for Innovation in the fields of engineering and digital technology. Created in 1996, it was originally known as the "Groupe des écoles des télécommunications", or GET, followed by the "Institut Télécom". The Mines schools, which were placed under the administrative supervision of the Ministry of Industry, joined the Institut in March 2012 when it took on its current name and gained the status of Grand établissement. it combines high academic and scientific legitimacy with a practical proximity to business and a unique positioning in 3 major transformations of the 21st century: Digital Affairs, Energy and Ecology, and Industry. Its training and research for innovation are rolled out in the Mines and Télécom Graduate Schools. The Institut falls under the administrative aegis of the General Council for the Economy, Industry, Energy and Technologies. Institut Mines-Télécom is a founding member of the Industry of the Future Alliance and the University of Paris-Saclay.  It maintains close relationships with the economic world and has two Carnot Institutes. Every year around one hundred startup companies leave its incubators. In 1996, the France Télécom monopoly in telecommunications ended. The group of telecommunications schools was established in the form of an Établissement public à caractère administratif (public establishment of an administrative nature), for the purpose of managing the three schools: the École nationale supérieure des télécommunications; the École nationale supérieure des télécommunications de Bretagne and the Institut national des télécommunications. The group was renamed the "Institut Télécom" in 2008. On 1 March 2012, it was renamed the "Institut Mines-Télécom" and converted to an EPCSCP - Grand Établissement. The six Mines schools under the supervision of the Ministry for the Economy, Finances and Industry joined the Institut by convention. Institut Mines-Télécom is composed of four schools: The following schools are supervised by the Institut: Institut Mines-Télécom maintains close relations with strategic partners: Institut Mines-Télécom is affiliated with other partners: Institut Mines-Télécom also includes eleven associate schools: Institut Mines-Télécom is a member of several PRES The Institut is also a member of the Plateau de Saclay Scientific Cooperation Foundation. A mobility agreement enables students of Institut Mines-Télécom schools to complete their 3rd year of study at a different school within the Institut Mines-Télécom. The agreement involves the 10 schools of the Institut Mines-Télécom, its 2 affiliate schools, Eurecom and Télécom Lille 1, and its strategic partner, Mines Nancy. Students have access to the options and subjects available at each school.  