The Bonch-Bruevich Saint Petersburg State University of Telecommunications Russian: Санкт-Петербургский государственный университет телекоммуникаций им. проф. М.А.Бонч-Бруевича; Russian: СПбГУТ, SUT) is a very well-known university in the area of communications and telecommunications. The Bonch-Bruevich University offers training programs in communications and telecommunications, information technologies, computer science, economics, management, advertising and public relations.  SPbSUT is a founding member of the Association of European Universities and Companies of Informatics and Computer Electronics (EUNICE). The Saint Petersburg State University of Telecommunications was established in 1930 under the name of the Leningrad Institute of Communication Engineers. Its history is associated closely with the development of Russian and world science in the communications area, and with a great scientific and technical base. From 1931 to 1940 the outstanding Russian scientist in radio mechanics, and corresponding member of the USSR Academy of Sciences, Professor Mikhail Aleksandrovich Bonch-Bruevich, was the Head of the Chair of theoretical radio engineering in the Leningrad Electro-Technical Institute. He was a doctor of technical sciences, one of the originators of Spark Discharge Theory, as well as the Theory of Radio wave Transmission in the Upper Atmosphere, and creator of the first electronic tubes, radio-telephone transmitters, radio-telephone tube stations, etc. In honor of Professor Bonch-Bruevich's scientific contributions, and in accordance with the USSR Council of People's Commissars' Decree of 8 June 1940, the Leningrad Institute of Communication Engineers was renamed as the Leningrad Electro-Technical Institute of Communications (LEIC), named after Bonch-Bruevich. In 1993 SUT was reconstituted, and gained its new status as the Bonch-Bruevich  Saint Petersburg State University of Telecommunications, by order of the Ministry of Communication of Russian Federation. New chairs were created: digital signal processing, communication networks, information safety of telecommunication systems, biomedical technology, information-managing systems, global information technologies, global info-communication networks and systems. As of September 2014, the university has 8 faculties, 1 institute and 6 research centers.  The full list of faculties, according to the official web-site: Scientific and Technological Center "Optical communication elements"  Education Center Cisco Systems. Education Center Huawei Technologies. Saint-Petersburg College of  Telecommunications Archangelsk College of  Telecommunications  Smolensk College of  Telecommunications  Coordinates: 59°56′05″N 30°19′04″E﻿ / ﻿59.93472°N 30.31778°E﻿ / 59.93472; 30.31778 