Institut Mines-Télécom Business School (formerly known as INT Management from its foundation in 1979 to its rebranding in 2009  then Telecom Business School from 2009 to 2018) is a French state-funded Management School, a member of Institut Mines-Telecom, the number one group of engineering and management graduate schools in France. It is also a member of the Management School Chapter of the Conférence des Grandes Ecoles, of EFMD (European Foundation for Management Development), AACSB (Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business) and accredited by the Association of MBAs for its Masters in Management Program. The business school was initially founded as the corporate university of Orange Group, first telecom operator in France and formerly a public company. It is now fully independent from Orange though many partnerships remain in research, training and other different programmes. The school offers programmes taught in French or English, from bachelor level to PhD. Its main programme is the Masters in Management programme (aka Programme Grande Ecole). The graduates from this programme are highly reputed among recruiters in France and abroad for their ability to work with engineers. It was ranked 59th (2017) by the Financial Times. 1500 students70 teaching and research faculty 70+ nationalities on campus120+ partner universities worldwide1 business incubator, 20 double degree programs (double master's degree in business & engineering)5 Specialized Masters1 Master in Management1 Executive MBA Program1 Master of Science Program1 Doctoral program in management The main research lab from Institut Mines-Télécom Business School is the LITEM, which is common with University of Paris-Saclay . Many research programmes are developed in cooperation with other schools from IMT . Institut Mines-Télécom Business School 's research focus on digital innovation and transformation, artificial intelligence and ethics in the digital era. The school has several research chairs such as the  Chair Values and Policies of Personal Information (Chair VPIP) and Smart Objects and Social Networks Chair. It is also a founding member of DATAIA (Institute for Data Science, Artificial Intelligence and Humanity), created in common with researchers from University of Paris Saclay, INRIA, CentraleSupélec, CEA, CNRS, Ecole Polytechnique, HEC Paris and Université d'Évry - Val d'Essonne. In 2018, the doctoral school was hosting 25 PhD students. The head of the doctoral school is Jean-Luc Moriceau. The faculty dean is Imed Boughzala, and the Director of Research Madeleine Besson. Together with Telecom SudParis, IMT Business School share the IMT campus in Évry. Almost all students are accommodated on campus. Students from Telecom SudParis and Institut Mines-Télécom Business School share most the student life aspects during their life on campus : shared apartments, shared student associations, shared classes and pedagogical programmes such as the famous Challenge Projets d'Entreprendre, a one-week competition which has, since its first edition in 2000, inspired many other business schools to build their own "startup creation challenges" programmes. 