Telecom SudParis  (French: Télécom SudParis) (formerly known as Telecom INT ) is one of the top French engineering schools (public institutions) of higher education and research (French: Grandes Écoles) that award engineering degrees in France. It produces engineers with skills in information and telecommunication science and technology, and expertise in economic, social, and environmental fields. Telecom SudParis shares its campus with Telecom Business School (ex INT Management), a Graduate Business School, and has a research centre in the field of Information and Communication Science and Technology (ICST). Telecom SudParis is part of  Institut Telecom, along with Telecom Business School, Telecom ParisTech, Telecom Bretagne, Telecom Lille and the Eurecom Institute. Telecom SudParis and Telecom Business School are part of Telecom & Management SudParis (ex INT)  Telecom SudParis trains general engineers ready to take up technological, economic and social challenges, capable of building their career plan or even starting up their own company. Their cursus include early professional experience following several internships, a sense of teamwork and the know-how and human skills essential for their future activities.  Foreign students: Dual qualification with partner universities The European Summer School at Telecom SudParis offers students having completed at least two years of undergraduate studies an opportunity to study different aspects of either management, information technology or inter-cultural awareness in France. Telecom SudParis’s engineering programs consist of a common-core syllabus along with an advanced studies cycle, with each part lasting three semesters. They include solid business and international experience. The school, a member of  Institut Telecom (federation of Grandes Ecoles and research body) is supported by the expertise of 550 teaching research staff and the laboratories of the 6 establishments (Telecom SudParis, Telecom Business School,  Telecom ParisTech, Telecom Bretagne, TELECOM Lille 1 and the Eurecom Institute. In the third year, openings in the field of research are available to students, as well as a range of Master of Science (MSc) and Research Master programs, awarded jointly with partner universities. Doctoral programs offer PhD students a broad spectrum of research themes on the school’s campus. In addition to English, which is compulsory, students must choose a second language: German, Spanish, Russian, Italian, Japanese, Arabic, Chinese and French as a foreign language. There is an option to learn a third language. The school has established multiple partnerships with more than forty universities located in 30 countries[who?]. A number of options are available: lasting 1 to 3 semesters, to get an introduction to both culture and the country and obtain a dual qualification. 32% of professors and almost 400 students are foreign nationals. Altogether more than sixty nationalities are represented on the Telecom & Management SudParis campus, which is shared with the Business School : Telecom Business School. Foreign students are enrolled in graduate programs, doctoral programs, “Mastères Spécialisés” Programs (MS) or Master of Science. Business is a core component of Telecom SudParis’s educational programs: business start-up, student placements, company visits, etc. Telecom SudParis offers a broad range of training programs at various levels: engineering training, specialized masters, PhD programs, lifelong learning programs such as BADGE (“Graduate School Aptitude Assessment”), accredited professional qualification programs. Telecom SudParis provides tailored support to companies, depending on their needs and development. School life and the professional development of students are supported by corporate relationships: course involvement, sponsorship, career management assistance (T&M Alumni), project supervision or placements, student grants, etc. Backed by the Essonne Regional Council, Telecom SudParis’s business incubator supports innovative project leaders in the ICT sector wishing to carry out their activities. Led by a team of experts[who?], its entrepreneurship program is based on a broad range of services and resources: support, project engineering, incubation, information, advice, funding, communication, relational networks, etc. Research conducted at Telecom SudParis is primarily oriented towards application and industrial innovation, without losing sight of fundamental issues and problems. It is exploratory and precompetitive in nature and is conducted in close cooperation with the national and international scientific community. Strong ties have been forged with SMEs, often thanks to the involvement of CRITT (Regional Centers for Innovation and Technology Transfer). Telecom SudParis offers businesses proven  expertise in the field of ICT (Information and Communication Technologies) from a scientific and technical point of view and also in terms of management, services or usages. Telecom SudParis is located in Évry, the main town in Essonne.  The majority of 1st and 2nd year students, as well as foreign students, live on campus, where 54 associations and clubs are managed by the student life Association Cultural life is particularly dynamic around Évry, with the Agora Theater and the National Music Conservatory. It is also one of the greenest towns in France, with 220 hectares of green spaces, 6 parks and walks along river Seine. The town is very accessible, located 30 minutes from Paris and served by RER line D and the A6 highway. 