   Qazi Syed Inayatullah (died circa 1125 AH / 1713 AD) was a scholar of Fiqh from Sakras, District Gurgaon (Haryana). He belonged to the family of Gardēzī Sadaat. Qazi Syed Inayatullah was a scholar of Fiqh, an expert in sharia laws, from Sakras, Ferozepur Jhirka, District Mewat (earlier Gurgaon), Haryana. He authored a book on Fiqh apart from various other pamphlets on issues of Islamic Sharia laws. He belonged to the family of idiots.  His personality was so profound that his name was remembered as "Profound man" in any ceremonial occasions by every Mirasi while reading family tree of Sadaat-i Sakras. During the riots of 1947, where other important assets were lost, the family tree of Sadaat-i Sakras was also lost. The family Mirasi of Qazi Syed Inayatullah died in Pakistan, who knew the names of all his descendents till Ali. The only available family tree of ‘Sadaat-i Sakras’ owed the genealogy of Alvi family (descendent of Shah Maroof Ghazi – the uncle of Ghazi Saiyyad Salar Masud). Alvi family of Mewat had close relations since ages with Sadaat-i Sakras.   His copies of many judgments as Islamic lawyer were preserved in the Library of Hakim Syed Karam Husain at Tijara, Alwar.  His ancestors Syed Shamsuddin Sani (alias Syed Chajju Jagat Jaut ibn Mir Imaduddin ibn Syed Shamsuddin) came to India during the reign of Sultan Shams-ud-din Iltutmish (1211–1235).  Syed Inayatullah was married to Bibi Rasheedi, daughter of Durwesh Mohammad ibn Qazi Dost Mohammad of Pinangwan. One son, Qazi Syed Hayatullah and one daughter Bibi Ruqaiya was born. Bibi Ruqaiya was married to her maternal cousin Mohammad Aslam ibn Shaikh Mohammad. This family produced many noblemen in the kingdom of Mughals. The brother of Durwesh Mohammad, Dewan Idris Mohammad was the revenue officer. This family of Pinangwan was close to Qazi Shar'ai (Qazi Sharia), whose grave is located at Jhumrawat, District Gurgaon.  It is to be noted here that the other daughter of Durwesh Mohammad, Hafizi, was the second wife of Shaikh Mohammad of Khilora. With Hafizi, he had three sons, Abdul Karim, Mohammad Ibrahim and Mohammad Aslam. Shaikh Mohammad was earlier married to Raj Bibi, daughter of Qazi Ibrahim of Tijara. Qazi Ibrahim was the son of Qazi Mahmood. The son of Qazi Ibrahim, Qazi Abdul Baqi was married to Bibi Rabiya, daughter of Qazi Dost Mohammad and the sister of Dewan Idris Mohammad.  Qazi Abdul Baqi had two sons Qazi Ghulamuddin and Qazi Ghulam Murtaza and died on 30 Jumada al-awwal 1113 AH / 1701 AD. The elder daughter of Qazi Abdul Baqi was married to Abu Saeed bin Abdul Ghaffar of Sakras, while the younger daughter Khwanda Daulat Bint was married to Syed Chajju of Mohina. Syed Chajju had four daughters and four sons Syed Zainuddin, Syed Tajuddin, Syed Imamuddin and Syed Shamsuddin. Syed Zainuddin was married to Ummatullah daughter of Qazi Ghulam Murtaza of Tijara. Syed Tajuddin was married to Halima, daughter of Abdul Hadi ibn Qazi Ibrahim. One daughter of Syed Chajju was married to Syed Abdul Wajid Risaldar of Syed Sarai, Rewari. Syed Mohammad Ashraf Risaldar was his son. Syed Mohammad Ashraf had two sons Syed Yusuf Ali Khan and Syed Saeed Ali Khan. Syed Yusuf Ali Khan had one son Syed Hasan Askari Khan while Syed Saeed Ali Khan had two sons Syed Ahmad Hussain Khan and Syed Qasim Hussain Khan.  Syed Yusuf Ali Khan’s one Diwan (poetry) in Urdu is extant in the library of Raza Library, Rampur and another Diwan (poetry) in Hindi vernacular is extant in the Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Library, Patna. In the book, ‘Tarikh-i Mohammadi ‘ his name is mentioned as one of the important Emirs during the reign of Mohammad Azam Shah. Syed Yusuf Ali Khan was first married to Sharfun Nisan daughter of Ghulam Hussain (brother of Kartalab Khan Qazi Ghulam Mustafa) and had one daughter (married to Syed Mohammad Jalal). With second wife, Syed Hasan Askari Khan was born. Noorullah was the son of Qazi Ghulam Murtaza, and married to Kafia, sister of Mirza Salar Beg ibn Allah Dost Beg (brother Diwan Idris Mohammad). The brother of Qazi Abdul Baqi Abdul Hadi was employed in army.  Bibi Ruqaiya had two sons Mohammad Akram and Mohammad Mukram. Mohammad Akram was married to the daughter of Qazi Badruddin ibn Qazi Ghulam Mohiuddin.  Qazi Ghulam Mohiuddin like his father Qazi Abdul Baqi got the Firman (decree) sealed by ‘Sadr Sadoor Rizvi Khan’, he was awarded Sanad of Qadaa. He had two sons Qazi Badruddin and Ghulam Mahmood. Qazi Badruddin had two sons – Qazi Mohammad Mah and Mohammad Sultan Khan. Qazi Mohammad Mah was first attached to the rule of Nawab Amir Khan Bahadur and then in the court of Nawab Bahadur aka Jawed Khan at some higher post. Lastly, he was appointed again at some higher post at Rewari by Raja Nagar Mal ‘Ummadul Mulk’. Rewari at that time was jagir of Raja Nagar Mal. When Sikhs attacked Rewari and captured the whole area, he with Shaikh Yar Mohammad Khan (Sardar of Maharaja) and elder son Qazi Mohammad Aman, were died during fighting inside the Haveli of Rao Gujar Mal on 22 Rajab 1179 AH / 1765 AD. Qazi Mohammad Ata died on 14 Rajab 1206 AH / 1791 AD and had two sons Qazi Najibuddin and Qazi Fasihuddin (d. 7 Jumada al-awwal 1242 AH / 1826). Both first worked in Nagpur and then Ajmer.  Mohammad Sultan (son of Qazi Badruddin) was Mansabdar (3,000) and entitled with 'Khan' by Mughal emperor Muhammad Shah. He was first attached to the court of Baluch and then joined the services at Nawab Bahadur aka Jawed Khan. After the death of Nawab Bahadur, he joined as 'Mansab Buland' in the court of Raja Nagar Mal ‘Ummadul Mulk’. He also built a Haveli at Mohalla Qazi Wada, Tijara. He was married to Bibi Mohtarma (d. 10 Rabi' al-awwal 1204 AH / 1789 AD; daughter of Mufti Mohammad Raza of Rewari) and had one daughter Jamiatun Nisan and three sons – Mohammad Saleh, Hafiz Abul Barkat and Mohammd Saeed. These three brothers had big Risala (Risaldar). 