The European Miracle: Environments, Economies and Geopolitics in the History of Europe and Asia is a book written by Eric Jones in 1981 to refer to the sudden rise of Europe during the late Middle Ages. Ahead of the Islamic and Chinese civilizations, Europe steadily rose since the Early Modern period to a complete domination of  world trade and politics that remained unchallenged until the early 20th century. This process started with the first European contacts and subsequent colonization of great expanses of the world. The industrial revolution further reinforced it. Jones's book gave rise to the term European miracle. It is closely related to the idea of the Great divergence, which rather than on the origins of the rise of Europe during the Renaissance focuses on the culmination of the process in the 18th century and the subsequent "imperial century" of Britain. Jones aims at providing an answer to the question of "Why did modern states and economies develop first in the peripheral and late-coming culture of Europe?"  Jones attempts to argue a concatenation of various factors, in particular the interplay of natural and economic factors which have worked to Europe's advantage and to the disadvantage of its Asian competitors. The European miracle theory purports that because the European family was nuclear, women married late, and had few children, Europe's population was better controlled than the rest of the world, which "multiplied insensately" according to Jones.  This meant that Europe was not vulnerable to Malthusian Crises and therefore able to form a progressive, capitalist society. Urbanization is also adduced as a factor. Crucially, these cities were also semi-autonomous, especially the Italian city-states. The growth of banking, accounting and general financial infrastructure in such cities is seen as unique and vital to the rise of Europe. Jones's 1981 study is one of the most influential books dedicated to the question of European exceptionalism. Some historians, in particular of the "California school" have felt that Jones has over-stated the degree of difference between Europe and non-European regions on the eve of the Industrial Revolution.  The attention attracted by the book has also resulted in it being described by American historian Joel Mokyr as "the whipping boy of those who have resented what they viewed as historiographical triumphalism, eurocentricity, and even racism."  It has been attacked by thinkers such as James Blaut, Andre Gunder Frank, Kenneth Pomeranz, and John M. Hobson. They accuse Jones of Eurocentrism and "cultural racism" (Blaut's term ). 