Telugu language policy is an issue in the Indian states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, with 84 percent of the population reporting Telugu as their first language in Andhra Pradesh prior to the secession of Telangana.   Telugu-language advocates note a lack of incentivisation and government support for the language, and press for their linguistic rights for Telugu's greater official[clarification needed] in the recognition and promotion.  Telugu and English are the two dominant languages of instruction in the schools of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, while there are also schools who use other regional languages such as Urdu as the medium of instruction. Telugu is a compulsory subject in schools in both states, with fluency in the language being a requirement for matriculation.   The government in Andhra Pradesh is working to increase the number of English medium schools state schools, with some proposals calling for English to be the only medium of instruction in state schools, claiming that this policy reflects the growing desire of parents and that the state sector is losing pupils due to its inability to meet the increased demand for English medium schools.   In Telangana, the government has issued plans to mandate English-medium education in all the private schools in the state. The trend towards English-medium education has caused alarm among some Telugu-language activists who claim that the state governments are placing the language in an inferior position and depriving Telugu-speakers of their language rights.  Passions have been further inflamed by anecdotal reports of students in English-language schools being punished for speaking Telugu.  Many educated Telugu people began travelling around the world in search of knowledge-based jobs, and have observed that many countries are prospering faster than India by imparting education in their native languages without depending on English.  Throughout India, native-language advocates are demanding less reliance on English. An expenditure of less than one day’s gross domestic product (GDP) of Andhra Pradesh could achieve Telugu parity, if the state government is dedicated to Telugu-language development.  No country in the world has attained developed status without imparting education in its native language.  The evolution of English as an international language is an example of the English people’s love, dedication and untiring efforts to develop their language.  In the United Kingdom, Welsh (a minority language) is encouraged. The legal status of Welsh in the UK (spoken by about 750,000 people) is far better than the status of Telugu in India, where it is spoken by 85 million people.  In 2012 the Andhra Pradesh official-language commission resumed its activities, and was tasked with organizing the fourth World Telugu Conference (WTC) after a 22-year hiatus. The conference was a success, with 5,000 Telugu delegates from all over the world meeting in Tirupati.  Print and visual Telugu media have taken steps to reduce English in Telugu programs, using appropriate alternate Telugu words.  The Andhra Cricket Association has translated the National Cricket Academy's (NCA) coaching manuals into Telugu.          