Graphnet is a UK provider of healthcare software based in Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire. The company was founded in 1994.  It specialises in shared care records and claims to be "the UK’s leading supplier of shared care record software to the NHS and care services".   It is not connected to Graphnet, Inc., based in the USA. Graphnet’s principal product is CareCentric, a software suite that provides large scale data integration and a single data-viewer for patient/citizen information drawn from a range of care settings that can include acute care, primary care, social care, community care, child health, and mental health. Giving clinicians and social workers the ability to see data from different care settings allows more joined up care . CareCentric links information from multiple systems, integrating workflows between care settings and supporting multi-provider reporting & analysis. CareCentric is the software behind several data sharing projects in UK health and social care including the Hampshire Health Record, the Berkshire Care Record, the Cheshire Pioneer Integrated Digital Care Record,  the Kingston and Sutton Health Record, the Manchester Integrated Care Record, and the Nottinghamshire Health Record.  Graphnet has a contract using its CareCentric software in Berkshire for a Connected Care programme which will enable the 102 GP practices, Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust, Frimley Health NHS Foundation Trust, Berkshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, South Central Ambulance Service, and the six local authorities across the county to share records - and enable patients to view their own records.  Records of 855,000 patients will be used by about 12,000 health and care professionals.  Graphnet is also developing a system which will make available an integrated record of key information to clinicians across Greater Manchester.  Graphnet is part of the System C and Graphnet Care Alliance   a strategic alliance offering integrated IT solutions to the UK health and social care market.In February 2017,  Graphnet and System C announced that they would be integrating next generation technologies from Microsoft.   