The Coven is an artist collective based in Montreal but including artists from Ireland, England and the USA. The collective exhibited "Girlhood" at La Centrale Galerie Powerhouse, a feminist artist-run centre in Montreal, from August 1 to 29, 2014.  The collective was featured in the summer 2015 issue of Dazed , which included interviews with the artists and images of their work.  Members of The Coven include Amanda Craig, Charline Bataille, Erin Baillie-Rutter, Hannah Le Feuvre, Hobbes Ginsberg, Jasmin Risk, Laura Rokas, Laurence Philiomene, Liv Thurley, Luna e los Santos, Patricia Alvarado, Samantha Conlon, Sasha Cresdee and Simone Blain. Amanda Craig "Her often self-reflective work picks apart memories, relationships, and the culture surrounding feminine identity."  She is a graduate of Concordia University with a BFA in studio arts. She has also been published in The Void.  Charline Bataille Bataille is a "queer and tender MTL [Montreal] artist, with all the feelings and a useless degree."  She is a Montreal artist working with strong feminist undertones in her art works. Erin Baillie-Rutter Baillie-Rutter's caption on The Coven's tumblr reads, "how sweet the sound does scratch in time."  Hannah Le Feuvre Le Feuvre is part of The Coven  and Bunny Collective. ' Hobbes Ginsberg Ginsberg is a "self described “wannabe (sea)punk, new wave earnest white girl and at least a 7/10". Her photos are "candid, mythical, and ask important questions: 'who am i? why am i here? do u love me bb?'"  Jasmin Risk Risk is an interdisciplinary artist, whose installations and artists books use textiles as support and material. Her work has been exhibited extensively in New York City. Laura Rokas Rokas "is a Concordia graduate currently living/creating in the Bay Area, California."  Laurence Philiomene Philiomene  "is a 22 year old photographer working around themes of identity, femininity & color theory. Likes: the color pink, cheetos, napping."  Liv Thurley Thurley "is an artist specializing in sculpture from London. In her work she likes to make provocative pieces to act as a catalyst for conversation and thought between the public. The viewers' reaction is just as much a part of the work as the object involved."  Luna e los Santos Luna e los Santos "is a wannabe kitten/curator from montreal. Her work primarily deals with femininity, feminism, gender expression, and girlhood."  Patricia Alvarado Alvarado "is a sober brown queer fat Filipina Womanist and intermedia artist interested in creating a questioning of and satirical commentary on attraction versus repulsion, societal standards (especially those faced by women of color), and shame."  Samantha Conlon Conlon "is studying for a BA in Fine Art from Crawford College Of Art in Cork, Ireland. Her work is concerned with female representation, social media, celebrity culture, the commodification of bodies. She is the creator of Bunny Collective."  Sasha Cresdee Cresdee "is interested in feminine restrictions and confinements within a social context. She deals particularly with personal issues of self worth and body image within her works and subverts traditionally feminine textile techniques like embroidery and knitting to do so."  Simone Blain Blain says in her statement on The Coven's tumblr, "Creating art is a clumsy balancing act. I try to make things that are in an awkward transitory state; tipping between sensitivity and absurdity."  