 In law, an alien generally refers to any person who is not a citizen or national of a given country,   though definitions and terminology differ to some degree. The term "alien" is derived from the Latin alienus, meaning stranger, foreign, etym. "belonging (somewhere) else".  Different countries use varying terms for "aliens" including: An "alien" in English law was someone who was born outside of the monarch's dominions and who did not have allegiance to the monarch. Aliens were not allowed to own land and were subject to different taxes to subjects.  This idea was passed on in the Commonwealth to other common law jurisdictions. In Australia, citizenship is defined in the Australian nationality law. Non-citizens living in Australia are either permanent residents; temporary residents; or illegal residents (technically called "unlawful non-citizens").  Most non-citizens (including those who lack citizenship documents) travelling to Australia must obtain a visa prior to travel. The only exceptions to this rule are holders of New Zealand passports and citizenship who may apply for a visa on arrival according to the Trans-Tasman Travel Arrangement.  In Canada, the term "alien" is not used in federal laws and statues. Instead, the term "foreign national" serves as its equivalent and is found in legal documents. The Immigration and Refugee Protection Act defines "foreign national" as "a person who is not a Canadian citizen or a permanent resident". Permanent residents and Canadian citizens are not considered as foreign.  The British Nationality Act 1772 regulated who was to be called a British subject. The Aliens Act 1905, the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act 1914 and the Aliens Restriction (Amendment) Act 1919 were all products of the turbulence in the early part of the 20th century. In the United Kingdom, the British Nationality Act 1981 defines an alien as a person who is not a British citizen, a citizen of Ireland, a Commonwealth citizen, or a British protected person.  According to the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) of the United States, the term "alien" applies to "any person not a citizen or national of the United States."   A permanent U.S. resident could either be an "alien" or a "national of the United States," which requires a case-by-case analysis.  The U.S. Supreme Court has long explained that "once an alien gains admission to our country and begins to develop the ties that go with permanent residence, his constitutional status changes accordingly."  The usage of the term "alien" dates back to 1798, when it was used in the Alien and Sedition Acts.  Although the INA provides no overarching explicit definition of the term "illegal alien," it is still mentioned in some provisions under title 8.  Several provisions even mention the term "unauthorized alien."   Because the U.S. law says that a corporation is a person, the term alien is not limited to natural humans because what are colloquially called foreign corporations are technically called alien corporations. Because corporations are creations of local state law, a foreign corporation is an out-of-state corporation. There are a multitude of unique and highly complex U.S. domestic tax laws and regulations affecting the U.S. tax residency of foreign nationals, both nonresident aliens and resident aliens, in addition to income tax and social security tax treaties and Totalization Agreements.  In the Arab states of the Persian Gulf (United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Oman, Bahrain, Qatar, etc.), many non-natives (foreigners) have lived in the region since birth or since independence. However, these Arab states of the Persian Gulf do not easily grant citizenship to them. As such, referring to these people as foreigners is seen by some as inappropriate.    On Latvian passports, the mark nepilsoņi (alien) refers to non-citizens or former citizens of USSR who don't have voting rights for the parliament of Latvia but have rights and privileges under Latvian law and international bilateral treaties, such as the right to travel without visas to both the European Union and Russia, where latter is not possible for Latvian citizens. 