The Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities (CRASSH) is an interdisciplinary research centre within the University of Cambridge for collaboration between researchers from the arts, social sciences and humanities.  The Centre is independent of any university department but works with both the School of Arts and Humanities, and the School of Humanities and Social Sciences. Founded in 2001, CRASSH celebrated its 10th anniversary by welcoming professor Simon Goldhill as its new director and moving from Mill Lane, to the Alison Richard Building at 7 West Road, as well as inaugurating a new series of public lectures, which in 2011 were on The Idea of the University and in 2012 Understanding Society. At beginning of 2012, CRASSH moved into the new Alison Richard building at the West Road gateway to the University’s Sidgwick Site, the main base for humanities and social science teaching and research at Cambridge. The building was designed by Nicholas Hare Architects and received a commendation at the 2013 Civic Trust Awards. The move into 7 West Road  provides in-house space for larger conferences, but also creates greater interaction with old and new constituencies. The Centre’s relocation puts CRASSH alongside the major regional studies centres and POLIS, the Department of Politics and International Studies. The building is also home to Edmund de Waal's first piece of public sculpture, A Local History, a commission of three vitrines filled with porcelain and sunk into the pavement outside the building. CRASSH is home to numerous major, long-term research projects. The cluster of Early Modern related projects has ensured that CRASSH is one of the largest centres for Early Modern Studies in Europe. The graduate/ faculty programme supports students and faculty working together around shared interdisciplinary research interests. The groups act as a barometer for disciplinary development and curriculum change. This programme is funded by the Isaac Newton Trust and the Andrew W Mellon. The conference support programme functions as a showcase for arts, social sciences and humanities research in action. It provides the opportunity for Cambridge scholars to broker local and international collaborations. Recent and upcoming conferences include The Future University, Migration in Legal and Political Theory, Art, Memory and Dictatorship in Latin America, Languages of Citizenship in Translation, Still Architecture and Medieval Church Screens. The Centre offers a number of programmes to bring scholars from all over the world to CRASSH: the fellowship schemes allow a community of scholars – from postdoctoral and early career researchers to more established visiting fellows – to interact in an interdisciplinary research environment. The Centre reaches out globally through its Facebook site and through making available recordings of an increasing number of events online, in our Media Gallery and via the Cambridge YouTube and iTunesU channels:   