F1 in Schools is an international STEM (science, technology, engineering, mathematics) competition for school children (aged 11–18), in which groups of 3–6 students have to design and manufacture a miniature car out of the official F1 Model Block using CAD/CAM design tools.  The cars are powered by CO2 cartridges and are attached to a track by a nylon wire. They are timed from the moment they are launched to when they pass the finish line by a computer.  The cars have to follow extensive regulations, in a similar fashion to Formula 1 (e.g. the wheels of the car must be in contact with the track at all times). The cars are raced on a 20m long track with two lanes, to allow two cars to be raced simultaneously.  Software called F1 Virtual Wind Tunnel was designed specifically for the challenge.  F1 Virtual Wind Tunnel or F1 VWT uses computational fluid dynamics (CFD) to simulate air resistance on the "cars" made in the CAD.  The competition is currently operational in over 40 different countries.   The competition was first introduced in the UK in 1999.   The competition's aim is to introduce younger people to engineering in a more fun environment.   The competition is held annually, with Regional and National Finals.  The overall winners of the National Finals are invited to compete at the World Finals, which are held at a different location each year, usually held in conjunction with a Formula One Grand Prix. In the UK competition; there are 3 classes of entry. Formula One Class aimed at 11-to-19 year olds, Rookie Class aimed at 11-to-15 year olds from new schools and The Jaguar Primary School Challenge aimed at 5-to-11 year olds. The current F1 in Schools World Champions (as of 2018) are Horizon, Australia. Union Racing International were the first team to beat the one second barrier and set a new World Record at the World Finals 2015 in Singapore of 0.977 seconds.  However, one year later Infinitude from Australia broke the world record with a time of 0.916 seconds. The other teams to have broken the 1 second barrier were Infinite Racing from Greece, Fast Payce from Australia and Aeolus Racing from Greece.  After safety issues concerning the use of extended canister chambers coupled with the Launch Energy Recovery System (LERS), the controversial device was banned globally from the 2017 World Finals season onwards. Specification judging Specification judging is a detailed inspection process where the race car is assessed for compliance with the F1 in Schools Technical Regulations. Scrutineering is conducted within the confines of parc fermé where judges use a series of specially manufactured gauges and accurate measuring tools to check the car's compliance. All of the rules and regulations season can be found at F1 in Schools website.  Engineering judging The scheduled engineering judging interview session focuses on the application of CAD CAM analysis, CAD data organisation, orthographic drawing, 3D render and use of CNC machining. This is an informal interview where judges ask the team to demonstrate their CAD / CAM work and query teams on what they have done. Portfolio & Pit Display Judging Each team of students is required to produce an enterprise portfolio, engineering portfolio as well as a pit display. The portfolios are A3 size and should contain information about the team, their car design and manufacturing process, marketing techniques, project management, teamwork and team identity. Teams are given an area to set up a pit display which is judged alongside their design portfolio by a panel of judges. Verbal presentation judging In advance of the competition, teams prepare a timed verbal presentation to present to a panel of judges, outlining their project. Teams usually use a PowerPoint presentation as a visual aid when presenting to the judges. The length of the verbal presentation varies depending on the level of the competition. At World Finals Level teams are required to prepare a 10-minute presentation. Racing Teams race their cars against each other on the official 25 metre F1 in Schools competition track. Points are awarded for reaction time racing as well as manual launch racing. F1 in Schools is an internationally recognised competition with schools participating from the following countries: Generally, Regional Champions are invited to compete at their country's National Final, with the in-country organising authority inviting other teams to the National Final through the use of wildcards. The National Champions are invited to represent their country at the World Finals. The in-country organiser is permitted to invite up to 3 other teams to the World Final, one of which is generally either an in-country or international collaboration team. The winner receives the crystal Bernie Ecclestone F1 in Schools World Trophy. The World Final podium places and Best Engineered Car are outlined below. F1 in Schools has been featured in UK print media and on television.  2012 F1 in Schools feature on Sky Sports F1.  2005 F1 in Schools appeared in Newsround (13 January). The programme featured Mathew Hughes, from Welsh team "Atomic Jo's", explaining the F1 in Schools scheme.  The interview was recorded at the UK National final in London 2005. 2004 F1 in Schools appeared on the BBC Politics Show (10 October), BBC Central News (3 October) and BBC Northern Ireland TV (7 January).  An article on F1 in Schools was in the Education Guardian (6 January). 2003 F1 in Schools appeared on HTV News (11 December), BBC News Wales (11 December) and BBC 1 Newsround (10 January). 2002 F1 in Schools was reported by The Sun (27 November), RPM Motorsports (November) and appeared on Techno Games on BBC1 in March. 2001 F1 in Schools was reported by The Mirror (22 February) and appeared on Blue Peter in June. The challenge has many supporters and sponsors which include the following:  