The Nutcracker, International Television Contest for Young Musicians is an annual music competition, organized by "Russia K" (Rossia-Kultura) state TV channel, branch of the VGTRK. The contest according to its rules is open to all regions.  Established in 2000 the contest became a recognized and significant event in the Russian music world. Multimillion audience follows with interest the competition of the participants day after day, and "Russia K" TV channel transmits the Gala Closing concert live. The Contest is limited to solo performance of classical music and have three fields: piano, strings (violin, cello, harp) and  winds and percussions (except for block flute). The Nutcracker winner represents Russia at the Eurovision Young Musicians Competition, as the "Russia K" channel is a member of the EBU.  The outstanding musicians of modern age  (Galina Vishnevskaya, Vladimir Spivakov, Vladimir Kraynev, Yuri Bashmet, Vladimir Fedoseyev, Alexander Rudin, Denis Matsuyev, Dmitri Khvorostovsky, Nikolay Petrov, Ignat Solzhenitsyn) support the contest, working as adjudicators and providing special prizes and grants. Gifted children from all over the world have an opportunity not only to show themselves as serious musicians, but also to get acquainted, to change their experiences and to perform on the same stage with world-class musicians - the final round of the contest is accompanied by the best Russian orchestras.  The contest traditionally starts with the beginning of Russian autumn school vacations, early November and take place in the Central Music School (College) of Moscow State P.I. Tchaikovsky Conservatory's halls   with the Finale at the Tchaikovsky Concert hall. Deadline for entries - August 10, 2011.  Strings: I prize, «Gold Nutcracker» - Leia Zhu (Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom)); II prize, «Silver Nutcracker» - Eugene Kawai (Tokyo, Japan); III prize, «Bronze Nutcracker» - Eduard Kollert (Prague, Czech Republic) . Winds and percussions: I prize, «Gold Nutcracker» - Timofei Yakhnov (Saint-Petersburg); II prize, «Silver Nutcracker» - Andrei Ryazantsev (Moscow); III prize, «Bronze Nutcracker» -  Mikhail Petukhov (Moscow). Piano: I prize, «Gold Nutcracker» - Maxim Lando (Great Neck, USA); II prize, «Silver Nutcracker» - Varvara Kutuzova (Moscow); III prize, «Bronze Nutcracker» - Nikolai Varlamov (Moscow). Strings: I prize, «Gold Nutcracker» - Lizi Ramishvili (Tblisi, Georgia); II prize, «Silver Nutcracker» - Alexander Shapchits (Moscow, Russia); III prize, «Bronze Nutcracker» - Mijhail Dormidontov (Serpukhov, Russia). Winds and percussions: I prize, «Gold Nutcracker» - Matvey Sherling (Moscow, Russia); II prize, «Silver Nutcracker» - Maxim Savran (Cheboksary, Russia); III prize, «Bronze Nutcracker» -  Vilhelm Patrick Skabardis (Riga, Latvia). Piano: I prize, «Gold Nutcracker» - Daniil Kharitonov (Moscow, Russia); II prize, «Silver Nutcracker» - Nikita Korovin (surgut, Russia); III prize, «Bronze Nutcracker» - Alina Zhilina (Barnaul, Russia). Audience award - Nikita Korovin (Russia). Strings: I prize, «Gold Nutcracker» - Iskandeor Khannanov (Ufa, Russia) and Grégoire Girard(France); II prize, «Silver Nutcracker» - Tatiana Kryachkova (Barnaul, Russia); III prize, «Bronze Nutcracker» - none. Winds and percussions: I prize, «Gold Nutcracker» - none; II prize, «Silver Nutcracker» - Valentin Kochetkov (Moscow, Russia) and  Denis Kokorin (Bratsk, Russia); III prize, «Bronze Nutcracker» - Arseniy Tsoy (Saratov, Russia). Piano: I prize, «Gold Nutcracker» - Vasiliy Salnikov (Moscow, Russia); II prize, «Silver Nutcracker» - Maximilian Karl Kromer (Austria); III prize, «Bronze Nutcracker» - Gregory Martin (USA). Special prize «Young musician of the year» - Iskandeor Khannanov, Children Jury award - Denis Kokorin, Audience award - Vasiliy Salnikov. 