  On 21 February 2017, at 8:59 am local time, a Beechcraft King Air aircraft operating a charter flight, carrying a pilot and four passengers bound for King Island, crashed seconds after taking off from Essendon Airport in Melbourne.  The pilot made two mayday calls  before the aircraft clipped the roof of a building housing the Essendon Direct Factory Outlets (DFO). The aircraft then impacted the ground a few metres away and ignited, starting a fire.   The Direct Factory Outlets complex, located on the airport grounds, had not yet begun the day's trading.  All five people on board were killed in the crash, including the four passengers who were American tourists on their way to King Island to play golf.  Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews said it was the worst civil aviation accident in Victoria in 30 years.  Media sources reported that the aircraft crashed as a result of an engine failure on take-off.  Some local residents and aviation groups have stated that the crash shows buildings have been constructed too close to the airport.    The official investigation's initial findings include that there were no pre-existing aircraft faults, that the pilot made a mayday call, that the voice recorder failed, and that witnesses said the take-off took "longer than normal". Engine tear-downs show that both powerplants were free to rotate and both propellers showed evidence of rotation, although only the left propeller left slash damage to the building roof. Further findings will be made public as the investigation is concluded.   The aircraft was a Beechcraft King Air B200, serial number BB-1544 and registered as VH-ZCR; it was manufactured in 1996.   Speaking to media representatives, the Executive Director of the Australian branch of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association (AOPA) criticised the practice of allowing commercial developments, such as the Essendon Direct Factory Outlets complex, at Australian airports, saying these reduced the options available to pilots in emergencies. He stated that AOPA had been calling on governments for two decades to stop such developments.  A spokesman for the Australian Federation of Air Pilots also criticised commercial development of land at Essendon Airport.  Anti-airport campaigners renewed calls for the airport to be closed.   