Abu al-Fadl Abdullah bin Muhammad bin al-Siddiq al-Ghumari (1910–1993) was a Moroccan preacher, jurist and theologian.  The Ghumari family descends from Ahl al-Bayt, the family of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.  Ghumari's bloodline is traced through his father Muhammad, son of Muhammad, son of Ahmad, son of Muhammad, son of Qasim, son of Muhammad, son of Muhammad, son of Abd al-Mu`min, son of Muhammad, son of Abd al-Mu`min, son of Ali, son of al-Hasan, son of Muhammad, son of Abdullah, son of Ahmad, son of Abdullah, son of Isa, son of Mas'ud, son of al-Fudayl, son of Ali ibn Umar, son of Umar, son of al-Arabi Alal, son of Musa, son of Ahmad, son of Dawud, son of Idris II of Fes, son of Idris I of Morocco, son of Abdullah, son of al-Hasan al-Muthana, son of Hasan ibn Ali, son of Ali and Fatimah.  Ghumari was born in the Moroccan city of Tangier in 1910, and died in the same city in 1993.  As a child, he was primarily educated by his father Muhammad bin al-Siddiq al-Ghumari, also an Islamic scholar. The younger Ghumari memorized the entirety of the Qur'an at an early age, in addition to the Hadith book Bulugh al-Maram along with Alfiya and Ajārūmīya in Arabic grammar.  Ghumari later travelled to Fas for his higher education, but then enrolled in the University of al-Karaouine. While there, he also studied Mosque of Uqba,  a UNESCO World Heritage Site and important seat of Muslim religious learning.  During his study, Ghumari's teachers covered a number of books considered canonical in Sunni Islam, Al-Qastallani's explanation of Sahih al-Bukhari and the works of Khalil ibn Ishaq al-Jundi being two examples.  Eventually, Ghumari switched from Karaouine to Al-Azhar University in 1930 and graduating the next year. During his education, Ghumari was a student of Al-Kawthari, of whom Ghumari would later hold extremely negative views.  Due to fears in the wider Arab world regarding the influence of the Muslim Brotherhood in the mid-twentieth century, Ghumari was accused of having ties to a foreign group.  In 1961, he was sentenced to ten years in prison, likely due to his time spent in Egypt where the Brotherhood had formed. Hi s older brother, Ahmad al-Ghumari, fell ill upon hearing of his younger brother's long sentence and died eight months later. Like most of the Ghumari family, Abdullah al-Ghumari was a prolific writer. One of his well-known works consisted of a series of refutations of the Salafi writer Muhammad Nasiruddin al-Albani, which started over the issue of the tombs of Muslim saints and ended over the grading of hadith. Ghumari was famous not only for the number of teachers which he had, but also the number of students. Salâh Ud Dîn At Tijânî and Muhammad bin Yahya al-Ninowy is counted as one of Ghumari's more prominent students,    as is Hassan al-Kattani.  