Professional mourning or paid mourning is an occupation that originates from Egyptian, Chinese,  Mediterranean and Near Eastern cultures. Professional mourners, also called moirologists, are compensated to lament or deliver a eulogy and help comfort and entertain the grieving family. Mentioned in the Bible  and other religious texts, the occupation is widely invoked and explored in literature, from the Ugaritic epics of early centuries BC to modern poetry.  Held in high esteem in some cultures and times, the practice was vilified in others, such as the Chinese Cultural Revolution.  . Female professional mourners also, called Rudaali, were common in many parts of India, especially in the Western Indian state of Rajasthan Professional mourning is still practiced in China and other Asian countries. In fact, some cultures even think that the use of professional mourners brings a certain religious and historical application to funeral processions.  Most of the people hired to perform the act of professional mourning were women. Men were deemed unfit for this because they were supposed to be strong and leaders of the family, unwilling to show any sort of raw emotion like grief, which is why women were professional mourners. It was actually socially acceptable to express grief for women, and expressing grief is important when it comes to mourning a body in terms of religion.  Also, in a world full of jobs solely made for men, it gave women a sense of pride that they were actually able to earn money in some way.  Mourners were also seen as a sign of wealth. The more wailers or mourners that followed your cascade around, the more respected you were in the society.  In ancient Egypt,  The mourners would be "making an ostentatious display of grief which included loud wailing, beating exposed breasts, smearing the body with dirt and dishevelled hair; all signs of uncontrolled behavior, the disorder of sorrow" (Capel, 1996). There are many inscriptions on tombs and pyramids of crowds of people following a body throughout the funerary procession.  However, the most important of the women were the two that impersonated the two gods Isis and Nephyts. Isis and Nephyts were both Egyptian gods that were believed to play a special role when someone died. They were to be impersonated as a mourning ritual by professional mourners. In most inscriptions seen, one of them is at either ends of the corpse.  There are also rules for impersonation of these two gods, for example the portrayer's body had to be shaved completely, not have any children, and tattooed the names Isis or Nephyts on their shoulders for identification.  Evidence of professional mourning is seen in Ancient Egypt through different pyramid and tomb inscriptions. Different inscriptions show women next to tombs holding their bodies in such ways that show sorrow, such as "hands holding their back of the neck, crossing their arms on their chests, kneeling and/or bending their bodies forwards" (Valdesago, 2014). Professional mourners have been regular attendees of Chinese funerals since 756.  The tradition of professional mourning stemmed from theatrical performances that would occur during funerary processions.  There would be musical performances at funerals stemming as early as the third century. Actors would play the role of the deceased and play out different aspects of their lives, as described in the following scene: "...set up wooden figures of Xiang Yu and Liu Bang participating in the banquet at Goose Gate. The show lasted quite some time. This performance was part of a funeral procession during the Dali reign (766-779) as the coffin of the deceased was being carried on the streets to his tomb site. The main funerary ritual had taken place at the house of the deceased, and now the mourners were walking in the funeral procession, along with a troupe of performers. The latter performance of this celebrated episode of the feast at the Goose Gate (Hongmen) from the Three Kingdoms saga was preceded by the enactment of a combat scene between two celebrated soldiers in history that was performed alongside the procession" (Hong, 2016). Most of the historical evidence of mourning exists in the form of inscriptions on the different panels of tombs. Each slab contains a different story, and by the analysis of these inscriptions we are able to tell that these were played out during the funeral. For example: "Each scene --the preparation of food, the groom with a horse, and the entertainment -- is unfailingly reminiscent of classical representations that adorn many tomb walls or coffin surfaces created since the Hand period...these motifs are generally understood by students of Chinese funerary art as a banquet for the deceased...it is clear they represent the deceased couple because of the motif's strong connection to traditional representations of performances prepared for tomb occupants" (-Hong, 2016) The idea of entertainment at funerals was not always popular, especially with the government and scholars. In fact, during the Cultural Revolution in China professional mourning was actually so looked down upon and rallied against by the government that there wasn't a single instance of professional mourning until it was revitalized in the reform era.  Professional mourning is brought up many times throughout the Bible. For example in Amos, "Therefore thus says the LORD God of hosts, the Lord, "There is wailing in all the plazas, And in all the streets they say, 'Alas! Alas!' They also call the farmer to mourning And professional mourners to lamentation" (Amos 5:16). According to Biblical analysts, this verse is implying that lamentation is like an art. People who were deemed "good" at wailing and moaning were then able to take part in more and more funerals, and were expected to make these moaning sounds.  The people who fulfilled the roles of these professional mourners were farmers who were done cropping for their season, and didn't have much else to do, so they took on this role for the extra money it would get them.  Another instance of professional mourning worth noting is in Chronicles, the Bible says "Then Jeremiah chanted a lament for Josiah. And all the male and female singers speak about Josiah in their lamentations to this day. And they made them an ordinance in Israel; behold, they are also written in the Lamentations." (2 Chronicles 35:25). When someone of power dies, in this case Josiah, everyone can fill the role of mourner, professionals aren't needed because everyone feels the weight of the loss. Everyone becomes the professional mourner. In the book of Jeremiah, "Thus says the Lord of hosts, “Consider and call for the mourning women, that they may come; And send for the wailing women, that they may come! “Let them make haste and take up a wailing for us,That our eyes may shed tears and our eyelids flow with water" (Jeremiah 9: 17-18 ). These three quotes from the Bible are just three of many that pertain to professional mourning. According to the book Mourner, Mother, Midwife, women played an integral part when it came to mourning. "Wailing women are called to lead the people in expressions of grief in response to the national tragedy that saw the destruction of Zion. These women who are called to 'raise a dirge over us' are literally called 'wise women.' This can also be translated as 'skilled women' (Jer. 9:17 [MT16]), suggesting that the art of mourning is a skill that has to be learned. The role of the wailing woman constituted a professional trade that required training. . . . On the appropriate occasion (a funeral or a national tragedy like the one that form the backdrop of Jeremiah 9), wailing women not only had to be able to draw on the reservoir of lament handed down through the generations, but they also had to adapt these laments to suit the particular need of the current situation. . . . Their laments represent the community’s response in the face of extreme trauma."  In the eyes of the average modern professional mourner, they are performers. A common ritual in China involves the family paying the mourners in advance and bringing them in lavish style to the place the funeral will take place. The mourners are trained in the art of singing and bring a band with them.  The first step is for the mourners to line up outside and crawl.  While crawling, the mourner says with anguish the name of the person.  This is symbolic of daughters running home from their families in an effort to see the body. Next, a eulogy is performed in loud, sobbing, fashion and backed up by dramatic instrumental tunes, driving the attendees to tears. One of the common lines used during these eulogies are: "Why did you leave us so soon? The earth is covered in a black veil for you. The rivers and streams are crying to tell your story – that of an honest man,’ Hu sings. ‘I shed tears for your children and grandchildren. We’re so sorry we could not keep you here,’ she croons between sobs" (Lim,2013). Then the family is told to bow in front of the casket three times, and suddenly a belly dancer takes the so called "stage" and the song picks up, lights start flashing, and everyone is upbeat again. Since the funeral is usually a couple of days after the actual death, the goal of the professional mourner is to remind everyone attending the funeral about the sadness and pain that is associated with when someone passes away. They also have the job of bringing the mood right back up with lighting and fun songs after the wailing and mourning is done.  In the United Kingdom, there is a program called "Rent A Mourner" in which families can hire people to increase the amount of guests at a funeral.  People hired from this website are essentially actors that are given a role to play by the family, for example, a distant cousin or uncle. Mourners are expected to be able to communicate with and interact with guests without giving away that they have been hired by the family.This practice spans across religions, mourners have been hired at Muslim, Jewish, and Christian events.  These mourners are paid somewhere between $30 - $120 and if everything goes well they are able to be tipped very gratuitously.  In Egypt, when someone in the family dies the women in the family would start the lamenting process, and the neighbors and the community would join throughout the day. Professional mourners would also come up and help lead the family in mourning by making grief-stricken shrieks, cherishing and reminiscing about the deceased. A funeral dirge is also performed by the mourners in which prayers are offered in the form of song or poetry.  One of the teachings of Muhammad was that the sound of wailing woman was forbidden, but modern Egyptian culture doesn't heed to this part of the Quran as the wailing and mourners follow the body to the graveyard.  All of this occurs within the same day, or if the deceased were to pass away in the night, the following day.  