The phrase "Rest in peace", RIP, from Latin Requiescat in pace (Classical Latin: [re.kʷiˈeːs.kat ɪn ˈpaːke], Ecclesiastical Latin: [re.kwiˈɛs.kat in ˈpa.tʃe])) is sometimes used in traditional Christian services and prayers, such as in the Anglican, Lutheran,  Methodist,  and Roman Catholic  denominations, sometimes to wish the soul of a decedent eternal rest and peace in Christ. It became ubiquitous on headstones in the 18th century, and is widely used today when mentioning someone's death. The phrase dormit in pace (English: "he sleeps in peace") was found in the catacombs of the early Christians and indicated that "they died in the peace of the Church, that is, united in Christ."    The acronym R.I.P., meaning Requiescat in pace "Rest in peace", continues to be engraved on the gravestones of Christians,  especially in the Catholic, Lutheran, and Anglican denominations.  In the Tridentine Requiem Mass of the Catholic Church the phrase appears several times.  To satisfy a vogue for rhyming couplets on tombstones, the phrase has been parsed ungrammatically as:  This verse has been found inscribed in Hebrew on gravestones dating from the 1st century BC, in the graveyard of Bet Shearim. It speaks of the righteous person who died because he could not stand the evil surrounding him. A recapture of these words, read as "come and rest in peace," has been transferred to the ancient Talmudic prayers, in a mixture of Hebrew and Aramaic of the 3rd century AD. It is used to this day in traditional Jewish ceremonies.  Other variations include "Requiescat in pace et in amore" for "May she rest in peace and love", and “In pace requiescat et in amore”.  The word order is variable because Latin syntactical relationships are indicated by the inflexional endings, not by word order.  If “Rest in peace” is used in an imperative mood, it would be “Requiesce in pace” (acronym R.I.P.) in the second person singular, or “Requiescite in pace” in the second person plural.  In the common phrase "Requiescat in pace" the "-at" ending is appropriate because the verb is a third-person singular present active subjunctive used in a hortative sense: "May he/she rest in peace." The phrase was not found on tombstones before the eighth century.   It became ubiquitous on the tombs of Christians in the 18th century,  and for High Church Anglicans, Methodists,  as well as Roman Catholics in particular, it was a prayerful request that their soul should find peace in the afterlife.  When the phrase became conventional, the absence of a reference to the soul led people to suppose that it was the physical body that was enjoined to lie peacefully in the grave.  This is associated with the Christian doctrine of the particular judgment; that is, that the soul is parted from the body upon death, but that the soul and body will be reunited on Judgment Day.  In 2017, members of the Orange Order in Northern Ireland called on Protestants to stop using the phrase "RIP" or "Rest in Peace".  Wallace Thompson, the secretary of the Evangelical Protestant Society, said on a BBC Radio Ulster programme that he would encourage Protestants to refrain from using the term "RIP".  Thompson said that he regards "RIP" as a prayer for the dead, which he believes contradicts biblical doctrine.   In the same radio programme, Presbyterian Ken Newell disagreed that people are praying for the dead when they use the phrase. This Lutheran Christian grave reads "Rest in Peace" in the local Cieszyn Silesian Polish dialect. The epitaph R.I.P. on a headstone in a churchyard of Donostia-San Sebastián Excerpt from gravestone in Święciechowa, showing R.I.P This cross from 1720 bears the complete Latin phrase in its plural form ("Requiescant in pace") This funerary tablet from 525 AD begins with the phrase Requiescat, oil on canvas painting by Briton Rivière, 1888, Art Gallery of New South Wales. Phrases in other languages: 