  The South African National Youth Orchestra Foundation is a non-profit organisation in the music education and development sector. The Foundation supports the training and development of South Africa’s young musicians through national courses, national and international tours and workshops, and networks nationally and internationally. It also assists regional youth orchestra and music education programmes countrywide. It organises youth orchestra courses, where the South African National Youth Orchestras are formed. This has included the South African National Youth Orchestra, South African National Concert Orchestra, the South African National Wind Orchestra, the South African National Youth Baroque Orchestra, South African National Youth Brass and the South African National Youth String Orchestra. Members of these orchestras are under the age of 25.   Sasol was the main sponsor from 1979-2014 when the Foundation was formed to look after the South African National Youth Orchestra (formed in 1964).  The Foundation has also been supported by De Beers, Rupert Musiekstigting, Adcock-Ingram, Southern African Music Rights Organisation (SAMRO), Blackie and Associates, Primedia (1998 tour), AECI, and Business & Arts South Africa over a number of years. SANYOF has a management team and is assisted by a large network of volunteers.   The Foundation is a cooperating member of the European Federation of National Youth Orchestras (EFNYO). The orchestra courses are held every year during the school holidays, in a different city in South Africa. Courses have been presented in Bloemfontein, Durban, Cape Town, Johannesburg, Port Elizabeth, Pretoria, Potchefstroom, Hartbeespoort and Stellenbosch. Repertoire includes a wide variety of works by baroque, romantic, 20th century and contemporary composers, with an emphasis on performing works by South African composers. This course has also been known as an opportunity to participate in chamber music, socialise and establish friendships. The course first started as a holiday music camp at Hartbeespoort Dam in 1964, with 87 participants, organised by the South African Society of Music Teachers (SASMT). The early pioneers included Korie Koornhof, Arthur Wegelin, Paul Loeb van Zuilenburg, Diane Heller and Betty Pack together with the first conductor, Leo Quayle. The seeds those early pioneers sowed quickly took root and in 1975 the SA National Youth Orchestra took part in the International Festival of Youth Orchestras in Aberdeen, followed by a short tour of Europe three years later. In 1979, Sasol came on board as a founding partner of the National Youth Orchestra Foundation to provide infrastructure and organisational skills. Sasol remains a committed partner to this day, providing sponsorship for the annual youth orchestra course and its development initiatives. The South African National Youth Orchestra Foundation holds courses around the country with tutelage by top local and international teachers and conductors.  Under the management of Dorothy van de Geest and with the help of her husband, Professor Gerard van de Geest, the South African National Youth Orchestra reached unprecedented levels, performing in Scotland, in Europe and in Red Square in Moscow. In 2006, the South African National Youth Orchestra took part in the Beethoven festival in Bonn performing a programme of South African works in addition to Beethoven's symphony no. 5.  Leo Quayle (South Africa)   John Arnold (United Kingdom) Anton Hartman (South Africa) Avi Ostrowsky (Israel) Alberto Bolet (USA) Alois Hochstraser (Austria)  Ali (Alexander) Rahbari (Austria) Howard Griffiths (Switzerland)  John Hopkins (Australia) Reinhard Schwarz (Austria) Bernhard Gueller (Germany)   Gérard Korsten (South Africa)   Viktor Yampolsky (USA) Omri Hadari (Israel) Robert Maxym (Germany) Hikotaro Yazaki (Japan) Conrad van Alphen (South Africa)   Stefan Solyom (Sweden)   Fredrik Burstedt (Sweden)   Ewa Strusińska (Poland)    Gerben Grooten (Netherlands)  Christian Baldini (Argentina)  Adam Cooke (Ireland)  Bjørn Breistein (Norway)  Sean Kierman (South Africa) Catherine Larsen-Maguire (United Kingdom) Matheu Kieswetter (South Africa) Osmo Vänskä (Finland)   David Scarr (South Africa) 