 Decision downloading  refers to communicating a decision to those who have not been involved in the decision-making process.  The term “decision downloading” is used to set apart those special situations in which decision-makers communicate a decision that has already been made. The communicators cannot, for whatever reason, keep everyone informed in real-time about the decision-making process.  Decision downloaders can be classified into three groups: robust, restricted, and remedial.    Robust downloaders discuss:  Restricted downloaders discuss some of the above issues, while remedial downloaders discuss few of them.  Robust decision downloaders have a different frame of reference than their less effective counterparts. They view themselves more as educators than cheerleaders. They recognize that education cannot be “once and done”. They know employees learn at different rates, in different ways and from different of sources  In each situation, the decision-makers—either by choice or by prior agreement—do not involve others in the decision-making process. Discussions leading to the decision are often deep, nuanced and sometimes contentious. The decisions are frequently complex, often difficult to understand, and sometimes controversial. Simply put, the nature of the decision-making process and the features of the decision itself often make any subsequent communications about the decision extraordinarily difficult. All too often, the subsequent communications are an afterthought borne out of psychological exhaustion from the decision-making process itself.  Consequently, decision-makers frequently stumble through what we call the “decision downloading process”. No wonder researchers have found that only 50% of all decisions ever get implemented and sustained.  The term was coined by Phillip G. Clampitt and M. Lee Williams in an article published in the MIT Sloan Management Review, Winter 2007.  The causes of poor decision downloading include:  Researchers  have reported that: Since this is a relatively new concept there have not been replications of the original research. Checking the Organizational Pulse   Decision Downloading: An Analysis of How Leaders Communicate Their Decisions   Embracing uncertainty: The executive's challenge   Leaders as Strategic Communicators   Strategically communicating organizational change   