Mobile sales enablement is a systematic approach to helping sales representatives prepare for in-person prospect interactions, engage effectively with their audience using mobile devices in any place, and close deals faster. Mobile sales enablement should not be confused with the larger sales enablement process. There are many ways that organizations use mobile devices to functionally enhance the sales process. Behaviors completed on a mobile device may include, but are not limited to the use of specialized applications, distribution of dynamic content, mobile email tactics or messaging such as push notifications, etc. Mobile sales enablement is an extension of the long-standing sales enablement strategy. IDC defines sales enablement as: “Getting the right information into the hands of the right seller at the right time and place, and in the right format, to move a sales opportunity forward”  When the first iPad was released, some entrepreneurs   took the opportunity to develop mobile apps that enabled salesmen to sell everywhere. These were initiated out of costly custom agency builds that where difficult to maintain. As technology progressed, standardized apps were developed. Some apps focus on content distribution others are focused on more transactional functions. Mobile sales enablement can be applied to all mobile devices. This often includes tablets and smartphones. However; the downside of smartphones is the smaller screen size, in comparison with a tablet which has a larger screen for sharing presentations or materials to an audience. Good apps will tailor the benefits of the solution to the specific selling behavior for the devices. There is often confusion between the terms mobile sales enablement and customer relationship management. This is mostly due to the fact that a lot of CRM providers have a mobile version of their software. CRM software is designed to manage relationships with customers using a database of customers, prospects, and support staff. Meanwhile, mobile sales enablement is focused on making sales people more successful while on the go. Some mobile sales enablement solutions integrate seamlessly with an already existing CRM solution, thereby helping both tools to be more successful.  Research by Demand Metric  into the cost of a bad sales experience indicated that a misalignment between sales and marketing is key to a loss in revenue. Specifically, 72% of sales and marketing professionals agree on this statement. 60% of these professionals often deliver bad sales experiences. The cause of this problem is due to sales thinking that marketing materials lacks quality, while marketers think salespeople aren’t using the content the right way. Mobile sales enablement provides a solution to this problem. In a recent research conducted by BSharp Sales Enablers,  96% of field sales team said they preferred a mobile sales enablement solution to a PC based solution. Profitable Channels conducted research  into the opportunities  provided by mobile sales enablement. They found 3 areas where mobile sales enablement had a lot of potential: 