The situational theory of problem solving attempts to explain why and how an individual communicates during a problematic situation. The Situational Theory of Problem Solving (STOPS) was proposed by Jeong-Nam Kim and James E. Grunig in 2011 though their article “problem solving and communicative action: A situational theory of problem solving.” The theory was developed from the situational theory of publics (STP) and claimed it is “an extended and generalized version” of STP.  This theory has an assumption that “the more one commits to problem resolution, the more one becomes acquisitive of information pertaining to the problem, selective in dealing with information, and transmissive in giving it to others.”  STP has been heavily used in the field of public relations to understand why and how publics communicate. The original situational theory uses three independent variables (problem recognition, constraint recognition, and involvement recognition) to predict the dependent variable of information seeking and processing.   STOPS was proposed to overcome four limitations of STP:  Alterations in existed variables (problem recognition, constraint recognition, involvement recognition, and reference criterion) were done to explain communicative action in problem solving variable. STOPS also expanded the focus of the theory from "decisions" to a more general concept of life "problems." A new variable, situational motivation in problem solving, was added to mediate the effects of predictive variables of communicative behavior. The extent to which an individual wants to know more about a problem. This concept mediates the effect of problem recognition, constraint recognition, and involvement recognition. Referent criterion would be independent of this variable because it is more cognitive than perceptual.  When an individual tries to solve a problem, his or her communicative activeness increases in three domains of communication action: information acquisition, selection, and transmission. The communicative action that is relevant to the degrees of information searching for problem solving. The communicative action that is relevant to the extent of an individual's directedness in acquiring and sharing information. The communicative action that is relevant to the degrees of educating others to utilize collective behaviors for problem solving. An individual’s perception toward a problematic life situation, motivation to solve the problem, and activation of cognitive frames influence an individual’s activeness in six information behaviors – information forefending, information permitting, information forwarding, information sharing, information seeking, and information attending.  STOPS has more than 200 research bibliographies in academic databases such as Communication & Mass Media Complete, Business Source Premier, and Academic Search Premier. Some of the applications of this theory are in the fields of health communication,    crisis communication,  organizational communication,  and nonprofit communication.    