Virtual Exchange is a term used to describe "technology-enabled, sustained, people-to-people education programs"  in which  sustained communication and interaction takes place between individuals or groups who are geographically separated, with the support of educators and/or facilitators. This type of activity is most often situated in educational programs (but is also found in some youth organizations) in order to increase mutual understanding , global citizenship, digital literacies, and language learning . This activity is also known as telecollaboration , online intercultural exchange , globally networked teaching  and learning,  collaborative online international learning (COIL)  . In European school contexts, virtual exchange is part of eTwinning , a European Commission initiative. In 2017 the European Commission published a feasibility study into virtual exchange   and in 2018 the  Erasmus+ Virtual Exchange  project was launched. Groups such as Soliya  (Founder Lucas Welch) and the State University of New York's COIL Center use virtual exchange in higher education curricula to connect young people globally with a primary mission to help them grow in their understanding of each other's contexts (society, government, education, religion, environment, gender issues, etc.). Education which aims to integrate awareness and understanding of distant peoples, environmental issues that impact all planetary species, and geopolitical systems as part of the curriculum is sometimes referred to as Global Education.    Online intercultural exchange is an academic field of study connected to virtual exchange. It "involves instructionally mediated processes...for social interaction between internationally distributed partner classes".  This activity has its roots in computer-assisted language learning (CALL) and computer-mediated communication. OIE is not restricted to language learning but happens across many educational disciplines where there is a desire to increase the internationalization of teaching and learning. Developments in communication technologies and the relative ease with which forms of human communication can be technically afforded internationally since the existence of the internet resulted in language teaching experimentation.  Connecting individuals, classrooms or groups of students to work together on tasks online involves attempting to arrive at shared understanding through "negotiation of meaning"  There is a body of research in the failures and successes of the endeavour which have informed a guide to language teacher practice.   A consortium of researchers, the INTENT consortium supported by funding from the European Union promoted awareness of telecollaborative activities in Higher Education and the contribution made to internationalising the student experience, publishing a report  and a position paper. The history of the evolution of this field was described by researcher Robert O'Dowd in his keynote to the European Computer-Assisted Language Learning Conference EUROCALL in 2015. Publications reveal learner perceptions of such activity.  