The term "Capitalist realism" has been used, particularly in Germany, to describe commodity-based art, from Pop Art in the 1950s and 1960s to the commodity art of the 1980s and 1990s.  Alternatively, it has been used to describe the ideological-aesthetic aspect of contemporary corporate capitalism in the West. When used in this way, it is a play on the term "socialist realism". Although attested earlier,  the phrase capitalist realism was first used in the title of the 1963 art exhibition in Düsseldorf, Demonstration for Capitalist Realism, which featured the work of Gerhard Richter, Sigmar Polke, Wolf Vostell, and Konrad Lueg.   The exhibition's participants focused upon depictions of Germany's growing consumer culture and media-saturated society with strategies, in part, influenced by those of their American Pop  counterparts. The recent rise in Pop Art in German culture was coupled by a fascination with America, which served as a stimulation for the piece. They were inspired primarily by the iconography depicted in newspapers and magazines. Capitalist realism is a German art movement co-founded in 1963 by artist Sigmar Polke.  Polke embraced the advertising and publicity commonly found in the popular press in renderings of everyday consumer items. Often ironic and with critical overtones of society and politics the Capitalist Realism movement is considered more explicitly political than conventional Pop Art.  In the mid-1980s, Michael Schudson used the term "capitalist realism" to describe mainstream practices in advertising.  Chapter seven of Schudson's Advertising: The Uneasy Persuasion compares the messages and appeals of advertising to those found in the Socialist Realism of the Soviet Union.  In his account, the realism of advertising promotes a way of life based on private consumption, rather than social, public achievement.  The term next appeared in 2009 with the publication of Mark Fisher's book Capitalist Realism: Is there no alternative?  Fisher argues that the term "capitalist realism" best describes the current global political situation, which lacks visible alternatives to the capitalist system which became dominant following the fall of the Soviet Union.  His argument is a response to, and critique of, neo-liberalism and new forms of government which apply the logic of capitalism and the market to all aspects of governance. His ideology refers to a perceived "widespread sense that not only is capitalism the only viable political and economic system, but also that it is now impossible even to imagine a coherent alternative to it".   As a philosophical concept, capitalist realism is influenced by the Althusserian conception of ideology.  Fisher proposes that within a capitalist framework there is no space to conceive of alternative forms of social structures, adding that younger generations are not even concerned with recognizing alternatives.   He proposes that the 2008 financial crisis compounded this position. Rather than catalyzing a desire to seek alternatives for the existing model, the crisis reinforced the notion that modifications must be made within the existing system. The crash confirmed within the populace the necessity of capitalism rather than shake it loose from its foundations. Capitalist realism as I understand it cannot be confined to art or to the quasi-propagandistic way in which advertising functions. It is more like a pervasive atmosphere, conditioning not only the production of culture but also the regulation of work and education, and acting as a kind of invisible barrier constraining thought and action. Fisher argues that capitalist realism has propagated a 'business ontology' which concludes that everything should be run as a business including education and healthcare.  Following the publication of Fisher's work, the term has been picked up by other literary critics.  Notes Bibliography 