Ali Yamani is considered to be the progenitor of the Piracha. Ali Yamani was a man of Yemeni descent that lived in Medina. It was and is still assumed to some extent that he belonged to the tribe of Al-Ansar although that is highly debatable. Ali Yamani, was responsible for the preparation of Muhammad's seating area. Later, after his extended family began to participate in this task, they became known as Ferashas. His family promised to travel wherever the descendants of Mohammad went, hence they migrated into Iran and spread throughout Afghanistan, Pakistan and South Asia. According to the following theory, they are the descendents of Aziz Yemeni, a companion of Muhammad. Aziz used to act as  “Farash” to Muhammad. Farash in Arabic means “one who spreads a carpet, an attendant, a valet etc. etc.”  Aziz Yemeni’s descendents were known as “Farasha” after him.   During the Arab conquest of Persia (640-644 AD), Abul Aas, the son of Aziz Yemeni, was commanding the Yemeni contingent.  After the conquest, he settled down in Persia and married a Persian Princess.  The Persians transcribed his surname “Farasha” into “Paracha” according to the usage of their own language. His successors were, thereafter, known as “Paracha” in Persia and later in Afghanistan and the Indus Valley after the Arabs conquered these areas. Today, the descendants of Ali Yamani are referred to as Paracha (sometimes Piracha, Peracha, or Pracha). Parts of the tribe migrated into present day Iran, Turkey and Pakistan. Today, Parachas tend to be businessmen, however there have been several prominent writers, engineers, doctors, journalists, politicians and scientists, etc. 1. ^ Gazetteer of the Rawalpindi District 1893-94, Punjab Government, 2001 Sang-e-Meel Publications, Lahore. Page 104 2. ^ Denzil Ibbetson, Edward MacLagan, H.A. Rose "A Glossary of The Tribes & Casts of The Punjab & Khyber Pakhtunkhwa", 1911 AD, Page 537, Vol II, 3. ^ Gazetteer of the Shahpur District 1897, Punjab Government, Sang-e-Meel Publications, Lahore. Page 91  