The Chen Yet-Sen Family Foundation is a Hong Kong administered charitable institution with a strategic focus on childhood literacy.  It works closely with a variety of non-profit organizations to help them implement “innovative” and “cost effective” programmes. The Foundation was established in 2003, continuing the Chen family’s long history of charitable giving.   The Chen Yet-Sen Family Foundation is predominantly a grant-making institution.  It backs projects that have a lasting impact and “address the needs” of the people they serve. To complement its grant-making programmes, the Foundation often initiates its own projects and research.  It also works with non-profit organisations to improve their effectiveness. The Foundation advocates a strategic approach to philanthropy, with strong emphasis placed on leveraging resources to achieve maximum impact and a high level of engagement with partners. Since its inception the Foundation has worked on over 95 projects in high need areas in Mainland China, Hong Kong and West Africa.  At present over 50% of the Foundation’s funds are allocated to programmes in Mainland China.   The Foundation has been particularly active in Qidong County, Jiangsu Province, the ancestral home of the Chen family. The Foundation has supported a wide range of projects, including: Bring Me A Book Hong Kong (BMABHK) BMABHK provides libraries with quality children’s books and read aloud training to parents and teachers in Hong Kong. The Feng Zikai Chinese Children’s Picture Book Award The Feng Zikai Chinese Children's Picture Book Award recognises the work of Chinese children’s picture book writers, illustrators and publishers.  It aims to promote the importance of early childhood literacy and to encourage the growth of children’s picture books in China. The Outward Bound Trust of Hong Kong Ltd. Outward Bound Hong Kong is running a 4-year experimental plan aimed at improving the leadership, teamwork and problem solving skills of 96 high school students from Qidong. The Reading Guidance Programme, Qidong County The programme promotes the benefits of reading and encourages students to read more.  Over 12,000 books have been distributed to schools in Qidong County, in addition to reading guidance classes and librarian training. Shangri-La Cheese Trail Project The project introduced cheese production methods to residents of the poor village of Langdu in Yunnan Province, to help the largely herding community improve their income and standard of living. 1. Chen Yet-Sen Family Foundation website (http://cysff.org/grant.html) 2. Chen Yet-Sen Family Foundation website (http://cysff.org/grant.html) 