The Program in Creative Writing, more commonly known as the Iowa Writers' Workshop, at the University of Iowa in Iowa City, Iowa, is a much-celebrated  graduate-level creative writing program in the United States. Writer Lan Samantha Chang is its director. Graduates earn a Master of Fine Arts (MFA) degree in Creative Writing. It is frequently cited as the best graduate writing program in the country.  The program began in 1936 with the gathering of poets and fiction writers under the direction of Wilbur Schramm. The workshop's second director from 1941–1965 was Cedar Rapids, Iowa, native Paul Engle. Under his tenure, the Writers’ Workshop became a national landmark. He successfully secured donations for the workshop from the business community for about 20 years, including locals such as Maytag and Quaker Oats, as well as U.S. Steel and Reader’s Digest.  Between 1953 and 1956, the Rockefeller Foundation donated $40,000. Henry Luce, the publisher of TIME and Life magazines, and Gardner Cowles, Jr. (1903–1985), who published Look magazine, provided publicity for the workshop's events.  From 1965–1969, the workshop had several different directors.[who?] John Leggett was the director from 1969–86 and attracted writers such as T.C. Boyle, Ethan Canin, Michael Cunningham, Gail Godwin, Denis Johnson, and Jane Smiley.  From 1987 until his death in 2005, Frank Conroy directed the workshop and was Engle's longest-lasting successor. Lan Samantha Chang became the director in 2006.  The Program in Creative Writing, at the University of Iowa in Iowa City, Iowa, is more commonly known as the Iowa Writers' Workshop  graduate-level creative writing program in the United States. Graduates earn a Master of Fine Arts (MFA) degree in English. Iowa has the oldest creative writing program in the country offering an MFA credential.  The workshop is staffed by three permanent[who?] and several visiting faculty.  The program's curriculum requires students to take a small number of classes each semester, including the Graduate Fiction Workshop or Graduate Poetry Workshop itself, and one or two additional literature seminars. The modest requirements are intended to prepare the student for the realities of professional writing, where self-discipline is paramount. The graduate workshop courses meet weekly.  Before each three-hour class, a small number of students submit material for critical reading by their peers.  The class itself consists of a round-table discussion during which the students and the instructor discuss each piece. The specifics of how the class is conducted vary somewhat from teacher to teacher, and between poetry and fiction workshops. The ideal result is not only that authors come away with insights into the strengths and weaknesses of their own work, but that the class as a whole derives some insight, whether general or specific, about the process of writing.  "Conversations from the Iowa Writer's Workshop" is an event put on by the program that is recorded and put online in podcast form.  As of 2018, Iowa Writers' Workshop alumni won 17 Pulitzer Prizes, as well as numerous National Book Awards and other literary honors. Six U.S. Poets Laureate have been graduates of the workshop.[when?] Faculty and graduates affiliated with the Iowa Writers' Workshop have won 29 Pulitzer Prizes,[when?] including 16 won by graduates since 1947,[when?] and graduates and faculty of the University of Iowa have won over 40.  Coordinates: 41°40′01″N 91°32′06″W﻿ / ﻿41.667°N 91.535°W﻿ / 41.667; -91.535 