Commedus Interruptus is an American theater troupe operating from the US state of California. Commedus Interruptus originated as a short and long-form improvisational theatre troupe at the University of Southern California. The oldest of USC's five currently performing improv troupes, Commedus was created in 1989 by then-senior Don Friesen. The group is best known for performing a free hour-long lawn show every Friday at 1 p.m. in front of Tommy Trojan. In addition to their weekly shows, the troupe writes and produces a full-length sketch comedy show every semester. Commedus quickly established itself as a fixture within the USC theater community, and has served as a stepping-stone in the careers of many USC alumni. Twice a year, Commedus puts on an original sketch comedy show for the student body, shortly before finals week, showcasing original material written and performed by the Commedus cast (commonly known as the "Commedes"). The show is widely acclaimed by the USC theater community, and performances are regularly sold out. Commedus is currently in the process of filming sketches, which will be released on the troupe's website[permanent dead link]. Every spring, Commedus performs 24 straight hours of improv as a fundraiser. The event begins at 2 p.m. Thursday and ends with Commedus' regular lawn show, from 1-2 p.m. Friday.  The event has become a staple of the Commedus calendar, and is well-attended throughout its twenty-four-hour span. Commedus Interruptus holds auditions each Fall, open to undergraduates of all majors. The primary auditions are administered jointly with three other USC improv troupes: Second Nature, The Merry Men, and Spoiler Alert, after which each troupe will offer callbacks on an individual basis. Commedus is unique, however, in that it requires an additional workshop phase: eight candidates are selected to be mentored by the troupe over a six-week period, after which 1-4 will be invited onto the troupe proper. This unusual process is designed to assess the candidates' ability to display talent consistently, take direction and improve over time, and work collaboratively with the rest of the group. Additionally, the following comedy groups have been formed by alumni of the Commedus cast: In 2013, Commedus Interruptus Alumni Beck Bennett and Kyle Mooney were made featured players on the legendary New York-based sketch comedy show, Saturday Night Live. Nick Rutherford joined the show as a writer in 2014.  