Virion is a screen based digital art exhibition that links to public sites across Brisbane, focused in the Kelvin Grove Urban Screen Network. The Virion Screen Project will be held from the 19 July – 1 of August. Developed by Rachael Parsons, Virion will explore the internet’s potential to support a democratic, networked arts culture, by employing an open curatorial process that allows members of the general public to actively contribute to the exhibitions’ content and construction. Virion seeks to maximize & diversify Brisbane audiences’ exposure to new media practices by screening works in non-traditional & traditional locations each creating a unique viewing experience. Virion strives to make vital connections between contemporary art, the general public and the local community and environment. Using the Virion Website  , internet users are invited to upload an image, short video work or sound work that will be exhibited during the exhibition both on selected screen sites and the Virion website. The exhibition is open to all users, there is no selection criteria (the exception being explicit material that may be inappropriate for public spaces) and each work is given equal showing time. Users are able to select the screen they want their work to be shown on  . The ability to upload content will remain open during the exhibition period. Virion provides artists the opportunity to display their work across a network of public screens and access a diverse audience. The exhibition is open to all users from professional and emerging artists to people experimenting with cameras and scanners.  Submissions may be in the form of digital stills or video files up to 1 minute each. Throughout the exhibition the audience is invited to respond and participate by contributing further content to the show. Sites will be updated progressively to include all work. Online Artist submissions are now open. To be included in the opening of the exhibition submissions must be received by July 14  . Each screen will play a compilation of diverse images and video that represent a wide & integrated range of local and international art practices and styles. Screens are located across a range of public, gallery and institutional sites to offer unique viewing experiences and to maximize & diversify Brisbane audiences’ exposure to new media practices. The KGUV Screens Network is a unique and innovative method of sharing visual art and creative industries content out into the broader community, through a network of linked screens in Kelvin Grove and QUT. Screens are located at AXIOM Estate Agents, The Exchange, Blue Lotus, Urban Dental,Health Stream Fitness Club, QUT Health Clinics – Podiatry and Optometry, Queensland Academy for Creative Industries and the Creative Industries Precinct. The Edge is The State Library of Queensland's newest initiative. It is a place for young Queenslanders; a place for experimentation and creativity, giving contemporary tools to young people to allow them to explore critical ideas, green initiatives, new design practices and media making. The Edge's physical component is at Brisbane's Cultural Centre at South Bank, housed in the former Cultural Centre Auditorium building and associated spaces. It's a state-of-the-art facility that provides creative spaces and innovative programs; a welcoming place, buzzing with people inventing, creating, presenting and meeting peers. H-Block Gallery, located at the centre of QUT's visual arts faculty, facilitates a program of exhibitions showcasing the works of undergraduate and postgraduate students, staff and emerging artists from QUT.   