The Ontario Student Assistance Program (OSAP) (French: Régime d'aide financière aux étudiantes et étudiants de l'Ontario (RAFEO)) is financial aid to help Ontario students pay for their post-secondary education. When a student applies for OSAP, they are considered for a combination of: After a student submits an application, OSAP determines the mix of grant and loan money a student can receive. More than 380,000 students – more than half of all full-time students –received student financial aid in 2014-15. In 2017, the Province of Ontario is moving forward with the single largest modernization of OSAP in its history to ensure student financial aid is more transparent and targeted to those with the greatest financial need. When students apply for OSAP, it is determined how much they’ll receive by comparing their tuition fees and living expenses with the amount the student and their family are expected to pay. Starting in 2017, OSAP will give Ontario students enough grants to cover the average cost of tuition if: Many students from middle-income families will receive grants that exceed the value of their tuition. These grants do not fully cover the tuition costs of programs with higher tuition fees, such as engineering, medicine, and law.  Some students who meet these requirements may not receive these grants, including students who: Students within four years of having graduated high school are usually considered dependents, and will automatically have a parental contribution factored into their OSAP needs based assessment. Students who have been out of secondary school for more than four years will not have a parental contribution factored into their assessment. Both full- and part-time students can apply for OSAP. To qualify for assistance, an applicant must be:  For new Canadian citizens, permanent residents and protected persons who have resided in Canada for less than 12 months, a residency review is available to determine the province from which they would be eligible to receive student aid. Students who finished high school four or more years ago can qualify for more grants to go back to school. In order to apply for funding consideration from OSAP, students must first register as a new user online at ontario.ca/osap Applications for OSAP for the 2017-18 school year are available in spring 2017. Students can get ready now by registering with OSAP. They’ll create their OSAP profile and get an OSAP Access Number (OAN). When the application opens in spring 2017, students will get a message from OSAP that it’s time to apply. If applying for OSAP for the 2016-17 academic year, please visit ontario.ca/osap for more information. If OSAP doesn’t cover all of the expenses that directly relate to a student’s program (books, tuition, mandatory fees), and they still need money, public colleges and universities in Ontario have to provide financial help. This money could include: Students should visit the Financial Aid Office (FAO) at the college or university they plan to attend for more information about OSAP, the Ontario Student Access Guarantee and other financial aid questions. Students can find a list of FAOs at Ontario’s public colleges and universities online. The OSAP assessment may not reflect exceptional circumstances some students may have.  As a result, a number of reviews have been developed to allow students to provide additional information regarding their specific circumstances. To learn more about the review process or to initiate a review, students can contact their school’s financial aid office. For the first 6 months after graduation, finishing studies, or no longer being a full-time college or university student: This is a 6 month grace period. Recipients of OSAP can expect to start repaying their loan at the end of the 7th month after they leave school. If a student has recently completed their studies, they can apply to have their grace period extended for an additional six months through one of these two programs: One-Year OSAP Grace Period for Entrepreneurs:  for the owner or joint owner of an eligible new business located in Ontario. One-Year OSAP Grace Period for Not-for Profit Employees: for borrowers working at an eligible not-for-profit organization in Ontario. Within 6 months of leaving school, OSAP recipients will get a package in the mail from the National Student Loans Service Centre (NSLSC) that tells them: Monthly loan payments are made to the National Student Loans Service Centre. 