Jean Sadako King, née McKillop (December 6, 1925 – November 24, 2013) was the sixth Lieutenant Governor of Hawaii, the state's first woman to be elected as such, from 1978 to 1982   in the administration of Governor George Ariyoshi. Jean Sadako King is the daughter of William Donald McKillop and Chiyo Murakami McKillop. They married in the early 1920s. Her father, William Donald McKillop was a postmaster of Scottish descent, whereas her mother, Chiyo Murakami Mckillop was Japanese.  Chiyo came from a family of coffee farmers in Kona.   King's parents' interracial relationship was not common during that era. The couple settled in an area near Piikoi and Beretania in Honolulu, where King was born and raised.  Later, King married James A. King and had a son and a daughter.  King moved around throughout her years in primary school having attended Likelike School, Aliiolani School, and the English Standard School.  During her years in high school she graduated as valedictorian at the Sacred Hearts Academy.  King participated in various after-school activities while attending the Sacred Hearts Academy. She was involved in Japanese dancing, tap, hula, and typing and shorthand lessons.  For her years in college, King was enrolled into the University of Hawaii, graduating her undergrad with a B.A. in English by 1948.  As an undergraduate student, she worked as a class assistant in a psychology lab, tutored English for a sports team, and served as a class officier. She was the co-editor for her school newspaper. Ka Leo, which was the school newspaper in the University of Hawaii. Aside from King's academic strides she also won two pageants taking the crown for Ka Palalpala Cosmopolitan Beauty Queen and Relay Rainbow Queen.  After obtaining her B.A. from the University of Hawaii, King went for an MA in history in New York University. Then years later, King went back to the University of Hawaii for another master's. By 1968, King obtained her master's of fine arts degree, M.F.A., in theatre and drama.  Her second master's thesis was putting together a production for a play, and she chose to base it off a play by Miyamato Ken about the Japanese anti-war.  Before King served in the Hawaii House of Representatives from 1972 to 1974 and the Hawaii Senate from 1974 to 1978 she was a candidate in the Hawai'i Constitutional Convention of 1950   then followed her pursuit in being the Lieutenant Governor of Hawai'i.  In 1982 King was defeated in the Democratic primary election for Governor and retired from politics.   During her time in office, King was admired for devotion for affordable housing and the surrounding environments. Kings accomplishments of preserving the environment with the State Sunshine law and Shoreline Protection act, made her a pioneer and role model for many young woman in Hawaii.   King's parents supported the Republican Party but King wanted to push for more people into the Democratic Party.  She felt that the philosophy of the Democratic Party would be of more interest in Hawaii's population of diverse ethnic backgrounds.  While strongly encouraging the public to be more involved with the politics, King was able to make laws pass to allow the public to attend the meeting of government officials.       According to her granddaughter, King died at age 87 from pancreatic cancer on November 24, 2013.  With the effort and strides that King made she had been an influence for more women to run for political positions in Hawaii. Senate Mazie Hirono were one of the women that admired King and remembered her with "As the first person elected to the office of lieutenant governor, Jean helped paved the way for women, such as myself."  Colleen Hanabusa recognized King as a female role model.  In March 2016, Hawaiʻi Magazine ranked King in a list of the most influential women in Hawaiian history.   