The status of Women in the Maldives was traditionally fairly high, as attested to in part by the existence of four Sultanas.Although the majority of Maldivian women wear the veil , they are not strictly secluded, but special sections are reserved for women in public places, such as stadiums and mosques. However, those women who refuse to wear a veil or decide to remove it face a great deal of social stigma  from both their families and members of the public . Women do not accept their husbands' names after marriage but maintain their maiden names. Inheritance of property is through both males and females. Catcalling and sexual harassment is a major problem in Maldives for Maldivian and foreign women alike. Women find that it is a daily part of their lives to be harassed on the streets. A total of 96% of women in the Maldives reported having been harassed on the streets at some point in their lives, with 60% facing harassment before turning 16 and 40% reporting being sexually harassed before they turned 10 . Men of all ages find catcalling perfectly acceptable in especially Male' city. Little to no action is taken against people who harass women on the road and the number of sexual assaults and rapes is on the increase .  Polygamy in the Maldives is legal, but very rare. Prostitution in the Maldives is illegal. Homosexuality is illegal. Women have always had an important role in the family and community. In the early history of Maldives, it was not uncommon to have a woman as a Sultana or ruler and it has been suggested that the society was once a matriarchy. In today’s society some women hold positions in government and business but they are heavily under-represented. As of 2016 women only accounted for three out of 14 government ministers, five out of 85 lawmakers and six out of more than 180 judges . A large percentage of government employees are women. The male female ratio of enrollment and completion of education to secondary school standards remains equivalent. But on average they earn less than half the salaries of men in the workplace.  In 2013, a 15-year-old rape victim received a sentence of 100 lashes for fornication. The sentence was later overturned by the Maldivian High Court, following an international petition campaign led by Avaaz.  A disproportionate number of women face public flogging for extra-marital sex compared to men: the majority of men accused of extra-marital sex are acquitted .   This article incorporates public domain material from the Library of Congress Country Studies website http://lcweb2.loc.gov/frd/cs/.  