 Live from Here, formerly known as A Prairie Home Companion with Chris Thile, is an American variety radio show known for its musical guests, especially folk and traditional musicians, tongue-in-cheek radio drama, and relaxed humor.  Hosted by Chris Thile, it airs on Saturday evenings and is usually recorded in front of a live audience at the Fitzgerald Theater in St. Paul, Minnesota, although the show frequently goes on tour to New York City and other U.S. cities. The show is derived from the historic  A Prairie Home Companion with Garrison Keillor (APHC) radio show.  The original host, Garrison Keillor, performed his final show in July 2016, and Thile's program began on October 15, 2016. Thile, an American virtuoso mandolinist and singer-songwriter, had a two decade history with APHC and is known for his work in the folk and progressive bluegrass groups Nickel Creek and Punch Brothers. After two unprecedented guest host spots in 2015, Keillor decided on his successor, featured Thile as host again in January–February 2016, and fully ceded his hosting role to Thile in the October 2016 performance at the Fitzgerald Theater in St. Paul, Minnesota, continuing as the show's Executive Producer. Thile's new program presents expanded musical and comedic elements, retaining the template of the earlier program (e.g., its most recent acting and sound effect cast, and "sponsorships" from fictitious companies), but without such features as its earlier signature "Lives of the Cowboys" series and "News from Lake Wobegon" monologue. Reviews of the new program have been uniformly positive, focusing on the remaining familiar elements and on the new music and expanded musical focus brought by the new host. On November 29, 2017, in the wake of allegations of misconduct against Keillor, American Public Media announced it would change the show's name.     The new name of the show was announced as Live from Here live on the December 16, 2017, broadcast of the show.  Chris Thile, born in 1981, is an American virtuoso mandolinist and singer-songwriter known for his folk and progressive bluegrass work in the trio Nickel Creek and the quintet Punch Brothers.     A child prodigy in music—self-described as "begging [his] parents for a mandolin from the time [he] was 2" and picking up the mandolin for the first time at the age of 5 —Thile was one of a trio, with siblings Sara and Sean Watkins, home-schooled California children in musical families, who formed the group Nickel Creek with Thile's father in 1989.  An acoustic group, it continues as a trio to the present day (2016), with Thile's participation alongside his more recent acoustic quintet Punch Brothers, both variously described using terms such as folk, progressive, bluegrass, "newgrass," and roots music.   Thile was awarded BBC's Folk Musician of the Year award in 2007, a MacArthur Fellowship "genius" award in 2012, and he has been nominated eight time for Grammy Awards, winning four, all Best Album awards, in different categories in 1997, 2002, 2013, and 2015 (Bluegrass, Contemporary Folk, Folk, and Contemporary Instrumental, respectively).  Garrison Keillor has made known his personal opinion, that Thile is “the great bluegrass performer of our time.”  As well, others have observed that "[t]hough charming and cheery, Thile is by nature deeply competitive," and understands the business side of matters, and that the size of audiences that the show attracts will matter (see below).  Thile first performed with Garrison Keillor on A Prairie Home Companion in 1996, at age 15.   Over the next two decades, Thile returned to APHC eight times (according to the program's website),  performing both as a solo artist and as a part of the groups Nickel Creek and the Punch Brothers.  These guest appearances included performances at the programs home venue, the Fitzgerald Theater, and at tour venues. Programs in which Thile participated that received press coverage or are otherwise sourced and noteworthy appear below. When Keillor announced in November 2014 that he would absent himself from APHC for "only the second time in decades," he yielded the host's microphone to Thile for these guest host appearances.  Thile began these appearances in 2015 and appeared a total of 4 times in the twelve months thereafter, [verification needed] the final two guest host spots being on January 30 and February 6, 2016.  The guest host appearances gave an indication of the type of crew that Thile would assemble, the kinds of guests he would attract, and the style in which he might host (see Format and Cast, below). [better source needed] The hosted programs were on the following dates, and featured the following guest artists: In 2015, Keillor announced that he would step down from hosting the program and designated Chris Thile  as the new host. Keillor's final episode of the show was recorded live on July 1, 2016, at the Hollywood Bowl in California for an audience of 18,000 fans  and broadcast the next day.  Keillor retained artistic rights and trademark to the show's name as well as some distribution rights and rights to retail items connected with A Prairie Home Companion. Thile made his debut as permanent host on October 15, 2016. In November 2017 Minnesota Public Radio severed all business ties with former APHC host Garrison Keillor over unspecified "inappropriate behavior with an individual who worked with him."  The Minnesota Public Radio website listed the show under the working title The Show with Chris Thile, as the trademark for A Prairie Home Companion is held by Keillor, not MPR.  Thile addressed the situation on the December 2 installment of the series,  and Thile began using a new theme, "Radio Boogie".   The show aired under the placeholder title of The Show with Chris Thile for the next two Saturdays. Finally, on December 16, Thile announced the show's new name as "Live from Here."  Thile has referred to the program that Keillor created as a "truly great wor[k] of art" and so "immortal," so that he would "keep using the template [Keillor] created to tell each other stories and to escape from our daily cares.  Even so, Andrew Leahy of the Rolling Stone writes that Thile has had added to the mandate of "preserving the show's appeal" a further one of "revising its structure and broadening its reach to younger generations."  Hence, the program continues to present a variety of program elements, including music, and storytelling, comedic and otherwise (see following), but Thile has indicated some changes in direction, and others are noted in early reviews. Absent from the new program is the "Lives of the Cowboys" sketch,  and the signature weekly "News from Lake Wobegon" monologues from Garrison Keillor; still present as of October 2016 are "old favorites" such as the program's faux sponsorship by Powdermilk Biscuits.   As of the opening month of the program, the planned replacement for the Keillor monologue was a slate of appearances from standup comics, for instance, the Irish comedian Maeve Higgins.  New music from the host, and expanded music in general, have been noted as features of the new program.   Andrew Leahy of Rolling Stone offers as perspective, thatPerhaps the most crucial ingredient in Thile's radio-show-revision recipe is his Song of the Week. Every broadcast will feature a newly-penned composition, its lyrics and instrumental themes tailored to current events.   Thile has indicated that the musical variety of the premiere program (see below) will continue, with listeners to expect "roots-rockers, folksingers, jazz musicians, soul revivalists and bluegrass bands all taking the stage."  In addition to Chris Thile, who will contribute originally composed music and performances on his various instruments, the musical and acting cast and crew consists of the following artists, as of 1 December 2016 (in credit order from the production page for the shows performers, where deeper autobiographies appear).  The following regular musicians and roles are reported:  The following are other regular performers and roles as reported:   Local public radio stations carry the weekly production of Live from Here with Chris Thile at one or more broadcast times, varying by station, and as of March 2018, the NPR Now channel on SiriusXM Satellite Radio carried the program on Saturday at 5 PM and Sundays at 11 AM, both Central Time (UTC – 6).   The audio of the program also streams, live online, at livefromhere.org on Saturdays from 5-7 PM Central, and video streams are likewise available when the program broadcasts from their home venue, The Fitzgerald Theater, or their 'home-away-from-home," The Town Hall in New York City.  Streaming audio from each show posts following the Saturday broadcast at livefromhere.org, as of March 2018 at 12 PM, Central Time on Sunday.  The entirety of programs are made available via Live from Here's official website on Sunday at 12 PM Central Time (UTC - 6) following each Saturday broadcast. Highlights from the show, including Chris Thile’s “Song of the Week,” are available via RSS, iHeartRadio, iTunes, Stitcher, and TuneIn.   In the announcement of the change in host for the program, American Public Media stated:One of the most popular public radio programs will begin a new chapter this fall as musician Chris Thile takes over for Garrison Keillor as the new host of A Prairie Home Companion, bringing a fresh approach to an audience favorite. Beginning on October 15, 2016, Thile will host a 30-week season, including live broadcasts, produced shows and repeats on public radio stations nationwide.”    Keillor, who had made various statements regarding retirement in the past, was described in June 2016 as being "fairly serious this time," and he is quoted as saying “Chris is my man, and I’m eager to stay home and read books.”  Elaborating further, Keillor wrote to Abe Streep of The New York Times Magazine, indicating that Thile's adventurous nature—alongside his high esteem for “the great bluegrass performer” —were reasons for his consideration as Keillor's replacement, which would be tested via a trial run of guest host appearances in January–February 2016;  Keillor wrote,I came to this decision myself, without talking to another soul about it… I could’ve held meetings, commissioned studies, appointed a task force, and six months later the task force would’ve concluded that the show could not go on. Well, I say it can and it should. And I decided it should return to its roots as a musical variety show and grow from there.   Keillor went on to write about Thile, “He takes big chances… He can be a chameleon, he can swim in every event, and for all his brilliance, nobody sounds better singing old American songs than he. Nobody.”  Thile, in discussing the changeover with Minnesota Public Radio, indicated that he would continue to write new musical material, as he has in initial programs since his debut as host: "I would like to write something new every week... I've written a new song for each show. I want to keep doing that. It's so much fun."  In addition, he has highlighted comedy as an element for the new show, noting the success of appearances of comedian Maria Bamford in shows he had hosted early in 2016 which gave "five or six minutes of hilarity." With regard to story telling, he noted the success of an appearance by actor Ed Helms, indicating that the new APHC will "have that kind of thing going on." When asked about future on-air material from show originator and current executive producer Garrison Keillor, Thile replied, "He's such an amazing writer that if he comes up with an idea that would be good for the show… I imagine we'll get a script here and there."  While much media focus during the changeover is on the artistry and styles associated with Keillor and Thile, APHC and American Public Media (APM) are businesses as well; at its peak, the original APHC radio program had garnered in excess of four million weekly listeners, and Rivertown Trading Company, the purveyor of APHC-themed products, was sold in 1998 by Minnesota Public Radio for US $120 million.  Sensitive to the potential loss of audience with the change at the helm of the show—Thile has said that he knows he will lose some listeners devoted to Keillor, stating that his “goal is to lose one million… and add two.” —the program's distributor, American Public Media, has indicated its intent to ease listeners completely away from experiencing the earlier Keillor format by "mix[ing] in" more than a dozen of the new APHC programs with Thile, alongside a set of reruns where Keillor is at the helm.  Writing for the Chicago Tribune, Steve Johnson notes that the new program "still rel[ies] heavily on an air of authenticity derived from its Minnesota locale, [but] now leans a little more toward music," and "away from storytelling."  Johnson concludes that the program remains "an easy, graceful listen" featuring "a killer musical repertoire in the Americana tradition," and "humor ranging from corny to cutting."  Thile's first A Prairie Home Companion with Chris Thile took place on October 15, 2016 at the Fitzgerald Theater in St. Paul.  Thile's opening program featured Jack White and Lake Street Dive as musical guests, and a new Song of the Week.[clarification needed]  