The Rangers Sports Events are sports events organized yearly in Lebanon by the Rangers Regiment of the Lebanese army. The events aim to explore Lebanon’s mountains and beauty, promote Lebanon’s touristic image by making the events as International on yearly basis and to empower the Military-Civilian interaction. The Raid des Cedres (RDC) race is the highest ski-mountaineering competition in the Near East. Since 2008, civilians  and  military  skiers equipped with raquettes or skis de randonnée can  compete  in  crossing  a  unique  region over the Lebanese mountain peaks. The RDC race includes three tracks from the cedars of Tannourine to the Cedars of God in Bechare: Since 2008, Barracks to Barracks is a unique summer mountain race open to both the military and civilians. The race start at the Rocks Rest house in Laklouk  passing by Tomartibeh, Tim El Kbour, Sahlet El Rahwe, Kniset El Rab, Daher El Kadib and ends at the Cedars in Bechare. The race starts at an altitude of 1800 m and ends at an altitude of 2800 m.  The race comprise 4 categories: Since 2012, JABALNA Association and the Shouf Cedar Reserve organize yearly, in cooperation with the Rangers Regiment, a hike entitled “Meshwar maa' Meghwar”    (Hike with a Ranger). Noting that 2015's event witnessed the participation of over 5000 citizens, who have decided to meet the Rangers of the Lebanese Army and walk with them side by side. Since 2014, the union of Jezzine municipalities in collaboration of the Rangers Regiment, organize yearly a 20 km March entitled “Koun Meghwar la Nhar" (Ranger for a day). The march starts at Jezzine Square towards Wadi Jezzine, up to the Pines Reserve at Bkassine, passing by Dahr El Ramleh, Haytourah, and Ain Zaarour, down towards Jezzine City and Nabeh Al Saydeh, and finally returning to Jezzine Square. Noting that 2015's event witnessed the participation of over 2000 citizens.   Since 2014, Zgharta-Ehden  municipality organize in cooperation with the Rangers Regiment, a joint-drill entitled “Meghawir bel Midan” (Rangers in the field). The hiking drill extends to a distance of around 12 km and finish at the cross on the peak of Mar Sarkis mountain. 