Hypermodernity (supermodernity) is a type, mode, or stage of society that reflects an inversion of modernity in which the function of an object has its reference point in the form of an object rather than function being the reference point for form.  Hypermodernism stipulates a world in which the object has been replaced by the attributes of the object.  The new attribute-driven world is driven by the rise of technology and aspires to a convergence between technology and biology and more importantly information and matter.  Hypermodernism finds its validation in emphasis on the value of new technology to overcome natural limitations and emphasizes a dismissal of an object-driven past in favor of a flexible, attribute-driven heuristic.  Hypermodernity emphasizes a hyperbolic separation between past and present due to the fact that: Hypermodernity inverts Modernity to allow the attributes of an object to provide even more individuality than modernism. Modernity trapped form within the bounds of limited function; hypermodernity posits that function is now evolving so rapidly, it must take its reference point from form itself.  Both positive and negative societal changes occur due to hyper-individualism and increased personal choice.  Postmodernity rejected the idea of the past as a reference point and curated objects from the past for the sole purpose of freeing form from function.  In postmodernism, truth was ephemeral as the focus was to avoid non-falsifiable tenets. Postmodernity described a total collapse of Modernity and its faith in progress and improvement in empowering the individual. If distinguished from hypermodernity, supermodernity is a step beyond the ontological emptiness of postmodernism and relies upon plausible heuristic truths.  Whereas modernism focused upon the creation of great truths (or what Lyotard called "master narratives" or "metanarratives"), and postmodernity was intent upon their destruction (deconstruction); supermodernity operates extraneously of meta-truth.  Instead, attributes are extracted from objects of the past based on their present relevance.  Since attributes are both true and false, a  truth value is not necessary including falsifiability.  Supermodernity curates useful attributes from modern and postmodern objects in order to escape nihilistic postmodern tautology.  The touchscreen phone is an excellent example of supermodernism in action. Related authors are Terry Eagleton After Theory, Marc Augé Non-Places: Introduction to an Anthropology of Supermodernity, and Kashif Vikaas "Hyperkampf". 