Conservation and restoration of objects made from plastics  is an activity dedicated to the conservation of objects of historical and personal value made from plastics. When applied to cultural heritage this activity is generally undertaken by a conservator-restorer. Within museum collections there are a variety of artworks and artifacts that are composed of plastic material whether they are synthetic or semi-synthetic; these were created for a range of uses from artistic, to technical, to domestic use. Plastics have become an integral component of life and many plastic objects have become staple icons or objects worth preserving for the future.  Although relatively new material for museum collections, plastics having originated in the 19th century, they are deteriorating at an alarming rate, risking the loss not only of the objects themselves, but through their deterioration processes they place objects within their vicinity at risk too.  Plastics are made of synthetic, semi-synthetic and organic material, all of which are susceptible to degradation, with their respective off-gassing being harmful to the objects nearby in museum collections.  Recent changes in plastic manufacturing, as a result of environmental concerns, towards biodegradable plastics,  have a potentially negative effect upon the long term stability of such objects within museum collections.  All plastics vary by the type of polymer used to create it, these polymers are what conservators look to in order to divide plastics into groupings that could best help create a preservation or restoration plan. Groupings are important as some plastics can be dangerous or even flammable thus it is key to identify these plastics in order to best understand how to store and care for them. Identification of plastic in a collection is extremely important because all plastics release a harmful toxin or gas that can damage nearby objects and by being able to identity the most harmful plastics a preservation plan can be set into place to slow down the effects and protect other objects.  Plastics are identified in three ways including looking for its trade name, trademark or patent number. Identifying plastic is done in order to  check what the plastic is composed of as different makers and depending on the year are different material could have been used to make the plastic.  If there is no marker to identify the type of plastic used then it can be identified by using various types of data analyzed using spectroscopic technology like, Optical Spectroscopy, Raman and near-infared spectroscopy along with mass spectrometry.  Other forms of identification include elemental analysis, thermal analysis to decipher the composition of plastics.  Once the composition is found it is best to determine if the plastic in the collection will be considered Malignant or not. MoDiP, the Museum of Design in plastics,  has created a guide to plastic objects that includes the objects  manufacturing date,  manufacturing process along with its typical characteristics such as feel and smell.  This is important because if an object in the collection that is listed here differs from smell or touch then it could be the object has begun to deteriorate. It is also encouraged that if one has an object not listed then they should contact MoDiP to include it to the list. These are plastics that are still capable of degradation but its effects are not as harmful to nearby objects.The list below is of chemical compositions that make up common plastics found in museum collections: These are plastics that will age faster if left untreated and have a higher potential or off-gassing or release a toxin that can damage surrounding objects.  To determine if objects are considered malignant proper identification of the object will be necessary.   Biodegradable plastics have become an issue because as plastic is used in many everyday objects the push to create biodegradable plastics has been on the rise. This causes an issue for conservators because these object will ultimately degrade as their composition is designed to as there is an increase in plastic waste.  It is these biodegradable plastics that can be prove to be difficult and museums will need to provide research for these items quickly to slow done their deterioration. Perhaps the most difficult part about plastic deterioration is that one cannot visibly see what types of chemical reactions are occurring inside the polymer or even identity the type of plastic until it is too late. Typically all plastics will give off a distinct odor, leak toxins, or will begin to shrink or crack in some way.  Although deterioration will inevitably happen it is important to know  the causes of it and be able to mitigate it. The cause of deterioration regarding plastics can be linked to age, chemical composition, storage, and improper handling of the objects. Conservators are in place to slow down the processes of deterioration by considering the 4 leading caused of deterioration: Understanding the different types of plastic chemical degradation as this helps determine what not to expose plastics to  As the polymers that are composed of the plastics can deteriorate easily by changes in temperature, water or light it is important to understand how these affect the polymers. Listed below are the chemical reactions that occur with the deterioration of the polymer's structure. Photolysis, Photooxidation  stains, corrosion, stickiness, gases  (phenol formaldehyde (polyethylene. polypropylene) (and organics) Additional effects of deterioration For plastics composed of Cellulose Acetate the  most common sign of  deterioration condition is when it this type is exposed to water, it will give off a smell of vinegar (Vinegar syndrome),  its surface will have  a white powder residue  and it will begin to shrink.  Cellulose Acetate butyrate and Cellulose butyrate will produce butyric acid which has a "vomit odor".  Poly(Vinyl Chloride) will most likely cause a blooming effect, white spores, on the surface that if it comes into contact with other surrounding material it will contaminate it.  Safety gloves such as those made of Nitrile can help prevent toxins entering the skin when handling plastic objects.  As plastics can ooze or off-gas material that may or may not be visible to the naked eye wearing gloves other than cotton is recommended. Proper storage of plastics can help slow down the degrading process of plastics. Plastics are currently stored with a RH Level of 50% with the storage temperature at 18 degrees Celsius with no light coming into contact with the objects.  Although the composition of each plastic material can be different it is difficult to determine one unifying storage care plan ,thus  understanding the composition of the plastic can help determine their preferred climate levels.  Keeping plastics at a stable low temperature or considering placing these objects either in cold storage or in oxygen impermeable bags helps slow degradation. Monitoring plastics in their storage environment is done by keeping track of their status and condition by using log entries on Excel spreadsheets or another format. To monitoring their temperature environment this is done using data loggers which track hourly changes in temperature. These methods can help strengthen a plan of preventative care as monitoring their status along with temperature can help connect any changes that occur. Adsorbents such as "activated carbon, silica gel and zeolites"  are used as they can help with the gasses that are released from plastics as this material can help slow down the degrading process.  These absorbents can also be used when the object is on display to prevent and off-gassing that could occur, so these can be used on exhibit and long-term storage. Absorbents along with acid-free boxes and silica gel can help slow down the process of degradation and vinegar syndrome which is common in film, Lego and artwork. A yearly check up of plastic objects can help monitor the condition of plastic objects as well as the condition of the surrounding objects to ensure they have not been contaminated.   Objects composed of Cellulose Nitrate  benefit from cold storage as they are sensitive to increases in temperature.  Oxygen Impermeable bags are used as they absorb all the oxygen in the bag.  With no oxygen to trigger the event of deterioration that is used for some plastics the process may be slowed down. The process of conservation and restoration of plastics requires an understanding of composition of the plastic and an appreciation for the possible methods of restoring plastics and their limitations, as well as an appreciation for the post-treatment preventive care of the object. The process of cleaning plastics is done through the use of solvents or using modern technology after identifying the polymers that make up the composition of the plastic. Cleaning can still be done using water or solvents however,  solvents run the risk of physically damaging the object.  A spot test can be performed if uncertain how the object will react to water or solvents. Light cleaning on the object is possible, but if cleaning requires a heavy hand then the use of  an Erbium: YAG Laser could assist in cleaning tougher scratches or abrasions.   Within the field of contemporary art, where the finish is part of the artists intent the removal of scratches plays a far greater role than it would with social-historical artifacts, as such conservators have undertaken, and scientifically investigated, a variety of methods of scratch removal.  Fillings are used if the object has suffered considerable damage. The process of filling depends on the objects chemical composition consisting  of- refractive indexes, transparency, low viscosity, and its compatibility with the rest of the object.  