Music is an art form and cultural activity whose medium is sound organized in time. The common elements of music are pitch (which governs melody and harmony), rhythm (and its associated concepts tempo, meter, and articulation), dynamics (loudness and softness), and the sonic qualities of timbre and texture (which are sometimes termed the "color" of a musical sound). Different styles or types of music may emphasize, de-emphasize or omit some of these elements. Music is performed with a vast range of instruments and vocal techniques ranging from singing to rapping; there are solely instrumental pieces, solely vocal pieces (such as songs without instrumental accompaniment) and pieces that combine singing and instruments. The word derives from Greek μουσική (mousike; "art of the Muses"). See glossary of musical terminology. Read more... Music categories Analysis – Awards – Composers Education – Events – Festivals Form – Genres – Groups History – Images – Industry Instruments – Journals – Languages Music by continent – Musicians Musicology – Music by country Occupations – Production – Techniques – Terminology Theory – Videos More categories...   Music genres and forms Blues Disco Classical Electronic Folk Gamelan Rock Metal Hip hop Indian classical Jazz New-age Opera Pop Reggae Rhythm and blues Rock and roll Song Soul Symphony More genres...   Composers and musicians Louis Armstrong Johann Sebastian Bach The Beatles Ludwig van Beethoven Johannes Brahms Frédéric Chopin Antonín Dvořák George Frideric Handel Gustav Mahler Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart Édith Piaf Giacomo Puccini Elvis Presley Franz Schubert Igor Stravinsky Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky Umm Kulthum Giuseppe Verdi Antonio Vivaldi Vladimir Vysotsky Richard Wagner More composers and musicians...   Musical instruments Drum Flute Guitar Piano Trumpet Violin More musical instruments... Recently featured articles ...And Justice for All (album) George Formby Snr Jules Massenet George Formby Noye's Fludde Frédéric Chopin Megadeth New York Dolls (album) Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band Marquee Moon Misterioso (Thelonious Monk album) Imogen Holst  Spinning Around  More featured music articles...   Sasha has produced multiple UK-charting singles and has remixed tracks for artists such as Madonna and The Chemical Brothers. His remix of Felix da Housecat's "Watching Cars Go By" earned him a 2004 Grammy nomination. Sasha's remixing and production often combine electronic music genres, making it difficult for critics to pinpoint his musical style. After achieving success as a producer and DJ, Sasha worked with younger DJs and producers such as BT and James Zabiela. His use of live audio engineering equipment helped popularise technological innovations among DJs who formerly relied on records and turntables. In 2007, he formed a record label with Renaissance Records called emFire, which is the exclusive outlet for his new music.  More...  More...   WikiProjects connected with music: Main project – Songs – Albums – Alternative music - Classical music – Composers – Contemporary Christian music – Contemporary music – Electronic music – Emo music – Hip hop – Instruments – Led Zeppelin - Metal music – Jazz – Musicians  – Opera  – Panic at the Disco – Powderfinger (band) – Punk music – Record Labels – Record Production – Rock music – R&B and Soul Music – Terminology – The Beatles Create a requested article: See the list of  Requested articles. Improve an article: See the Music Noticeboard for a list of tasks. Start a music course: School of Music at Wikiversity Associated Wikimedia: The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wikivoyage  Travel guides Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Wikispecies  Species  