The Battle of Emmaus took place in 166 BC  between the Hasmonean forces of Judea, led by Judah Maccabee, also called Judas Maccabeus which is also spelled Machabeus, or Maccabaeus, known to history as Judah the Hammer, and the third expedition of Greek forces given by Antiochus IV Epiphanes to Lysias. The generals for the expedition were Gorgias, Ptolemy the son of Dorymenes, and Nicanor.  Gorgias established his base camp at the town of Emmaus, along the western border of Judea, while Judah Maccabee's camp was located in the town of Mitzpah, north of Jerusalem. Word reached Maccabee that Gorgias was leading 5,000 troops on a march against his camp and was planning to surprise the Jewish rebels in a night-time attack, Judah abandoned his camp and led his forces to Emmaus, to attack the Hellenic base camp that remained there. Gorgias found the camp at Mizpah empty and deserted. Under the pretext that Judah had fled with his army from Gorgias' forces he began a search for them in the surrounding area. The only obvious place in the region to hide was the mountains. So Gorgias and his men scoured the hills for Jewish soldiers. They were unsuccessful. The forces led by Judah lacked swords and armour for many of its soldiers. Arriving at the camp at Emmaus Judah saw that the enemy had no such problem. The camp was heavily fortified and was surrounded by well trained heavy cavalry. Judah Maccabee organized his men, to attack the Emmaus camp, into units resembling a regular army, with units of 10, 50, 100, and 1,000. They set up a fortified camp on the south side of Emmaus. Judah addressed his men, urging them to fight valiantly, "for it is better for us to die in battle than to see the evils of our nation, and of the holies. Nevertheless, as it shall be the will of God in heaven, so be it done." Though he spoke these words, Judah Maccabee was seeking victory, not death and glory through martyrdom. The Gentiles defeated, Judah's  army pursued them in their flight, harrying the rear until almost 3,000 were left dead. Gorgias returned to Emmaus, only to find his camp destroyed with the rebel army in possession of the camp and in position against his troops. Gorgias did not give battle after the destruction of his base but fled to the coastal plains with Judah pursuing his army. It was considered one of Judah Maccabee's most important victories in the war for Judean independence. Emmaus Nicopolis Coordinates: 31°50′21.48″N 34°59′22.05″E﻿ / ﻿31.8393000°N 34.9894583°E﻿ / 31.8393000; 34.9894583 