The sit-ups punishment (Uthak Baithak) is a form of punishment given in schools of Indian subcontinent, specially in India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Pakistan. In this punishment, one has to sit down and stand up continuously and count the number of sit-ups. It is a common punishment in schools. Generally students are asked to perform this with holding their ears with hands. For humiliation, it is done in front of other students. Uthak Baithak, when utilized correctly in the classroom, has been shown to assist cognitive functions such as memory acquisition and retrieval in recent studies.  The posture increases blood flow to both the left and right side of the brain, which stimulates existing neuro-paths of the subject. When the subject holds and firmly squeezes their earlobes, they press essential acupressure points, allowing access to previously unavailable neuro-paths. This helps in making one sharper.  The medical benefits of each variant of Uthak Baithak are still being studied and remain fiercely debated. A study at Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda on the subject is expected to produce conclusive results in 2019. There are many forms of this punishment. The student will do situps holding his ears. The hands should be ninety degrees with the body. Also he/she has to count loudly with every step. If the count is not hearable the term will repeat. Every term he/she has to sit fully so that his back touch the heals and to stand straight. The punished will hold his/her left year with right hand and right ear with left hand. This may cause hardness and humilation to the punishment. It is famous mostly. There will be more than one student and they will hold ears of one another and do the situps. This makes the punishment more hard as the punished have to take weight of anothers. Also criss-cross  earholding can be applied here. Then it will be extra hard to complete. It is also varient used with the simple situps. Here the punished's heals should touch one another. This will cause friction between the knees for that he/she can fall. Criss-cross earholding can be applied here.. Doing situps in the sun, situps with leaving tough are other types of punishment.  