Natural Cycles is the first app to be certified for contraception in Europe. The app predicts the days on which a woman is fertile and may be used for planning pregnancy and contraception.  It was developed by CERN scientist Dr. Elina Berglund, who founded the company with her husband, Dr. Raoul Scherwitzl.     In August 2018, the Food and Drug Administration approved U.S. marketing for Natural Cycles.  Dr. Berglund was a top physicist at CERN who was part of the Higgs boson discovery, which led to the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2013, before co-founding the company with her husband Dr. Scherwitzl. Because the couple was in search of an alternative natural contraceptive themselves, Dr. Berglund used data analysis to develop an algorithm designed to pinpoint her ovulation.  The couple then decided to create an app with the underlying algorithm, Natural Cycles. Following several medical trials, the app became the first tech-based device to be certified for use as contraception in the EU, in February 2017 by the European inspection and certification organisation TÜV SÜD.  In November 2017 Natural Cycles received a $30M investment in series B round led by EQT Ventures fund, with participation from existing investors Sunstone, E-ventures and Bonnier Growth Media (the VC arm of privately held Swedish media group, the Bonnier Group).  While the product is only currently certified in the European Union, where its users are concentrated in the United Kingdom and the Scandinavian countries, it is available worldwide. Natural Cycles offers a subscription product, which now has over 800,000 users across 160 countries (as of June 2018). 75 percent use the app as a contraceptive, and the rest use it to try and become pregnant.  The app works by taking your temperature each morning, under the tongue as soon as you wake up in the morning and logging it into the app. This is done with a basal thermometer which has a higher sensitivity than a typical fever thermometer as it displays two decimal places. The apps algorithm calculation is based on the observation that post-ovulation, progesterone warms the female body by up to 0.45C.  Natural Cycles algorithm then determines, based on the temperature, whether the user is fertile or not. A red day means fertile (which is when you should abstain or use a condom), a green day means not fertile.  The most recent published clinical study showed that natural cycles, when used correctly, is as effective in preventing pregnancies as the contraceptive pill.  The study analysed 22,785 women through a total of 224,563 menstrual cycles across a year, to calculate the app’s Pearl Index – the rate used to measure a contraceptive effectiveness. It found that if used perfectly – using protection such as condoms on red days – effectiveness is 99 percent. Typical use, where people become pregnant for all possible reasons, leads to 93 percent effectiveness. This is well above other Fertility awareness based methods that rate at around 75 percent and even the contraceptive pill, which rates at 91 percent.  Further studies include the “Identification and prediction of the fertile window using Natural Cycles"  and  “Fertility awareness-based mobile application for contraception” . For the app to remain effective, women need to follow the app's instructions correctly, and it does not protect its users from sexually transmitted diseases.  In 2018, Södersjukhuset, a hospital in Stockholm, Sweden filed a complaint with the Medical Products Agency of Sweden after 37 women who had been using Natural Cycles as their primary method of contraception sought an abortion at the hospital after becoming pregnant unintentionally.  Natural Cycles responded by saying the number of pregnancies was within the reported effectiveness rates.   In the UK, the app is currently under investigation by the Advertising Standards Authority over supposedly misleading claims in its marketing over the accuracy of the app.  A number of users and healthcare professionals have expressed concerns over the efficacy of the app.   In August 2018, Lauren Streicher, professor of clinical obstetrics at Northwestern University's Feinberg School of Medicine expressed concerns over the Food and Drug Administration's approval of the app. Streicher has claimed that the app is "problematic" as the app relies on users' self-reported temperatures which must be taken as soon as they wake up each morning in order to be accurate. In an interview with Vox, Streicher claimed "The minute you rely on action, the efficacy goes down.”   Natural Cycles has also been criticised for its marketing strategy of paying social media influencers to promote the app. In July 2018 researchers at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine published a study which claimed “Natural Cycles’ marketing materials ought to be entirely transparent, more clear than they currently are about the limitations of their app and pregnancy risks”    