 The General History of Latin America is part of UNESCO’s General and Regional Histories Collection.  The publication seeks to contribute to mutual understanding and dialogue between cultures and civilizations. This series seeks to illustrate the encounters between cultures across history and their respective contributions to the general progress of humankind. This is done through the promotion of a pluralist vision of history. The General History of Latin America is a new approach to the historical evolution of Latin America. It sets out to capture both the unity and the diversity of the region and outlines the great contributions made by Latin American societies (indigenous and others) to the progress of humanity. Latin America has become one of the world’s major geocultural regions. Its importance on the world cultural scene is beyond dispute. The region is recognized for its ongoing and increasingly successful efforts to develop as a group of modern, democratic societies. Latin America as a comprehensive entity is an historical reality.  Coordinated and directed by UNESCO and an International Scientific Committee consisting of 240 prominent researchers and scholars from all over the world, the outcome of this project has been the publication of nine volumes of comprehensive studies and information on ideas, civilizations, societies, and institutions covering the development of Latin American societies from the pre-Columbian era  to the twentieth century. Using methodological instruments of current historiography, these volumes present indigenous Latin American societies, their contacts with European culture, the colonial orders, and the participation of African communities in the region to highlight the history of inter-continental interactions in Latin America. Published in Spanish and launched in 1983, the fundamental aim of the General History of Latin America, is to help heighten the historical awareness of the region. As a central part of its mandate, UNESCO is committed to promoting mutual understanding and to facilitating discussion and dialogue amongst peoples and nations. The General History of Latin America makes a significant contribution to this objective. This project was initially suggested in the recommendations of a meeting of experts convened by the Director-General of UNESCO in Lima, Peru, in 1967. In 1983 a Drafting Committee of 21 members (two-thirds of whom were specialists from Latin America) was established and the project was completed in 2009. 