The Latin American Network Information Center (LANIC) is a free internet portal on Latin American studies.     It is affiliated with the Lozano Long Institute of Latin American Studies (LLILAS) at the University of Texas at Austin.  LANIC's mission is to facilitate access to Internet-based information to, from, or on Latin America.      The site provides research and academic resources, as well as a source for news, art, music and recipes from this region.   The site currently averages over 5.4 million hits per month and contains pages for 41 countries and 81 subjects.  LANIC’s gopher server, launched in 1992, was the first such information service for Latin America on the Internet, and the LANIC Web Site has been in continuous service since 1994.   An electoral observatory feature was added in 1998 to provide information on presidential and legislative elections taking place in Latin America. The pages for each country are divided into five sections: Electoral Coverage, Electoral Resources, News, Parties and Candidates, and Results.  In the spring of 2008, LANIC launched a major redesign to increase accessibility.  Previous versions of the site, going back more than a decade, can be viewed by visiting LANIC via the Internet Archive's Wayback Machine. In 2009 Political Parties and Drug Production, Trafficking and Consumption were added as new subjects. In 2010 the LANIC newsroom developed a list of sources for news and reports following the earthquake in Haiti, as well as links to donate to the relief effort.  LANIC’s editorially-reviewed directories contain over 12,000 unique URLs, one of the largest guides for Latin American studies content on the Internet.    Information can be found in English, Spanish and Portuguese.  Content can be browsed by subject (history, education, science, etc.) or by country.    The site hosts digital content on Latin America through its Etext Collection, including thousands of full text books, journals, speeches, and research papers. Included are the full text of over 2,000 speeches by Fidel Castro; over 75,000 pages of Presidential Messages from Argentina and Mexico; and hundreds of papers on Latin American topics presented at conferences around the world.    It also maintains an active program in Web archiving including an extensive collection of Latin American Government Documents LAGDA 