  The Kendriya Vidyalayas (lit. "central schools") are a system of central government schools in India that are instituted under the aegis of the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). It comprises over 1,183 schools in India (as of 31 March 2018) and three abroad. It is one of world's largest chains of schools. The system came into being in 1963 under the name 'Central Schools'. Later, the name was changed to Kendriya Vidyalaya. All the schools are affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). Its objective is to educate children of the Indian Defence Services personnel who are often posted to remote locations. With the army starting its own Army Public Schools, the service was extended (but not restricted) to all central government employees. A uniform curriculum is followed by these schools all over India. By providing a common syllabus and system of education, the Kendriya Vidyalayas are intended to ensure that the children of government employees do not face education disadvantages when their parents are transferred from one location to another. The schools have been operational for more than 50 years.  The Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, which literally translates to 'Central School Organisation', oversees the functioning of the schools with its headquarters in New Delhi. The administration of this body is based on levels. The chairman of Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan is always the Minister in Charge of Human Resource Development of the Government of India; the deputy chairman is Minister of State of MHRD. The real working power lies with the Commissioner of KVS; there are additional commissioners to accompany Commissioner in the administration of KVS in different fields. The head of a KVS region is Deputy Commissioner accompanied by an Assistant Commissioner. There are individual principals of every KV administrating the schools along with a Vice-Principal, Head Master/ Mistress. The Vidyalaya also has several committees for the holistic development of the students and well maintenance of the school compound and system.  The most important one is the VMC (Vidyalaya Management Committee), which is the head of all committees. As of March 2018, there were 1,183 schools named Kendriya Vidyalayas. Kendriya Vidyalaya is one of the longest school chain in world with 1,137 schools in India and three operated abroad.  A total of 1,227,951 students (as of 31 March 2017) and 56,445 employees were on the rolls (as of 1 September 2013). These were divided among 25 regions, each headed by a deputy commissioner.  The three Kendriya Vidyalayas outside India are in Kathmandu, Moscow, and Tehran. They are intended for children of Indian embassy staff and other expatriate employees of the government of India. One school in Tshimalakha, Bhutan, was transferred to the Bhutanese government, thus ceasing to be a Kendriya Vidyalaya (then known as Indo-Bhutan Central School (IBCS)) in 1989, after one of the major Indo-Bhutan projects (the Chukhha Hydal power project) was near completion. Indian government employees were gradually transferred back to their own country. All the schools share a common syllabus and offer bilingual instruction, in English and Hindi. They are co-educational. Sanskrit is taught as a compulsory subject from classes VI to VIII and as an optional subject until class XII. Students in classes VI to VIII could study the German language until November 2014, when the scheme was discontinued. But was again re continued and is available in some schools till class 10. In Moscow, students are given an opportunity to choose French or Russian as their third or second language. Tuition fees are charged for boys from class IX onward,  and students have to pay the school development fund (Vidyalaya Vikas Nidhi), with the proceeds spent on the development of that particular school. Students from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and children of KVS employees are exempt from tuition fees. Girls who are their parents' only child from class VI onward are exempt from tuition and school development fund payments.  All members of parliament could recommend up to six students from their constituency for admission to a Kendriya Vidyalaya. From the academic session 2016-17, the quota has been increased to 10 students.  The Quality Council of India (QCI) has accredited two of KV schools, KV RK Puram and KV IIT Powai.  