The National Curriculum Framework (NCF 2005) is one of the four National Curriculum Frameworks published in 1975, 1988, 2000 and 2005 by the National Council of Educational Research and Training NCERT in India. The Framework provides the framework for making syllabii,  textbooks and teaching practices within the school education programmes in India. The NCF 2005  document draws its policy basis from earlier government reports on education as Learning Without Burden  and National Policy of Education 1986-1992  and focus group discussion.  After wide ranging deliberations 21 National Focus Group Position Papers have been developed under the aegis of NCF-2005. The state of art position papers provided inputs for formulation of NCF-2005. The document and its offshoot textbooks have come under different forms of reviews in the press.  Its draft document came under the criticism from the Central Advisory Board of Education (CABE).  In February 2008 the director Krishna Kumar in an interview also discussed the challenges  that are faced by the document. The approach and recommendations of NCF-2005 are for the entire educational system. A number of its recommendations, for example, focus on rural schools. The syllabus and textbooks based on it are being used by all the CBSE schools, but NCF-based material is also being used in many State schools.  NCF 2005 has been translated into 22 languages and has influenced the syllabii in 17 States. The NCERT gave a grant of Rs.10 lakh to each State to promote NCF in the language of the State and to compare its current syllabus with the syllabus proposed, so that a plan for future reforms could be made. Several States have taken up this challenge. This exercise is being carried out with the involvement of State Councils for Educational Research and Training [SCERT] and District Institutes of Education and Training [DIET]. The document is divided into 5 areas: The NCF was framed Considering the articulated ideas in the past such as NCF focused on Learning should be an enjoyable act where children should feel that they are valued and their voices are heard. The curriculum structure and school should be designed to make school a satisfactory place for students to feel secure and valued.The curriculum should focus on the holistic development of the students to enhance physical and mental development in individuals and as well as with the peer interactions. In order to bring about the overall development of the students, adequate nutrition, physical exercise and other psycho social needs are addressed the participation in yoga and sports is required. learning should be made enjoyable and should relate to real life experiences learning should involve concepts and deeper understanding. Adolescence is a vulnerable age for students and the curriculum should prepare the students and provide support for social and emotional support that will inculcate positive behavior and provide skills essential to cope with situations that they encounter in their lives, peers pressure and gender stereotype.  Inclusive education to be given priority and flexibility to follow a curriculum to suit the needs of every student irrespective of students having disabilities. Constructive learning has to be part of the curriculum. Situations and opportunities have to be created for students to provide students with challenges, encourage creativity and active participation for students. Students have to be encouraged to interact with peers, teachers and older people which would open up many more rich learning opportunities. The foundation should be laid strong and firm. primary, upper primary and middle school should provide the space for children to explore and develop rational thinking that they would imbibe in them and have sufficient knowledge of concepts, language, knowledge, investigation and validation procedures. Language - Three language formula system to be followed. medium of communication should be the home language.  The First language to be studied must be the mother tongue or the regional language. The Second language – In Hindi speaking States, the second language will be some other modern Indian language or English, and – In non-Hindi speaking States, the second language will be Hindi or English. The Third language – In Hindi speaking States, the third language will be English or a modern Indian language not studied as the second language, and – In non-Hindi speaking States, the third language will be English or a modern Indian language not studied as the second language.  Mathematics -The emphasis for learning mathematics is that all students can learn the need to learn mathematics.Pedagogy and learning environment have to be made favorable for students to develop interest by going far beyond basic skills and include variety of mathematics models by pedagogy which devotes a greater percentage of instructional time to problem solving and active learning.  Computers - Introduction of computers in schools is to move from a predetermined set of outcomes and skill sets to one that enables students to develop 16 explanatory reasoning and other higher-order skills. • Enable students to access sources of knowledge, interpret them, and create knowledge rather than be passive users. • Promote flexible models of curriculum transaction. • Promote individual learning styles. • Encourage use of flexible curriculum content, at least in primary education, and flexible models of evaluation.  Science - Pedagogy of learning sciences should be designed to address the aims of learning science is to learn the facts and principles of science and it's applications, consistent with the stage of cognitive development. To acquire skills and understand the methods and processes that lead to generation and validation of scientific knowledge. To develop a historical and developmental perspective of science and to enable her to view science as a social enterprise. To relate to the, local as well as global, and appreciate the issues at the interface of science, technology and society. To acquire the requisite theoretical knowledge and practical technological skills to enter the world of work. To nurture the natural curiosity, aesthetic sense and creativity in science and technology. To imbibe the values of honesty, integrity, cooperation, concern for life and preservation of environment and to cultivate 'scientific temper'-objectivity, critical thinking and freedom from fear and prejudice.  Social Sciences - Social science a subject is included in schools to assist students to explore their interests and aptitudes in order to choose appropriate university courses and/or careers. To encourage them to explore higher levels of knowledge in different disciplines. To promote problem-solving abilities and creative thinking in the citizens of tomorrow, to introduce students to different ways of collecting and processing data and information in specific disciplines, and help them arrive at conclusions, and to generate new insights and knowledge in the process.  Art education - The objectives of including art education in schools is to bring about the complete development of the students personality and mental health, to appreciate cultural heritage and develop respect for each other's work and connect to environment.  Health and Physical education - To provide theoretical and practical inputs to provide an integrated and holistic understanding of health, disease, accidents and physical fitness among children. To provide skills for dealing with psycho-social issues in the school, home and the community. To help children grow as responsible citizens by inculcating in them certain social and moral values through games, sports, N.C.C., Red Cross, Scouts & Guides, etc.  Study of Peace - Skills that are developed as part of curriculum activity such as to listening with patience and endurance, purity of mind to develop concentration, aptitude for cooperation and teamwork, to reach out to get answers (curiosity and rational inquiry), acceptance of discipline, and a positive attitude to study/work are the trademarks of a good student which in turn are also the skills of a peace-oriented person. Thus the curriculum also inculcates peace and democracy into students.  Work and Education - Work related education is made as an integral component of the school curriculum, in the form of – work experience, work education, SUPW, craft education, life oriented education, pre vocational education and generic education. Work based education aims at involving children in a variety of production or service oriented activities, to develop skills, positive attitudes and values through work and also to develop work related competencies.  Physical environment has to be maintained favorable to students in terms of infrastructure, adequate light and ventilation,student teacher ratio, hygiene and safe environment. Schools should also treat students with equality,justice respect, dignity and right of the students. Give equal opportunities for all students to participate in all activities without any bias. Policy of inclusion has to be part of the school where differently abled and children from marginalized section get equal opportunities. The schools should also be well equipped with libraries, laboratories and educational technology laboratories.  The NCF has aimed at bringing about reforms in the education system to bring about a curriculum that is  learner centric, has a flexible process, provide learner autonomy, teacher plays a role of a facilitator, supports and encourages learning, involves active participation of learners, develops multidisciplinary curriculum, focuses on education, brings about multiple and divergent exposure, multifarious, continuous appraisal in educational system.  