 Heritage Open Days (also known as HODS) are an annual celebration of England's architecture and culture that allows visitors free access to historical landmarks that are either not usually open to the public, or would normally charge an entrance fee to visitors, or that are always free to visitors and always open to the public. It also includes tours, events and activities related to architecture and culture. There are two types of events, drop in and pre book HODS is England's largest festival of history and culture, bringing together over 2,500 organisations, 5,000 events and 40,000 volunteers. Every year in September, places across the country throw open their doors to celebrate their heritage, community and history – and it’s all FREE. Heritage Open Days 2018 will be 6-9 & 13-16 September.   Heritage Open Days were established in 1994 as England's contribution to European Heritage Days, in which 49 countries now participate. Organised by volunteers – usually property owners or managers – for local people, Heritage Open Days are one of England's biggest and most popular voluntary cultural event, attracting some 800,000 people every year. Until April 2009 the Civic Trust gave central co-ordination and a national voice to the event; it is now organised and co-ordinated by English Heritage.   The event is usually held on the second weekend of September. The dates for 2013 were 12-15 September. London stages a separate event, Open House London, which usually takes place the following weekend, the third weekend of September. For the first time in the history of Heritage Open Days, the festival will take place across two weekends in September 2018 – the 6-9th and the 13-16th.   In 2018, Heritage Open Days will celebrate ‘Extraordinary Women’, hoping to uncover, acknowledge and reveal the women - workers, pioneers, mothers, grandmothers, sisters, daughters and friends - who have touched lives, are making a difference, have brought about change, at every scale, and left a legacy that should be cherished. Unsung Stories is an annual arts-based strand of Heritage Open Days, focusing on aspects of heritage that have been overlooked or pushed to the sidelines. This year the focus is on celebrating today's Extraordinary Women, through non zero one's 'put her forward'.  The project is funded by [[People's Postcode Lottery]] 