    Cameroon GCE  Board  known as Cameroon General  Certificate of  Education (GCE) is a public examination body to awards  certificates to the Anglo-Saxons Cameroonian secondary school students of two stages; Stage 1,  GCE “O” Level  is a 3-year course beginning in form 3 and form 5 student are qualify to take the GCE Ordinary Level exam . While the GCE “A” Levels is written in High School upper sixth for student who had successfully passed the GCE ordinary level  in at least 4 subjects. See reference here General Certificate of Education is a pure UK system of education adopted by Anglo-Saxons Cameroonian. In 2015/2016 Academy year, about  182,416 candidates sad in for both the GCE  examination in Cameroon with over 138,000 candidates for Ordinary Leve while 46,000 for Advanced Level.  It was founded in 1993,  and the current Registrar is Monono Ekema Humprey, who took office in 2006.  The Cameroon GCE  board was founded in 1993, according to a book titled “The Cameroon GCE Crisis: A Test of Anglophone Solidarity.” Says the creation of the board was spearheaded by Anglophone community groups such has Teachers Association of Cameroon (TAC) lead by Mr. Peter Chateh, churches, Confederation of Anglophone Parents’ Teachers’ Association of Cameroon (CAPTAC) and other trade union  groups played a pivot role for the creation of the board. It took 10 years from 1983 to October 1993 for a consensus  to be made by the groups mentioned above and the Government of Cameroon to create an examination board to award certificate to Anglophone Cameroonian students.   Before the Cameroon GCE board came to existence in 1993, certificate was awarded to Anglophone Cameroonian student by the General Certificate of Education in UK because it was a  Trust Territory  under British administration (British Cameroons) from 1922 to 1961 see reference here British Cameroons The Cameroon GCE Examination grading system can be seen below A, B and C are all passing grades, A being the highest and C the lowest. Grades lower than C are not stated on the certificate. 