ResultThe Caribbean Examinations Council (CXC®) is an examination board in the Caribbean. It was established in 1972  under Agreement by the Participating Governments in the CARICOM. To conduct such examinations as it may think appropriate and award certificates and diplomas on the results of any such examinations so conducted. The Council is empowered to regulate the conduct of any such examinations and prescribe the qualification requirements of candidates and the fees payable by them. It is now an examining body that provides educational certifications in 16 English speaking Commonwealth Caribbean Countries and Territories and has replaced the General Certificate of Education (GCE) examinations used by England and some other members of the Commonwealth.  The CXC is an institution of the Caribbean Community (Caricom), it was recognised as an Associate Institution of the Community in the 1973 treaty that created the Caribbean Community. Members of the Council (such as Mr. Mallette) are drawn from the 16 territories and the region's two universities, the University of Guyana and the University of the West Indies. It currently consists of the following members: The Participating Territories are: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago and Turks and Caicos Islands.  Members of the Council hold office for a period of three years. The Chairman (who is eligible for re-election) and Deputy Chairman are elected from among the members of Council to hold office for three years or for the unexpired term of their appointments as members of the Council. The Council organises its business on a triennial basis, using the calendar year as its operative year. The Registrar is the Chief Executive of the Council and the Council may delegate to him any of its duties relating to the holding of examinations and the appointments of staff members other than himself or the Pro-Registrar. The Caribbean Examinations Council offers three levels of examinations and certifications: The CXC Associate Degree Programme was unveiled in 2005, it is a tertiary qualification based on the CAPE certification. While it may vary by territory, the CSECs are generally viewed as an employment qualification certifying the holder as a secondary school graduate. While the CAPE is considered a suitable qualification for entry into tertiary education. The island territories of Saint Maarten and Saba - both part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands - also conduct exams administered by the Council. In 1993, the Caribbean Examinations Council Act was commenced to secure the integrity of examinations conducted by the council.   