Bigfoot Biomedical, Inc. is a medical technology  startup headquartered in California.  The company was founded by parents of children with  Type 1 Diabetes (T1D): Jeffrey Brewer, Bryan Mazlish, and Lane Desborough.  The company’s start may be traced back to 2011, when  quantitative trader Bryan Mazlish’s son received his diagnosis of T1D. He developed a control algorithm to drive the first  automated and  cloud-connected,  closed-loop, artificial pancreas device for his wife and son, who have been using the closed-loop automation of insulin delivery since 2013.  The existence of this “homebrew artificial pancreas” was kept from the press and the subject of rumor, earning Mazlish the nickname Bigfoot from author Dan Hurley in a piece for Wired Magazine in 2014.  In late 2014, Mazlish joined with Brewer and Desborough to form Bigfoot Biomedical in order to scale and commercialize the technology, calling the company Bigfoot Biomedical.   In January 2017, it was reported that, Bigfoot Biomedical received investment from the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF).  In May 2015, Bigfoot acquired all the assets of Asante Solutions, former manufacturer of the Snap insulin pump. Later that month, Bigfoot announced a development agreement with Dexcom in June 2015, securing the technology needed for the  continuous glucose monitoring component of the system.  In June 2017, Bigfoot announced the acquisition of London-based startup Patients Pending, LTD, maker of the Timesulin smart insulin pen tracker,  and the company's Bluetooth-enabled insulin pen dose capture technology, with the goal being to use Patent Pending's Bluetooth-enabled dose capture technology to provide people on injection therapy with dose titration decision support,  giving smart dosing guidance based on previous glucose trends and insulin doses captured from the cap with a commercial launch possible in 2019.  July 2017 saw Bigfoot announce a collaboration with  Abbott Laboratories to integrate Abbott’s FreeStyle® Libre glucose sensing technology with Bigfoot’s insulin delivery solutions in the United States.  The agreement allows for Bigfoot's use of a "next generation" version of the Libre sensor system that allows for continuous glucose transmission.  The Abbott FreeStyle® Libre does not require users to prick their finger to retrieve glucose values or calibrate the sensor. For Bigfoot, the deal offers an opportunity to disrupt the automated insulin delivery field with the first integration of a sensor technology designed to eliminate the need for fingerstick calibrations and aids Bigfoot in its goal of creating patient-friendly technologies.  The Bigfoot automated insulin delivery system will combine an insulin pump programmed with a proprietary control algorithm, a continuous glucose monitoring sensor and transmitter, and a commercial off-the-shelf smartphone. It will also integrate data generated from a Bluetooth connected blood glucose meter.  Bigfoot Biomedical’s first clinical trial  enrolled its first patients in 2016.   A pivotal trial for the automated insulin delivery system is planned for late 2018  at as many as a dozen clinical research sites and including both doctors and patients who are new to pump therapy.  A separate trial for the company's MDI (multiple daily injection) auto-titration system is also planned.  