Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is a branch of clinical chemistry and clinical pharmacology that specializes in the measurement of medication concentrations in blood. Its main focus is on drugs with a narrow therapeutic window.  TDM aims at improving patient care by  adjusting the dose of drugs for which clinical experience or clinical trials have shown it improved outcome in the general or special populations.  It can be based on a priori pharmacogenetic, demographic and clinical information, and/or on the a posteriori measurement of blood concentrations of drugs (pk/pd monitoring).  There are numerous variables that influence the interpretation of drug concentration data: time, route and dose of drug given, time of blood sampling, handling and storage conditions, precision and accuracy of the analytical method, validity of pharmacokinetic models and assumptions, co-medications and clinical status of the patient.  Many different professionals (physicians, clinical pharmacologists, clinical pharmacists, nurses, medical laboratory scientists, etc.) are involved with the various elements of drug concentration monitoring, which is a truly multidisciplinary process. Because failure to properly carry out any one of the components can severely affect the usefulness of using drug concentrations to optimize therapy, an organized approach to the overall process is critical.  A priori TDM consists of determining the initial dose regimen to be given to a patient, based on clinical endpoint and  established on population [(PK/PD) ]relationships.  These relationships help to identify sub-populations of patients with different dosage requirements, by utilizing demographic data, clinical findings, clinical chemistry results. In pharmacotherapy, many medications are used without monitoring of blood levels, as their dosage can generally be varied according to the clinical response that a patient gets to that substance. In a small group of drugs, this is impossible, as insufficient levels will lead to undertreatment or resistance, and excessive levels can lead to toxicity and tissue damage. Indications for therapeutic drug monitoring include: Examples of drugs analysed by therapeutic drug monitoring:  Therapeutic drug monitoring can also detect poisoning with above drugs, should the suspicion arise. 