Association for Machines and Mechanism, India is the Indian national affiliate of the International Federation for the Promotion of Mechanism and Machine Science, IFToMM. The main objective of AMM is to contribute to mechanical design at all levels starting from academic projects to industrial production, thus enhancing the quality and the reliability of indigenous machines. AMM organizes the National Conference on Machines and Mechanisms (NaCoMM) and the workshop on Industrial Problems on Machines and Mechanisms (IPRoMM) regularly. 1. National Conference on Machines and Mechanisms (NaCoMM): NaCoMM Conferences lay emphasis on theoretical aspects and experimental studies relating to machinery. The first NaCoMM Conference, NaCoMM 81 was held at IIT Bombay in 1981. NaCoMM covers a wide range of topics including kinematics and dynamics of machines, robotics and automation, CAD, automobile engineering, rotor dynamics and tribology, vibration of machines, condition monitoring and failure analysis, man-machine systems and mechatronices, micro-mechanisms and control systems. The upcoming NaCoMM conference will be held at NIT Durgapur, India on December 17–18, 2009.  2. Industrial Problems on Machines and Mechanisms (IPRoMM): IPRoMM essentially concentrates on industrial problems and practical solutions to the design of machines in specific areas. The workshops held so far have covered textile, mechanical handling agricultural machinery and home appliances. The latest IPRoMM covers precision instruments and micro–mechanisms. The first IPRoMM, IPRoMM 86, was held in December 1986 at ATIRA in Ahmedabad. 3. AMM Workshop on Design of Mechanisms for Solving Real Life Problems: The workshop aims at giving the participant an opportunity to discuss the design issues for a host of advanced concepts in rigid and compliant mechanisms with the recognized experts in the field and explore the possibilities of collaborative work. The upcoming AMM workshop on the design on mechanisms will be held at IIT Madras, India on October 23–25, 2008.  One prominent activity of AMM is the organization of the best design project contest for students. The hosts of a Conference invite students to submit papers based on their B.E/M.E/B.Tech/M.Tech. projects and present awards to the best design projects. Two such contests have been conducted so far, one in Mumbai (NaCoMM 87) and one in Nagpur (IPRoMM 89). 