GSAW, the Ground System Architectures Workshop, provides a forum for the world’s space-related ground system experts to collaborate with other ground system users, developers, and researchers through tutorials, presentations, working groups, panel discussions, and new for this year, technical exhibits. The capabilities of satellites, sensors, and computer systems have been growing at a phenomenal rate. With that growth comes a corresponding growth in data, complexity, and threats. This creates challenges in mission data and telemetry processing; predicting system behaviors; and operating securely. This year’s theme, “Creating Smarter Ground Systems,” spans the entire ground system life-cycle. The use of autonomy, intelligent/cognitive systems, and machine learning are some approaches to efficiently exploiting data, predicting and preventing anomalies, detecting intrusion, and optimizing performance.Innovative development processes, architectures, and acquisition strategies can lead to smarter systems. Come share your ideas, emerging technologies, lessons learned, and roadmaps to achieving the goal of a smarter enterprise.  GSAW 2019 will be held at the Renaissance Los Angeles Airport Hotel Feb. 25-28, 2019.  Monday, Feb. 25 will be tutorial day.  Tuesday through Thursday, Feb. 26-28, the general workshop will be held.  Thursday afternoon, Feb.28, the classified session will be held at The Aerospace Corporation. Select to download Call for Participation flyer. In the mid-1990s, a small group of ground system architects and researchers at The Aerospace Corporation envisioned a series of annual workshops to help ground system planners transition to common consensus-based open system architectures. To realize this vision, Aerospace began working with the University of Southern California's Center for Software Engineering (USC-CSE), which was pursuing a project on complex software design cosponsored by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency and U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory. The workshop became a reality in February, 1997, when Aerospace and the U.S. Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC) cosponsored the first Ground System Architectures Workshop (GSAW) held at the Aerospace campus in El Segundo, California, USA. More than 200 participants met for three days of plenary presentations, panel discussions, and a keynote address by the SMC commander. That first GSAW focused on the role of software architectures in spacecraft ground system standardization, implementation (using commercial products, middleware, and frameworks), and interoperability. Since 1997, the Ground System Architectures Workshop (GSAW) has served as the premier forum for spacecraft ground system experts from around the world. GSAW is sponsored by The Aerospace Corporation in cooperation with: 