The International Conference on Information Systems Security and Privacy – ICISSP – will have the third edition in 2017 in conjunction with the International Conference on Model-Driven Engineering and Software Development - MODELSWARD - and the International Conference on Sensor Networks - SENSORNETS.  This conference aims to create a meeting point for practitioners and researchers interested in security and privacy challenges that concern information systems covering technological and social issues. The format of this conference counts on technical sessions, poster sessions, tutorials, doctoral consortiums, panels, industrial tracks and keynote lectures. The papers presented in the conference are made available at the SCITEPRESS digital library, published in the conference proceedings and some of the best papers are invited to a post-publication with Springer,  in a CCIS Series book. ICISSP also counts on keynote talks. Elisa Bertino (Purdue University, United States), Nancy Cam-Winget (Cisco Systems, United States) and Bart Preneel (KU Leuven, Belgium) are the names announced in the conference website as the invited speakers for the next conference edition.  Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Information Systems Security and Privacy.   Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Information Systems Security and Privacy.   Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Information Systems Security and Privacy.   Proceedings of the 1st International Conference on Information Systems Security and Privacy . ISBN 978-989-758-081-9   2016 Best Paper Award – Christoph Kerschbaumer, Sid Stamm and Stefan Brunthaler. “Injecting CSP for Fun and Security”   Best Student Paper Award - Kexin Qiao, Lei Hu and Siwei Sun, “Differential Security Evaluation of Simeck with Dynamic Key-guessing Techniques”   2015 Best Paper Award - Fabian Knirsch, Dominik Engel, Christian Neureiter, Marc Frincu and Viktor Prasanna. "Model-driven Privacy Assessment in the Smart Grid"   Best Student Paper Award - Carsten Büttner and Sorin A. Huss. "A Novel Anonymous Authenticated Key Agreement Protocol for Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks"  