LearnShift India is an education conclave that brings together influential individuals from the education sector who share ideas, build networks and work together. Since its conception in 2012, this conference has involved a gathering of people related to the field of education in some way or the other. LearnShift India is organized by R.N. Podar School, Mumbai and co-curated by Simon Breakspear,  founder of LearnLabs and a thinker on education reform and Mrs. Avnita Bir Director-Principal, R.N. Podar School.  LSI began in 2012 from India Habitat Center, Delhi, and the later leg was held on 13 November 2013 at JW Marriott, Mumbai. Sponsors include BBC Knowledge, Phyzok Learning Solutions LLP and other organizations.  The conclave was held on 4 December 2012 at India Habitat Centre, Delhi, with Mrs. Avnita Bir and Simon Breakspear as curators. The conclave was centered around three "focus questions", that summarized the key issues in the Indian education system    The three questions were as follows : 1. Teachers : How could we attract, prepare, retain and develop high quality teachers? 2. Equity : How could we achieve equity, access and quality in education for all? 3. Technology : How could we harness the potential for technology to transform learning? The LSI Young Changemaker Award Contest was held for students to present their opinions in the form of an essay or a video entry.  The Mumbai chapter conclave was held at JW Marriott, Mumbai, on 13 November 2013 and was attended by distinguished dignitaries from the education field with Kiran Bir Sethi as the keynote speaker. Student representatives were selected across schools to participate in the discussions and the LearnShift Young Change Agent Award Contest in organized in association with Phyzok Learning Solutions LLP saw entries from school students all across the country on making everyday concepts interesting in the form of video entries. LSI is now a one-day event which sees participation from stakeholders in education across the country. There are sessions and discussions on the themes highlighted for the year, and details of works being done by different individuals/institutions is shared. Students from schools across the country are invites as representatives for the discussions since the Mumbai Chapter of LSI in 2013. The Learnshift India Young Agent Contest and the Teacher Catalyst Award at LSI 2015 aim at bringing in opinions of students and teachers respectively on education related issues in the form of videos.  The LSI Young Agent Award Contest (for students) and the Teacher Catalyst Award (for teachers, since LSI 2015), in 2012 (as the LSI Young Changemaker Award), focused on essays on the topic "If you were the minister of education, what changes would you like to bring about in school education ? Give reasons for the required changes and tell us the proposed plan of action" and videos on the topic "Education should be for all and not just the prerogative of the few".  The 2013 contest was organized in association with Phyzok Learning Solutions LLP and the top 5 teams and their videos were showcased at the conclave. 