Petrovision is a Professional Convention (meeting) as well as a technocratic event organized by the Society of Petroleum Technologists (SPT), Branch of Petroleum Refining and Petro Chemicals (Discontinued from 2012), Department of Chemical Engineering, Alagappa College of Technology, Anna University, Chennai. It aims at providing a scaffold for burgeoning technologists and engineers to exhibit their innate abilities and inherent talents and also acts as a liaison between them and the delegates from reputed chemical industries. Popularly known as A.C. Tech., Alagappa College of Technology, one of the constituent campus of Anna University along with CEG, Chennai was established on 4 September 1978, as a centre for technological excellence. It is located alongside Central Leather Research Institute (CLRI), Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M). It offers nine UG, PG, Ph.D. courses on Chemical Engineering, Petroleum Refining and Petrochemicals, Industrial Biotechnology, Ceramic Technology, Textile Technology, Apparel Technology, Food Technology, Pharmaceutical technology and Leather Technology. Petrovision was started in the year 2010 as a one-day seminar throwing light upon the recent trends in hydrocarbon processing. In the year 2011, Petrovision was aggrandized into a two-day technical seminar inclusive of exciting events to encourage the student community. The event was inaugurated by Mr. Venkataramana, Director (Operations), Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited followed by his lecture on "Changing Energy Sources". The important aspect of the event was that it had blended management with technology. Lectures by Lt. Col.Jitendira Prasad, General Manager, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and Chairman for the Chennai Section of Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE); Dr. G.D. Yadhav, Vice Chancellor, Institute of Chemical Technology and Mr. M.Shiva Kumar,Director/ Chief Regional Coordinator, Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA) added color to the event. Petrovision'11 covered a wide range of current and emerging issues that are prevalent in the minds of Petroleum Engineers, Petrochemists and researchers in our country. It provided a platform for students, teachers and technocrats to discuss and discover problems and opportunities in production and utilization of Energy. This year Petrovision is off with a bang,bigger and mightier. Petrovision '12 was scheduled to be held 19–20 January 2012. It is proposed to have events such as Technical Seminars, Debate, Paper Presentation, Heat Exchanger Design, Quiz, Industry Defined Problems, etc. The seminars will be covered by experts from various refineries and reputed chemical industries. As the branch of Petroleum Refining and Petro Chemicals (PRPC) has been discontinued from the year 2012, Petrovision 2013 has been cancelled. Petrovision 2014 for the academic year 2013-2014 is planned to be conducted on February 5, 6, 2014. Following events are proposed by the student chapter and the necessary steps are taken by Ms.Brindha Lakshmi, Overall In charge of Symposiums, Alagappa College of Technology 1.Coal Gasification Technology. 2.Refinery & Petrochemical Plant Integration. 3.Application of Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD). 4.Polymer Recycling. 5.Understanding Thermal cracking & Hydrocracking Differences. 6.Advanced process control & its Application in Industries. 7.Low-carbon economy. 8.Bottom of the Barrel Processing. 