The Prescriptive authority for psychologists (RxP) movement is a movement among certain psychologists to give prescriptive authority to psychologists with 2 years of postdoctoral training, or Continuing Education training in clinical psychopharmacology and related sciences, followed by 1 – 2 years of supervised prescribing, or a Certificate from the Department of Defense program, or the Board Certified Diploma from the Prescribing Psychologists Register (FICPP or FICPPM) to enable them, according to state law, to prescribe psychotropic medications to treat mental and emotional disorders.  This approach is a non-traditional medical training focused on the specialized training to prescribe for mental health disorders by a psychologist. It includes rigorous didactics and supervised practicuums. Legislation pertaining to prescriptive authority for psychologists has been introduced over 180 times in over half of the United States.  It has passed in five states, due largely to substantial lobbying effort by the American Psychological Association.  Prior to RxP legislation and in states where it has not been passed, this role is played by psychiatrists, who possess a medical degree and thus the authority to prescribe medication (whose numbers are at a critical shortage), and by primary care physicians who can prescribe psychotropics but lack extensive training in psychotropic drugs and in diagnosing and treating psychological disorders.  According to the American Psychological Association, the professional organization of psychologists, the movement is a reaction to the growing public need for mental health services, particularly in under-resourced areas where patients have little or no access to psychiatrists.  Currently, in states where RxP legislation has been passed, psychologists who seek prescriptive authority must possess a doctoral level degree (PhD/PsyD) and a license to practice independently, with five years of clinical experience working with patients as a health care provider, and complete a post-doctoral Master of Science degree or any of the training programs from the Department of Defense, the Prescribing Psychologists' Register Diplomate Certification, or a post-doctoral Master of Science in Clinical Psychopharmacology degree. A Preceptorship of one year of supervised work experience working directly with a licensed prescribing health professional for 100 patient supervision, makes the training a total of approximately 4 years.  The medications the psychologist may then prescribe are limited to those indicated for mental and emotional health problems. Psychologists' involvement in pharmacotherapy exists on a continuum, with psychologists serving as prescribers, collaborators, and information providers in the medical decision-making process.  Currently, psychologists may prescribe in five states, Iowa, Idaho, Illinois, New Mexico and Louisiana, as well as in the Public Health Service, the Indian Health Service, the U.S. military and Guam. When psychologists act as collaborators, they lack the authority to make the final decision to prescribe; however, they may assist in the process by recommending clinically desirable treatment effects, certain classes of medications, specific medications, dosages, or other aspects of the treatment regimen.  Psychologists also provide information that may be relevant to the prescribing professional.  Psychologists may express concerns about treatment, refer patients for medication consults, direct patients to referral or information sources, or discuss with patients how to address their concerns about medication with the prescriber.  The first bill seeking to authorize prescription privileges to psychologists was introduced in Hawaii in 1985 under Hawaii State Resolution 159. The bill allowed licensed psychologists in the state of Hawaii to administer and prescribe psychotropic medication for the treatment of nervous, mental, and organic brain disorders.   A total of 88 prescriptive authority bills have been introduced in 21 jurisdictions since then.  In 1988, the U.S. Department of Defense approved a pilot project to train psychologists in issuing psychotropic medications "under certain circumstances". Guam became the first U.S. territory to approve RxP legislation in 1999. New Mexico became the first state to approve RxP legislation in 2002, and Louisiana followed in 2004. In 2014, Illinois became the third state to approve RxP legislation. In 2016 Iowa became the fourth state to grant prescriptive authority.  In 2017 Idaho became the fifth state to grant prescriptive authority.  Five other states have introduced RxP bills that are under discussion but have yet to be approved.   The State of New Mexico was the first to enact a Psychologists prescribing law, which is still in effect. Louisiana's legislature established medical psychology as a separate and distinct healthcare profession and transferred the regulation of their practice of medical psychology to the Louisiana State Board of Medical Examiners.  At this time, the entire practice of psychology (for medical psychologist) including psychotherapy and psychological testing was also transferred to the Louisiana Board of Medical Examiners, effectively making Louisiana the only state in the U.S. where, for some psychologists, a medical board has authority over the regulation of the entire practice of psychology.  Because of this, several national organizations, including the American Psychological Association and the Association of State and Provincial Psychology Boards have expressed concern over a practice of psychology being regulated by another profession (i.e., medicine).  The Louisiana Psychological Association has strongly echoed such concerns. However, the Louisiana Academy of Medical Psychologists, a Political Action Committee representing medical psychologists in that state, strongly endorsed this change of regulation by another profession. In December 2011, the American Psychological Association (APA) published a list of practice guidelines that apply to all prescribing activities, with some also applicable to collaborating and information providing activities.  The list is categorized according to the area of psychologists' involvement in pharmacological issues (general, education, assessment, intervention and consultation).  The following list summarizes the guidelines by section.  *General *Education *Assessment *Intervention and Consultation *Relationships There are several core arguments put forth by RxP advocates, including the following: According to a survey assessing the views of psychology interns, residents, and psychologists published in the journal Professional Psychology: Research and Practice, significant support exists regarding the APA's prescriptive authority initiative.  Proponents of the prescriptive authority initiative believe that it would improve the economic stability of the profession, provide better opportunities to underserved populations, and enhance psychologists' clinical skills through a better understanding of biopsychosocial interactions.   Support for the prescriptive authority initiative also appears higher amongst those with PsyDs and early-career psychologists than those with PhDs and mid- and late-career psychologists.  Demographically, females and Caucasians expressed more willingness to seek prescription privileges.   Also, those who attended a clinical or counseling graduate program, received a PhD degree, and those employed in a university counseling center, medical school hospital, or independent practice tend to demonstrate higher levels of support for the initiative.  In terms of training, an overwhelming majority of those surveyed believe training should begin at the graduate level, but prior to completion of a doctorate. Additionally, respondents preferred that training occur on a part-time basis, be completed within two to two and a half years and cost $12,000-$18,000.  Today, evidence exists to indicate a continual and growing level of support for the American Psychological Association's prescriptive authority initiative.  Such support reflects psychologists' willingness to open their minds to learning about psychotropic medications, incorporating pharmacological treatment with therapy, and adapting to the demands of a rapidly changing health care world.  Prescriptive authority for psychologists has been controversial, even within the healthcare community.which has created entire organizations dedicated to objecting to prescriptive authority for clinical psychologists.  Specifically, critics within the medical profession have expressed concern that they have no medical training.  The current RxP model explicitly states that this movement includes no medical training, But this can be accomplished with an abbreviated master's degree in psychopharmacology, typically from a post-doctoral education program at a professional school. This would culminate in substantially fewer years and hours compared to Physicians assistants and nurse practitioners, who are granted full prescriptive authority, and can elect to specialize in psychiatry, and unlike the majority of psychologists  . The strongest opposition to date has come from current psychiatrists who point out that psychologists (even after attending additional training) lack the proper general medical knowledge obtained in medical school and residency necessary to effectively and safely manage patients' care  (while exposing any patient to undue risk).  Some psychologists opposing prescriptive authority fear caseload pressures that might press increasing numbers of psychologists to respond to patients' needs via only one treatment modality (pharmacology), as do many psychiatrists.    