Public accommodations, in US law, are generally defined as facilities, both public and private, used by the public. Examples include retail stores, rental establishments, and service establishments as well as educational institutions, recreational facilities, and service centers. Under US federal law, public accommodations must be accessible to the disabled and may not discriminate on the basis of "race, color, religion, or national origin."   Private clubs were specifically exempted under federal law  as well as religious organizations.  Title II's definition of public accommodation is limited to "any inn, hotel, motel, or other establishment which provides lodging to transient guests" and so is inapplicable to  churches. Section 12187 of the ADA also exempts religious organizations from public accommodation laws,  but religious organizations are encouraged to comply.    Various US states have nonuniform laws that provide for nondiscrimination in public accommodations. Federal legislation dealing with public accommodations include these: Many states and their subdivisions prohibited discrimination in places of public accommodation prior to the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title II).   As of 2015, 45 states have an anti-discrimination public accommodation law for nondisabled individuals.  The laws all protect against discrimination based upon race, gender, ethnicity, and religion.  There are 19 states that prohibit discrimination in public accommodation based upon age.  Several states also have protections for breastfeeding in public.  In addition several states provide for non-discrimination in public accommodation when based upon sexual orientation and/or gender identity.  Private clubs were exempted under federal law  but not in many states' laws. For example, in interpreting a Minnesota law in their 1984 ruling Roberts v. United States Jaycees, the United States Supreme Court declared the previously all-male United States Junior Chamber, a chamber of commerce organization for persons between the ages of 18 and 36, to be a public accommodation, thus compelling it to admit women.  