Public Talks is a new form of international dialogue that would be introduced into conflict-related negotiations only after conventional authorized private negotiations have failed.  The centerpiece of this worldwide communication process is a series of small, magazine-size "Challenge Documents." These communiques would be issues by each involved party—a country, rebel faction, etc. -- and would feature each side’s interpretation of the relevant conflict’s history, questions posed to the party’s adversary, current negotiating positions on  issues central to the dispute, and other content inherent to international conflicts.  Each Challenge Document  would then be published in—and distributed to the general population through—a handful of influential national and international newspapers and magazines. Additionally, these statements would be posted online, creating the potential for a worldwide audience to remain intimately informed on any developments. Public Talks is the sole active project of the Institute for Public Dialogue (IFPD). The IFPD states on its website that the Public Talks process “is designed to be under the auspices of an organization that would shape the rules and terms of this level communication playing field. As to what organization should oversee this process, competing issues of legitimacy and function provide varying arguments for and against the U.N., Congressional committees, various established NGOs and other forums.” The two fundamental intentions of Public Talks are a.) to resolve conflicts; and  b.) to influence public opinion. The underlying motive for adversaries to engage in Public Talks is not an idealistic notion of goodwill, but rather recognition of the growing importance of public opinion.  Any involved party’s rejection of a Public Talks challenge would likely pose a risk of allowing for increased international acceptance of the adversary's interpretation of the conflict. Thus, relevant groups would be encouraged to engage in Public Talks to head off the potential for erosion of public support in their region and worldwide.  In this way, the soft power of American and world opinion would exert pressure on both sides to take incremental steps toward a compromise. The IFPD asserts that Public Talks has potential to encourage progress in historical and developing conflicts such as those between Israel and Palestine, China and Taiwan, the Sri Lankan government and the Tamil Tigers (LTEE), India and Pakistan, and the United States—along with involved European allies—and Iran. Public Talks is a sister project of the IFPD’s Print Debate concept, also created by Connolly, which seeks to encourage political candidates to debate one another in written form during domestic political campaigns. 