 A Força do Querer (English title: Edge of Desire) is a Brazilian telenovela produced and aired by Rede Globo. It is created by Glória Perez and directed by Rogério Gomes and Pedro Vasconcellos.  It premiered on 3 April 2017, replacing A Lei do Amor. The show ran for 29 weeks with a total of 172 episodes and ended on 20 October 2017, replaced by O Outro Lado do Paraíso.  The telenovela features an ensemble cast headed by Juliana Paes, Lilia Cabral, Maria Fernanda Cândido, Isis Valverde, Paolla Oliveira, Carol Duarte, Humberto Martins, Dan Stulbach, Rodrigo Lombardi, Marco Pigossi, Fiuk, Edson Celulari, Emilio Dantas, Juliana Paiva, Zezé Polessa and Débora Falabella. The show deals with contemporary themes that affect modern Brazilian culture, such as drug trafficking, gambling and transsexuality, and has received positive reception from viewers and critics alike. The show achieved an average viewership of 36 points in the much coveted 9 p.m. time slot that in the recent past suffered a great decline in its following. In April 2016, Glória Perez announced her next telenovela, due to premiere in the first half of 2017. She also stated that it will be different from the ones she has produced in the 20-year gap, that mainly featured on different settings and storylines that were culture oriented. A Força do Querer mainly features romance and is primarily shot in Brazil.   Originally titled À Flor da Pele during the early stages of production, it was changed to Flor do Querer as of November 2016 and changed to the current title that December.     Paolla Oliveira was the first cast member to be cast, she was announced to star in the telenovela in March 2016.   Fábio Assunção was originally cast to portray Eugênio but later backed out before production started to star in an upcoming television series.  Dan Stulbach was then cast.  Leopoldo Pacheco was originally cast as Junqueira but he and Chay Suede preferred Novo Mundo. Suede was the first option to portray Ruy. Daniel Rocha also auditioned for the role of Ruy but Fiuk was preferred over him.  Vera Fischer was also part of the cast but due to personal differences with the showrunner, she was replaced by Betty Faria.  The role of Juliana Paes Bibi, is inspired by real life Fabiana Escobar, infamously known as "queen of pot". The showrunner Glória Perez initially wanted to center the plot sorely on her character in a separate miniseries altogether but decided to include it in the plot.    Since her role is inspired by a siren, Isis Valverde was prepared for three months in readiness for her role by Mirella Ferraz a professional in that part.   Promising lawyer, Caio (Rodrigo Lombardi) is considered for administering Garcia, one of the largest companies in the country, however, when Bibi (Juliana Paes) decides to end their relationship, he leaves everything behind and relocates to United States. 15 years later, returns to Brazil with more experience in the judiciary and meets once again with Bibi, who failed to complete College and is married to Rubinho (Emilio Dantas). Rubinho goes through a delicate financial condition, as he and Bibi struggle to make ends meet which will force him to enter the world of crime. As the only qualified heir, Eugênio (Dan Stulbach) prepares his son, Ruy (Filipe Galvão, also known as Fiuk) to take over the administration of the company. Ruy is engaged to Cibele (Bruna Linzmeyer), with whom they share different qualities from their personal lives to their professional lives, however, when he travels to Parazinho, he is enchanted by Ritinha (Isis Valverde), a young woman who loves the fascination exerted by men, such as playing a mermaid, which she actually believes to be. Engaged to Zeca (Marco Pigossi), a truck driver who has rude but quiet friendly behavior. Rita continues her game of seduction with the carioca, because she intends to follow her impulses. Despite criticism that he hears about the Ritinha, Zeca loves her above anything. On the day of the wedding he finds out about Ritinha’s fling with Ruy, he angrily leaves Parazinho after Ritinha runs away with Ruy, supposedly because she feared of Zeca’s violent temper.  In the new town, he meets Jeiza (Paolla Oliveira), a police officer who dreams of becoming an MMA fighter. In parallel occurs the transformation of Ivana (Caroline Duarte), Ruy's sister, who feels like a man trapped in a female body, causing conflict with Joyce (Maria Fernanda Cândido), who raised her daughter to be a princess. Joyce's relationship with her husband begins to crumble when he meets Irene (Débora Falabella), an ambitious woman who will do anything to convince Eugênio to stay with her. On the other hand, Eurico, Eugênio’s older brother, (Humberto Martins) likes to have everything and everyone under his control, but can't control his wife, Silvana (Lília Cabral), on her gambling addiction. A Força do Querer: Vol. 1 is the first installment of the series of soundtracks of the telenovela. The album consist of an original score by Roberto Carlos,  "Sereia" (released on 5 April) was composed specifically for the show.  The telenovela has had an average daily reach of 45 million viewers since its premiere (number of people who watch at least one minute of the telenovela every day). The plot also swept across social networks and ranked first on the renowned Social Wit List in April 2017, a ranking that highlights the most commented releases in Latin America.  On its premiere, A Força do Querer registered a viewership rating of 32.9 points, a premiere with highest viewership since 2016 on the debut episode of Velho Chico.  On its first week of broadcast, it recorded an average of 32 points; surpassing all its predecessors—Em Família, Império, Babilônia, A Regra do Jogo, Velho Chico and A Lei do Amor; being the second largest in terms of viewership since Amor à Vida.  The penultimate episode, that aired on 19 October, recorded 48.8 points of average and peaking at 51 points with a 65% share, hitting the record, according to consolidated data of Ibope in Greater São Paulo. With this indices, A Força do Querer had the highest audience since the last episode of Avenida Brasil, which recorded 52 points on 19 October 2012.  On the finale, A Força do Querer had the largest audience since the end of Avenida Brasil in 2012. Having aired from 9:15 pm to 11:32 pm, the final episode made the show break a record, with 50.1 points and, peaked at 53 points; the best ratings since the finale of "Avenida Brasil", which had 51.7 points on 19 October 2012. In Rio de Janeiro, the last episode recorded 49 points in average (highest final indices since Império, which had 50 points).  Cumulatively, the show recorded an average rating of 35.67   Since its debut, the novel has been obtaining a bunch of criticism, spanning from the cast not using the Northeastern accents in the state of Pará and how the state is approached in the telenovela; such as the existence of an aquarium located in Ver-o-Peso, generated varying of opinions among the viewers, especially the viewers from Pará. In their defence, Rede Globo and show's creator Glória Perez said that the show was not set in the capital of Pará but in the fictional city of "Parazinho" and justified that the work is a fiction has no commitment to be true as reality.   The fact that the plot touches on themes such as drug trafficking aroused the idea that the telenovela was unapologetic to these theme, causing the show to receive a flurry of criticism, mainly by evangelists and conservatives.  Pastor and Deputy Marco Feliciano said that, "Rede Globo offered a course for banditry".  The author Glória Perez responded to the accusations: It is something of people to want to put reality under the rug. Bibi became a thug. She is not the trafficker, but she is prosecuted by association with trafficking. Do you see glamour in that? The plot brings an ethical police, quite different from how it is traditionally shown in Brazilian dramas. These people (critics) make me sleepy.  Before the debut of the telenovela, the subject of transexuality was already causing controversy. Catholic organizations asked that Globo not allow this theme in the show.  The theme about gender identity, addressed in the plot by the character Ivana (Carol Duarte) was also not accepted by a portion of the audience, among them also evangelists and conservatives. They accused the network of using the telenovela to popularize gender ideology  According to them, the telenovela had a clear intention to show that it is super normal to feel of one gender even if one is of the another. 