Among the categories of names for sports teams in North America, those referring to Indigenous peoples are second in popularity only to the names of various animals. In the top ten, "Warriors" is number six, and "Indians" is number eight – the others are Eagles, Tigers, Bulldogs, Panthers, Wildcats, Lions, Cougars, and Knights.  The typical logo for these teams is an image of a stereotypical Native American man in profile, wearing a Plains Indians headdress; some are more realistic, while others are cartoons or caricatures. Other imagery include dreamcatchers, feathers, spears, and arrows. Individual schools may have performance traditions, such as the  tomahawk chop, a mascot or cheerleaders in stereotypical Native attire, and chants adapted from Hollywood movies. These fictional representations stand in the way of any authentic understanding of contemporary Indigenous peoples, and promote racism.  The use of terms and images referring to Native Americans/First Nations as the name or mascot for a sports team is a topic of public controversy in the United States and in Canada, arising as part of the Native American civil rights movements. Since the 1960s, there have been a number of protests and other actions by Native Americans and others targeting the more prominent use of such names and images by professional franchises such as the Cleveland Indians and the Washington Redskins.  However, the greatest change has occurred in the trend by school and college teams that have retired Native American names and mascots at an increasing rate in recent decades. The documents most often cited to justifying the trend for change are an advisory opinion by the United States Commission on Civil Rights in 2001  and a resolution by the American Psychological Association in 2005.  Both support the views of Native American organizations and individuals that such mascots maintain harmful stereotypes that are discriminatory and cause harm by distorting the past and preventing understanding of Native American/First Nations peoples in the present. Defenders of the current usage often state their intention to honor Native Americans by referring to positive traits, such as fighting spirit and being aggressive, brave, stoic, dedicated, and proud; while opponents see these traits as being based upon stereotypes of Native Americans as savages.  Supporters also state that the issue is not important, being only about sports, and that the opposition is nothing more than "political correctness", which change advocates argue ignores the extensive evidence of harmful effects of stereotypes and bias.  An exceptional case is the Salamanca Central High School "Warriors" in the city of Salamanca, New York. The city is within the boundaries of the Allegany Indian Reservation of the Seneca Nation of Indians, and 26% of the high school students are Native American. In 2001, when the commissioner of the New York State Education Department sent a letter to all New York school boards calling for the elimination of Native American mascots, the Seneca Nation Tribal Council joined with other members of the community in seeking to retain the Warrior imagery, although with individual differences of opinion. Salamanca may be unique in having a mixed but not fully integrated community, with the Warrior identity combining elements negotiated between the Seneca and non-Seneca population.  For example, the school logo now depicts a Seneca man, replacing the stereotypical Plains Indian warrior image that was used prior to 1978.  The trend towards the elimination of indigenous names and mascots in local schools has been steady, with two-thirds having been eliminated over the past 50 years according to the National Congress of American Indians (NCAI).  In a few states with significant Native American populations, change has been mandated by law, such in Wisconsin,  Oregon,  and Washington.   The list below for U.S. High Schools however remains substantial, with over 400 teams currently calling themselves "Indians", over 100 "Braves", over 100 "Warriors" using indigenous imagery (there are many with the name using generic, Greek or Roman mascots), and 49 "Redskins". The latter has shown the greatest decline, due to an association with the Washington Redskins name controversy. The following schools are listed in alphabetical order by team name: The following use Native American arrows, feathers, or arrowheads in their logos: Most of the schools with the name use a bird logo, therefore are not directly derived from an indigenous people although there may be an indirect reference to Chief Black Hawk. The following use Native American images/symbols: When the boys' teams have a Native American mascot, the girls' team may be the Squaws. Although indirectly related to Native American culture, these schools use bird images as logos/mascots.  Two schools that dropped the Redskins name, in compliance with California law, choose Tribe as a new name to retain their logo and other Native American imagery. A number of schools with the name "Warriors" never used indigenous imagery, or changed in response to the controversy. 