  The Space Hijackers is a group originating in the United Kingdom that defines itself as "an international band of anarchitects who battle to save our streets, towns and cities from the evils of urban planners, architects, multinationals and other hoodlums". Time Out magazine has described the group as "an inventive and subversive group of London ‘Anarchitects’ who specialise in reclaiming public spaces – usually without permission."  The group's activities have included "guerrilla benching"  — restoring benches that had been recently removed and bolting them to the ground — organising a midnight game of cricket in the centre of the City of London financial district, and satirising the glossy architects' drawings that are displayed on the perimeter of luxury apartments by depicting children’s playgrounds and other projects they believe to be actually desirable.  Many of these activities aim to bring to people's attention the role which corporations play in society in a different light.  Space Hijacking is mental graffiti, designed to change how the space is perceived and take some of the power away from the people who own or design the space.The Space Hijackers exist mainly to change the public's perception of spaces it regularly uses, mainly by staging unexpected events. Their explicit objective is "to effect and change the physical space of architecture", and, eschewing violent protest and other forms of transparent direct action, their methods aim "to invade and re-brand corporate space".     They believe that the use of physical space is becoming more and more politicised, and thus in order to break apart from that politicisation, they stage events that are typically 'unusual' for that particular space, 'hijacking' it and hoping to change people's perception of the use of that space forever. They believe that increasing politicisation usually leads to increased subordination and discrimination and other forms of domination and control and so Space Hijackers claim to seek to break down and deconstruct society's notions of space. They seek to effect this by attempting to undermine the authority of the owner's "text", confusing and re-contextualising it and thereby making apparent the possibility of an alternative future.  Protests tend to be non-violent and Space Hijacker projects usually involved a good sense of fun.  Protest strategy includes involving passers-by. The Space Hijackers have many contacts with other groups, and involve themselves with all sorts, including but not limited to Critical Mass, Indymedia, Rhythms of Resistance samba band, free media collective iconscious, Reverend Billy and the Church of Stop Shopping and evoLhypergrapHyCx. The Hijackers pulled several of these groups together in Anarchitecture Week 2005, a week of anti-building related activities in response to, and hosted at the same time as Architecture Week. Formed in 1999, their first major action was the Circle Line Party - a party on London Underground's Circle Line which attracted around 150 people armed with sound systems, disco lights and bars all disguised as luggage.   –Agent Robin, quoted in Red Pepper, May 2004 edition.  –Agent Bristly Pioneer, quoted in The Observer, Jan 2008 edition.  Projects of the Space Hijackers have included the following: During the 2009 G-20 demonstrations in London, members of the Space Hijackers protest group    drove their Alvis Saracen armoured personnel carrier (known to them as "the tank") into the City of London  and parked it outside the Royal Bank of Scotland in Bishopsgate.  The Saracen, which had been painted bright blue with black and white chequer stripes in a mock police livery, was equipped with CCTV.  Eleven Hijackers were arrested   and charged on two counts of impersonating police officers. On 27 January 2010, the Crown Prosecution Service dropped all charges against the Space Hijackers because there was "not enough evidence to provide a realistic prospect of conviction".  The Space Hijackers won compensation from the police, but their names and biometric data were kept on file for 18 months, allegedly because of a dispute between the Metropolitan Police and the City of London Police.  