Straightwashing (also called hetwashing) is portraying LGB (lesbian, gay, bisexual) or otherwise queer characters in fiction as heterosexual (straight), making LGB people appear heterosexual, or altering information about historical figures to make their representation comply with heteronormativity.   In fiction, the practice has particularly been noted in screenplays based on comic books.  The X-Men character Mystique is depicted as bisexual in the comic books, but in the films, she is shown as straight.  In the Marvel comic books, Okoye and Ayo are lesbians, but in the popular 2018 film Black Panther, Marvel removed this lesbian relationship.  The 2015 film Stonewall was accused of straightwashing and of the related practice of "ciswashing" for not including a representation of the two black trans activists who launched the Stonewall riots.  The movie Bohemian Rhapsody, about the life of Freddie Mercury, has been accused of straightwashing the sexuality of Mercury, as it depicts him interacting sexually with two women with only a single representation of him with a man.  Dragos Manea distinguishes between changing an LGBT character in fiction into a straight character; toning down the LGBT aspects of a character to make the character more acceptable to a heterosexual audience; removing LGBT referents from marketing posters or DVD covers; and changing the depiction of entire LGBT cultures or societies into a heterosexual version.  Straightwashing differs from "pinkface", the use of straight actors to play LGB roles or characters. Anna King of Time Out likens "pinkface" to blackface.  The LGB community raised concerns about the film Brüno, in which the straight actor Sacha Baron Cohen plays the role of a gay man to "...mak[e] fun of the queer community".  In the US, from 1930 to 1968, the Motion Picture Production Code caused major studios to eliminate gay characters or references from movies.  The 1995 documentary The Celluloid Closet shows how some screenwriters and directors tried to subtly introduce gay characters, roles or themes, without it being noticed, such as with Gore Vidal adding in a gay relationship in Ben-Hur.  