The Alzar School is a semester school based in Cascade, Idaho that serves high school sophomores and juniors. The mission of school is to educate and facilitate the leadership development of high school students. It is built upon the "Six Foundations" of Academics, Leadership Training, Outdoor Adventure, Cultural Exchange, Service Learning, and Environmental Stewardship.  The school is accredited by the Northwest Accreditation Commission which is an accreditation division of AdvancED.  During a semester at the Alzar School, students live at the 100-acre campus in Cascade, Idaho and spend six weeks living abroad in Chile. Students participate in significant outdoor expeditions, learning to whitewater kayak/raft, hike, rock climb, surf, ski/snowboard, and more. Additionally, they study their traditional academic courses (Science, Math, History, English, Spanish, etc.). The Alzar School campus is located on the North Fork of the Payette River, in Valley County, Idaho.  The campus has over 1 mile of river frontage and is just downstream of Kelly's Whitewater Park. Coordinates: 44°28′53″N 116°00′56″W﻿ / ﻿44.48139°N 116.01556°W﻿ / 44.48139; -116.01556 The campus is near the main road but still feels secluded and wild. There is a town nearby and medical assistance is readily available. The Alzar School is a 501c3 nonprofit organization that was founded in 2004 by Kristin Bierle and Sean Bierle. From 2007-2011, the school offered 3-week expeditions to Idaho/California, Mexico, and Chile. These expeditions included service projects such as improving the playground at an orphanage in Chile, hauling school supplies into a remote rural school in Mexico, and working with the US Forest Service to do ecological projects in California and Idaho. The founding instructors of Alzar School have done many annual trips to foreign countries with young adult leaders. The students and instructors go through interview-like process to see if they are right for the excursion group. The bonds that have formed from working together have kept past members connected across city, state, and national lines. There are several semester schools, each with different themes, philosophies, and approaches to programming.  Examples include: Conserve School, High Mountain Institute, and The Island School. Alzar is a Spanish verb which translates to “to rise,” “to elevate,” “to lift,” or “to boost.” It is used in many different expressions, such as alzar el vuelo (to take flight), alzar la carpa (to pitch a tent), alzar la vela (to set sail). As a verb, it indicates action, and Alzar School students are full of action.  The Camp Cup Challenge is a whitewater paddling event involving several summer camps from North Carolina and other states. The Camp Cup Challenge is put on by the Alzar School and hosted by Nantahala Outdoor Center on the Nantahala River. The event is an opportunity for young paddlers to meet and develop friendships with like-minded youths, and gives kids a venue in which to build a community of active, engaged, and enthusiastic peers. Event highlights include a beginner-friendly slalom race on the Nantahala Bridge Gates as well as a downriver race through Nantahala Falls.  Many students have joined the Alzar School because they attended the Camp Cup and learned about the semester program.  