Calleva is the largest outdoor education organization in Central Maryland, United States, established to provide outdoor team building opportunities for groups such as schools and companies, and to take groups of individuals on excursions throughout Maryland, Virginia, and West Virginia. Calleva was owned by Nick and Alex Markoff, whose family was involved in the summer camp business for generations. In the fall of 1993, in order to raise capital, they held the first ever Markoff's Haunted Forest. Camp Calleva began in the summer of 1994. In 1997 programs for schools became available throughout the entire year, offering natural history and group challenge courses. They also offered week-long high adventure programs during the summer. In 1998 the first ever Calleva Challenge was held, a triathlon of sorts on the Potomac River. This was later renamed the Potomac Challenge in 1999. Calleva offers outdoor programming. They use a fleet of buses that can make pickups virtually anywhere in Central Maryland, and bring people to the activities. They have a staff that has been certified to take people on outdoor activities. Also available is the Calleva Ski Club during the winter, and the LIT (Leadership in Training) program during the summer. 13015 Riley's Lock Rd. Poolesville MD 20837 The main office of Calleva, the hub of Camp Calleva, where Calleva's maintenance facility and bus fleet are located. It sits adjacent to  the Potomac River and the C&O Canal. 19120 Martinsburg Rd. Dickerson MD 20842 The 168-acre (0.68 km2) farm is the home of Markoff's Haunted Forest, and CEEP (Calleva Equestrian Educational Programming) horseback riding, and Calleva's agricultural tourism program. 15209 Seneca Rd. Darnestown, MD 20874 Most of Calleva's private horseback riding parties take place here. All Calleva Explorers groups are taken here for half a day of activities, which includes horseback riding and archery Potomac River, MD / VA Calleva's private island, located in the Potomac river. On it are ropes courses, green buildings, and trails. The island is surrounded by river and rapids. 