Editions of the word board game Scrabble in different languages have differing letter distributions of the tiles, because the frequency of each letter of the alphabet is different for every language. As a general rule, the rarer the letter, the more points it is worth. Many languages use sets of 102 tiles, since the original distribution of one hundred tiles was later augmented with two blank tiles. In tournament play, while it is acceptable to pause the game to count the tiles remaining in the game, it is not acceptable to mention how many tiles are remaining at any time.  Several online tools exist for counting tiles during friendly play.  Diacritical marks (such as "é" in words borrowed from French) are ignored. English-language editions of Scrabble contain 100 letter tiles, in the following distribution: The total number of points is 187. When Alfred Butts invented the game, he initially experimented with different distributions of letters.  A popular story claims that Butts created an elaborate chart by studying the front page of The New York Times to create his final choice of letter distributions.  In 2004, Super Scrabble was launched. For international distribution outside the United States and Canada, and under license from Mattel, the game is manufactured by Leisure Tends' Tinderbox Games; and, for distribution within the United States and Canada, under license from Hasbro, the game is manufactured by Winning Moves. This set is composed of 200 tiles: Super Scrabble contains more overlined and fewer underlined letters than would be obtained by combining two standard English sets. The Afrikaans editions use these 102 tiles: Afrikaans uses the letters Z and X, but so infrequently that there are no tiles for them in the standard set. A blank can still be used as a Z or an X. There are also no tiles for C and Q as these letters are not used at all in Afrikaans, except for in a few loanwords. These letters, however, cannot be used even if with a blank.  The Anglo-Saxon editions use these 101 tiles:  Anglo-Saxon uses the letter K, but it only occurs in one word (kyning) and loanwords, so there is no tile for it. J, V, Q, and Z are only used in loanwords. Anglo-Saxon uses the letter Ƿ, but it was replaced by W in this set because it can be easily confused with P. Anglo-Saxon also uses the letter Ȝ, but it is a typographic variant of G, so that is used instead. This version is hand-made and not an official edition by Mattel. Arabic-language editions use the following 100 tiles: Although Arabic letters have up to four forms, Scrabble tiles use the isolated form. In some sets, as found in some Arabic-based alphabets that are not the standard modern Arabic, a dotless yeh (alif maqsura) may be used ى‎, and for the letter he the final form ‎ھ (heh doachashmee) may appear, as it is in some Arabic-based alphabets, as in Urdu, the isolated form of the letter. The pattern of using the isolated forms in composing words is also found in Arabic crosswords and is one of the rare situations when Arabic letters are not connected to each other. Armenian-language editions use the following 146 tiles.  The board is 17x17 instead of 15x15. This version is called ԲԱՌ ԽԱՂ (bar khagh, meaning words game) and is not an official edition by Mattel. Notice that this distribution lacks և, another Armenian letter, because: However, it can be formed as a ligature of ե/Ե and ւ/Ւ. Bambara-language Scrabble sets use these 106 tiles:  The uncommon digraphic letters sh (sometimes represented with the IPA symbol ʃ; a regional variant of s) and kh (only used in loanwords) are absent as they are now considered obsolete.      The Latin alphabetic letters Q, V, and X are also absent because these letters are not used in Bambara. This version is hand-made and is not an official edition by Mattel. Basque-language Scrabble sets use these 100 tiles.  Called Euskarbel, this is not an official edition by Mattel.	 Diacritical marks are ignored. C, Q, V, W and Y are absent because they are only used in loanwords. Digraphs can be formed with two tiles.  Dama nin Tataramon, an independently produced Bicolano language variant of Scrabble, uses these 102 tiles. The games uses the Abakada alphabet; hence the foreign letters of the present Filipino alphabet, C, F, J, Q, V, X, Z, and even Ñ, are absent. Neither of these letters can be played with a blank. Also, N and G being played in place of NG is not allowed. Breton-language Scrabble sets use these 100 tiles.  C, Q, and X are absent because they are only used in loanwords or, in the case of C, the digraphs CH and C'H. However, these letters can be played with a blank. Diacritical marks are ignored. Bulgarian-language Scrabble sets, which use Cyrillic letters, use the following 102 tiles: Catalan-language editions use these 100 tiles. Accents and diaereses are ignored; for example, À is played as A. Nevertheless, there are special tiles for the C with cedilla Ç (ce trencada), the ligature L·L representing the geminated ell (ela geminada), as well as the digraph NY. Playing an N tile followed by a blank tile to form the digraph NY is not allowed. Official rules treat the Q tile as just one letter, but usually Catalan players use the Q tile like the QU digraph and all Catalan Scrabble Clubs use this de facto rule.  (in Catalan) K, W, and Y are absent because they are only used in loanwords or, in the case of Y, the digraph NY. Blanks cannot be used to represent K, W, or Y. There is a Catalan Scrabble clone which uses the same 21x21 board as Super Scrabble.    It includes the following 200 tiles, with the Q tile replaced with the QU digraph, because Q in Catalan is never without a U after it, and with two of the special tiles, Ç and L·L, increased in value: Croatian-language Scrabble sets use the following 103 tiles: Q, W, X and Y are not included, as Croatian does not use those letters. Czech-language sets use the following 100 tiles: Ö, Q and W are absent because they are only used in loanwords, though all three letters can be played with a blank.  Arguably X does not exist in Czech either, but the manufacturer decided to include it, so that loanwords can be played. The digraphic letter CH does not appear in this edition and is not representable by the blank (joker);  CH is instead played as two distinct letters C and H. The old Czech distribution was as follows:  Note that this distribution had no X tile because it was only used in loanwords. This distribution had a CH tile for the digraphic letter.  Dakelh-language Scrabble sets use these 100 tiles.  The letters F and R are used in Dakelh, but only in loanwords and are very infrequent. P, Q, V, and X are also absent because these letters are not used in Dakelh. Danish-language Scrabble sets use these 100 tiles. This distribution lacks Q and W, which are rare in the Danish language. Dutch-language editions consist of the following 102 tiles: Before March 1998, there was a difference between the Dutch and the Flemish version: the Dutch version had 2 IJ tiles with a value of 4 points. Furthermore, it had only 1 F and only 4 S tiles; and the face value of the G was only 2 points. The Flemish version never had IJ tiles, it was as described above. The Dutch version is now in line with the Flemish one. Instead of the IJ letter a combination of the I and J is now used.  Another Dutch version before March 1998 consisted of these 100 tiles: The original Dutch version consisted of these 102 tiles: Esperanto Scrabble exists as an Internet game (Rules for Esperanto scrabble) and as a commercially produced custom set.  Esperanto-language sets use these 100 tiles: Q, W, X, and Y are not present, since Esperanto does not use those letters. Estonian-language editions consist of the following 102 tiles: Estonian uses the letters C and Y but so infrequently that there are no tiles for them. A blank may represent C because it is the most common out of the five foreign letters in Estonian.  Y can also be played as a blank as it is sometimes used as a vowel.  There are also no tiles for Q, W, and X as they are restricted to outside loanwords and are rare (Quivira, WC, Xerxes.) These letters, however, cannot be played even with a blank.  Arguably F, Š, Z, and Ž do not exist in Estonian either, but they are sometimes still included for adopted words. Faroese-language editions consist of the following 105 tiles:  The distribution lacks C, Q, W, X, and Z,  since these letters are not used in Faroese. This version is hand-made and is not an official edition by Mattel. Finnish-language sets use these 100 tiles: This distribution lacks Q, Š, W, X, Z, Ž, and Å, since they are virtually absent in Finnish. Arguably B, C, F, and G (outside the digraph NG) do not exist in Finnish either, but they are included as they are used for borrowed words, and F in some western dialects. A variant called Alfapet (originally the name of Swedish Scrabble), contains 108 tiles: French-language editions of Scrabble contain these 102 tiles: Diacritical marks are ignored. Galician-language sets use these 100 tiles:  Stress accents are disregarded. This is called Letrad@s.GZ (originally Scrabble.GZ), and is not an official edition by Mattel. Arguably J, K, W, and Y do not exist in Galician, but they are included here as they are sometimes used in borrowed words. Blanks do not exist in this game. German-language editions of Scrabble contain 102 letter tiles, in the following distribution: Before the current 102-tile set, German language sets had 119 tiles. With the larger sized tile pool, players had eight tiles at a time on their racks, as opposed to the standard seven. The letter distribution for this larger set is: German sets marketed as Foreign Language Editions produced by Selchow and Righter had 100 tiles with the following distribution: Before the Foreign Language Editions produced by Selchow and Righter or the 119-tile distribution produced by J.W. Spear & Sons, James Brunot's Production and Marketing Company produced and outsourced, in the mid-1950s, its production of German sets with a different 100-tile distribution: In 2008, a German edition of the Mattel-licensed product, Super Scrabble, was released by the game publisher Piatnik. The set is composed of the following 200 tiles: The underlines indicate the distribution contains one tile fewer for the letter than would be if the 102 tiles of the current language set were simply doubled.  Note that the letter ß (Eszett) is not used. This because it does not exist as a capital letter in German. While a majuscule ß (see Capital ß) has been established in the context of computing (Unicode), ß is replaced by SS when capitalizing, according to German orthography (e. g. Straße [street]: STRASSE). However, the umlauts Ä, Ö and Ü must not be replaced by AE, OE or UE when playing (as would usually be done in German crosswords where ß is also replaced by SS). Other diacritics which may occur in some foreign words are ignored (é = E, œ = OE etc.).   Greek-language editions of Scrabble contain 104 tiles. Gwich'in-language editions of Scrabble contain 200 letter tiles, in the following distribution:  Note that GHW, ND, NH, NJ, and RH are not included, as these digraphs and trigraphs are very rare in Gwich'in. C is not included, as it is only used in the digraph CH. P, Q, and X are absent because these letters are not used in Gwich'in. Arguably B, F, and M are not used in Gwich'in either, but they are included as these letters are used for borrowed words. Haitian Creole-language editions of Scrabble contain these 100 tiles:  X has no tile as it is only used in loanwords in Haitian Creole. Q has no tile as it is not used in Haitian Creole, while C is only used in the digraph CH, and U in OU and UI. This version is made for educational purposes and is not an official edition by Mattel. There is no official Hawaiian-language edition of Scrabble, but one suggested fan version made for educational purposes contains these 100 tiles:  B, C, D, F, G, J, Q, R, S, T, V, X, Y, and Z have no tiles as they are not used in Hawaiian. For the sake of the geocache this is connected to, the distribution had to be modified a bit. For example, there should be 30 A's and 11 K's. The diacritical mark and the okina "'" are ignored. Four different Hebrew  language distributions were published by the owners or licensees of the Scrabble brand. In these sets the final form letters ך, ם, ן, ף and ץ are not available and the normal form is used. The most recent edition for Hebrew was published in 2008 by JW Spears and Sons, a subsidiary of Mattel UK with 100 tiles in the following distribution: A version produced in the late 1980s by JW Spears and Sons under the Spears Games label has these 104 tiles: In 1977 JW Spears and Sons published their original 97-tile Hebrew language version under the tradename נא‎-שבץ‎™ (Hebrew: "Scrabble"): Just two years earlier, in 1975, Selchow & Righter released their Foreign Language Edition of Hebrew with the following 98-tile distribution: Hungarian-language sets use these 100 tiles: DZ and DZS, which are fairly rare in Hungarian, have no tiles, nor do Q, W, X and Y (outside the digraphs "GY", "LY", "NY" and "TY"), which are only used in loanwords, as part of the extended Hungarian alphabet. You can still use a blank as a Q, W, X or Y, but not as DZ or DZS. Icelandic-language sets (known as Krafla) use these 100 tiles: The letters C, Q, W, and Z are absent because they are only used in loanwords, or in the case of Z, obsolete letter. Blanks cannot be used to represent these. Before 2016, Icelandic-language sets used these 104 tiles: Originally, there was a 105-tile distribution with slightly different point values than the distribution before 2016 (and with 7 E's instead of 6): Indonesian-language sets use these 100 tiles:  Q, and X, are absent because they are only present in loanwords. IPA sets use these 106 tiles:  ɒ and a are not included as they are allophones of ɑ. e is an allophone of eɪ. ɫ is an allophone of l. ɱ is an allophone of m.   o is an allophone of oʊ. ɾ and r are allophones of ɹ. ʌ is an allophone of ə. ʍ is an allophone of w. ʔ is not considered a phoneme in English. The affricates ts and dz do not have their own tiles, and so must be formed with two. But for a few exceptional cases, the sounds ɐ, β, ʙ, ɓ, c, cʼ, ɕ, ç, ɗ, ɖ, ɘ, ɣ, ɤ, ɠ, ɢ, ʛ, ħ, ʜ, ɦ, ɥ, ɧ, ɨ, ɟ, ʄ, ʝ, kʼ, ɭ, ɬ, ɮ, ʟ, ɯ, ɰ, ɲ, ɳ, ɴ, ø, ɵ, œ, ɶ, pʼ, q, qʼ, ɻ, ɽ, ɺ, ʀ, ʁ, ʂ, tʼ, ʈ, ʉ, ʋ, ⱱ, x, χ, y, ʏ, ʎ, ʐ, ʑ, ʡ, ʕ, and ʢ, ǀ, ǁ, ǃ, ʘ, and ǂ are not used in American English. An extended version has 1 ʙ worth 14, 1 ʛ worth 12, 1 ħ worth 9, 1 kʼ worth 11, 1 ɮ worth 11, 1 ɲ worth 13, 1 ʉ worth 11, 1 ⱱ worth 11, 1 ǃ worth 16, and 1 ʘ worth 18. The IPA English and its extended version are made for educational purposes and are not official editions by the licensors of the Scrabble® brand crossword game. An alternative by Scrabble3D has this distribution (no combinations):   Irish-language sets use these 100 tiles: J, K, Q, V, W, X, Y, and Z are absent since they are rarely used in the Irish language. An alternate set, proposed by Scrabble3D along with the official set,  was proposed to have these 100 tiles: Note that H is not in this set because it is only used at the beginning of the words starting with vowels, which is against the rules there. Note: This set uses the old orthography. In the new orthography, the dotted letters are replaced by the digraph of the letter without the dot followed by H. Shortly after, the Scrabble3D distribution underwent a major revision  (still has 100 tiles): Note that H is not in this set because it is only used at the beginning of the words starting with vowels, which is against the rules there. Note: This set uses the old orthography. In the new orthography, the dotted letters are replaced by the digraph of the letter without the dot followed by H. Italian-language Scrabble (originally sold in Italy as Scarabeo, but that became a different game) applied a special rule that when a player exchanges tiles on his turn, he could request opponent to pass his turn. Both players have one chance each for one game. The sets consist of these 120 tiles: Diacritic marks are ignored. The letters J, K, W, X, and Y are absent since these letters do not exist in the standard Italian alphabet, although they are sometimes used in loanwords. Another set uses these 120 tiles: Scarabeo is an Italian variant of Scrabble that is much more popular in its native country than the original game. It is played with a 17×17 board, and uses these 130 tiles.  It was An unofficial Japanese Hiragana Scrabble set uses these 100 tiles:  The obsolete letters ゐ and ゑ, the letter を now exclusively used as a grammatical particle, and the lengthener ー have no tiles. Words are played in "dictionary format": This version was created by a student from Japan, and is not in wide circulation. A more popular set by Scrabble3D uses these 206 tiles:    The obsolete letters ぇ, ゐ, ゑ, ゎ, ぃ, ぁ, ぅ, and ぉ, along with the marks ー, ゛, and  ゜,  have no tiles (with the first three letters and the marks being playable with a blank). The marks are included to make the letter distribution smaller. Japanese Romaji Scrabble sets use these 102 tiles:  L, Q and X are absent as they do not exist in Japanese. V does not exist though, created to be used in loanwords, is absent because of its rare frequency, can be used for a blank with 20 points reward for each play. - represents long vowel. Romaji scrabble games consist of all 3 scripts used in Japanese language - Hiragana, Katakana and Kanji in romanized form. This version does not use the long vowel "-". For instance, 東京(Tokyo) is played as "toukyou", 優秀(excellent) is played as "yuushuu" and ユース(youth) is played as "yuusu". Scrabble3D has a different distribution, released earlier: The - for long vowels and the V tile are optional (not in the standard set). You can use the blank as a V tile. One board game (Romeo) has a different distribution, released earlier: In this version, note that C has no tile as it is used almost exclusively in the digraph CH. Klingon-language sets use these 100 tiles:  The letter tiles may show Klingon symbols (pIqaD), their renderings in the English alphabet, or both.  This is not an official version of the game, although Hasbro did create their own licensed "Star Trek Scrabble" game in which players can receive bonus points by playing Klingon words.  "Star Trek Scrabble" uses standard English-language tiles. There are three kinds of Latin-language Scrabble sets developed by three authorities in the language. The first distribution, developed by the Centre for Medieval Studies of the University of Toronto, uses these 100 tiles: An extension of the first distribution for Latin Paleography, developed by the Centre for Medieval Studies of the University of Toronto, uses these 120 tiles: The point value of Ↄ is unknown, but it is believed to be 3. Ↄ, which represents con, can only be played as the first tile of a word. Ꝝ, which represents rum, and ;, which represents is or us, can only be played as the last tile of a word. Ę (e caudata), also written as æ, represents ae. Ē represents em or en. & represents et. Ī represents im or in. œ represents oe. Ꝑ represents per, P̄ represents prae. Ꝓ represents pro. V̄ represents vm or vn (as there was no U at the time). Note that W, unlike Ę/æ and œ, which were created at the same time, has no tile because there is no vv digraph in Latin. ıı represents 2 minims: ii, v, or n. ııı represents 3 minims: iii, iv, in, vi, ni, or m. The second distribution below was made "in conjunction with scholars from the University of Cambridge and elsewhere, together with the Cambridge Schools Classics Project." This distribution distinguishes U from V, with the semi-vocalic V scoring five times the points. The third distribution is as follows:  However, with this set, according to the rules, if a blank is used as a Y it is worth 10 points, if a blank is used as a Z it is worth 15 points, and if a blank is used as a K it is worth 20 points. Each of those letters are so high in points, because they are used only in borrowed words. The score of 20 for a K is the highest known point value for any letter in any Scrabble score distribution worldwide. Y is absent in all sets except the paleographic extension of the first set because it is rare in Latin. K and Z are also absent in all sets because they are rare in Latin, while J is not considered separate from I in all sets except the third one, in which it is  not included because it is rare in Latin. W is also absent in all sets because it did not exist in ancient times, and is used only in modern borrowed words. Latvian-language sets use these 104 tiles:  The letters Q, W, X and Y are absent, because they are not used in Latvian. Arguably F and H do not exist in Latvian either, but they are included as they are sometimes used for borrowed words. Marketed as L33t Tiles by the now defunct Wiremelon, LLC, editions of an English-L33tspeak variant of Scrabble contain 103 letter tiles in the following distribution:    Lithuanian-language sets (known as KrisKros Klasik) use these 104 tiles: The letters Q, W and X are absent, because they are not used in Lithuanian. Arguably F and H do not exist in Lithuanian either, but they are included as they are sometimes used for borrowed words. Lojban-language sets use these 160 tiles:  The combination XO is absent as it is only used in 7 words (binxo, ganxo, jerxo, sirxo, xogji, xotli, and xo'u). The combination ZO is absent as it is only used in 7 words (brazo, kinzo, zo'a, zo'e, zo'i, zo'o, and zo'u). The combination ['Y] is absent as it is only used in 1 word (.y'y). The letter . occurs in Lojban, but it is so infrequent that it has no tile. Blanks can be used to represent any of the above letters (including .) and digrams(including XO, ZO, and ['Y]). The letter ['] occurs in Lojban, but only in digrams and never as one letter. The letters H, Q, and W  are absent, because these letters are not used in Lojban. Lojban-language sets in the 1990s (which include lujvo) use these 100 tiles: Lojban-language sets in the 1990s (which do not include lujvo) use these 100 tiles: Y is absent because it is very rare outside lujvo. Malagasy-language sets use these 102 tiles:  C, Q, U, W, and X are absent because these letters are not used in Malagasy. Diacritical marks are ignored. Malaysian-language sets use these 100 tiles: Q, V and X are absent because they are only present in loanwords. Māori-language sets (known as Scramble) use these 225 tiles: Diacritical Marks are ignored. G is absent because this letter is only used in the NG digraph in Māori. B, C, D, F, J, L, Q, S, V, X, Y, and Z are absent because these letters are not used in Māori. This set is made for educational purposes and is not an official version by Mattel. Math sets use these 100 tiles: To play, you have to put in a true equation on the board.  Norwegian-language editions of Scrabble use these 100 tiles. The letters Q, X and Z are absent since these letters are rarely used in Norwegian. These letters and the foreign letters "Ä", "Ö" and "Ü", which are used in a few Norwegian words, can be played with a blank. The Nuxalk-language edition uses these 212 tiles. 	 This is a handmade set and not an official edition by Mattel. The letters B, D, E, F, G, J, O, R, V and Z are not used in Nuxalk and therefore have no tiles. The 7 is included in the set because it is an actual letter in Nuxalk. It is used to replace ' if you don't have a tile ending with '. Arguably H and 7 do not exist in Nuxalk, but they are included as they are used for borrowed words, or in the case of 7, optionally at the beginning of a word. In the word game PinyinPal, a Pinyin version, these 100 tiles are used: The V is used to represent Ü. Polish-language editions of Scrabble use these 100 tiles. This set has been used since 2000. Before that year, a slightly different configuration was used: Ź was worth 7 points, F was worth 4 points, and there were 2 Fs, and 8 As. The letters Q, V and X have always been absent (since they are used in foreign words), and blank tiles cannot be used to represent these. Portuguese-language editions of Scrabble contain 120 tiles. While Ç is a separate tile, other diacritical marks are ignored. K, W, and Y are absent, since they are only present in loanwords in Portuguese, and were not even official letters until 2009. Romanian-language editions of Scrabble use these 100 tiles.  Some amendment applied in updated version. Previously, the B was worth 8, and the O was worth 1.   The original (1982) distribution used the following 100 tiles: Diacritical marks are ignored, so for example Ă and Â are played as A. Both distributions lack K, Q, W and Y, since they are only used in foreign words. You can still use a blank to play these letters. Arguably X does not exist in Romanian either, but it is included as it is used for borrowed words. Russian-language Scrabble sets, which use Cyrillic letters, contain 104 tiles using this distribution: The former Soviet distribution had 126 tiles and was as follows: Another Russian version, called Эрудит (Erudit), has 131 tiles: This distribution has no Ë tile. In Erudit, only nominative singular and pluralia tantum nouns are allowed. Scottish Gaelic-language sets originally were planned to use these 104 tiles:  The distribution was modified a bit (Dropping NG because it is too rare, but adding more A, E, and I tiles, and changing the number of tiles to 100) Scottish Gaelic-language sets use these 100 tiles:  PH and SH being worth 1 is probably an error; these letters should be worth 10. H is absent because it is only used in the digraphs above. Á, É, and Ó are absent since they are rarely used in the Scottish Gaelic language. J, K, Q, V, W, X, Y, and Z are absent since they are not used in the Scottish Gaelic language. This version is used by Scrabble3D and is not an official edition by Mattel. Slovak-language sets use these 100 tiles: Q, W, Ě, Ö, Ř, and Ü are absent because they are only used in loanwords. Arguably X does not exist in Slovak either, but the designer included it as it is used in loanwords. Since 2013, a new 112-tile set was introduced: Arguably the Q,W, and X tiles should still not be included, but the manufacturer decided to include them, so that loanwords can be played. Slovenian-language sets use these 100 tiles: Q, W, X and Y are absent, because Slovenian does not use those letters. Spanish-language sets sold outside North America use these 100 tiles: Stress accents are disregarded. The letters K and W are absent since these two letters are rarely used. According to FISE (Federación Internacional de Scrabble en Español) rules, a blank cannot be used to represent K or W. Using one C and one H tile in place of the CH tile, two L tiles for the LL tile, or two R tiles for the RR tile is also not allowed in Spanish Scrabble (see rules in Spanish provided by the FISE). Spanish-language sets sold within North America (known as Scrabble – Edición en Español) use - including "K" and "W" but without "CH" - these 103 tiles: Stress accents are still disregarded. Arguably the K and W tiles should not be included in this Scrabble set, but they are anyway, so that loanwords can be played. In Spanish Scrabble, the tile Q can be played as with or without a U, which means the Q-without-U stuck in most Scrabble variants in other languages does not exist in Spanish Scrabble. Swedish-language Scrabble sets (until 1990 sold in Sweden as Alfapet, but that became a different game) use these 100 tiles: Å, Ä and Ö have separate tiles; other diacritics like that on É are ignored (except Ü). Q and W, found only in loanwords, are absent but can be played with a blank. Ü and Æ require a blank, and as of 2010 only occur in one and three playable words respectively: müsli and three forms of Laestadianism (læstadianism in Swedish). Originally (starting in 1954), Swedish Scrabble sets (called Alfa-pet, made by the Swedish company Alga, a member of the BRIO Group) used a slightly different distribution: Note that Z was absent in this distribution as it is almost exclusively used in loanwords. However, it could be played with a blank. Between 1956 and 1961, the makers of Alfa-pet revised the distribution, altering the number of tiles for the letters B, E, N, O, P, S, and U. The letter C was reduced in value to 5 and the X was increased to 10: Circa 1961, the hyphen was dropped from the game's name, and the original Swedish distribution of the game had been restored. Sometime later, produced under BRIO's subsidiary, Joker, the number of Ts in the set were reduced by one and an 8-point Z tile was added. In 2002, under the ownership of Mattel and its brand name Scrabble, the Swedish language set tile values of the C and Z were changed, respectively, to 8 and 10. Though Alga had lost its license to Mattel Europa in the early 1990s in the production of the game, the company held onto its ownership of the name Alfapet. ssubsequently it produced a different yet similar crossword board game. Played on a different grid layout, this game is played with a distribution which contains these 120 tiles, with Q but not W: The black tile may be put in front of a word to create another word adjacent to the black tile and thus diagonally away from the original word. The arrows lets the player change the direction of a word anywhere between the first and last letter of the word, and are always placed under letters. Anyway, Q is only used in loanwords in modern Swedish, so it is included. The Tswana editions use these 104 tiles:  The letters C, Q, V, X, and Z have no tiles as these letters are rarely used in Tswana. However, they can still be played with a blank. Diacritical marks are ignored. This is a hand-made edition and not an official one. Turkish-language sets use these 100 tiles (including distinct dotted and dotless I tiles): The letters Q, W, and X are not used in Turkish and therefore do not appear in the set.  Blanks may not represent these letters, meaning loanwords that may use them may not appear in the game at all. (See a completed Turkish Scrabble board:) Tuvan-language Scrabble sets, which use Cyrillic letters, use these 125 tiles:  The distribution lacks four letters used only in loanwords: Ф, Ц, Щ, and Ь. This version is made for educational purposes and is not an official edition by Mattel. An optimum Ukrainian-language Scrabble sets, which use Cyrillic letters, contain 104 tiles using this distribution: The apostrophe sign is also included, even though it is not a letter in the Ukrainian alphabet. Welsh-language Scrabble sets use these 105 tiles: Since there are specific tiles for the digraphs that are considered to be separate letters in Welsh orthography (such as DD), it is not permissible to use the individual letters to spell these out. Diacritics on letters are ignored. The digraph PH also exists in Welsh, but is omitted because it is used almost exclusively in mutated words, which the rules disallow. K, Q, V, X and Z also do not exist in Welsh. J does not exist in traditional Welsh either, but it is included as it is used in some borrowed words.  Zhuyin Chinese-language editions of Scrabble use these 100 tiles.  The letter ㄙ (S) has no tile as it is almost exclusively used in the letter ㄕ (SH) in this edition. The letters ㄘ (C), ㄔ (CH), ㄈ (F), ㄎ (K), and ㄆ (P) are used in Zhuyin, but so infrequently that they have no tiles. 