 Boris Yeltsin Independent Presidential elections were held in the Russian SFSR on 12 June 1991.  This was the first presidential election in the country's history. The election was held after Russians voted in favor of establishing a presidency and holding direct elections in a referendum held March of that year. The result was a victory for Boris Yeltsin, who received 58.6% of the vote.  On May 31, 1990 Boris Yeltsin had been elected Chair of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian Federation in a vote by the body's members (held following the election of the lower chamber's members in the 1990 legislative election). This made him the de-facto leader of the Russian SFSR.  This vote had been relativley close, as Soviet Union leader Mikhail Gorbachev had unsuccessfully tried to convince enough members of the Supreme Soviet to vote against Yeltsin.  Yeltsin soon made an active effort to push for the creation of an office of president and for a popular election to be held to fill it.  Many saw this as a desire by Yelstin to have a mandate and power separate from the tensely divided legislature. . He ultimately succeeded in having Russia hold a referendum in March 1991 on whether Russia should create offices of President and Vice President and hold elections to fill them.  Russians voted in favor of creating and holding elections to these offices.   Following the referendum, there was a period of more than a week in which a stalemate had caused the Congress of People's Deputies to go without deciding whether or not to vote on whether the Russian Federation should have a directly-elected president.   On April 4 the Congress of People's Deputies ordered the creation of legislation to authorize the election.  While still failing to set an official date for the election, the Congress of People's Deputies provisionally scheduled the election for June 12.  This provisional date would later become the official date of the election. Ultimately, the Congress of People's Deputies would approve for an election to be held, scheduling its initial round of voting to be held roughly three months after the referendum had been decided.  The election would jointly elect individuals to serve five-year terms as President and Vice President of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic.    Several sub-national elections were scheduled to coincide with the first round of the presidential election. This included mayoral elections in Moscow and Leningrad,    and executive elections in federal subjects such as Tatarstan.  There were also sub-national referendums scheduled to coincide with the presidential election. This included a number of referendums in which cities were determining whether or not residents wanted to revert to their historic city names, such as in Sverdlovsk (historically Yekaterinburg) and Leningrad (historically Saint Petersburg).     In difference from subsequent Russian presidential elections, a vice presidential candidate stood for election alongside with the presidential candidate. Similarly to the US presidential election system, the candidature of Vice President was exhibited along with the candidacy of the President as a joint entry on the ballot paper. Despite the fact that four candidates were members of the Communist Party, Nikolai Ryzhkov was the only one who was officially nominated by the party. The other communists participating in the election ran as self-nominated candidates. Although Yeltsin ran as an independent, he was supported by Democratic Russia.  Preliminary legislation outlining the rules of the election was passed on April 24 by the Supreme Soviet of Russia.  However, it ultimately took the Supreme Soviet until three weeks before the day of the election to finalize the rules that would govern the election.   Any citizen of the RSFSR between the ages of 35 and 65 were eligible to be elected president.  Any citizen of the RSFSR over the age of 18 was eligible to vote.  50% turnout was required in order to validate the election.  The winner would need to have captured 50% of the votes cast.   The president would be elected to a 5-year term, and could serve a maximum of two terms.  All candidates needed to be nominated before they could achieve ballot registration. Candidates could be nominated by RSFSR political parties, trade unions, and public organizations.  There were two ways for candidates to achieve ballot registration. The first was by providing proof of the having the support of 100,000 voters (a signature drive).   The second way for candidates to obtain registration is if they received the support of 25% of the members of the Congress of People's Deputies (which would vote on whether or not to add such candidates to the ballot).    On May 6 it was announced that the deadline for nominations would be May 18.  This was also the deadline for nominating a vice-presidential running mate.  In May 1991 there were some calls to postpone the election, rescheduling it for September. Those urging the postponement of the elections argued that the time before the scheduled June 12 election day provided too brief of a period for nominating candidates and campaigning. In response to these calls, election commission chairman Vasilii Kazakov argued that that the law stipulated that the election would be held on June 12 and that the proposed postponement of the election would only serve to "keep Russia seething" for another three months.   In mid-May election commission chairman Vasilii Kazakov announced that the election would be budgeted at 155 million rubles.   Due to the rushed circumstances behind the creation of the office and organization the election, many aspects of the office of President were not clear.  Sufficient legislative debates were not held to outline the scope of presidential powers.  It was unclear, for example, whether the President or the Congress of People's Deputies would hold ultimate legislative authority.  One of the few  stipulations that was made was that a two-thirds vote in the Congress of People's Deputies had the power (only if such a vote were recommended by the newly-created constitutional court) to remove the president if they violated the constitution, laws, or oath of office.  Work on drafting a law to outline the presidency itself began on April 24, with approximately two months until the inaugural holder was set to occupy the office.  Under the initial draft the president was the chief executive in the RSFSR, but did not have the right to dismiss the Supreme Soviet or the Congress of People's Deputies or suspend their activities. The President could not be a people's deputy and, once elected, would have needed to suspend their membership in all political parties.  On May 25 the newly-founded conservatives group in the Congress of People's Deputies blocked legislation championed by Yeltsin that would have explicitly allowed the president to remove local executives from office if the RSFSR Constitutional Court found them guilty of violating Russian Federation laws.  The Supreme Soviet committee that had been tasked with redrafting the Russian Constitution deadlocked over the powers of the presidency. Attempts to reach a single resolution would continue after the election.  By November, the committee would give up on reaching a single resolution, and opted to instead present two different drafts, one created by Yeltsin allies and one created by Yeltsin opponents. Neither of these would be approved.  The failure to resolve these matters would ultimately lead to the later eruption of the 1993 Russian constitutional crisis.  Yeltsin decisively won a majority of the vote in the first round of the election, thus forgoing the need for a second round. Yeltsin became the first popularly elected leader in the history Russia.  His inauguration was held July 10.  While widely celebrated both in Russia and abroad as a breakthrough in Soviet/Russian democratization, the election was not entirely free and fair.  Nevertheless, many commentators have regarded the 1991 elections to have been more free and fair than all subsequent Russian presidential elections.  Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev sought to prevent a victory by frontrunner Boris Yeltsin. Gorbachev attempted to convince more candidates to run. He did this in a hope that a greater number of candidates would increase the likelihood that other candidates would be able to siphon enough support away from Yeltsin that his vote share would be under 50%, thus ensuring that a runoff vote to be held.   Despite the fact that the military was supposed to have been depoliticized, its decisions were still orchestrated by the CPSU. Thus, the military was utilized in the CPSU's attempt to stop Yeltsin from winning the election. . On April 30 Colonel General Nikolai Shlyaga, chief of the Main Political Administration, told representatives of that body that the army should be working to influence the outcome of the RSFSR presidential election.  Shlyaga called for the establishment of election committees and urged that servicemen be briefed on the relative merits of the presidential candidates.  This was perceived to be an army-sponsored campaign against Boris Yeltsin.   In early June, the Defense Ministry issued a directive to commanders in the city of Arkhangelsk forbidding "spy-democrats" from campaigning for the RSFSR presidency among military units. This blocked pro-Yeltsin forces from conducting campaign activities directly targeting military votes. Meanwhile, such campaigning in support of Ryzhkov continued to be allowed.  The day before the election, in what was seen as a politically-motivated move, the chief Soviet prosecutor announced that he was looking into currency violations by Yeltsin.  There was a significant media bias in favor of Ryzhkov. Many newspapers had a strong bias favoring Ryzhkov.   Soviet state television cast biased coverage of proceedings in the Russian legislature.  Soviet state television also broadcast a lengthy documentary on Ryzhkov shortly before the election.  On April 27 Leonid Kravchenk, Chairman of the USSR State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting and the All-Union State Broadcasting Company, banned a scheduled broadcast by RSFSR TV, a media entity of the RSFSR government which had been irregularly broadcasting since the previous year. It was soon reported that Kravchenk might possibly try to violate his agreement with the Russian government and, during the campaigning period of the election, block regular broadcasts by RSFSR TV, thus depriving Yeltsin's government of their own state media outlet to utilize as a campaign tool.  However, the station was allowed to launch its regular broadcasts on May 13.  On May 28 the Tatarstan Supreme Soviet declared that Tatarstan would not "officially take part" in the election.  This came following two weeks of public protests against the election in Tatarstan.  As a consequence, turnout in Tatarstan was 36.6%.  A boycott of the election in Bashkortostan was encouraged by the newly-founded group A Movement for a Sovereign Bashkortistan.  The group was jointly formed by the Bashkir People's Party and the Tatar Democratic Party of the Bashkir ASSR.   