Microfluidic cell culture integrates knowledge from biology, biochemistry, engineering, and physics  to develop devices and techniques for culturing, maintaining, analyzing, and experimenting with cells at the microscale.   It merges microfluidics, a set of technologies used for the manipulation of small fluid volumes (μL, nL, pL) within artificially fabricated microsystems, and  cell culture, which involves the maintenance and growth of cells in a controlled laboratory environment.   Microfluidics has been used for cell biology studies as the dimensions of the microfluidic channels are well suited for the physical scale of cells.  For example, eukaryotic cells have linear dimensions between 10-100 μm which falls within the range of microfluidic dimensions.  A key component of microfluidic cell culture is being able to mimic the cell microenvironment which includes soluble factors that regulate cell structure, function, behavior, and growth.  Another important component for the devices is the ability to produce stable gradients that are present in vivo as these gradients play a significant role in understanding chemotactic, durotactic, and haptotactic effects on cells.  Some considerations for microfluidic devices relating to cell culture include: Fabrication material is crucial as not all polymers are biocompatible, with some materials such as PDMS causing undesirable adsorption or absorption of small molecules.   Additionally, uncured PDMS oligomers can leach into the cell culture media, which can harm the microenvironment.  As an alternative to commonly used PDMS, there have been advances in the use of thermoplastics (e.g., polystyrene) as a replacement material.   Spatial organization of cells in microscale devices largely depends on the culture region geometry for cells to perform functions in vivo.   For example, long, narrow channels may be desired to culture neurons.  The perfusion system chosen might also affect the geometry chosen. For example, in a system that incorporates syringe pumps, channels for perfusion inlet, perfusion outlet, waste, and cell loading would need to be added for the cell culture maintenance.  Perfusion in microfluidic cell culture is important to enable long culture periods on-chip and cell differentiation.  Other critical aspects for controlling the microenvironment include: cell seeding density, reduction of air bubbles as they can rupture cell membranes, evaporation of media due to an insufficiently humid environment, and cell culture maintenance (i.e. regular, timely media changes).    Some of the major advantages of microfluidic cell culture include reduced sample volumes (especially important when using primary cells, which are often limited) and the flexibility to customize and study multiple microenvironments within the same device.  A reduced cell population can also be used in a microscale system (e.g., a few hundred cells) in comparison to macroscale culture systems (which often require 105 – 107 cells); this can make studying certain cell-cell interactions more accessible.  These reduced cell numbers make studying non-dividing or slow dividing cells (e.g., stem cells) easier than traditional culture methods (e.g., flasks, petri dishes, or well plates) due to the smaller sample volumes.   Given the small dimensions in microfluidics, laminar flow can be achieved, allowing manipulations with the culture system to be done easily without affecting other culture chambers.  Laminar flow is also useful as is it mimics in vivo fluid dynamics more accurately, often making microscale culture more relevant than traditional culture methods.  Two-dimensional (2D) cell culture is cell culture that takes place on a flat surface, e.g. the bottom of a well-plate, and is known as the conventional method.  While these platforms are useful for growing and passaging cells to be used in subsequent experiments, they are not ideal environments to monitor cell responses to stimuli as cells cannot freely move or perform functions as observed in vivo that are dependent on cell-extracellular matrix material interactions.  Three-dimensional (3D) cell culture is cell culture that takes place in a biologically relevant matrix, usually this involves cells being embedded in a hydrogel containing extracellular molecules (e.g., collagen).  By adding an additional dimension, more advanced cell architectures can be achieved, and cell behavior is more representative of in vivo dynamics; cells can engage in enhanced communication with neighboring cells and cell-extracellular matrix interactions can be modeled.   These simplified 3D cell culture models can be combined in a manner that recapitulates tissue- and organ-level functions in devices known as organ-on-a-chip.  In these devices, chambers or collagen layers containing different cell types can interact with one another for multiple days while various channels deliver nutrients to the cells.   An advantage of these devices is that tissue function can be characterized and observed under controlled conditions (e.g., effect of shear stress on cells, effect of cyclic strain or other forces) to better understand the overall function of the organ.   While these 3D models often better model organ function on a cellular level compared with 2D models, there are still challenges. Some of the challenges include: imaging of the cells, control of gradients in static models (i.e., without a perfusion system), and difficulty recreating vasculature.  Despite these challenges, 3D models are still used as tools for studying and testing drug responses in pharmacological studies.  