Lyubavichi (Russian: Люба́вичи; Yiddish: ליובאוויטש‎, Lyubavitsh; Polish: Lubawicze; Belarusian: Любаві́чы) is a rural locality (a village) in Rudnyansky District of Smolensk Oblast, Russia. The village is known to have existed in what was the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth since at least 1654.  In 1784, it was mentioned as a small town,  then a possession of the magnate Lubomirski family.  After the Partition of Poland, the village was annexed by the Russian Empire. During the French invasion of Russia in 1812, the village was occupied by Napoleonic troops for two weeks.  In the days of the Russian Empire, the village was a shtetl in Orshansky Uyezd of Mogilev Governorate.  In 1857, it had a population of 2,500.  According to another source from ca.1880, a total of 1516 inhabitants (978 Jews) were reported there. The village had 313 houses, two Russian Orthodox churches and two shuls, Jewish houses of prayer.  In the late 19th–early 20th centuries, the largest market in Mogilev Governorate, with a turn-over of over 1.5 million rubles, was held in Lyubavichi.  During World War I, the Hasidic leadership left Lyubavichi.  The Jewish population of the village gradually declined and secularized under pressure of the Communist government.  During World War II, on November 4, 1941, the Nazis and their collaborators massacred 483 local Jews. It was the period when they were invading the Soviet Union.  The village is primarily known worldwide as the namesake and former headquarters of the Chabad-Lubavitch branch of Hasidic Judaism.  Menachem Mendel Schneersohn (1789–1866), 3rd Rebbe of Chabad Hasidism is buried in Lyubavichi, along with his successor Shmuel Schneersohn (1834–1882) 1882 map of White Russia regions. In the Russian Empire, Lyubavichi was a part of Mogilev Governorate (present-day Belarus) The Russian Empire Pale of Settlement where Jews were permitted to live. Shows Mogilev Governorate at the northeastern edge Jewish cemetery in Lyubavichi Ohel graves of Wives in the Chabad dynasty in Lyubavichi Chabad dynasty grave headstone 