A nightcore edit is a remix track that speeds up its source material by 10-30% which also increases its pitch. The name is derived from Nightcore, a Norwegian duo who released pitch-shifted versions of trance and eurodance songs, but now refers to any sped-up music labelled as "nightcore". The publicity of nightcore has also been attributed to the works of PC Music, formed in 2013 by musicians Danny L Harle and A. G. Cook who claimed to be influenced by the music.   The Nightcore term was first used in 2002 as the name for a school project by Norwegian DJ duo Thomas S. Nilsen and Steffen Ojala Søderholm, known by their stage name as DJ TNT and DJ SOS respectively. The name Nightcore means "we are the core of the night, so you'll dance all night long", stated in their website named "Nightcore is Hardcore".  The two were influenced by pitch-shifted vocals in German group Scooter's hardcore songs "Nessaja" and "Ramp! (The Logical Song)", stating in an interview that "There were so few of these kinds of artists, we thought that mixing music in our style would be a pleasure for us to listen to" and "Nightcore has become a style of music, a way to make the music happier – 'happy hardcore' as they say."   The duo set up what is considered by the initial nightcore community to be the original definition of a track in the style, a 25% sped-up (commonly to around 160 to 180 beats per minute) of a trance or eurodance song.  The nightcore music has been compared to happy hardcore and bubblegum bass due to its fast tempos, energetic feel and high-pitched vocals.    Nightcore made five albums of sped-up versions of trance recordings, including their 2002 thirteen-track debut album Energized and their later albums Summer Edition 2002, L'hiver, Sensación and Caliente.   Their first album was made with eJay, while all of their later work was made with what they described as "top secret" programs.  All of their records were sold to their friends and DJs around their area.   In 2011 and 2012, Nightcore became active again with a new Facebook page,  and released the songs "All I Want for Christmas," "Hater å elske deg," and "Into the Sky" on Maikel6311's YouTube channel.    Nightcore's works started appearing on services such as LimeWire and YouTube around the mid-2005.  The first nightcore track to appear on the latter site was "Dam Dadi Doo" by the duo in 2006.  Only two of the project's albums have surfaced on the Internet.   One of the first people to distribute nightcore music on YouTube was a user going by the name Maikel631, starting in 2008. He first uploaded around 30 original tracks by Nightcore on the website. In 2009, he found a "new" nightcore track and the technique to make material in the style: I came to the realization that Nightcore songs could be made by everyone, using reasonably simple audio software. I was at least one of the first people to really use that knowledge to make Nightcore edits. oShyGuyzo did this before me with Nightcore II. Another channel which I followed and started exploring fan-made Nightcore around the same time was Nasinocinesino.  The first nightcore edit of a non-dance track was that of a track by rock band Evanescence, uploaded on YouTube in 2011.  From there, the music rose in popularity with more people applying the nightcore treatment to more non-dance genres such as pop music and hip-hop.  Many of the pioneer uploaders of nightcore including Maikel631 have called these non-dance edits "fake".  The nightcore scene then crossed over to Soundcloud with the help of artist lilangelboi, who had released around ten to fifteen edits on the service before being signed to Manicure Records. The head of Manicure, Tom "Ghibli" Mike, recalled, "I just got totally obsessed with it. I put up that one he did, "Light", we had him up here to DJ a few parties, and then he moved here. That was totally how nightcore became a thing for us."  The label's #MANICURED playlist consisted of nightcore renditions of K-pop and electro house tracks, a few of them also incorporating production techniques outside of pitch-shifting and speeding up the source material, such as "Mile High" by Chipped Nails and Ponibbi and "Fave Hours" by F I J I.   By the mid-2010s, the nightcore scene had garnered attention from musicians such as Djemba Djemba, Maxo and Harrison, Nina Las Vegas, Ryan Hemsworth, Lido, Moist Breezy, and PC Music founders Danny L Harle and A. G. Cook.  Harle and Cook have claimed nightcore to be influences in interviews,  the former saying in an interview, From the second I first heard it, it's been so intensely emotional for me to listen to. I don't feel like it's an interaction from another human to me, it's just MP3 sound making me feel emotional in my head. With that kind of stuff, it's just a representation of heightened emotion for me.   A THUMP writer described it as the "most innovative club music today" and wrote that it also led to a number of "awful" internet memes: Throughout the late aughts and into the 2010s, it became the subject of a number of awful memes, and even an entry on KnowYourMeme.com, where a surprisingly extensive history of the music sits next to histories of trap and its infamous air horn sample. Like that iconic, oft-sampled sound, nightcore's inescapable appeal lies in loud, brash, low-brow fun, a heart-pounding blunderbuss of gooey, candy-coated sounds. It's an artifact indebted to an earlier, less formalized internet, one where file-sharing and forum culture reigned supreme, and where many aspiring producers first experienced the thrill of connecting with a larger community online.  Dance Music Northwest described nightcore as "too catchy, too danceable, and far too much fun to not welcome into the dance music mainstream."  David Turner of MTV described a nightcore remix of "7 Years" by Lukas Graham as "just the normal fucking song" and plagiarism.  