Charlie Victor Romeo is a 1999 play, and later a 2013 movie based on the play,  whose script consists of almost-verbatim transcripts from six real aviation accidents and incidents. "Charlie Victor Romeo," or CVR, derived from the NATO phonetic alphabet, is aviation lingo for cockpit voice recorder. The play is a case study in crew resource management;  a PBS special described several parallels between the behavior seen in these disasters and in emergency room situations.  The play opens with a flight attendant demonstrating the safety equipment and reminding the audience to fasten their seat belts and turn off cell phones. Before each scene, a display screen shows the name of the flight and reason for the disaster (e.g. "Icing" or "Multiple bird strikes"). Sound effects such as cockpit alarms, aircraft interior ambiances and mechanical sounds are included. At the end of each flight, the screen shows the number of casualties. A few of the transcripts were edited for time. At the end of the play, the cast and creators answer questions from the audience. The play was created by Bob Berger, Patrick Daniels and Irving Gregory of Collective:Unconscious in 1999.  It was taped and used by the Pentagon for pilot training.  US Air Force Major General Walter E. Buchanan III awarded the group a letter of gratitude.  After February 2002 performances in Perth, Australia,  the play performed in dozens of venues across the United States, including Washington, DC's Studio Theatre.  In 2004, Time put Charlie Victor Romeo on their Best Plays of the Year list. The play has been performed in Japanese by the Rinkogun Theater Company under the direction of Yoji Sakate.  In 2012, Charlie Victor Romeo was made into a motion picture,  which premiered at the 2013 Sundance Film festival. The FAA distinguishes between aviation accidents and incidents: an accident is an occurrence aboard an aircraft that injures or kills one or more passengers or crew members, while an incident is “an occurrence involving one or more aircraft in which a hazard or a potential hazard to safety is involved but not classified as an accident due to the degree of injury and/or extent of damage." " The accidents and incidents depicted are: Created by: Bob Berger, Patrick Daniels, Irving Gregory, of Collective:Unconscious. Directed by: Bob Berger, Patrick Daniels, Irving Gregory. Developed in collaboration with: Bob Berger, Michael Bruno, Audrey Crabtree, Patrick Daniels, Justin Dávila, Jim Grady, Irving Gregory, Dan Krumm, Peter O'Clair, Julia Randall, Stuart Rudin, Darby Thompson, Oliver Wyman. Sound design: Jamie Mereness Original set design and technical director: Patrick Daniels Sound mixing: Joel Hamilton Official Selection DocPoint – Helsinki Documentary Film Festival 2014  Official Selection American Film Institute AFI Fest 2013  Official Selection Copenhagen International Documentary Festival 2013  Official Selection Hamptons International Film Festival 2013  Official Selection New York Film Festival 2013  Official Selection Sundance Film Festival 2013  Drama Desk Awards 2000 5th Annual Backstage West Garland Awards 2002 United States Department of Defense Visual Information Production Award New York International Fringe Festival 2000 Absolut Angel Arts and Technology Award 2000 