 The Hatpin is a musical by James Millar (book and lyrics) and Peter Rutherford (composer).  It was inspired by the true story of Amber Murray who in 1892 gave up her son to the Makin family in Sydney, Australia.  Written and developed in 2006–2007, The Hatpin opened at the York Theatre, Seymour Centre in Sydney on 27 February 2008.   The musical has received subsequent productions in Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States. The Hatpin is the true story of a single mother, Amber Murray, who advertised her baby in a newspaper trading column in the hope of saving his life. Baby farmers take the child in return for regular support payments, but in fact murder the child. Eventually the evil couple are arrested and tried for the murder of several infants - leading to one of the most moving criminal trials in Australian history. Using the moral support she gains from her friendship with the free spirited Harriet Piper, Amber fights the injustices of circumstance and tragedy to find hope and strength.  The original Australian production of The Hatpin opened at the York Theatre, Seymour Centre in Sydney on 27 February 2008, produced by Neil Gooding Productions and White Box Theatre. It starred Melle Stewart, Peter Cousens, Michelle Doake, Gemma-Ashley Kaplan, Caroline O'Connor and Barry Crocker.  The Hatpin made its US premiere on 15 September 2008 at the American Theatre of Actors in the Chernuchin Theatre as a participant of the New York Musical Theatre Festival. Caroline O'Connor followed The Hatpin overseas to reprise her role of Harriet Piper, as did Gemma-Ashley Kaplan, who returned to play Clara Makin.  In 2011 The Hatpin made its Melbourne premiere with Magnormos at Theatre Works, St. Kilda, with a season from 16 to 28 May. Directed by Shaun Kingma with musical direction by Sophie Thomas, the production's cast included Samantha Morley as Harriet Piper, Philip Gould as Charles Makin, Sophie Collins as Agatha Makin, Emma Jones as Clara Makin, and Gemma-Ashley Kaplan who this time played the role of Amber Murray.  The musical received a London fringe production from 30 October to 24 November 2012 at the Blue Elephant Theatre, in a Heather Doole, Blue Elephant & Greenwich Theatre co-production in association with Lazarus Theatre.   The West Australian premiere of The Hatpin took place at South Perth's Old Mill Theatre in July, 2014  ACT I:   ACT II:    An original cast album was released in 2008 by Neil Gooding Productions.    All tracks written by Peter Rutherford.