Distance Education Centre Victoria (DECV) is a school located in Thornbury, Victoria, in Melbourne's north. It aims to provide flexible learning opportunities to Victorian F-12 students who are unable to attend mainstream schooling. Many people do distance education for reasons like: young children aged F-12 May not be able to go to school. Or many want to focus on a sporting career or dancing carrer. They do this so they can do full time or half day! The DECV exists to meet the educational needs of Victorian students whose circumstances prevent them from accessing mainstream schooling. In order to directly enrol with the DECV students must fall under one of five enrolment categories and provide certain pieces of documented evidence alongside their application.   Category 1 – medical: students enrolling in this category must have a specialist diagnosis of a chronic medical condition or treatment for a condition which means they are not physically able to attend a mainstream school for an extended period of time. Category 2 – travel: students enrolling in this category must be Victorian residents who are unable to attend a mainstream school because they are travelling within Victoria, Australia or overseas. Travel may be required due to a parent’s work commitments or an extended family holiday. Category 3 – sports and performance: students enrolling in this category must have elite sporting or performing arts commitments which prevent them from being able to attend mainstream school. These commitments may include performance or training commitments during regular school times, or extended interstate or international travel for training or competition. Many children wanting to ‘dance’ like become a ballerina or ballet dancer use this program so they can do half time or full day at their dance school. Category 4 – distance: students enrolling in this category must be Victorian residents who live in a remote area where it is not feasible to travel to a local mainstream government school. The requirements for enrolment in this category vary depending on the Year Level and age of the student. Category 5 – young adults: students aged at least 17 years of age at the beginning of the semester they wish to commence in, and less than 21 years on 1 January that year, may enrol to study a VCE or VCAL course of study with the DECV. The school is based in Thornbury, Victoria. It shares a building with the Victorian School of Languages.  The school is split into two sub-schools: A blended learning model is employed by the school in the vast majority of subjects, with work completed in online classroom spaces, both synchronous and asynchronous, and physical unit guides. Students are also able to visit the school during normal school hours to meet with teachers, attend seminars and study in the library or purpose built study areas. 