A frisbee (also called a flying disc or simply a disc)  is a gliding toy or sporting item that is generally plastic and roughly 20 to 25 centimetres (8 to 10 in) in diameter with a pronounced lip.  It is used recreationally and competitively for throwing and catching, as in flying disc games. The shape of the disc, an airfoil in cross-section, allows it to fly by generating lift as it moves through the air.  Spinning it imparts a stabilizing gryoscopic force, allowing it to be both aimed and thrown for distance. A wide range of flying disc variants are available. Those for disc golf are usually smaller but denser and tailored for particular flight profiles to increase/decrease stability and distance. The longest recorded disc throw is by David Wiggins, Jr. with a distance of 338.0 meters.  Disc dog sports use relatively slow flying discs made of more pliable material to better resist a dog's bite and prevent injury to the dog. Flying rings are also available; they typically travel significantly farther than any traditional flying disc.  Illuminated discs for play after dark are made of phosphorescent plastic, contain chemiluminescent fluid, or battery-powered LEDs. Others whistle when they reach a certain velocity in flight. The term frisbee is a registered trademark of the Wham-O toy company.  While used generically in casual conversation to describe all flying discs, this protection results in organized sports such as Ultimate or disc golf having to forgo the word.   It is unknown when humans began tossing disc-shaped opbjects such as seashells or round stones,  but throwing the discus was an event in the organized Olympic Games of Ancient Greece.  The sport was resurrected and made part of modern track and field games, appearing at levels from high school to the modern Olympics.  Modern discs were made of weighted wood, surrounded by a protective metal band, and weighed several pounds. Fred Morrison discovered a market for a light duty flying disc  that could be tossed recreationally in 1938 when he and future wife, Lucile, were offered 25 cents for a cake pan that they were tossing back and forth on a beach near Los Angeles, California. "That got the wheels turning, because you could buy a cake pan for five cents, and if people on the beach were willing to pay a quarter for it, well—there was a business," Morrison told The Virginian-Pilot newspaper in 2007.  The Morrisons continued their business until World War ll, when Morrison served in the Army Air Force, flying P-47s, and then was a prisoner of war. Mustered out, Morrison sketched a design for an aerodynamically improved flying disc that he called the Whirl-Way. By 1948, after design modifications and experimentation with several prototypes, Morrison and business partner Warren Franscioni began producing the first plastic discs, renaming them the Flynn-Saucer in the wake of reported unidentified flying object-sightings. "We worked fairs, demonstrating it," Morrison told the Virginian-Pilot. The two of them once overheard someone saying the pair were using wires to make the discs hover, so they developed a sales pitch: "The Flynn-Saucer is free, but the invisible wire is $1." "That's where we learned we could sell these things," he said, because people were enthusiastic about them. Morrison and Franscioni ended their partnership in early 1950, and in 1954 Morrison formed his own company, called American Trends, to buy and sell Flyin Saucers, which were by then being made of a flexible polypropylene plastic by Southern California Plastics, the original molder. After learning that he could produce his own disc more cheaply, in 1955 Morrison designed a new model, the Pluto Platter, the archetype of all modern flying discs. He sold the rights to Wham-O on January 23, 1957, and in 1958 Morrison was awarded U.S. Design Patent D183,626 for his product. In June 1957, Wham-O co-founders Richard Knerr and Arthur "Spud" Melin gave the disc the brand name "Frisbee" (pronounced "friz'-bee") after learning that Northeastern college students were calling the Pluto Platter by that term,  which derived from the name of the Connecticut-based pie manufacturer, Frisbie Pie Company,  a supplier of pies to Yale University, where students had independently started a campus craze tossing empty pie tins stamped with the company's logo the way Morrison and his wife had in 1937. In 1982, Morrison told Forbes magazine that he had received about US$2 million in royalty payments and said: "I wouldn't change the name of it for the world."  By 1994 100 million Frisbees had been sold, yet by 2007 he had changed his tune: "I thought the name was a horror. Terrible," Morrison told The Press-Enterprise of Riverside in 2007.  It is unknown how many more millions he had made since 1982. The man behind the Frisbee's success, however, was native Southern Californian Edward "Steady Ed" Headrick , hired in 1964 as Wham-O's new general manager and vice president in charge of marketing. Headrick soon redesigned the Pluto Platter by reworking the mold, mainly to remove the names of the planets, but in the process, fortuitously increasing the rim thickness and mass, creating a more controllable disc that could be thrown more accurately.  With the change in marketing strategy to promote Frisbee use as a new sport sales of the toy skyrocketed. In 1964, the first professional model went on sale. Its new design, patented by Headrick, featured raised ridges (the "Rings of Headrick") that were claimed to stabilize flight.  Headrick, who became known as the father of Frisbee sports,  later founded the International Frisbee Association and appointed Dan "Stork" Roddick as its head. Stork began establishing North American Series (NAS) tournament standards for various Frisbee sports, such as Freestyle, Guts, Double Disc Court and Over-all events.  Headrick later helped to develop the sport of disc golf by inventing standardized targets called "pole holes",   that was first played with Frisbees and later with more aerodynamic beveled rim discs. Upon his death, Headrick was cremated, and, as requested by him, his ashes were molded into memorial discs and given to family and close friends  and sold to benefit The Ed Headrick Memorial Museum.  Enthusiasts founded the International Frisbee Association in 1967, and the next year, the Frisbee Golf Tournament began in Kalamazoo. Also in 1967, some New Jersey teenagers invented Ultimate Frisbee, a game that remains enthusiastically played today.  Still a popular toy as well as a sporting good, the Frisbee was inducted into the National Toy Hall of Fame in 1998.  Double disc court was invented and introduced in the early 1970s by Jim Palmeri, a sport played with two flying discs and two teams of two players. Each team defends its court and tries to land a flying disc in the opposing court. Dogs and their human flying disc throwers compete in events such as distance catching and somewhat choreographed freestyle catching. This is a precision and accuracy sport in which individual players throw a flying disc at a target pole hole. In 1926, In Bladworth, Saskatchewan, Canada, Ronald Gibson and a group of his Bladworth Elementary school chums played a game using metal lids, they called "Tin Lid Golf." In 1976, the game of disc golf was standardized with targets called "pole holes" invented and developed by Wham-O's Ed Headrick.  In 1974, freestyle competition was created and introduced by Ken Westerfield and Discrafts Jim Kenner. Teams of two or three players are judged as they perform a routine that consists of a series of creative throwing and catching techniques set to music.  A half-court disc game derived from Ultimate, similar to hot box. The object is to advance the disc on the field of play by passing, and score points by throwing the flying disc to a teammate in a small scoring area. The game of guts was invented by the Healy Brothers in the 1950s and developed at the International Frisbee Tournament (IFT) in Eagle Harbor, Michigan. Two teams of one to five team members stand in parallel lines facing each other across a court and throw flying discs at members of the opposing team. A patented game scoring points by throwing and deflecting the flying disc and hitting or entering the goal. The game ends when a team scores exactly 21 points or "chogs" the disc for an instant win. The most widely played disc game began in the late 1960s with Joel Silver and Jared Kass. In the 1970s it developed as an organized sport with the creation of the Ultimate Players Association by Dan Roddick, Tom Kennedy and Irv Kalb. The object of the game is to advance the disc and score points by eventually passing the disc to a team member in the opposing team’s end zone. Players may not run while holding the disc.  