The Legends Football League (LFL) is a women's 7-on-7 tackle American football league, with games played in the spring and summer at NBA, NFL, NHL and MLS arenas and stadiums. The league was founded in 2009 as the Lingerie Football League and was rebranded as the Legends Football League in 2013.   The league's administrative offices are located in Los Angeles. The concept of the LFL originated from an alternative Super Bowl halftime television special called the Lingerie Bowl, a pay-per-view event broadcast opposite the Super Bowl halftime show.  The first three Lingerie Bowls were held annually from 2004 to 2006 and were billed as Lingerie Bowls I, II, and III. From 2007 to 2009, the next three planned Lingerie Bowls (billed as Lingerie Bowls IV, V, and VI) were all cancelled for various reasons. In 2009, LFL chairman Mitch Mortaza expanded the concept from a single annual exhibition game to a ten-team lingerie football league. Most LFL teams in the United States use the same color scheme as a professional men's football team in the area. Generally, this would be the local NFL teams, although UFL (Las Vegas, Orlando), and former NFL (Los Angeles) teams' color schemes have been used in areas with no current NFL team. In Canada, the teams' colors are based on either CFL teams (Toronto, Regina) or ice hockey teams (BC, Saskatoon). As of 2014, some teams in Australia use the local state colors. In addition, a small number of US based have adopted their own color schemes not reflective of other local teams.  Many of the teams are coached by former NFL players and coaches who are already well known in their respective cities. Many of the players have a background in competitive athletics at the college and semi-pro level, in sports such as track and field, tennis, volleyball, softball, soccer, basketball, and fitness-style bodybuilding. A few also have experience in tackle football from playing in other semi-pro leagues. On January 10, 2013, the Lingerie Football League announced it would change its name to the Legends Football League (while still retaining the LFL moniker). The league announced that the athletes would wear "performance apparel" instead of lingerie, but the uniforms look very much the same as before.  In addition to the new uniforms, redesigned shoulder pads were introduced to provide more protection for players. Other league changes included eliminating images of sexy women from team logos and changing the league tagline from "True Fantasy Football" to "Women of the Gridiron".  Playing style is full-contact and similar to other indoor football leagues. Uniforms consist of shoulder pads, elbow pads, knee pads, performance wear, and ice hockey-style helmets with clear plastic visors in lieu of face masks. Prior to the 2013 season, players wore garters, bras, and panties. There are no kickoffs nor field goals; halves and after scores begin on team's own 15-yard line.  Kicking off after every scoring drive was added before the 2013 Pacific Cup, but was removed shortly after the first game of the LFL Australia season. A team must attempt to get a first down on every fourth down. After a touchdown, a team can attempt a one-point conversion from the one-yard line, or a two-point conversion from the three-yard line. Since 2015, teams are given the option to punt if within their own 10 yard line.  The defense can return the ball to their end zone off any conversion attempt for 2 points; the offense can get 1 point if safety is scored off the conversion attempt.  There are seven women on each side of the 50-yard field, one fewer than the eight players usually found in arena football or other indoor leagues. Teams consist of 20 players, only 14 of whom are active on game day. This means that there are usually three or four players who play both ways, as "iron women". But coaches are allowed free substitution. The standard offensive formation features 1 quarterback, 1 running back, 1 center, 1 guard, 1 tight end, and 2 wide receivers. The standard defensive formation features 2 defensive linewomen, 1 linebacker, 2 cornerbacks, and 2 safeties (strong safety and free safety). The field is 50 yards between end zones, 30 yards wide, and the end zones are 8 yards deep, roughly the same as other indoor leagues.  A game consists of four ten-minute quarters and a 12-minute halftime (30-minute halftime in championship). In the event of a tie, an extra 8 minute sudden death period is played; whoever scores first wins it. If still tied, the game ends drawn, and each team receives a one in the tie column in the standings; however, in postseason, multiple 10-minute sudden death periods are played until one team scores, which wins the game. Teams get 2 timeouts per half or overtime period.  Teams are allowed two coaches' challenges per game by throwing a red flag. If after the play is reviewed, it is upheld, the team loses a timeout; the team keeps the timeout if it is reversed; if they win two straight challenges they are granted a third. All reviews are automatic in the final two minutes of each half and all overtime periods, as are scoring plays and turnovers.[year needed] Any player who targets another opponent, such as using the helmet to ram an opponent, risk immediate disqualification, plus a 15-yard penalty. The LFL began in the United States, but in 2012, the LFL launched a companion league in Canada. The LFL also kicked off an LFL league in Australia in December 2013. The LFL plans to launch a fourth global league – LFL Europa – in 2015. LFL Europa would include teams in Dublin (Ireland), Manchester (England), Düsseldorf and Hamburg (Germany).  Barcelona (Spain) and Frankfurt (Germany) had previously been mentioned as potential franchise cities.  In 2015, the LFL is planning to have the champions of each of the four proposed global leagues (US, Canada, Australia, and Europe) compete in an inaugural LFL World Bowl in São Paulo, Brazil.  The LFL also hopes to launch a Latin American league in the near future which would include six franchises throughout Mexico, Brazil, and Argentina, but this league has no expected start date as of yet.  After a successful publicity tour in China and Japan, LFL officials are now looking to debut LFL Asia in the near future, although a set date has not been set until LFL Europa and LFL Latin America have been established. In addition to adding new leagues, the league is planning on combining LFL's US, Canada and Latin America into one big division known as LFL North America. That is planned for some time after LFL Canada resumes and LFL Latin America debuts. From January 2015 on, there will three global divisions: LFL Americas, with clubs from Canada, Mexico, and the US; LFL Oceania, with clubs from Australia and New Zealand; and LFL Europa, with clubs from Europe. Every four years, there will be an LFL World Bowl, in which two teams from LFL Americas and one team each team from LFL Oceania and LFL Europa will battle in a single elimination tournament.  The LFL is looking for franchise owners as the league continues to grow.  On June 10, 2015, LFL announced in its State of the Franchise that there would be no international play through 2017. The sole focus will be on growing the league in the US, the exception being international exhibition games to introduce prospective countries to the league.  Note that the "joined" date refers to the current or most recent incarnation of each team. Several of the LFL's teams, including the Denver Dream and Dallas Desire, have had multiple, separate incarnations that have folded and been revived. Ten teams played in the inaugural 2009–2010 LFL season.  The league schedule ran from September 4, 2009, to January 29, 2010, with one game each Friday.  Teams played one game each against the other four teams in their conference. The top two teams in each conference advanced to the conference championship games held on February 4, 2010, in Miami, and the conference champions played in Lingerie Bowl VII on February 6, 2010. The Western Conference Los Angeles Temptation defeated the Eastern Conference Chicago Bliss by the score of 27–14.  The LFL held its first "All-Fantasy Game" on June 10, 2010, in Monterrey, Mexico. The Eastern Conference defeated the Western Conference, 36–14. The All-Fantasy Game's co-MVPs were Philadelphia Passion's Tyrah Lusby and Miami Caliente's Anonka Dixon. For the 2010–2011 season, the LFL added new franchises in Orlando and Baltimore, while the New York Majesty and Denver Dream suspended operations. This kept the number of league teams at 10. The 2011 Lingerie Bowl was held in Las Vegas, Nevada, on February 6, 2011. The Western Conference champion Los Angeles Temptation defeated Eastern Conference champion Philadelphia Passion, 26–25.  The 2011 All-Fantasy Game was held in Hamilton, Ontario on July 30, 2011, at Copps Coliseum.  Trailing 18–6 in the second half, the Eastern Conference rallied to win, 24–18, over the Western Conference. Anonka Dixon, quarterback for the Orlando Fantasy, was awarded offensive MVP for her 3 touchdown passes and game-winning rushing touchdown, while Liz Gorman, a safety with the Tampa Breeze, was named defensive MVP.  The LFL expanded from 10 franchises to 12 for the 2011–2012 season. The LFL accepted five expansion franchises – the Cleveland Crush, Green Bay Chill, Las Vegas Sin, Minnesota Valkyrie, and Toronto Triumph. Meanwhile, three franchises from the previous season – the Dallas Desire, San Diego Seduction, and Miami Caliente – suspended operations. The season kicked off on August 26, 2011, and culminated with Lingerie Bowl IX on February 4, 2012. The LFL Eastern and Western Conference championship games were played back-to-back on January 28, 2012, at Citizens Business Bank Arena in Ontario, California. For the second straight year, the Los Angeles Temptation won the Western Conference championship while the Philadelphia Passion won the Eastern Conference championship, setting up a rematch in the 2012 Lingerie Bowl of the previous year's championship game. The 2012 Lingerie Bowl was played at Orleans Arena in Las Vegas, in the afternoon prior to the start of Super Bowl XLVI.   The Los Angeles Temptation won its third consecutive Lingerie Bowl with a 28–6 victory over Philadelphia Passion. The Temptation's Ashley Salerno and Amber Reed were co-MVP's, with Salerno throwing three touchdown passes and Reed scoring two rushing touchdowns.  In 2012, the LFL expanded its annual "All-Fantasy" game into a three-game international series, with one game in Mexico and two games in Australia.  The Mexico All-Fantasy Game took place on May 5, 2012, at the Palacio de los Deportes in Mexico City; the Western Conference defeated the Eastern Conference, 37–7.  The second match of the "2012 LFL All-Fantasy Tour" took place in Brisbane, Australia, on June 2, 2012, at the Brisbane Convention & Exhibition Centre; the Western Conference again emerged victorious, this time by a 45–36 score.  The Western Conference took a 3–0 series sweep with a 31–24 victory in the third and final "All-Fantasy" match in Sydney, Australia, on June 9, 2012, at Allphones Arena.  The league delayed the next LFL US season from fall/winter 2012 to April 2013 in order to shift to a spring/summer schedule and to focus on the 2012 LFL Canada season.  For the 2013 season, the LFL accepted two expansion franchises – the Omaha Heart and the Atlanta Steam. The Toronto Triumph switched leagues, joining LFL Canada for its inaugural 2012 season, while the Orlando Fantasy officially suspended operations, again leaving the league at 12 teams. The Tampa Breeze relocated to Jacksonville, Florida and were renamed the Jacksonville Breeze. The league also aligned their twelve teams into four three-team divisions for the 2013 season. The 2013 LFL US season kicked off on March 30, 2013. Divisional championship games were held on August 17, 2013, and the conference championship games were held on August 24, 2013, in Ontario, California. The Philadelphia Passion advanced to their third straight Legends Cup (formerly the Lingerie Bowl) by winning the Eastern Conference championship, while the Chicago Bliss claimed the Western Conference title. The 2013 Legends Cup was held at Orleans Arena in Las Vegas, on September 1, 2013, with the Chicago Bliss triumphing, 38–14. The Pacific Cup was once again played at ShoWare Center on December 6, 2013. This time the Seattle Mist would face the Los Angeles Temptation due to the cancellation of the 2013 Canada season and not enough preparation from the BC Angels. Several key players from the Angels joined the Mist while a few key players from Las Vegas Sin joined the Temptation. The Mist won by a score of 27–25. In the 2013 offseason, the LFL announced that it had temporarily suspended operations for the Philadelphia Passion and Minnesota Valkyrie franchises, both of which are not competing in the 2014 LFL US season. The Philadelphia Passion are expected to return in 2015 under new leadership, while the Minnesota Valkyrie is not returning due to LFL USA's new stadium business model structure. The earliest expected return for Minnesota is 2016.  Cleveland Crush is moving to Toledo, Ohio and play its home games at the Huntington Center.  The 2015 season took place from April to September, ending with the 2015 Legends Cup. The Seattle Mist won the title 27–21, defeating the two-time champion Chicago Bliss.  On September 16, it was announced that Austin, Texas would receive an expansion team for 2016. It was later announced the team would be called the Austin Acoustic. It was announced at the same time that they would replace the Las Vegas Sin, with the Sin being place on suspension. They will play at Cedar Park Center.  On November 2, it was announced that Dallas, Texas would rejoin the league in 2016 after being on hiatus since the end of the 2010–2011 season, retaining the Dallas Desire name. The Desire will play alongside the Seattle Mist, Los Angeles Temptation and Austin Acoustic in the Western Conference. They will play at Dr. Pepper Arena.  On November 12, the league announced a final team for the 2016 season, playing in New England. it was announced they would be named the New England Liberty. They will join the Chicago Bliss, Atlanta Steam and Omaha Heart in the Eastern Conference. They will play at Verizon Wireless Arena in New Hampshire.  On December 4, The LFL All-Fantasy Game returned after a 3-year hiatus and took place at Estadio Nacional Mateo Flores in Guatemala. The Eastern Conference defeated the Western Conference 39–19.  The 2016 season ended on August 28, 2016, with the Chicago Bliss defeating the Seattle Mist (31–26) to win the  Legends Cup. The championship game was played at WestWorld in Scottsdale, AZ.  The 2017 season ended on 3 September 2017, as the Seattle Mist beat the Atlanta Steam 38–28 in the Legends Cup, played at the Citizens Business Bank Arena in Ontario, CA, to cap off their perfect 6–0 season to go with their 2nd LFL title.  For the 2011–12 LFL United States season, the All-Fantasy Game was played in Hamilton, Ontario. This was due in part to the league's announcement that in 2012 there would be a Canadian Lingerie Football League. LFL Canada was originally scheduled for a twelve-week season with teams in six markets,  with the first regular season game on August 25, 2012, culminating with Lingerie Bowl I Canada on November 17, 2012, one week before the 100th Grey Cup. On September 28, 2011, it was announced that, in addition to the Toronto Triumph who began play in LFL United States, LFL Canada's other five markets would consist of Vancouver, Calgary, Edmonton, Quebec City, and Montreal; ironically, none of those five markets would actually get an LFL franchise.  On February 9, 2012, the LFL announced that Abbotsford, British Columbia, would be the next Canadian city to host a team in the League.  The franchise played its home games at the Abbotsford Entertainment & Sports Centre and competed in the Western Division of LFL Canada. On February 20, 2012, the LFL announced that the franchise would be named the BC Angels following the results of an online fan vote.  The decision for Abbotsford to host a team sparked some controversy, including expressed concern from at least one city councilor, as "Abbotsford is a deeply religious agricultural community."  On February 22, 2012, the LFL announced that Regina, Saskatchewan would be the next Canadian city to host a team in the League. Home games would be played at the Brandt Centre.  On March 6, the LFL announced that the franchise would be named the Regina Rage after an online fan vote.  Six days later, on February 28, the LFL announced that Saskatoon, Saskatchewan would join Regina as LFL Canada's second team in the Wheat Province. Home games would be played at the Credit Union Centre.  Upon releasing the Saskatoon Sirens' logo and colors, the league announced that LFL Canada was set at four teams for the 2012 season, with the league playing an eight-game schedule, scheduled to end with Lingerie Bowl I Canada the week before the Grey Cup.  The 2012 LFL Canada season began on August 25, 2012 and culminated with Lingerie Bowl Canada I on November 17, 2012, between the Saskatoon Sirens and the BC Angels at the Abbotsford Entertainment & Sports Centre in Abbotsford, British Columbia. The BC Angels won the inaugural championship game 25–12 with BC Angels' quarterback Mary Anne Hanson and receiver Aleesa Garcia named as the game's MVPs.  On December 15, 2012, the first annual Pacific Cup was played between the Seattle Mist of LFL US and the BC Angels of LFL Canada. Dubbed the 'Border War', the game was hosted by the Seattle Mist at the ShoWare Center in Kent, Washington, with home venues alternating each season.  The Mist won 38-18. On June 27, 2013, the 2013 LFL Canada schedule was released. LFL Canada accepted one proposed expansion team, the Calgary Fillies; their home games would be played at the Stampede Corral.  Meanwhile, the Toronto Triumph suspended operations for the 2013 season, bringing the number of LFL Canada teams back to four.  On September 16, 2013, the LFL officially postponed the entire 2013 LFL Canada season until 2014.   However, the BC Angels were expected to participate in the second-annual "Pacific Cup", an exhibition game between the Angels and LFL US's Seattle Mist. The 2013 contest was scheduled for December.  On October 3, it was announced that the Angels would be replaced in the game by the LA Temptation, citing not enough preparation. However, a few key players from the Angels would make the trip to Seattle to join the Mist. A couple of them are staying to play with the Mist for their 2014 Season.  The LFL announced plans for an official minor league based out of Sydney, Australia, called the Ladies Gridiron League (LGL). The Ladies Gridiron League was designed to bring awareness of American football to Australian culture.  Five teams were announced to take part in this league: Berwick Diamonds, Sutherland Sirens, Western Furries, Newcastle Vipers, and Bondi Rage.  However, an official season has yet to take place. Australia hosted two games of the 2012 LFL All-Fantasy Game Tour.  Two exhibition games between the Eastern and Western Conferences took place on Australia's east coast in Brisbane and Sydney. Queensland native and wide receiver for the Los Angeles Temptation Chloe Butler served as the ambassador of LFL Football coming to Australia and captained the Western Conference squad. LFL Australia premiered in December 2013. The New South Wales Surge, Queensland Brigade, Victoria Maidens, and Western Australia Angels were the four teams playing in the inaugural 2013–14 LFL Australia season.  On March 23, 2014, LFL Australia accepted one proposed expansion team, the Adelaide Arsenal their home games would be played at the Coopers Stadium.  However, on September 29 the 2014–2015 season was cancelled due to the lack of a broadcast partner with competition planned to resume in 2015–2016 including an expansion into New Zealand.   In February 2015, it was revealed that the players and coaches had actually left after disputes and issues with LFL management, namely Commissioner Mortaza. Players and coaches left and joined the Ladies Gridiron League, originally a subsidiary of the LFL now operating as its own league.  Part of the requirement to be considered for the Hall of Fame is a minimum of four seasons of involvement at either coaching, executive or player level. LFL Hall of Fame 2014 Nominees 3-time champion (2009–2010, 2010–2011, 2011–2012) 2-time Offensive Player of the Year (2010–2011, 2011–2012) 3-time US Champion (2009–2010, 2010–2011, 2011–2012), LFL Australia champion (2013–2014),  Mortaza Award (2013) Champion (2013), 2-time League MVP (2010–2011, 2013) Hall of Fame Inductee 2014 : Monique Gaxiola LFL Hall of Fame 2015 Nominees 3-time All Fantasy Player 2-time champion (2010–2011, 2011–2012), Rookie Of the Year (2010–2011), 2-time Lingerie Bowl MVP (2010–2011, 2011–2012) LFL Canada Champion (2012), Mortaza Award (2011–2012) 2-time Defensive Player of the Year (2009–2010, 2011–2012), Defensive MVP of All-Fantasy Game 2011 Hall of Fame Inductee 2015 : Elizabeth 'Liz' Gorman From 2009–2010, weekly games were shot in 1080i high-definition and broadcast on some MyNetworkTV affiliate stations, international stations, and online. In 2010, MTV2 licensed the broadcast rights to 20 regular season and two conference playoff games and aired highlights of those games on a program entitled LFL Presents: LFL, Friday Night Football on MTV2. For the 2011–12 season, MTV2 also broadcast the championship game, in addition to presenting the games in their entirety and broadcasting them live at 9:00 PM ET.  In 2013, the league began airing their games exclusively online on a week-delayed basis, releasing their games every Saturday on YouTube. Games are shot in 1080i.  At the start of the 2013–2014 Australia season, LFL signed an agreement with 7mate in Australia to broadcast games every Saturday night.  In 2015, Fuse became the exclusive broadcaster of LFL games in the United States.   Games are broadcast on a week-delay basis on Saturday nights, and are later uploaded to YouTube on Fridays. In the fall, Oxygen Media premiered the reality series, Pretty. Strong., which focuses on the lives and careers of the Chicago Bliss. The show was produced by Relativity Television.   Fuse did not broadcast the 2016 season. Instead, games were broadcast in select markets on affiliates of The CW and MyNetworkTV as well as Regional sports networks on a week-delayed basis.    In 2017, Super Channel became the exclusive Canadian broadcaster of all LFL games through the 2019 season. Super Channel will use the LFL to launch its "Super Channel SPORTS" sub-brand that will be used for all sporting and events and sports-themed programming.  Eleven Sports Network acquired the broadcast rights to the LFL in the United States.  Since the 2009–2010 season, the Legends Football League has partnered with Five Stone music to compose music for the weekly game highlights, commercials, sound effects, radio shows, and music bed for the games on MTV2 and the international TV stations. The LFL theme song was originally composed by Five Stone in a collaboration with the vocalist Piper from the band Flipsyde. The LFL theme song changed in 2013 to "The Chosen" by Iowa-based group Drenalin. Starting with the 2013 Australia season, the LFL has dropped "The Chosen" and opted to go with cold openings with dialogue instead of music. In 2011, the Legends Football League partnered with Fantazzle Fantasy Sports to present a fantasy football game for the LFL.  It lasted for a year, before being shutdown and repackaged in 2013 as LFL PartyDeck,  a social networking site exclusively for LFL fans, players, and coaches. In 2012, the Legends Football League teamed with Japanese-based Yuke's Co. Ltd to design and develop an official LFL game.  The video game still does not have a firm release date. The league has met with criticism. Critics say the league degrades female athletes through "pernicious objectification".   The league was accused in its earlier years of fining players for wearing too many clothes, as well as not paying medical bills for injured players.  However, the league has responded, claiming that fines were given because the equipment worn was in direct conflict with the league's sponsored gear (e.g. Rawlings and Cutters, at the time).  Following the rebranding, the league now allows players to wear other clothing (bras, panties/thongs, extra padding, medical wraps) under the uniform.  Players are still required to pay for their own medical insurance and care.  The league also prohibited players from commenting on personnel matters, a rule that prompted the vast majority of the Toronto Triumph, including team captain Krista Ford, to quit in protest in October 2011.  The league claims that that policy has also changed since the rebranding, allowing players to express changes and ideas to keep the league functioning.  Originally a professional league with players receiving a cut of net revenue, Mortaza stopped paying his players beginning in the 2011 season and converted the league into an amateur organization; players must also pay for their own health insurance.  League founder Mortaza admitted at one point the league was marketed toward "mostly beer-drinking college students aged 21 and up."  The league has since attempted to reach a broader audience, including couples, kids, and families. The original uniforms of the Lingerie Football League consisted of an athletic bra and underwear that were more revealing than protective. The uniforms had lace and ribbons and the athletes all had to wear garter belts. The uniforms have received extensive criticism for their revealing nature.  In an ESPN article, Sarah Spain, the co-host of espnW, wrote, "After watching these women play, I can honestly say I respect the heck out of them as athletes, but I'll still never respect the Lingerie Football League, no matter what name they give it."   Some players have responded ambivalently or positively to the uniforms, with one quoted as saying "I just appreciate playing football, I don’t care what they put me in", and another favoring the limited clothing, saying "It's more comfortable this way."  LFL players with experience in track and field competitions have noted that the typical LFL uniform is comparable to other uniforms, with Elizabeth Govrick of the Minnesota Valkyrie stating she "ran track and I was wearing, you know, stuff if not close to almost smaller than what I’m wearing out on the football field.  You take beach volleyball, you take volleyball, you take other sports where it's pretty much the same thing."  Adrian Purnell of the Jacksonville Breeze said that the outfits are only for marketing purposes.  Heather Furr, a quarterback for the Chicago Bliss said "I think with little girls watching the game ... if they can see past the uniform and see us as role models, then that's what I want."  Abbie Sullivan of the Cleveland Crush stated, "just because we play in the LFL does not mean we promote promiscuity. We are smart females. We are athletes who take care of our bodies. We are the total package."  Similarly, Toledo Crush player Marija Condric stated, "Everyone is entitled to their own opinion. Sit down and watch. You’ll forget what we are wearing and you will be thinking about how hard that girl got hit on that last play."  Other players are quoted as viewing the uniforms as a necessary evil, with one saying "Maybe one day, girls won't have to wear lingerie to get people interested [in women's football]."   Liz Gorman, a player with the Jacksonville Breeze, stated she'd rather wear a conventional uniform: "I mean, I don't like it. You'd rather wear full clothing. I have a bunch of scrapes on me." She also indicated a belief that the league is likely to change to conventional uniforms in the future: "You look back at basketball, you used to have to wear skirts. Obviously it's changed, they have the WNBA now. So if you look back, women's sports has constantly evolved and I think that this sports league is going to end up changing the uniform."  Along with the rebrand of the league in 2013, the league made the decision to change the uniforms. The league felt like the uniforms were too heavy on sex appeal, and traded these uniforms in for "performance wear."  While the US remained with the old uniforms for the 2013 season, minus the ribbons and garters, LFL Australia's debut season in the beginning of 2014 marked the debut of the new "performance wear" uniforms. The new uniforms resemble the uniforms worn by volleyball players, replacing ribbons with shoelaces on the front of the top and bottom. The new uniforms made their debut in the US for the 2014 season. In addition to the shoelaces, the US uniforms feature brighter, more vibrant colors for the teams, with some teams getting new color schemes for the new season. White color away uniforms have been mostly replaced, with both away and home teams sporting what could be considered home color uniforms.  White uniforms returned for the 2015 season, but only for certain teams.  In partnership with Sleefs, the LFL announced new uniforms with new colors for the  2016 season. Numbers and logos are now printed on the uniform as opposed to previously being sewn on. In addition, the league also announced that teams will have a choice of camo or black alternates.  It was announced by the league that CandlenCaleb would become the new uniform provider for the LFL starting with the 2017 season. In the announcement, the league announced that, for the first time in league history, the uniforms for the last home games of the 2017 season would include long pants in lieu of the regular bikini bottom.   The new uniforms still lack leg, hip, or chest padding, and include the existing bra and shoulder pad combination. The league has received many complaints from players in regards to safety. Since the uniforms cover very little skin, the players are very susceptible to injury. Ex-lingerie football player Nikki Johnson was one of the many players that experienced injuries in her time in the league. Those injuries included injuries sustained from hard hits and a broken wrist that required surgery.  She, like many other players, believed the league gave very little protection to the women by providing them with weak shoulder pads and weak helmets. Due to lack of coverage around torso, arms, and legs, they can sustain scrapes and bruises very easily. As part of the reformation and brand change, LFL and partner Rawlings changed the shoulder pads to be more protective, including a harder plastic shell to cover the shoulders instead of just a pad. In addition, the helmets were given more padding inside and the addition of a concussion meter, meant to go off and alert the trainer of a head injury, regardless of the players saying that they are fine. This putting into place a system where, if a player goes out of action for a head injury, they must pass a physical and mental test before being allowed back on the playing field.  At the start of the 2014 US season, LFL unveiled new helmets by Bauer, designed with a harder outer shell and more padding than the CCM helmets used the past 4 years. They are still equipped with the concussion meters. Chinstraps, while still by Russell, are thicker and have more padding.  The shoulder pads were remodeled again for the 2014 season, with more padding given to the shoulders and a thicker plate given to the chest pad. They also introduced new sturdier elbow and knee pads, in addition to new gloves designed by Champion Gloves, replacing Cutters as the leagues official glove.  Passing 4 games, Rating : 178,7, 43/75, 550 yards, TD : 16 Int : 4 Rushing 6 games, Att : 70, Yards : 598, Avg : 8.5, Yds/game : 99.7, TD : 18 Receiving 4 games, Rec : 18, Avg/catch : 13.7, Yards : 246, Yds/game : 61.5, TD : 9 4 games, Rec : 6, Avg/catch : 19, Yards : 114, Yds/game : 28.5, TD : 5 Tackles 5 games, Tackle : 40, Tckl/game : 8, Sack : 0, Int : 2 Interceptions 5 games, Int : 6, Yards : 73, Long : 26, TD : 0 4 games, Int : 6, Yards : 79, Long : 29, TD : 1  