Pros vs. Joes was an American physical reality game show that aired on Spike from 2006 to 2010.  The show featured male amateur contestants (the "Joes") matching themselves against professional athletes (the "Pros"; mostly of retired male and female pro-athletes) in a series of athletic feats related to the expertise sport of the Pro they are facing.  For its first three seasons, the show was hosted by Petros Papadakis. In the last two seasons, it was co-hosted by Michael Strahan and Jay Glazer. The first two seasons were filmed at Carson, California's Home Depot Center, which was referenced in aerial shots. Repeats can currently be seen on the El Rey Network. Each of the first nine episodes of Pros vs. Joes consisted of a team of five professional athletes, distinguished by their uniform color on the show. Each team, other than the Red Team, appeared in two episodes. A special, "all-star", six-member Orange Team was put together for the season finale. Winner: Charlie Brenneman Each of the second season episodes of Pros vs. Joes consisted of a team of four professional athletes, distinguished by their uniform color on the show. Unlike the first season, returning teams wore different colored uniforms upon their return. Like the previous season, the teams on the season opener and finale wore red and orange uniforms respectively. The Season Two winner was US Army Veteran SGT Jay McKeown. Winner - Jay McKeown For Season Three, the format was changed to a "Last Man Standing" format, akin to the NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament with regionals held at the now demolished Orange Bowl Stadium in Miami, Florida, RFK Stadium in Washington, DC, the Louisiana Superdome in New Orleans and the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California, where the finals were also held.  The format now featured eight "Joes" in the opening round that tests them in a contest that will eliminate two of the Joes from contest.  Those six remaining Joes were then ranked from one through six with the top seed taking on number six, number two against number five and number three against number four in a home sport of one of the pros, with the top two seeds choosing from the three pros.  The winners advance to overtime, but now includes a bench where the Joes change from one uniform into another.  Again the fastest among the three advanced to the finals. Gabriel Canape, a wireless rep from Lebanon, Missouri, was the winner. As in past seasons, the pros are designated by the color of their uniforms. Sudden death: Wrestling battle royal Joes: Eddie Dubose, Brent Allen,Jason Vogel,Matt  Hill,Dallas Robinson,Steve Huff WINNER: Jason Vogel sudden death: Punt Return for TD Joe: "Iron" Mike Hall, Robert Foster, Mark Rohling, Donnie Frazier, Fameet Hammett, and Kevin Witt WINNER: Donnie Frazier (Hall gave it to him)   Sudden Death: rebounding Joes: Jay Williams Micheal Martin Chris Rich  Tony Railing Derek Schafer Will Hunter WINNER: Derek Schafer Sudden Death: onside kicks Joes: Mike Kotsch, Pablo Healing, Rahul Soni, Jermaine Reid, Joe Goodwin, John Grkovic WINNER: Joe Goodwin Sudden Death: TD Returns Joes: Terrius Moseby, Dave Hubert, Dan Falkner, Jerry Lehman, Carvel Gardner, David Ortiz Jr WINNER: David Ortiz Jr Sudden Death: scoop and score Joes: Clayton Monte, Greg Macaluso, Brian Peters, Mark Kilibarda, Art Miller, Devon Tilly WINNER: Clayton Monte Sudden Death: intercept the ball Joes: Dion Santo, Clarence Chaney, Adam Wasserman, Justin Simonsen, Micheal Stange, Trent Madsen WINNER: Trent Madsen Sudden Death: strip the dummy Joes: Red Simmons, Gabriel Canape, Cory Driggs, Cakvin Lafiton, Tim Fritz, Kirby Sykes WINNER: Gabriel Canape For the fourth season, which premiered April 27, 2009 at 11 pm ET/PT, the new hosts are FOX Sports NFL Sunday regulars Michael Strahan and Jay Glazer, and is titled "Pros vs. Joes All Stars". In addition, the format changed to a 3-on-3 competition between teams made up of three pros and three joes in three separate skill events and an end game between the teams.  If the Joes beat the Pros, they get $10,000. 