RollerJam is an American television series featuring roller derby that aired on The Nashville Network (TNN, now Spike) from 1999 to 2001.  It was the first attempt to bring roller derby to TV since RollerGames. RollerJam was derived from the original roller derby, but newer skaters used inline skates to modernize the sport (several skaters, mostly older ones, used the traditional quad skates). The program was taped at Universal Studios Stage 21 in Orlando, Florida, known as RollerJam Arena and now the Impact Wrestling Zone, for the first and second seasons (1999 and 2000) and the former American Gladiators arena in the show's final season. The first few weeks of the show's second season, which ran from August to October 1999, were taped at the MGM Grand Las Vegas. RollerJam was the brainchild of Knoxville, Tennessee-based television impresarios Ross K. Bagwell, Sr. and Stephen Land. Land, a fan of roller derby in boyhood, was inspired to bring the sport back to television by an obituary for roller derby legend Joan Weston that he had read in the New York Times in May 1997, and shared his idea with Bagwell, his mentor, who gave him a positive response.  Between January 1999 and January 2001,  Bagwell and Land, under the name Pageboy Entertainment, collaborated with CBS to stage this new televised revival of roller derby. In May 1998, Bagwell and Land pitched their idea to The Nashville Network (TNN). The network agreed to air the show but wanted it ready by the new year, forcing Bagwell and Land to create a league, recruit skaters, build a track, design logos and uniforms, hire a television crew, and record the program all in a span of about seven months. In an attempt to build continuity between RollerJam and previous roller derby incarnations, Bagwell and Land hired Jerry Seltzer, the son of roller derby creator Leo Seltzer, to be commissioner of their new league. The first episode of the show was taped in November 1998, a week after Thanksgiving.  RollerJam featured several teams of skaters competing in the fictional World Skating League (WSL). Jerry Seltzer served as on-screen WSL commissioner, although he only made a few appearances. The initial teams, each consisting of seven men and seven women, were the New York Enforcers, California Quakes, Florida Sundogs, Nevada Hot Dice, Texas Rustlers, and Illinois Riot (the original names of the latter three teams were the Las Vegas High Rollers, Texas Twisters, and Illinois Inferno; their names were changed prior to the start of the first season). Two notable veterans from Roller Games, "Rockin'" Ray Robles and "Latin Spitfire" Patsy Delgato, were featured in the second season of RollerJam. Despite strong funding and four seasons of broadcasts on TNN, the venture never became a "live" attraction. Fabricated storylines and characters in the mode of professional wrestling were being featured more than actual competitive skating around season 3 and 4, raising the ire of many skaters and fans of true roller derby. Games were played in four 7-minute periods with as many 60-second jams as possible; women skated odd numbered periods, and the men skated the even-numbered periods.  (In traditional roller derby, the game has eight 12-minute periods, again with 60-second jams.)  Jams began and ended on the referee's whistle, and a buzzer sounded to reinforce this. Whereas traditional derby employs a pivot skater, RollerJam did not use one.  Instead, each team had 3 blockers, each wearing a white helmet, and two jammers, each wearing a black helmet with red stripes.  In-line skates were legalized in attempt to modernize the sport, but certain skaters opted still to use the quad skates. In the first season, the game was played like traditional derby in that the first jam began from the black start/finish line, while the skaters had to continuously skate until a time-out was called or the period ended.  In seasons 2-4, this changed to every single jam starting from a standstill start from the black line.  In either case, jammers had to start from the back of the pack (the whole group) and work their way through, with the first jammer to break out winning the status of lead jammer.  The skaters then got one point for every opponent they successfully lapped.  The lead jammer could cut off the jam early by placing their hands on their hips. The last jam of the last period always went the full minute regardless of what the period clock showed. At the referee's discretion, skaters would sit in a penalty box for violating the rules for various reasons, from 1-2 jams, or face immediate disqualification from the game.  Skaters frequently racked up these penalties and were willing to take it if they felt it would bring them a moral victory. The team with the most points won the game.  If the game was tied in regulation, the genders would continue to alternate in sudden death overtime periods until there was a clear winner. In addition, special features would occasionally pop up: Another unique concept was that Rollerjam held special games, races and competitions in certain episodes, such as: Three of the most notable actors featured in RollerJam were veteran movie actor Tom Nowicki (who played WSL general manager Kenneth Loge III and Sundogs manager Leonard Loge III), Cindy Maranne (who played Amanda Hertz, the manager of the Nevada Hot Dice), former ESPN and current CBS Sports Network play-by-play commentator James Bates (who played "The Prophet", a character in Season 4 only who would interrupt games to make speeches, and later managed the Sundogs), and stage actress and former Mouseketeer Lindsey Alley (who played Lisa Seltzer, the "granddaughter" of Leo Seltzer). Other characters included Julie Amazon (a bodybuilding skater in Season 4), Canine and Disable (minions of The Prophet who skated for the Sundogs, and "captured" Lindsay Francis during the first game of Season 4),Devo (a convict character who skated for the Hot Dice), Lil Nasty (A midget who is a sidekick to Tim Washington) and El Numero (A masked luchador Who skated for the Enforcers). The most points ever scored in one jam was 28 in Period 3 of a game between the New York Enforcers and the Illinois Riot.  The Riot came back from a 20+ point deficit to win 46-43 in the highest scoring game in RollerJam history. Roller Derby legend Ann Calvello, best known for her brutal feuds with Joan Weston, skated a match race with Kenneth Loge III in RollerJam's finale. She emerged victorious. Ron Buffone, a producer for Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW), called RollerJam "That stupid roller blading show".  Buffone believed that TNN treated ECW on TNN, which aired prior to RollerJam on Friday nights, as a lead-in for RollerJam rather than a show in its own right, despite the fact that the ECW broadcast generated the network's highest ratings. Nevertheless, some cross-promotion between the two programs did occur, notably when ECW wrestlers such as Axl Rotten and Tommy Dreamer appeared on RollerJam as "enforcers" for the Florida Sundogs against the New York Enforcers. A game based on the show was developed by BLAM! and published by Electronic Arts for the playstation The Rollerjam game made an appearance as an IGN preview . according to Neoseekers , the RollerJam video game was set for a release in the 2nd quarter of 2002, but contrary to IGN release date, as the game was supposed to be released on 2001. But no other trace of information came through about the game being released or canceled without a confirmation. The video game itself became featured in Rollerjam as a feud, where the game was announced by EA's Steve Sims, around the halftime of the Nevada Hot Dice Vs. New York Enforcers game on March 21, 2000, during Rollerjams 3rd season   