The frenulum of prepuce of penis, often known simply as the frenulum, is an elastic band of tissue under the glans penis that connects the foreskin (prepuce) to the vernal mucosa, and helps contract the foreskin over the glans.  In the event of frenulum breve or frenular chordee, or to ensure that the glans can be freely and completely exposed, the frenulum may be partially or totally removed. It is also often removed in a circumcision.    The frenulum and the associated tissue delta on the underside of the penis below the corona has been described in sexuality textbooks as "very reactive" and "particularly responsive to touch that is light and soft".  The "underside of the shaft of the penis, meaning the body below the corona" is a "source of distinct pleasure".  Crooks and Baur observe that two extremely sensitive specific locations that many men find particularly responsive to stimulation are the corona, and the frenulum.  Repeated stimulation of this structure will cause orgasm and ejaculation in some men. In men with spinal cord injury preventing sensations from reaching the brain, the frenulum just below the glans can be stimulated to produce orgasm and peri-ejaculatory response.   Frenulum breve is a condition in which the frenulum is short and restricts the movement of the foreskin, which may or may not interfere with normal sexual activity. The condition can be treated by frenuloplasty, frenectomy, or circumcision. Frenulum breve may contribute to frenular chordee, where the glans is pulled toward the vernal body of the penis. Frenulum breve may also be treated by manually expanding the shaft skin by stretching.  The frenulum may be entirely missing in cases of first degree hypospadias. It is possible for the frenulum to tear during sexual activities. The frenular artery, a branch of the dorsal artery, may be severed, causing significant bleeding. A frenectomy can be performed to remove the frenulum from the penis, which is a treatment for frenulum breve or frenular chordee.  This is a form of genital frenectomy. The frenulum may be cut when a male is circumcised. This may also reduce the size of the frenular delta. The frenulum was reported to be cut in 26.7%, 20%, and 33.33% of circumcised patients in various surveys.   Frenulum divided by frenuloplasty during circumcision. Human frenulum preputii penis and frenular delta location A human frenulum of prepuce of penis displaying frenular chordee. Part of frenulum unremoved after adult circumcision. A removed frenulum preputii penis after a frenectomy 