Genital Autonomy America, formerly NOCIRC (the National Organization of Circumcision Information Resource Centers), is an educational nonprofit organization headquartered in California and with centers in other US states and countries. In 2016 the organization changed its name from NOCIRC to Genital Autonomy America. Its goal is to secure "the birthright of male, female, and intersex children and babies to keep their sex organs intact."  The organization was founded in 1985  by registered nurse Marilyn Milos, who remains the director today. The organization was the first national clearinghouse in the US for information about circumcision. In its first decade, NOCIRC grew into an international network and now has over 110 centers worldwide, including at least 17 outside of the US.  It is a member of the International Coalition for Genital Integrity (ICGI).  NOCIRC opposes the non-therapeutic circumcision of children.  The organization suggests that circumcision be performed only when it is absolutely medically necessary and after alternative non-invasive therapies have failed, or when an adult gives consent, after he has been fully informed about the risks and harm of the procedure.  NOCIRC also provides material on their view of circumcision and care of the foreskin. NOCIRC states that their position is based on the understanding that there is not a national or international health association in the world that recommends routine infant circumcision, yet declare that they hold the medical community accountable for "misconstruing the scientific database available on human circumcision in the world today".  In a 1996 press release, NOCIRC stated that "We expect this professional organization [the American Academy of Pediatrics] that is concerned with the health of infants and children to reveal the harm of genital cutting and to protect every child's birthright to keep his or her sex organs intact."  The American Academy of Pediatrics said in 1999 that the perceived benefits of circumcision are not sufficient to recommend routine neonatal circumcision, but that it should be the decision of informed parents.  NOCIRC publishes a number of brochures for parents, providing their recommendations about infant circumcisions, penile care and several related topics.  NOCIRC also distributes an annual newsletter to its members. Most of the organization's material is directly available on their website. Since 1989 NOCIRC has sponsored and organized international symposia on circumcision, human rights, and genital integrity. The twelfth international symposium took place in September and October 2012 in Finland. The following list details the history of NOCIRC's symposia: American pediatrician Edgar Schoen, who presents pro-circumcision information to parents and at one time was the chair of the American Academy of Pediatrics task-force on circumcision, has said, "These activist organizations, particularly NOCIRC, mainly using anecdotes and testimonials, have gained a good deal of media attention and have had a misguided influence in discouraging newborn circumcision, particularly in middle class educated parents."  