NORM-UK, currently operating as 15Square, is an English-registered charity concerned with the health of the human genitals, with a particular focus on the foreskin and the avoidance of unnecessary circumcision. It provides information about conservative treatments for conditions such as phimosis and frenulum breve, as well as advice regarding foreskin restoration for circumcised males. It also hosts and participates in conferences and symposia about genital health and integrity. The charity co-operates, but is not affiliated, with other non-profit organisations, and it is a member of the International Coalition for Genital Integrity. NORM-UK was founded in 1994 by English physician Dr. John Warren. The original aim was to provide information to circumcised men about non-surgical foreskin restoration methods. The organisation quickly expanded its mission to provide information about all aspects of health related to the foreskin, penis, and genital area.  It is independent of any other organisation and it is regulated by the Charity Commission for England and Wales. It is registered with charity number 1072831 and with the stated objective: To advance the education of the public in all matters relating to circumcision and other forms of surgical alteration of the genitals including alternative treatments and offering information and advice on such matters.  Female genital mutilation, which is illegal in the United Kingdom, is also a concern of the charity.  The organisation currently trades under the name 15Square. If unfolded and laid out flat, a typical adult's foreskin would measure about 15 square inches. 15Square publishes a quarterly journal, 15 Squared. The charity also publishes a number of pamphlets covering a range of issues such as care of an infant's foreskin, phimosis and tightness of the foreskin in general, and alternatives to circumcision as a remedy. 15Square's vice-chairman, Dr. Peter Ball, also produced a video, Restoration in Focus. The organisation's office is located in Stone, Staffordshire. David Smith serves as general manager and is the charity's only paid employee.  There are also a number of volunteers who work in the office and remotely. The board of trustees includes founder Dr. John Warren (chairman), Dr. Peter Ball (vice-chairman), Margaret Green (treasurer) and John Dalton (lead researcher and archivist). The actor Alan Cumming   and scientist Jack Cohen  serve as patrons of the charity. The late Brian Sewell, art critic and writer, was also a patron.  