Catherine Richards (born 1952) is a Canadian new media artist.   Richards is known for her work with virtual reality technologies.  She was the first artist to use VR technology in a work of art in Canada, which was incorporated in her 1991 artwork Spectral Bodies.   Richards is Professor of Media Arts at the University of Ottawa.  Catherine Richards' work explores the spectator and information technology relationship as the "jam in the electro-magnetic sandwich."  She deals with both old and new types of technology, exploreing the volatile sense of ourselves as we are shifting our boundaries - a process in which new technologies play a starring role. Richards has exhibited within and without North America at major venues including the 2004 Sydney Biennale. Her work has been discussed in publications by major theorists in the field including Katherine Hayles and Frances Dyson, and has been included in key surveys such as Art & Science Now, edited by Stephen Wilson. Richards is well known for collaborating with scientists and won the Artist in Residence for Research Fellowship (AIRes) at the National Research Council of Canada, 2002-2005, and is the recipient of the highest media prize in Canada from Canada Council for the Arts, Media Arts.  Her work on virtuality and new media is considered groundbreaking in setting the aesthetic terrain, realm of artistic intervention and substantive issues. Richards was the first and sole artist to be awarded University Research Chair at the University of Ottawa. As a model for other universities, it is part of an on-going movement across North America to accept art as research within universities, a goal in which Richards has played a significant pioneering role. 2004 Biennale of Sydney  Spectral Bodies (1991) video artwork utilizes the juxtaposition of short narratives to reveal how the self can be lost if the body is lost.  Body in Ruins (1986) published in Body invaders: panic sex in America  is a photo piece, composed of video stills and text, which explores the uncertainty of the body in virtual reality.  