Imran Channa  (Urdu: عمران چنه‎,  is a contemporary visual artist based in Lahore, Pakistan. He works in multiple media, including painting, drawing, sculpture, digital art and interactive art.  He has been exhibiting nationally and internationally. He teaches at the National College of Arts, Lahore. He lives and works in Lahore. Imran Channa was born in Shikarpur, Sindh. After completing his initial education in Shikarpur . He moved to Hyderabad to explore art, where he met with artist, art teacher and writer Fatah Halepoto. He worked for 3 years in Hyderabad under the influence of his teacher . He graduated  in the Department of Fine Arts at and post-graduated in MA Hons. Visual Arts programme at National College of Arts, Lahore. Various critics and publications have spoken of the direction and impact of Channa's work. Asim Akhtar in Pause Play wrote, "There is a revolutionary lexicography behind Channa’s visual vocabulary that is deeply rooted in the syntax and morphology of that visual modernity, and without it one will never learn how to read his pictures. His art is the very vision of an alterity that sets the political tyranny of language off balance – and with that liberates those who have gathered around the festive occasion of his art."   In Starring: The Artist', Quddus Mirza said, "The interplay of obvious and unusualness makes his work, interesting and intriguing."  Reflecting on the focus of his work and its impact, Yee-Wan Koon in MUSE wrote, "Imran Channa's work is based on historical perspectives. He questions the authenticity of history, which is constructed and manipulated by the power." Find The Real Jinnah,  work exhibited nationally and internationally many time in  Redo Pakistan](Lahore, Karachi, London) "Rising Tide", Mohatta Palace Karachi,  "creating common wealth"Creating Common Wealth India, "between black and  white" canvas gallery karachi." The art critic Maheen Bashir Adam Jee wrote in the article "messages for The Discerning" that: "Channa’s work, ‘Making of the History,’ defies the norm with its very title. The deliberate inclusion of “the” in the title challenges more than just grammar. Channa questions the veracity of the Badshahnama – a tale of kings, commissioned by Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan – and the practice of getting one’s history written under one’s own auspices. The authenticity of Badshahnama’s account, on the making of the Taj Mahal, was first called into question by historian P. N. Oak, who asserted that the Taj Mahal was, in fact, an ancient Hindu temple of Lord Shiva, usurped for Queen Mumtaz Mahal."  2013- Solo Project with XVA gallery at Art Basel HK 2013. Hong Kong.  2012, “Lik Likoti” Solo show at Canvas Gallery Karachi.  2011, “The Memory is The Message” solo show at XVA gallery Dubai, UAE.  2011, “After All” group show curated by Quddus Mirza at Royat gallery.   2011.  Contemporary Shahnama, millennium painting Exhibition traveling show at NCA in Lahore.    2011, Common Threads: Contemporary Art from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Iran and Pakistan. Xerxes gallery with NMart gallery at the Bastakiya at the Heritage House Gallery. Duabi.  2010: The sovereign Asian Art prize finalist exhibition, ARTSPACE at Helutrans, Singapore. 2010: The Rising Tide,  Group Show, curated by Naiza khan at Mohatta Palace Karachi.       2010: Slick 2010. Art fair, Paris.  2010: Creating Common wealth, Group show Curated by Ragini Gallery, New Delhi India.   2010: "Fatah Je Asay Pasay"  Group show (Green Cardamom) at V.M. Art Gallery Karachi, Sindh Museum Hyderabad   2010: "Badshahnama"  Solo show at Tmproject Gallery Geneva, Switzerland.     2010: "Structures Within An Intervention" - A Group Show curated by Meenakshi Thirukode at The Guild Art Gallery, New York, USA. 2010: "Making of The History" Two-person show  at Canvas Gallery Karachi.   2010: "The Havelian Express"  3 person show at CAIS Gallery Hong Kong.   2009: "Tradition & Tension" 4 person show at Art Scene Gallery Karachi   2009: "Patrons Of "Oh My God! I Can Buy Art!" Group show at Grey Noise gallery Lahore.   2009: Redo Pakistan. Deptford X festival London     2009: Redo Pakistan Group show in the form of symposium at Alhamra art council Lahore 2009: "Between Black & White" 4 person show at Canvas Gallery Karachi.   2009: "Redo Pakistan" a traveling show (Karachi, Lahore, Pakistan, England, UK, Dhaka, Bangladesh) arranged by Other Asias, a London-based organization at Shanakhit Festival 2009 Karachi. 2009: "Starring: The Artist" Group show at Indus Valley Gallery Karachi 2008: Degree show at Zahoor-ul-Akhalq Gallery National College of Arts. 2008: Young artist exhibition at Alhmara Art Council Lahore. 2007: “Dropping Tears Together” an anokha laadla collective live art performance at Alhamra Art Council Lahore.   2006: “Places Real and Imagined" Group Exhibition at Alhamra Art Gallery, Lahore.   2005: “Art Aid” Group Exhibition at Convention Center Islamabad. 2005: “Voices” Group Exhibition by Pakistan Development Forum Islamabad. 2005: “Emerging Talent” Group Exhibition at V.M. Art Gallery Karachi. 2005: "Memories" Degree Show at National College of Arts Lahore. 2003: Group Exhibition of water colors at Art Scene Gallery, Lahore. 2002: Group Exhibition of Printmaking at Zahoor-ul-Akhlaq Gallery Lahore.  