The National Council on Teacher Quality (NCTQ) is a think tank founded in 2000 and based in Washington, D.C. that advocates for tougher evaluations of classroom teachers. It is primarily known for its Teacher Prep Review, a report released in June 2013 that found American teacher education programs largely inadequate. The National Council on Teacher Quality was founded in 2000 by the Thomas B. Fordham Institute   as an advocacy group to overhaul education and challenge its current system.  The council advocates for tougher evaluation of classroom teachers.  Diane Ravitch, who was on its board at its founding, said they were conservatives who thought that teacher training institutions were "too concerned about self-esteem and social justice and not concerned enough with basic skills and academics."  Its board contains members of the Reagan, Clinton, and Bush administrations.  The organization is based in Washington, D.C. and headed by Kate Walsh.   NCTQ Teacher Prep Review 2013, Executive Summary  On June 18, 2013, NCTQ released its first report and rankings of teacher preparation programs, the Teacher Prep Review, via news magazine U.S. News & World Report's website.   The report found that teacher education programs did not satisfactorily prepare teachers, and referred to the field as "an industry of mediocrity".  The study surveyed over a thousand programs,  and rated them with exceptionally low scores overall.  Less than 10 percent of the schools listed received three or more stars out of four, and only four schools received four full stars.  The Associated Press's Philip Elliott and PBS NewsHour's John Merrow called the report "scathing".   The report stated that teacher education programs did not adequately return its students' monetary and time investments, or prepare first-year teachers with content knowledge and classroom management skills fit for diverse classrooms.  Its suggestions for rectifying these problems were raising the criteria for admission to the programs and teaching "the most effective methods to help students".  The rankings were based on 18 standards decided over eight years and 10 pilot studies.  The study requested information from teacher education programs including textbooks, syllabi, graduate surveys, and admissions requirements.  The report covers 1,130 teacher education programs, representing 99 percent of the field, though only 114 institutions fully cooperated.  About 700 institutions did not, in objection to the report's methodology.  PBS NewsHour's John Merrow said that only 1% of institutions agreed to participate, which was a "boycott." The institutions felt that Kate Walsh had come to her conclusions before she started the study. But Merrow called it a "bad study," because they didn't go to campuses, but just read course catalogs and syllabi.   In total, 608 institutions were included in the report.   The council filed lawsuits in some cases to collect documents from schools that abstained.  Of the 608 schools ranked out of four stars, 162 received no stars, 301 received one star, 100 received three or more, and only four received four full stars.  NCTQ's Kate Walsh has said that her group intended to build a "consumer tool" based on measurable standards to inform consumers and drive change.  The report was received well by conservative politicians and political groups and lambasted by the teacher preparation programs it condemned.  The Associated Press's Philip Elliott wrote that the report was "designed" to provoke teacher education programs to change the teacher skills taught in their curricula.  Delaware Governor Jack Markell agrees with the organization, having passed earlier legislation to raise teacher prep entrance requirements.  Michael Petrilli of the Fordham Institute similarly argued in favor of higher entrance standards.   Diane Ravitch said that she disagreed with the premises of the report, which were "data-mania" and standardized testing, which undermine love of learning and engagement with ideas.  University of Kansas School of Education Dean Rick Ginsberg called the report's methodology "ridiculous", comparing it to an unsatisfactory student research paper.  American Federation of Teachers president Randi Weingarten agreed that teacher education needed improvement, but said that the report resorted to "attention-grabbing consumer alerts based on incomplete standards" where it could have lifted the teaching profession with "a consistent, systemic approach".  PBS NewsHour's John Merrow reported that many schools saw the results as a foregone conclusion based on NCTQ president Kate Walsh's reputation as "a harsh critic of teacher education" and thus refused to participate.  The report's main criticisms were for not physically visiting programs, talking to students, or consulting the districts that hire the program graduates, and instead grading schools by online and received documents.   Critics agreed that teacher education program admissions criteria needed improvement.   