 Henry A. Giroux (born September 18, 1943) is an American and Canadian scholar and cultural critic. One of the founding theorists of critical pedagogy in the United States, he is best known for his pioneering work in public pedagogy, cultural studies, youth studies, higher education, media studies, and critical theory. In 2002 Routledge named Giroux as one of the top fifty educational thinkers of the modern period.  A high-school social studies teacher in Barrington, Rhode Island, for six years,  Giroux has held positions at Boston University, Miami University, and Penn State University. In 2005, Giroux began serving as the Global TV Network Chair in English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario.   He has published more than 60 books, 200 chapters, and 400 articles, and is published widely throughout education and cultural studies literature.  Henry Giroux was born in Providence, Rhode Island, the son of Alice (Waldron) and Armand Giroux.   Giroux completed an M.A. in history at Appalachian State University in 1968.  After teaching high-school social studies in Barrington, Rhode Island, for six years, Giroux earned a D.A. (Doctor of Arts) in history at Carnegie-Mellon in 1977. His first position as a professor was in education at Boston University, which he held for the next six years. Following that, he became an education professor and renowned scholar in residence at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. While there he also served as the founding Director of the Center for Education and Cultural Studies.  In 1992, he began a 12-year position in the Waterbury Chair Professorship at Penn State University, also serving as the Director of the Waterbury Forum in Education and Cultural Studies.  In 2004 Giroux became the Global Television Network Chair in English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario.  In July 2014, he was named to the McMaster University Chair for Scholarship in the Public Interest. He is currently the Director of the McMaster Centre for Research in the Public Interest. He and his wife, Susan Searls Giroux, live in Toronto, Ontario, where he currently is a Distinguished Visiting Professor at Ryerson University. Giroux has been an important contributor to a variety of academic fields, including critical pedagogy, cultural studies, youth studies, and media studies, among others. His work draws from a number of theoretical traditions extending from Marx to Paulo Freire to Zygmunt Bauman. He is also an advocate of radical democracy, vigorously opposing the anti-democratic tendencies of neoliberalism, militarism, imperialism, religious fundamentalism, and the ongoing attacks against the social state, the social wage, youth, the poor, and public and higher education. Giroux's most recent work focuses on public pedagogy, a term he coined to describe the nature of the spectacle and the new media, and the political and educational force of global culture. He is also a regular columnist for Truthout and writes for a variety of academic journals and public venues. Henry Giroux's writing has won many awards, and has written for a range of public and scholarly sources. Giroux has written more than 60 books; published more than 400 papers; and hundreds of chapters in others' books, articles in magazines, and more. While at Miami University, Giroux was named as a Distinguished Scholar. He won the Visiting Distinguished Professor Award for 1987–1988 at the University of Missouri–Kansas City. Between 1992 and 2004, he held the Waterbury Chair Professorship at Penn State University. He was awarded the Visiting Asa Knowles Chair Professorship by Northeastern University in 1995. He won a Tokyo Metropolitan University Fellowship for Research in August 1995. In 1998, Giroux was selected to the Laureate Chapter of Kappa Delta Phi. He was awarded a Distinguished Visiting Lectureship in art education at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago in 1998 and 1999. He was the winner of a Getty Research Institute Visiting Scholar Award for May–June 2000. He was selected as a Hooker Distinguished Visiting Professor at McMaster University in 2001. Giroux was named as one of the top fifty educational thinkers of the modern period in Fifty Modern Thinkers on Education: From Piaget to the Present as part of Routledge’s "Key Guides Publication Series" (2002). In 2001 he won the James L. Kinneavy Award for the most outstanding article published in JAC in 2001, which was presented by the Association of Teachers of Advanced Composition at the Conference on College Composition and Communication Chicago in March 2002. He was named by Oxford University to deliver the Herbert Spencer Lecture for 2002. Giroux was selected as the Barstow Visiting Scholar for 2003 at Saginaw Valley State University. In 2005, he was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Letters by Memorial University of Newfoundland.  The University in Chains was named by the American Educational Studies Association as the recipient of the AESA Critics' Book Choice Award for 2008. He was named by the Toronto Star in 2012 as one of the top 12 Canadians Changing the Way We Think.  Education and the Crisis of Public Values: Challenging the Assault on Teachers, Students, & Public Education was awarded a CHOICE Outstanding Academic Title and has received the Annual O. L. Davis, Jr. Outstanding Book Award from the AATC (American Association for Teaching and Curriculum) and the AESA (American Educational Studies Association) Critics Choice Award 2012. He was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters degree from Chapman University in California in 2015 and in 2017 he was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of the West of Scotland.  He is a winner of a Lifetime Achievement Award granted by the AERA. In 2015 he won two other major awards from Chapman University: the "Changing the World Award" and "The Paulo Freire Democratic Project Social Justice Award." Giroux is co-Editor-in-chief of the Review of Education, Pedagogy and Cultural Studies  published by Taylor and Francis. Giroux is a prolific author and has been publishing his books in every decade since the 1980s. The following is a partial list of his major book publications. It is arranged by decade and in reverse chronological order (i.e., the latest publications listed first): 2010s 2000s 1990s 1980s 