The Andras Felkai Academic Award is a scholarship intended to support young Hungarian economics students to obtain a university degree or further studies. The scholarship is available for both undergraduate studies and graduate studies in Hungary and abroad. Eligible expenses which may be covered include tuition fees, exams, textbooks, teaching aids and the related costs of travel and accommodation, etc. The aim of the Andras Felkai Academic Award is to contribute to the Hungarian economy and the financial sector with highly trained professionals who, like Andras Felkai, are characterized by a positive attitude, competence and international-mindedness. In order to achieves its aims the Award supports the studies of talented students and young professionals selected by the committee. Andras Felkai was a prominent and respected figure of the Hungarian financial sector. He was born in 1956 in Budapest, began his studies in Germany, and then lived with his family in India for many years. He obtained his diploma at Dresden University of Technology Traffic and Transportation Psychology, Faculty of Economics and Business Administration. From 1980 until 1988 he worked at CIB Bank and left the bank as the leader of the division of International Corporate Relations. In 1988 he was appointed the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, later the Chief Executive Officer of Inter-Europa Bank. In the middle of the 1990s he worked at the subsidiary (branch?) of the São Paulo Bank in Vienna, then from the end of the year he was President and Chief Executive Officer of European Commercial Bank. After 1998 when Citibank bought the financial institute he played executive roles in Citibank Hungary. In the subsequent years, he successfully led his own consulting company, and was a member of the board of directors of Synergon Information Systems plc. He died in an aircraft accident with other members of the Management Board in June 2001. Citibank Hungary, together with the Foundation for Developing Financial Culture, co-founded the Andras Felkai Academic Award in 2002. The family of Andras Felkai, several institutions and individual donors have also contributed to the fund. The Andras Felkai Academic Award Fund is a non-profit organization and its financial support enjoys tax incentives. 