Business Studies is an academic subject taught in schools and at university level in many countries. Its study combines elements of accountancy, finance, marketing, organizational studies and economics. Business Studies is a broad subject in the Social Sciences, allowing the in-depth study of a range of specialties such as accountancy, finance, organisation, human resources management and marketing.  Countries where Business Studies are taught include Argentina, Australia, Bangladesh, Brazil, Canada, Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Lesotho, Malaysia, Singapore, Malta, Nepal, New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Tanzania, the United Kingdom, Zambia and Zimbabwe Business Studies can be taken as part of the General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) option for Year 9, Year 10 and Year 11 at secondary school, and also can be taken as part of a GCE Advanced Level (A-level) course in Year 12 and Year 13. It includes a range of subjects, which give the student general understanding of the various elements of running a business. Subjects covered include, but are not limited to: Business Organization, People in Business, Marketing, Operations & Production, Finance, and Strategic Management.  Business management is an option for National 5  and Higher  qualifications. Both National 5 and Higher exams cover Understanding business, People, Finance, and Marketing and operations. The University of Cambridge considers Business Studies not to be a 'traditional academic subject', although taking Business Studies individually will not disadvantage students as long as it is identified as 'essential' or 'desirable' for the course being applied for. It is also suitable when applying for economics at university, if the college the candidate comes from does not offer the economics A-level individually.  After finishing secondary school, students in Hungary have the option of either taking an accredited 2-4 semester business course and obtaining a certificate, or applying to college or university. Students can also take part in a 2-semester preparatory business course to have a greater chance of getting accepted by a university. Hungarian business education has been organized according to the Bologna system since 2006. As the first stage of the multi-cycle educational system, a Bachelor’s degree can be earned within 6-8 semesters. In case a student wishes to further his or her studies, they can opt for a Master’s program lasting another 2-4 semesters. Business studies programmes are widely taught in the Republic of Nepal, where it is taught at every colleges of +2 level and also in colleges that provide A-Levels. A number of universities (public and private) are offering business studies programme under the heading of Business Administration. Business Studies can be taken as an elective subject from a student's Grade 10 year through to their Grade 12 year. South Africa has many different standards of Education. Some schools vary in the Exam Board, chosen, to educate their students under. The Governmental Department of Education allow for children to write NSC Examinations; this Board is the most widely used in South Africa. Students from private schools write IEB Exams and are taught under IEB-Standards. Lastly, Business Studies can be taken as part of the GCSE, or can be taken as part of a GCE Advanced Level (A-level) course in Schools run under the Cambridge International Examinations Board, providing a British education in South Africa. Cambridge Schools are of the fewest in South Africa. Business Studies includes a range of subjects, which give the student general understanding of the various elements of running a business. 