The Global Network for Advanced Management is a collaboration of graduate schools of business that seeks to foster intellectual ties among business schools, students and deans  from both economically strong regions and those on the horizon of economic development. It was founded by a consortium of 21 schools and launched on April 27, 2012.  The Global Network has since expanded to include 30 member schools.  The Global Network for Advanced Management was founded on the premise that enterprises need leaders who understand how markets and organizations work in increasingly diverse and complex contexts.  The network provides an organizational structure to facilitates connections among faculty, students, and alumni from diverse regions, cultures, and economies in different phases of development. Chief goals are the exchange of ideas, collaboration on data collection, and the promotion of research in areas of interest to global commerce. Member schools share course materials, including case studies that incorporate specialized regional expertise. The Global Network is a platform for innovation, hosting programs that include Global Network Weeks, which give students at network schools the opportunity to travel to another Network school for a one-week intensive mini-course that takes advantage of localized expertise;  Global Network Courses, online graduate-level business courses that connect students at member schools in group project work;  and Global Network cases, teaching materials that examine business challenges from the points of view of at least two Global Network regions.  In January 2014, the Global Network hosted two sessions at "Business + Society: Leadership in an Increasingly Complex World," a conference at the Yale School of Management. Deans and directors from nine Global Network schools discussed the skills they believed critical to leaders with moderator Margaret Warner in a panel entitled "Preparing Leaders for a Flatter World."  Faculty, deans, and students from three network schools participated in "Bank of Ireland: A Raw Case Study" with American investor Wilbur Ross.  The network includes graduate management schools on six continents, with members in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica, France, Germany, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Mexico, Nicaragua, Nigeria, the Philippines, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States.  