The Global Learning Opportunities in Business Education (GLOBE) program is an undergraduate business program that sends 54 elite students to study at Copenhagen Business School (CBS) in Copenhagen, Denmark, the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) in Hong Kong, and the Kenan–Flagler Business School, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC) in  Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States.  At each respective university, eighteen students are selected based on their academic achievements, personalities, and previous life experiences. After being selected, the students spend a year and a half traveling the world, networking internationally, and gaining a new perspective on the business world. During the first year of the program, students study at CBS in the fall and CUHK in the spring. Following the semester in Hong Kong, students generally pursue competitive internships with companies throughout the world. The final semester is then spent at the University of North Carolina. Following completion of the program, students return to their respective universities, where they spend one final semester completing their degree. As of September 2017, 10 batches of GLOBE students have graduated the program. Batch 11 is in the midst of its third and final semester while batch 12 is in its first. The GLOBE program combines international business studies with real-life international experience, giving GLOBE Scholars unique perspectives in their future business endeavors. At CBS, only students majoring in International Business are eligible for program admission. At UNC, sophomores apply for the GLOBE program when applying to the Kenan-Flagler Business School. At CUHK, only students majoring in Global Business Studies, one of the most competitive undergraduate programs in Hong Kong, are eligible to apply. At each university, the GLOBE administration team selects students through a rigorous application and extensive interview process to maximize student and program compatibility. The three universities at which GLOBE students study all receive top rankings on their respective continents. In 2012, CUHK was ranked fifth in Asia,  CBS was ranked as the third-best international business school in the world after Harvard and London Business School,  and the Kenan-Flagler Business School at UNC was ranked sixth-best business school in the USA.  During the course of the program all the GLOBE students live and study together. Students also take the opportunity to travel extensively throughout Europe, Asia, and the United States. The third batch (graduated December 9, 2009) visited Brussels, Berlin, Shanghai, Tokyo, the Research Triangle Park in North Carolina, and New York City on its study trips. The students visited companies such as Deutsche Bahn in Berlin, Toyota City in Japan, and Standard & Poor's in New York City. Batch eight (graduating December 14, 2014) has visited Brussels and Berlin, and 10 days are going to be spent in Indonesia visiting and solving local company issues. In the US, there will be a study trip to Research Triangle Park and a more extensive one in the late fall. Although still a young program, the GLOBE program has been featured in numerous major business publications around the world. The program was referenced in an article about students' perceptions of companies in the Financial Times and BusinessWeek.   The program has also been the focus of articles in business media such as the Danish newspaper Børsen.  Berlingske Business (Danish newspaper) ran a series of articles about the program in the fall, 2013.   Students graduating from the GLOBE program have gone to work at companies such as JPMorgan Chase, Credit Suisse, Maersk, General Electric, Goldman Sachs, HSBC, PricewaterhouseCoopers, The Boston Consulting Group, McKinsey, Deloitte and various embassies around the world. 