The Jack Welch Management Institute at Strayer University is a for-profit online educational institution founded in 2009 and based in the United States, offering an executive Master of Business Administration degree and executive certificates for working adults. It was founded by Jack Welch, former CEO of General Electric. The company is headquartered outside of Washington D.C. at Strayer University's corporate office - 2303 Dulles Station Blvd, Herndon, VA 20171. The Jack Welch Management Institute was developed in 2009 by former GE CEO Jack Welch in partnership with Chancellor University,  to create a business school aimed at providing leadership training to managers and executives.  The institute launched in June 2009,  and classes began in January 2010.  In April 2011 Welch approached Strayer University to discuss moving the institute to the university.     The deal to acquire the institute closed in December 2011.  In June 2012, the Jack Welch Management Institute announced the appointment of Daniel Szpiro as Dean.  Szpiro had previously been the Associate Dean for Executive Education at the Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University. The institute offers an accredited Master of Business Administration  and executive certificates  covering various business-related topics  through online classes.  The online MBA is a two-year program and the certificates are six-week programs.  In March 2013, the Institute launched a series of online, self-guided, self-paced management training programs under the Welch Way brand. Welch developed the curriculum, drawing from his management experience as CEO of GE and his experience teaching managers and executives at GE's Leadership Development Center.   In addition to helping shape the program's curriculum, he holds the title of distinguished professor at the institute.   He regularly addresses students via video stream, and holds a video conference with them at the end of each term.   Welch expects the relatively low tuition and flexible schedule for the institute's MBA program to make the program attractive to those currently employed but wishing to earn an MBA.   He has stated that he plans to grow the institute into the number one online business school in the world by 2016.  JWMI's MBA program was recently named the number one most influential education brand on Linkedin.  and one of the top business schools to watch in 2016. The program has also been named one of the Top 25 Online MBA Programs two years in a row (2017 & 2018) by the Princeton Review for its excellence in five areas of selection criteria: academics, selectivity, faculty, technical platforms, and career outcomes.  