Perth Institute of Business and Technology (PIBT) now known as Edith Cowan College (ECC) is an Australian tertiary education provider. Edith Cowan College (ECC) is located in Perth, Western Australia and is accredited by Government under the Higher Education Act 2004 to provide a range of higher education courses. Edith Cowan College has been in partnership with Edith Cowan University (ECU) since 1994. Since then over 8,400 students have successfully transitioned into Edith Cowan University (ECU). ECC is the founding college of Navitas, a public company listed on the Australian Stock Exchange and the largest group of Higher Education colleges in Australia.  Navitas has colleges in most state capitals plus sister colleges in London, Africa and Canada.  Since 1994 ECC and Edith Cowan University have worked together to provide pathway programs to university in Australia. Chief Executive Officer – Mr Rod Jones Appointed 18 June 2004 Mr Jones has 30 years experience in educational administration and has held a number of senior administrative positions within the Government and the private education sectors. His background covers both secondary and university education including being Deputy Director of the Tertiary Institutions Service Centre and the Secondary Education Authority. Mr Jones has been involved in international education since 1987 and is recognized as one of the leaders in the successful establishment of the sector in Australia. He is one of the co-founders of Navitas and has been instrumental in the expansion and development of the Navitas model into the various markets which it now operates. In April 2007 Mr Jones received an Honorary Doctor of Education from Edith Cowan University in recognition of his contributions to increasing student participation in education.  Campus Location ECC is located on ECU’s Mt Lawley and Joondalup campuses. The Mt Lawley campus is 10 minutes from Perth central business district. The Joondalup campus is 25km from Perth. Enrolments ECC has approximately 900 students from over 90 countries and 8,400 graduates of both Australian and International students. It provides an alternative entry to university studies and a guaranteed pathway into the second year of a Bachelor degree at Edith Cowan University. ECC provides (Diploma) pathway programs in the areas of Business, Hotel Management, Communications and Creative Industries, Science (Computer / IT), Science (Engineering Studies), and Science (Health Studies) including Nursing, which lead into the 2nd Year of the respective Degree courses at Edith Cowan University (ECU). A three-semester system allows students to complete most courses in 8 months. ECC also offers English Language courses for people from non-English speaking countries and direct entry pathways for International students wishing to undertake university study.  ECC offers the Academic English program at all levels from beginner to advanced. The Student Support Program has been established to link new students with senior ECC and University students to assist with everyday matters relating to living and studying in Australia.  All new students are assigned a Student Leader who assists them over the first few weeks of their arrival. A Student Counsellor is available to assist with welfare and pastoral care and all discussions are kept confidential. The Student Counsellor is available to meet with students.  