To become a professional securities broker in the United States, an individual must take and pass the General Securities Representative Exam (Series 7) and in most states, the Uniform Securities Agent State Law Examination (Series 63). To take the test, you must be sponsored by "a member firm, a self-regulatory organization (SRO), or an exchange." This requirement, as well as the administration of the test, is under the jurisdiction of FINRA, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  For individuals who are interested only in managing their own investments, several options exist to obtain a stock market education: Many colleges and universities offer courses of study in business, economics, and finance. However, the coursework is aimed at preparing the student for the professional world. They are not designed or intended to teach a student how to trade in the stock market, although the introductory/basic courses would provide a good basic foundation of knowledge. Those intending to follow the professional stockbroker career path usually begin their education by obtaining a degree in business, economics, or finance. Some of the core subjects covered by an undergraduate education during the course of a financial/business college education are:    Non-traditional classroom settings are offered by: For-profit financial education companies exist that offer programs of study (also referred to as "systems" or "courses" – the terminology varies) on stock market education. Unlike colleges that prepare students for working in the financial arena, these companies educate students with a more narrow focus – how to trade derivatives for the purpose of personal investing. Examples of such companies are thinkorswim (formerly Investools), Invested Central, Trading Advantage, Global Finance School, and Rich Dad's Education (based on the "Rich Dad, Poor Dad" book by Robert Kiyosaki). These types of companies offer both classroom settings for learning and distance education programs. Another aspect that differentiates for-profit stock market education companies from traditional colleges is the commercialization factor. For-profit stock market education companies frequently develop other products – such as software and newsletters – that they market to their students. Colleges and universities, frequently founded for the purpose of providing education and established as non-profit organizations, do not follow this business model. Also referred to as "personal coaches," mentors work one-on-one with a student, In this situation, the student receives more personal attention from the instructor than from a classroom or distance learning education. Some mentors offer their services for a fee.   The following resources exist in libraries and on the Internet for an individual to learn about investing in the stock market: Whether an individual chooses a traditional or non-traditional education to learn how the stock market works, the following basic subjects are covered: More advanced topics would include: 