Literary fiction is fiction that is regarded as having literary merit, as distinguished from most commercial or "genre" fiction. The term and distinction has been criticised by authors, critics and scholars,[according to whom?] especially because a number of major literary figures have also written genre fiction, including John Banville, Doris Lessing, Iain Banks, and Margaret Atwood.  Neal Stephenson has suggested that, while any definition will be simplistic, there is today a general cultural difference between literary and genre fiction. On the one hand, literary authors are frequently supported by patronage, with employment at a university or a similar institution, and with the continuation of such positions determined not by book sales but by critical acclaim by other established literary authors and critics. On the other hand, Stephenson suggests, genre fiction writers tend to support themselves by book sales.  However, in an interview, John Updike lamented that "the category of 'literary fiction' has sprung up recently to torment people like me who just set out to write books, and if anybody wanted to read them, terrific, the more the merrier. ... I'm a genre writer of a sort. I write literary fiction, which is like spy fiction or chick lit".  Likewise, on The Charlie Rose Show, he argued that this term, when applied to his work, greatly limited him and his expectations of what might come of his writing, so he does not really like it. He suggested that all his works are literary, simply because "they are written in words".  Characteristics of literary fiction generally include one or more of the following: Saricks also suggests a contrast with genre fiction, in which plot is the central concern.  However, this does not imply that plots are unimportant in literary fiction. Saricks also claims that the tone of literary fiction can be 'darker' than genre fiction;  however, dark themes also feature in genre fiction, notably horror and some fantasy, paranormal and science fiction. However, the distinction is becoming blurred with major writers of literary fiction, like Nobel laureate Doris Lessing, as well as Margaret Atwood, writing science fiction.  Also Georges Simenon, the creator of the Maigret detective novels, has been described by American composer and writer Ned Rorem, as "one of the five greatest French writers of our century". Rorem placed Simenon in the company of Proust, Gide, Cocteau and Sartre. Gide once called him 'the most novelistic of novelists in French literature'.  