Keli Goff (born July 20, 1979) is an American journalist, playwright and screenwriter. She first came to prominence as a blogger and political commentator during the 2008 election, recognized for her contributions to The Huffington Post and her appearances on various television networks as a political pundit. She has appeared on CNN, Fox News, the BBC, MSNBC and other networks. She is the author of the book, Party Crashing: How the Hip-Hop Generation Declared Political Independence  and the novel The GQ Candidate, released in July 2011.  In September 2014 Goff joined the writing staff of the BET drama series "Being Mary Jane."  She won a 2016 NAACP Image Award for her work on the show.   She is a 2014 recipient of the Public Theater's Emerging Writers Group fellowship.  As of 2018 she is a Columnist for The Daily Beast and writer for the television series "Black Lightning." She is a regular contributor to "Left, Right & Center" on NPR affiliate KCRW. She served as a producer on the documentary Reversing Roe, which aired on Netflix in September 2018 after debuting at the Telluride Film Festival.  A native of Missouri City, Texas, Goff graduated from Elkins High School. She holds a bachelor's degree from New York University and a master's degree in strategic communications from Columbia University. Her first book, Party Crashing: How the Hip-Hop Generation Declared Political Independence, examined the perspectives and impact of younger voters and members of the Post Civil Rights Generation on the political process, with particular focus on the 2008 election. Her second book, The GQ Candidate, a novel, was published in 2011 by Simon & Schuster's Atria Books, with the paperback published in June 2012. During the 2008 election she was a regular contributor to the BET public affairs program "The Truth With Jeff Johnson" and an editorial contributor to RushmoreDrive.com. Her essay "Living the Dream" is featured in the collection The Speech: Race and Barack Obama's A More Perfect Union. Her writing has also appeared in Time, UPTOWN, Cosmopolitan, Essence, The Guardian,  the Washington Post, the Daily Beast  and the web editions of the New York Times and New York magazine. Currently a columnist for The Daily Beast, Goff previously served as a Correspondent for The Root and as a regular contributor to the Washington Post blog "She the People," and before that for the Huffington Post. Goff's columns have been the subject of coverage in outlets including the Wall Street Journal  and the New York Times,  while her books have been covered by USA Today,  Vanity Fair,  and Politico.  During the 2016 election she was also the host of a live event series for WNYC (the National Public Radio New York affiliate.) Political Party with Keli Goff, about “sidestepping the horse race of the 2016 elections to dig deeper into the people and ideas shaping our political landscape" at The Greene Space at WNYC & WQXR in Soho. Goff was an anchor at the Women in the World Summit in 2014 for the Toyota Solutions Studio. In addition to interviewing former President Jimmy Carter, she interviewed many of the speakers and panelists from the conference including Ken Burns. In 2017 she began writing for the CW television series Black Lightning based on the DC Comics superhero. 