The Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) is an umbrella group  of UK charities  which coordinates and launches collective appeals to raise funds to provide emergency aid and rapid relief to people caught up in disasters and humanitarian crises around the world.  Since being formed in 1963, the DEC has had strong relationships with major UK broadcasters in particular the BBC and ITV, who provide airtime to broadcast emergency appeals upon its recommendation.   It is a member of the global Emergency Appeals Alliance, which reports that since its first television appeal in 1966, the DEC has raised over £1.4 billion . The DEC is a registered charity(charity no:1062638)   with 13 charity members all with associated disaster relief capabilities such as providing clean water, humanitarian aid and medical care. Since 2011, it has been chaired by Clive Jones.  The first DEC appeal was run for victims of an earthquake in Turkey in 1966.  In 2004, the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) ran UK television appeals and telephone lines for donations following the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsumani, which raised a record  £392m in public donations,  Between January and July 2010, the DEC appealed for donations following the 2010 Haiti earthquake, raising a total of £107 million.  On 22 January 2009, the BBC declined a request from the DEC to screen an appeal to raise money to aid relief efforts for victims of conflict in the Gaza Strip. This decision was the object of considerable controversy within the BBC  as it is the only time the BBC is known to have refused such a request from the DEC; the 2009 Gaza appeal in question was screened by Channel 4 and ITV and raised £8.3m.   Since then, the BBC has broadcast other DEC aid appeals for people in Gaza, without similar controversy. The DEC August 2014 Gaza appeal shown by the BBC helped to raise £16m over two years.  On the launch of its recent (Oct 2017) appeal for Rohingya refugees fleeing Myanmar to Bangladesh, the UK Government pledged to double public donations up to £3 million.  From website  ActionAid , British Red Cross, CAFOD, CARE International, Christian Aid, Concern, Age UK, Islamic Relief, Oxfam, Plan UK, Save the Children, Tearfund, World Vision Recent  and archive  DEC appeals.  