The Emergency Architects Foundation is a French non-governmental organization, reconnue d'utilité publique.   It is organised as a not-for-profit foundation with the French Order of Architects as supporters and is accredited by the United Nations and the European Union. The Emergency Architects Foundation is also present in Australia (Emergency Architects Australia) and in Canada (Emergency Architects Canada). The aim of Emergency Architects is to bring help and technical aid to the victims of natural, technological and human disasters, not only in safety and security evaluations of the populations but also in post-disaster reconstruction programs focused on long-term development and risk mitigation.  The Emergency Architects Foundation was created in April 2001 by Patrick Coulombel (architect) in Amiens in Picardy, France as a result of the flooding of the River Somme in 2001. A group of architects formed the organisation so as to mobilize technical assistance to the disaster victims and protect the rich cultural heritage of the region. Emergency Architects Australia (EAA) was started in 2005 in response to the Indonesian tsunami and since that has worked in Indonesia, Pakistan, the Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Timor Leste, Papua New Guinea, Cook Islands, India and Australia. The president of EAA is Andrea Nield. EAA has over 300 members and is supported by the Union of International Architects, Australian Institute of Architects National, the Victorian and NSW RAIA Chapters, and The Council of the City of Sydney. Among the important collaborators are The European Union, UNHCR, UNICEF, NZAID, Australian Red Cross, World Vision, and Caritas.  Emergency Architects Canada was founded in 2007  The president is Bernard Mac Namara. Emergency Architects has already led 28 actions in 24 countries, made more than 39,600 assessments and about 8,500 buildings. At the moment, the foundation is undertaking 12 programs in the following countries: Afghanistan, Solomon Islands, Indonesia, Lebanon, Pakistan, Peru, Sri Lanka Chad, East Timor and Australia.  The main objectives of the Emergency Architects Foundation are: The architects, engineers and planners have used their professional expertise (knowledge of risk prevention and of building) to provide appropriate and sustainable assistance to the populations affected by natural (tsunami, earthquake), technological (chemical factory explosion) or human (civil) disasters. They always work with local populations and use local materials in their buildings. The foundation employs 533 persons from 23 countries. Overall, more than 1,200 architects and engineers have been involved in Emergency Architects achievements in 21 countries.  The foundation takes part in the following operations:  Emergency Rebuilding Re-house displaced populations. Promote the training of locals, from masons to architects. France Africa Asia Europe America Oceania The Emergency Architects Foundation has received several awards: Two international prizes for the Sigli, Indonesia Project: and: 