 Prime Minister Department Pulau Meranti, Puchong, Selangor  Office : +603-8063 5913  Colonel Mohd Tahar bin Abdul Razak Special Malaysia Disaster Assistance and Rescue Team (Malay: Pasukan Mencari dan Menyelamat Khas Malaysia, Jawi: ڤاسوكن منچاري دان مڽلامت خاص مليسيا) or internationally known as SMART, is a disaster relief and rescue task force established under the National Security Council based on the approval of the Cabinet on May 18, 1994. The SMART task force is a United Nations INSARAG certified Heavy USAR (Urban Search and Rescue team). The team draws its members from Malaysian Armed Forces , Royal Malaysian Police and Fire and Rescue Department of Malaysia. Malaysia has been through three major disasters since 1988 which is Sultan Abdul Halim ferry terminal bridge collapse in the year 1988, Bright Sparklers Fireworks disaster in 1991 and Klang Port Chong Hong 3 Tanker Explosion in 1992.  The pinnacle of disaster in Malaysia happens in the year 1993 when the Highland Towers collapse in Ulu Klang, outskirt of Kuala Lumpur. The tragedy came to world attention in which five countries sent aid workers to help. They are from the USA, Great Britain, Détachement d'intervention catastrophes aéromobile (DICA) from France, Japan Disaster Relief Team (JDRT) from Japan and Disaster Assistance and Rescue Team (DART) from Singapore.  The JDRT lead by Kiyoshi Shidara then donates their sophisticated equipment to Malaysia.   Following the collapse of the Highland Towers tragedy, on December 11, 1993, Malaysia intends to establish a disaster rescue team based on Japanese JDRT.   The Cabinet Committee then convened on 18 May 1994 approved the establishment of the SMART team under the management of the National Security Council. The SMART will draw its members from three government departments which are Fire and Rescue Department of Malaysia (FRDM), Royal Malaysian Police (RMP) and the Malaysian Armed Forces (MAF). On August 1, 1996, SMART finally established with a strength of 85 personnel including officers. SMART is put under the National Security Council. On January 1, 2004, SMART is expanded to 104 personnel. On June 1, 2009, SMART moving to new SMART Headquarter in Pulau Meranti, Puchong. On June 1, 2014, SMART is expanding again to 141 personnel and their salary grade was standardised. On May 2015, SMART planning to apply for INSARAG certification.  On June 5, 2016, SMART gets INSARAG certification. With this certification, SMART is the second Disaster Relief team to be certified in Southeast Asia after the Singaporean Disaster Assistance and Rescue Team.  Under National Security Council Directive No.19 and Directive No.20, there are four main functions of SMART outlined by the Malaysian Government: All SMART members wear navy blue beret. SMART team wear same red helmet worn by FRDM Special Forces. All SMART members wear blue uniform to differentiate them from other rescue team. Four white water drop shapes Symbolises the four roles of SMART which are: Four yellow coloured sharp shapes Represent four types of disastrous threats: Four red coloured round shape Symbolises the four key capabilities of SMART: Center of the target shape Symbolising always in a state ready to be moved within 24 hours notice. Upward pointing arrow shape Symbolises the power or effort toward the success of the rescue or describe the hardships to produce something of a pleasure. Hand with thumb up shape Symbolises the process of handling or lifting something out. Used to reveal: Red, yellow, blue and white colours Colours on the flag of Malaysia SMART only opens its membership to personnel from Fire and Rescue Department of Malaysia, Royal Malaysian Police and Malaysian Armed Forces. All selected candidates into the SMART Stage will be test based on: Candidates will undergo series of circuit consist of sit up, pulls up, standing board jump, 4 x 10m shuttle run and 2.4 km, 7 km and 18 km run. 10m platform diving, 300m swimming freestyle and five minutes float conducted at PULAPOL, Semarak Street, Kuala Lumpur. The test will be assessed by Kuala Lumpur Hospital Forensic Unit. Test session will be done in Smoke Gallery at Fire and Rescue Academy of Malaysia (FRAM), Kuala Kubu Bharu, Selangor. Candidates will be interviewed by the board of interviewer consist of T/SUM, BPB, BKP and Commander of SMART. This arduous course lasts for 11 weeks. In this course, trainees will be trained hard at anytime. Among the module that's been taught during the course is; Medical, Urban search and rescue (USAR), Road Traffic Accident (RTA), High Angle & Rope rescue, HAZMAT and many more. In addition, the trainees are also required to undergo physical training everyday as well as individual and team tests such as obstacle courses and endurance circuit. IPPT are also conducted every Friday throughout the course and the final test; trainers will tested with 30 km casualty evacuation through hilly terrain around Kuala Kubu Bharu. This is a three week military style water rescue course organised by SMART in cooperation with Life Saving Society Malaysia (Malay: Persatuan Penyelamat Kelemasan Malaysia; PPKM). This course is a must for SMART and Life Guard members.  In the final examination, trainees need to pass few test in order to get the Bronze Medallion Certificate: International Life Saver (ILS) is an international certificate for water rescue. Bronze Medallion Rescue Course trainee needs to take three more tests to get ILS certificate. The three tests are: FRLS Course is a two level paramedic management course and usually organised at Malaysian Civil Defense Force Academy (ALPHA). At level 1, trainees will learn basic paramedic techniques and skills. At level 2, trainees will learn how to differ trauma patients from other patients and how to treat them. SMART always train together with other government agency and department. They even conduct training to private sectors and educational institutions. SMART enjoys good relations with Singaporean Disaster Assistance and Rescue Team (DART) and they always train together. Among the missions that have participated, including:  