The NGO Telecoms Sans Frontières' or Telecoms Without Borders was the first humanitarian organization specializing in emergency telecommunications. This NGO provides telecommunications to victims of natural disasters or conflicts, as well as providing aid to other NGOs. After missions in former Yugoslavia during the first Gulf war, its founder realized there was a need for emergency telecommunications so that those who were involved with conflict or natural disasters have means of communications to other areas of the globe and to their loved ones. Founders of TSF Jean-Francois Cazenaye, Monique Lanne-Petit, Robert Chassagnieux, Francois Meyer, Christiane Constant, Daniel Nataf, and Guy Hodet, who invested in the first satellite phone and then created TSF in 1998 after visiting different refugee camps and being given  messages by loved one who were in these camps to communicate with the outside world and with their families.  In 2001, the TSF opened their first telecoms centre available to the public in northern Afghanistan. The team understood that there were already groups that provide aid through donations of food, water, shelter and medicine, but it was communicating from the ground to the other humanitarian organizations that lead to the idea of the TSF. Their goal is to help other organizations save lives. The TSF now deploys telecom centres within 24 hours of a crisis. These centres have high speed internet, telephone and fax lines as well as all of the necessary equipment needed in the field.  TSF was founded in 1998 and is based at Pau in France. It has three operational bases: Pau (France), Guadalajara (Mexico) and Bangkok. TSF is presided by Jean-François Cazenave. In 2011, The Space Foundation presented TSF with its Space Achievement Award.  The TSF deploys equipment within 24 hours of crisis or disaster. All technological equipment is provided to these areas. They use state of the art equipment that is easy to transport when on the ground or during a crisis. They can withstand different weather conditions while still providing the best reception possible. This includes Internet access and telephone signals to remote areas. Since starting the TSF, they have intervened n more than 50 countries on 5 different continents. They have helped more than 500 other NGOs with their life saving aid, as well as helping millions of people in crisis. In 2002, TSF became  a partner with the European Commissions Humanitarian Aid Office. In 2006 they were named “first responder” within the Emergency telecommunications cluster of the Nations United. The TSF were awarded the Best Quality of Life Improvement award at the Pacific Telecommunications Council Innovation Awards in Hawaii. AT&T- Mobilizing learning, student programs that focus on integrating technology, promoting responsible uses of technology and helping to connect different areas around the world through their systems.  European Union Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection- provides cooperation in prevention and preparedness. They are effective in disaster response. "the EU provides needs-based humanitarian assistance to the people hit by man-made and natural disasters with particular attention to the most vulnerable victims."  Thales foundation- Promote the learning and use of European Languages and the strengthening of cultural links  Vodafone foundation- Vodafone’s charitable giving and technology to make a difference i the world. Vodafone foundation supports projects that are focused on delivering public benefit through the application of technology across the areas of health, education and disaster relief  