Connections-based learning (CBL) is a pedagogical approach to education created by top project-based learning teacher Sean Robinson  that harnesses the power of online and offline connections with students, experts, organizations, the community,  and classrooms around the globe  to teach and to learn.  CBL emphasizes contacting and interacting with others inside and outside the class giving students a genuine real-world experience.  This real-life learning approach differs from project-based learning in the scope of possible activities.  In CBL the student tasks do not have to revolve around a project.  Moreover, the student tasks must include some form of interaction or interaction attempt. Instead of asking where the information can be found or how it can be learned, the proponents ask "who can we engage as we learn?"  The ensuing step is to then attempt to connect with that individual, expert or organization and build with them a connection that moves the students forward in their learning. Google Hangouts, Skype chats,  Twitter, and the use of Digital Portfolios open the door for student connection. The approach differs from Connected Learning which is a type of learning based on personal interest. "Connected Learning - an agenda for research and design" states that "Connected learning is realized when a young person pursues a personal interest or passion with the support of friends and caring adults, and is in turn able to link this learning and interest to academic achievement, career possibilities, or civic engagement." - (Ito, M. et al., 2013).  The approach was affirmed in Jennifer Casa-Todd's book "Social LEADia"  where she states, "If you're looking to open up your classroom's walls for your students, Sean Robinson's 'connections-based learning' hashtag #CBLchat, is another great one to check out on Twitter (and Google+)."  The author explains how she was drawn to the approach because it complements her core beliefs about the relationship between digital leadership and connecting students to real projects and people. Connections-based Learning was detailed on p. 31 in the Fall 2015 edition of Living Education eMagazine  where it was explained that “Connections-based Learning makes it a priority to leverage interpersonal connection at each step of the learning process.  Whether it is the teacher-student connection, the connection with members of the class, school, and community, or the connection with experts in the field of study, thought is given to maximizing these relationships.”  Positive teacher student relationships have been noted to transform classes into supportive spaces that lead to more positive outcomes for students, both socially and academically.  The approach was affirmed by Microsoft's "My Trending Hub" where it was shown that "each facet reminds us how making connections can be part of the learning process"  and can be seen in Teacher Tech Trials where it explains that "Connections-Based Learning is a teaching approach that leverages technology and the world we live in today with global connections, collaboration and cultivation."  The approach has been gaining use and can be seen by various Canadian school districts such as the Coquitlam School District  Avon Maitland District School Board   and the digital Human Library.  The approach has been talked about by organizations such as the Computer Using Educators of British Columbia  and Calliope Global Education Initiatives where they state that Connections-based Learning "leads to personal connection among global peers; furthering of such relationships builds teamwork and sense of providence so that students can affect wider audiences as well as change on an international level and in those global communities needing help."  Willms, Friesen, and Milton (2009) carried out a study that supports the outcomes of Connections-based Learning.  They developed a measure of student engagement and, after gaining data from 93 schools in districts across Canada, recommended that students solve real problems, learn from the community, and connect with experts and expertise.  Research for the use of videoconferencing in education was carried out by Daniel G. Krutka & Kenneth T. Carano in "Videoconferencing for Global Citizenship Education: Wise Practices for Social Studies Educators"  where it states "videoconferencing allows students a passport around the world, opens their eyes to their place in it, and their responsibility to care for the earth and each other." In "How people learn: Brain, mind, experience and school", Bransford, J., Brown, A., & Cocking, R. (2000) share five ways technology can be used to make effective learning environments.  These include “bringing real-world problems into the classrooms” with “internet connections to concrete data and working scientists”, “increasing opportunities for students to receive feedback from software, tutors, teachers, and peers”, and “to build local and global communities of teachers, administrators, students, parents, and other interested learners.” (p. 243) It is the kinds of environments where connection is maximized that allow for students to not only engage in their own learning but have a voice into others’ growth.  Connections-based Learning's focus is on leveraging the various relationships within the educational structure.  CBL purports that the teacher-student relationship is foundational to a student's education.   With that in mind CBL includes aspects of Social Emotional Learning. Focus is put on fostering a positive teacher student relationship through digital and non-digital dialogue, classroom meetings, and a supportive environment.  Building relationships outside the classroom is also vital for implementing CBL. These relationships include: connections with the community around the school and global partners, connections with organizations, and connections with content experts.  A relationship that benefits both parties is the goal. Connections-based Learning has 3 major elements  which guide this way of seeing teaching and learning.  These three elements are called lenses: Connection Lens, Collaboration Lens, and Cultivation Lens. 