Study Technology, or Study Tech, is a teaching method developed by L. Ron Hubbard, founder of the Church of Scientology.  Study Technology is used by Scientologists as part of their training, and is also promoted outside the church by an affiliated corporation known as Applied Scholastics, which presents Study Tech as a secular, universally applicable method to enhance the comprehension of any student, studying any topic. However, the method has many critics, including former teachers, claiming that the "technology" and associated schools are intrinsically linked with religious aspects of Scientology,  and that the methods are ineffective.  Hubbard wrote in a Scientology policy letter in 1972 that "Study Tech is our primary bridge to Society."  Most Study Tech books include a two-page biography of Hubbard that does not mention his role in creating Scientology.  Religious scholar J. Gordon Melton said that Hubbard wrote the Study Tech materials to help people who joined Scientology with a low level of literacy, and that the materials are used within the Church of Scientology “not to proselytize for the religion but to teach people how to read.”  According to Study Tech, there are three barriers that prevent students from learning: "absence of mass", too steep a gradient, and the misunderstood word.  According to Hubbard, each barrier produces a physiological response in the student such as yawning, or feeling bored or frustrated.  In accordance with L. Ron Hubbard's beliefs, the method denies the existence of psychiatric conditions, or any biological learning difficulties.  Study Tech materials claim that "absence of mass" is the idea that abstractions must be illustrated physically before they can be fully understood: learning about trains is accelerated if the student can see a train or a representation of one.  Scientology classrooms are equipped with modeling clay and "demo kits", small collections of everyday objects, such as corks, caps, pen tops, and paper clips. Modeling clay or the contents of such a kit are used to create a physical model of what is being studied, thereby giving the student "mass". :7–11 One of the course requirements for people learning to be Scientology trainers is to model in clay the premise of every paragraph in Hubbard's book, Dianetics 55!.  "Too steep a study gradient" occurs when the student tries to learn too quickly, in which case the teacher directs the student back to the point where he last demonstrated understanding. The "misunderstood word" is what Hubbard called the "misunderstood definition or the not comprehended definition, the undefined word."  Scientology classrooms are supplied with different kinds of dictionaries, and students are directed to "find your misunderstood [word]."  Yawning is taken as a physical sign that a student has misunderstood a word or concept.  Study Tech emphasizes the principle of "word clearing," an activity in which readers are asked to look up the meaning of words that they do not understand, and in turn look up unfamiliar words within the word’s definition.  The reader next is instructed to make up sentences of their own which use the word. :18 This is a common method of teaching vocabulary. Word clearing is not to be confused with the Scientology concept of the state of Clear. According to the St. Petersburg Times, as of 1991, there were 150 schools using Study Tech worldwide including in Australia, several European countries, South Africa, and the United States. Supporters say the schools achieve good results and are "drug-free", though this is mostly referring to psychiatric drugs. Several Florida Study Tech schools have been discredited for this hard-line anti-psychiatric approach.  