  David Dilley Bannon (born David Wayne Dilley; April 22, 1963), nicknamed Race, is an American author and translator.  Bannon was convicted of criminal impersonation in 2006. His daughter, Jessica Autumn Bannon, died on January 16, 2015. Bannon was born in Tacoma, Washington and grew up in Spokane Valley, Washington. Married twice, he had one child, Jessica Autumn Bannon (November 29, 1988 – January 16, 2015).  She died of a fentanyl-laced heroin overdose.    After his daughter's death, Bannon and his wife established The Jessica Autumn Bannon Memorial Film Collection on September 26, 2015 with 1,500 film and television titles. In 2017 the collection consisted of 2,000 titles. The bulk of the collection is housed in the Chester County Library in Chester, South Carolina.  Bannon writes and speaks  on art,  history,  culture , computer technology,  business  and translation.      He has appeared on A&E , The Discovery Channel  and The History Channel  and in The Wall Street Journal . Bannon held a two-year appointment as curator of Asian art (1992-1994)  for the Florence Museum of Art and History in South Carolina, now known as the Florence County Museum.  Bannon translated Korean-to-English subtitles for YA Entertainment and the Munhwa Broadcasting Corporation.  His original Korean-language poems  and translations of Korean poetry and spirituality texts have appeared in consumer magazines,  trade publications    and academic journals.   He has published two collections of the writings of Korean Zen master Bopjong.   Bannon is an American fraudster who posed as a former Interpol agent. In his 2006 book Race Against Evil: The Secret Missions of the Interpol Agent Who Tracked the World's Most Sinister Criminals, he claimed to have worked in Asia as a Mormon missionary who transitioned into work as a killer and secret agent: "a 'cleaner,'" said Publishers Weekly,  "interrogating and 'eliminating' child pornographers who his boss at Interpol had determined were beyond the reach of other law enforcement agencies."   Bannon's claims were debunked after his arrest in January 2006 for criminal impersonation and other charges. Interpol's website contains the following statement dated January 31, 2006:  In 2004, the Interpol General Secretariat issued the following statement about Bannon's book: Bannon responded to this statement by asserting that the covert nature of his alleged works (including over 100 assassinations) forced Interpol to make such a disavowal of his claims. According to the Rocky Mountain News, Bannon was arrested in Boulder, Colorado on January 27, 2006 on the charge of criminal impersonation, computer crime, and attempted theft. The charges leveled against him assert that he created a fraudulent history of involvement with Interpol and expertise in human trafficking in order to earn fees for consulting and presenting on these topics. Part of the evidence presented against him was collected by Samuel Browning, a Connecticut lawyer affiliated with Bullshido.net, a website dedicated to rooting out fraudulent practices in the martial arts. The website's involvement in this case began from Bannon's unproven claims of black belt proficiency in Hapkido and Kendo, and developed into further research of Bannon's other claims. On April 24, 2006, David "Race" Bannon pleaded guilty to the charge of criminal impersonation before a Colorado judge.  His guilty plea was made in exchange for prosecutors dropping the additional charges of computer crime and attempted theft. According to the district attorney prosecuting the case, Bannon will likely face fines rather than incarceration.  