Francisco Nicolás Gómez Iglesias (Madrid, April 18, 1994)  nicknamed by Spanish press as "El pequeño Nicolás" (Little Nicholas) is a Spanish student of Law  famous for being arrested in October 2014 on charges of forgery, fraud and identity theft. Apparently, the young man infiltrated in the highest levels of Spanish political and economic power, going as far as to impersonate a member of the CNI (the Spanish intelligence agency)  or being a guest in the crowning of Felipe VI.   Furthermore, he has become an icon of memes. Francisco Nicolás has lived with his grandmother since he was 14.  Francisco Nicolás allegedly led a double life. While studying law at university he claimed to be an important person with political and business contacts, a claim that he used to take advantage of certain entities and individuals.   Allegedly, he defrauded dozens of people, to whom he promised sizable business opportunities, thanks to his alleged contacts at the highest positions of the Spanish Administration, Spanish government and even the CNI.  He leased luxury cars to reinforce his fabricated stories and one of them was found with a blue light similar to that employed by undercover units of the security forces in emergencies and thus skipping red lights and avoiding jams.  He even hired personal bodyguards to give credibility to his identities. Currently under investigation is the possible economic and social protection of "El pequeño Nicolás" by a major figure in the Spanish elite, since different sources conclude that it would have been the only way to move up and infiltrate the power elites of this country that easily. On Tuesday October 14, 2014 he was arrested by the National Police on charges of forgery, fraud and identity theft.   On October 17, the judge in the case agreed to release him on bail without bond.  In November 2014, Francisco Nicolás gave interviews to Telecinco and El Mundo in which he claimed to have worked for the Spanish secret service  Centro Nacional de Inteligencia (CNI), the Spanish Royal family and the vice presidency of the Spanish government.   He also claimed to have been President of the youth organisation of the local group of the Spanish leading party  Partido Popular (People's Party) in Moncloa-Aravaca.  On 13 February 2015 he was arrested after not paying his share of a restaurant bill.  On 7 January 2016 he became a contestant and participated in the Spanish version of reality show Celebrity Big Brother: Gran Hermano VIP.   