  James Gerard Richard Shortt (born 16 September 1953) is the Director General of the International Bodyguard Association (IBA)  and author of several books on military special forces and martial arts. On several occasions Shortt has been exposed by British tabloid newspapers for passing himself off as a much-decorated SAS and Parachute Regiment veteran, as well as exposing his claims to other military and nobiliary credentials.   Shortt has been the Director-General of the International Bodyguard Association since February 1990.  Shortt has also authored several books dealing with military special forces units-particularly the British SAS, as well as been interviewed by other authors on military subjects. Shortt has made various claims regarding his military service when interviewed or providing consultations.  In The Gun Digest Book of Assault Weapons Shortt under the alias "Seamus Shortt" is described as a "British Royal Marine (TA)" and that "Shortt has other military training as well, but details of it are still classified".   In The SAS Fighting Techniques Handbook, author Terry White thanked Shortt for his insights in close personal protection and counter-terrorism. White states in his acknowledgements that he believed Shortt to be a "former member of the British Parachute Regiment and Special Air Service".  On 29 January 2009, the British tabloid The Sun ran an article which revealed that Shortt had never belonged to either the Special Air Service (SAS) or the Parachute Regiment.  He had only been a medic in the Territorial Army and had left within months of joining.  This matter came to light after Brian Ware, who headed the security department at the Cabinet Office, was suspended for allowing Shortt on to the property without ensuring he had proper authorization or vetting his credentials. Shortt had been invited by Ware as a security advisor.  The following day The Sun quoted several other dubious claims listed on Shortt's CV, including his claim of being an Irish baron, being made a Knight Commander of St Gregory by Pope John Paul II, as well as having a Gant d’Or ("golden gloves") in French Savate and a 9th Dan black belt in traditional Japanese Ju Jutsu from the "Dai Nihon Seibukan in Kyoto, Japan".   