Sarah Wilson (1754? - 1865?) was an English impostor who took a role of nonexistent sister of Queen Charlotte. How much of the tale is true is unclear. Sarah Wilson was born in Staffordshire and at the age of 16 moved to London. According to the usual tale, within a week she became a maidservant to Caroline Vernon, lady-in-waiting for Queen Charlotte, and was acquainted with the relations and rumours of the court. Around 1771 Wilson was working in the "Queen's House" (in the place where Buckingham Palace is now). She began to steal the jewellery and clothing of the queen. She was apprehended and first condemned to death but eventually the sentence was commuted to penal transportation to the American colonies. In July 1771, Wilson arrived to Baltimore, Maryland and was sold to W. Devall as an indentured servant. A few days later she escaped. According to the tale, Wilson still had some of the queen's belongings with her. With the queen's dress, she took the role of "Princess Susanna Caroline Matilda of Mecklenburg-Strelitz", fictitious sister of Queen Charlotte. She claimed that she had had a disagreement with her family and due to the scandal had moved to America. She fooled a number of Virginian landowners with her courtly habits and knowledge of royal affairs. When some local colonials accepted her as genuine, others began to question why no one had ever heard of the queen's sister. The Queen was originally from Germany and this princess spoke only English. Eventually Devall heard about a woman who looked very much like the girl who had escaped. In 1771 he spread a notice that 'Princess Susanna' was his slave and sent her hireling Michael Dalton to get her back. Dalton found her near Charlestown, Virginia and dragged her back to Bush Creek. For two years Wilson worked for Devall, until he joined the rebels at the beginning of the American War of Independence. Wilson fled and later married dragoon officer William Talbot. After the war they stayed in the newly formed United States of America. There is no record of when Sarah Wilson died. Author Egon Larsen suggested that she died in Bristol in 1865.  