 YU 100: najbolji albumi jugoslovenske rok i pop muzike (trans. YU 100: the Greatest Yugoslav Rock and Pop Music Albums) is a book by Duško Antonić and Danilo Štrbac, published in 1998.  It features a list of top 100 former Yugoslav popular music albums, formed according to the poll of 70 Serbian music critics, journalists, artists and others.   The voters were music critics, journalists, artists closely associated to the former Yugoslav popular music scene, and others. There are only several musicians among them. Each of them suggested ten former Yugoslav popular music albums he considers the greatest, and the second part of the book features short biographies of every one of them, and each one's choice of ten albums. The list was completed according to their suggestions.  The voters were:     The book cover was inspired by the cover of The Beatles album Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band. It features rock and pop musicians Josipa Lisac, Bebi Dol, Nele Karajlić, Oliver Mandić, Marina Perazić, Branimir Štulić, Slađana Milošević and Dado Topić, Đorđe Marjanović, Dušan Kojić, Arsen Dedić, Đorđe Balašević, Viktorija, Kornelije Kovač, Zoran Miščević, Goran Bregović, Žika and Dragi Jelić, Oliver Dragojević and Mišo Kovač, Zdravko Čolić (in the Yugoslav People's Army uniform, from a photograph taken during his army service), Bora Đorđević (in a uniform similar to the ones The Beatles members are wearing on the cover of Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band), and Momčilo Bajagić. The album cover also features the White Angel, Saint Sava, football player Dragan Džajić, bodybuilder Petar Čelik and his wife Irena (from the cover of Laboratorija Zvuka album Telo), actor Zoran Radmilović (in the role of King Ubu), scientist Nikola Tesla, film director Emir Kusturica, basketball player Vlade Divac, folk musician Toma Zdravković, Romani musician Šaban Bajramović, actors Dragan Nikolić and Milena Dravić (from the time of their hit TV show Obraz uz obraz), and a bust of the former Yugoslav president Josip Broz Tito. In his 2010 book Smijurijada, former Azra frontman Branimir Štulić commented on the book: In a 2011 interview for Večernje novosti, Električni Orgazam frontman Srđan Gojković "Gile", commented on the fact that Električni Orgazam albums Distorzija and Kako bubanj kaže came in at No.24 and No.73, respectively: In 2013, for the book's 15th anniversary, Balkanrock.com webzine interviewed some of the musicians whose work made the list. Zdenko Kolar (who played on Idoli albums Odbrana i poslednji dani and VIS Idoli, ranked No.1 and No.71 respectively, as well as on the split album Paket aranžman, ranked No.2) stated: In the same online piece, Vedad Hadžiabdić, Teška Industrija guitarist (whose album Teška Industrija was ranked No.95), stated: Further on in the same piece, Nikola Čuturilo (whose solo album 9 lakih komada was ranked No.99 and who played on Riblja Čorba albums Istina and Osmi nervni slom, ranked No.43 and No.83 respectively) stated: 