Greenway Health, LLC is a privately owned vendor of health information technology (HIT) including integrated electronic health record (EHR), practice management and revenue cycle management solutions. The company has offices in Tampa, Florida, Alachua, Florida and Carrollton, Georgia.  Greenway Health was formed in 2013 following Vista Equity Partners' acquisition and combination of three HIT vendors: Vitera Healthcare Solutions, SuccessEHS, and Greenway Medical Technologies. Greenway Health was formed from the combination of three healthcare solutions providers: Vitera Healthcare Solutions, SuccessEHS, and Greenway Medical Technologies by Vista Equity Partners in 2013. The services offered by each company date back many decades.  The Medical Manager Corporation launched the first medical practice management software, Medical Manager, developed by Michael "Mickey" Singer in 1977.  Headquartered in Gainesville, Florida, Medical Manager had one of the largest installed bases of practice management software in the United States at the time of its sale to Vista.  In April 2000, the Medical Manager software was adopted into the Smithsonian National Museum of American History in Washington, D.C. under the permanent research collection on information technology. Later the same year, Medical Manager Corporation was acquired by Healtheon, now known as Emdeon.  Sage Software Healthcare, Inc., founded in 2000 after the purchase and rebranding of the Medical Manager software from Emdeon, provided electronic health records (EHR) and medical practice management software (PM) for healthcare providers. Products included Intergy, a suite of clinical, financial, reporting, and communication tools for healthcare providers. The company operated under the name Sage Software Healthcare, Inc. until November, 2011 when it was acquired by Vista Equity Partners for $320 million and renamed Vitera Healthcare Solutions. Sage Group originally purchased the software from Emdeon for $565 million in 2006.   In June 2013, Vitera acquired the Birmingham-based EHR company, SuccessEHS, Inc. Products absorbed into the Vitera solutions portfolio included an EHR system, an electronic dental record (EDR) system, and a revenue cycle management and PM service.  SuccessEHS, Inc. was founded in 1995 in Birmingham, Alabama as a vendor of EHR and PM solutions with integrated medical billing services.  Greenway Medical Technologies, founded in 1999, was an EHR vendor offering a flagship suite of HIT products known as PrimeSUITE. Greenway Medical Technologies held an initial public offering on February 2, 2012, but was taken private again in November 2013 when Vista Equity Partners fully acquired Greenway Medical and combined it with Vitera  and SuccessEHS, rebranding them as Greenway Health.  In February 2014, Greenway Health acquired PeopleLYNK, which automates certain interactions with patients.  In April 2017, some Greenway cloud-based services customers using Intergy were unable to access patient records for about 3 weeks due to a ransomware attack.   Then-CEO Scott Zimmerman announced on May 12, 2017 that all functionality had been restored.  In October 2017, Greenway Health announced the closure of their Birmingham, Lake Mary, and Atlanta offices. Numerous layoffs were made at the company's Carrollton, GA office. A total of 120 employees at the Atlanta and Carrollton locations were affected by the closures, which were completed by the end January 2018.  The closures were in an effort to unify operations in the Tampa office, thus making Tampa the new headquarters location.   Many of the impacted employees were given the opportunity to relocate to one of the three remaining offices.   