A health record trust (also independent health record trust or health record data bank) provides a secure and protected place for individuals to create, use, and maintain their lifetime electronic health record (EHR). The health record trust takes personal health records one step further by combining an individual's electronic health record with the personal health record.  A health record trust protects patient privacy by establishing that the patient is the owner of his or her health care records. It gives patients authority to access and review the entire record at any time as well as the authority to allow health care professionals, facilities, and organizations to view all of the records or a limited portion of the records.  Currently[when?] a record is left at each facility a patient seeks care. The health record trust allows for all of the information to be in one central document.  Patients cannot alter their health records but instead add notes and request corrections. They can also view every provider who downloads their EHR. Legislation was introduced in the 110th Congress to establish a regulatory framework for the establishment of health record trusts. The Independent Health Record Trust Act of 2007 (H.R. 2991) was introduced by Rep. Dennis Moore (D-KS) and Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI) on July 11, 2007. The legislation seeks to give people control over their lifetime health records, with the broader goal of reducing health care costs that result from inefficiency, medical errors, inappropriate care, and incomplete information. This legislation provides standards for the use of health record trusts, including certifications and interoperability of independent health record trusts. HR 2991 was referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the House Committee on Ways and Means. The bill died in committee and has not been reintroduced.  With the availability of a longitudinal health record protected by a health record trust, patients receive better quality of care and are able to pass along their medical records to future generations. Health record trusts promote wellness and improve patient care through quick and easy access to critical health information.  Arizona's eHealthTrust health record bank launched in 2010 with a freemium pricing strategy.  In 2012, Harvard University's Data Privacy Lab launched MyDataCan,  offering free data storage and distribution with optional integration for third-party app, both free and paid.   