Zynx Health Incorporated is an American corporation specializing in providing evidence-based clinical decision support system solutions made available at the point of patient care through electronic health record (EHR) systems. Based in Los Angeles, the company serves over 1,900 hospitals and outpatient practices globally, though most are located in the US. As of 2012, Zynx Health products and services impact over 50% of hospital discharges in the US.  Because of the company’s impact on care delivery proportional to its size, Healthcare Informatics named it one of the “Most Interesting Vendors” in 2011 and included it on its HCI 100 list.  Modern Healthcare named Zynx Health one of the “Best Places to Work in Healthcare” in 2011.  In 2012 the company’s Chief Technology Officer, Mark Long, was awarded CIO of the Year by the Los Angeles Business Journal.  The company is generally perceived to be the first mover in evidence-based clinical decision support solutions.  Zynx Health was formed in 1996 by thought leaders in evidence-based healthcare and healthcare quality improvement. As of 2004 it is a subsidiary of Hearst Corporation. In 1996 a group of clinicians at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center founded Zynx Health as a wholly owned subsidiary of the hospital. An earlier pilot project had demonstrated the value of evidence-based guidelines in hospitals, suggesting a clear opportunity to improve patient care. The company’s first significant advancements were in 2002 and 2003, when healthcare providers realized the merit in outsourcing clinical decision support.  On May 1, 2002, Zynx Health was acquired by Cerner. Less than two years later the company was acquired by Hearst Corporation. In 2004, Zynx Health moved its offices from its original Beverly Hills, CA, location to its current location in Los Angeles, CA. On March 30, 2017, Zynx Health partnered with Healthwise, a health education, technology, and services company.  Most Zynx Health products are delivered through software as a service and are customized by the end user using patented online interfaces. Currently Zynx Health produces five products related to clinical decision support. ZynxOrder is a system used by hospitals for developing and maintaining order sets based on clinical evidence, making use of rules, reminders and other tools to assist with physician decision making.  ZynxCare is a care plan development system designed for hospital nursing staff and interdisciplinary teams, helping clinicians create evidence-based plans of care.  ZynxAmbulatory is an evidence-based order set development system designed for outpatient physicians, also making use of clinical rules and reminders.  ZynxEvidence is an online database of clinical evidence drawn from medical and interdisciplinary literature, peer-reviewed research, and national guidelines and performance measures, and is the content foundation on which other Zynx Health products are based. Access to the database is provided to client hospitals and outpatient centers as a reference resource.  To develop and maintain these products and services, Zynx Health physicians, nurses and other clinicians conduct unbiased research and analysis of peer-reviewed studies and best practice guidelines, distilling clinical evidence into recommendations via web-based tools that integrate into a hospital’s EHR or computerized physician order entry (CPOE) system. 