  eBaum's World is a humor/entertainment website that is part of the Literally Media family (Cheezburger, Failblog, Memebase, I Can Has Cheezburger, Know Your Meme). The content of the site is mostly collections of funny images, memes, viral videos, and articles on Internet culture and gaming. The majority of the content on the site is submitted by their large user base, and the users are paid through a monetary point system "eBones." eBaum's World is a website that originated in Rochester, New York featuring entertainment media such as videos, Adobe Flash cartoons, and web games. The site was created and owned by Eric "eBaum" Bauman and his secretary and father, Neil. They sold the site to ZVUE Corporation in August 2008 for $15 million cash and $2.5 million in stock, with further payouts upon performance.  On January 31, 2009, Bauman reported that ZVUE fired him and the rest of the staff. The Headquarters were moved to San Francisco where they worked out of the ZVUE offices. eBaum's World is owned and operated by Literally Media, which also owns Cheezburger (Failblog, Memebase, I Can Has Cheezburger?) and Know Your Meme. The site features individual celebrity soundboards, where users can click buttons to hear quotes or phrases spoken by that celebrity. By pressing certain buttons in an organized order, users can simulate the celebrities saying unusual things. There is a chatroom, and a store which sells eBaum merchandise. There is also a section called "Moron Mail" which features feedback sent in by users. eBaum's World has a very large collection of prank and comedic photos which are divided into signs, Photoshop images, and misleading croppings of normal pictures, etc. This site also has a large collection of Flash movies and games from across the internet. Some of the more famous ones are Peanut Butter Jelly Time (despite the creator's explicit statements that he does not want it hosted on eBaum's World ) and Badger Badger Badger. eBaum's World has garnered controversy in different Internet communities over the years due to numerous incidents of content being taken from other sites (such as YTMND, Something Awful, Albino Blacksheep, 4chan, Olde English, Weebl's Stuff, and Newgrounds) without attribution. Companies such as Viacom  have claimed that the Baumans have infringed on their copyrights as well. Eric Bauman denies critics' claims that the site's content is stolen, citing research done by site editors and the consent form that must accompany uploads of material. He claims to honor all requests to remove unauthorized material.  Hello, I am the author of Animator vs. Animation... I feel so ashamed, and the world is ashamed of me. I fell into eBaum's trap. I gave them fuel to fight back. With their constant persuasion and offers for money, they made me write a quote saying that everything was fine. Of course everything was fine for me, because I had the money they had given me. What can you expect, I was dead poor before, I have no experience with business. The quote says they contacted me before they posted my animation on their website, however I did not give them permission to put it on.  On June 26, 2006, eBaum's World removed the animation and the apology from Becker from their web site. Mr. Mokris, We were recently contacted by a fan of yours in regards to the July 9th post on your website declaring that you did not give us permission to feature your flash animation. First off, I apologize for the mixup, your flash was submitted to us via our upload form and our clearance dept's initial review led us to believe it was submitted by the original author. I have removed the animation from the system, although it may take a few hours for the changes to be reflected for all users. Once again, my apologies for the mixup, and keep up the good work, we are big fans of your animations! It went on to issue him a draft notice to join Eric's program for Flash animators to put eBaum's World logos in all their animations.  eBaum's World has had a weekly segment on ABC-Disney's Right This Minute called "Real or Fake" since July 2012. Each week longtime eBaum's World editor MacDreidel brings three video clips that are viewed, discussed and ultimately voted on by the show's hosts to determine if the video is a real viral video, or a staged fake.  On January 24, 2006, USA Network made a deal with the Fox Television Studios to create a television program based on eBaum's World. Producers described it as a late-night companion special to air with WWE Raw featuring clips from the website, as well as new and exclusive content including interviews with former and current eBaum's World subjects. The Show was to feature former TechTV Host Martin Sargent of Unscrewed and professional wrestler Chris Jericho. The show was being executive produced by Simon Andreae through his production company, The Incubator, in association with Fox Television Studios. The cease and desist letters from this company were removed when this show was announced.  On February 27, 2006, a researcher named Bradley Scott from eBaum's World TV show contacted the webmaster of Albino Blacksheep, asking the webmaster to sign over the site's content while refusing to admit what show it was for . The producer of eBaum's World television show finally admitted who he was but did not directly acknowledge the content that appears on eBaum's World, including Albino Blacksheep's. The webmaster recorded samples of these calls for their message boards . G4's TV show Web Soup partnered up with eBaum's World for its popular segment "This Week in FAIL" for its 3rd season run.  