El Ministerio del Tiempo, or The Ministry of Time, is a Spanish fantasy television series created by Javier and Pablo Olivares and produced by Onza Partners and Cliffhanger for Televisión Española. It premiered on 24 February 2015 on TVE's main channel La 1.  The series follows the exploits of a patrol of the fictional Ministry of Time, which deals with incidents caused by time travel. On 24 March 2015, it was confirmed that TVE had renewed the series for a second season.  The show was renewed for a third season on 22 September 2016.  On 29 December 2016 it was announced that RTVE had sold the rights to Netflix to broadcast the third series internationally, outside of Spain, resulting in a bigger production budget.  The show was not renewed for a fourth season, as announced by Javier Olivares at the Fun & Serious festival in December 2017.  The Ministry of Time is the best kept secret of the Spanish state: an autonomous government institution that reports directly to the Prime Minister. Its patrols have to watch the doors of time so that no intruder from other eras can change history for their own benefit. The series follows the assignments of the Ministry's newest patrol: the one formed by Army of Flanders soldier Alonso de Entrerríos, 19th century student Amelia Folch and 21st century Samur paramedic Julián Martínez. The series won the 2015 Ondas Award for Best Spanish Series.  In 2017 it won at Premios Feroz the awards for best drama series, best lead actress (Aura Garrido) and best supporting actor for a television series (Hugo Silva, tied with Velvet's José Sacristán).  Portugal was the first country to have the series adapted locally, with a version entitled Ministério do Tempo produced by Iniziomedia. As of December 2016 the format has also been sold to China, with negotiations mentioned for Germany, France, Italy and US.  On 27 September 2016 Onza Partners presented a lawsuit to the CDCA against Sony Pictures, NBCUniversal, and executive producers Shawn Ryan, Eric Kripke and John Davis for copyright infringement and breach of implied contract, claiming that the U.S. TV series Timeless is a copy of El Ministerio del Tiempo.    