No Cure for Cancer is one of Denis Leary's standup routines from the early 1990s.  It was made into a television special, a book, and a compact disc, all with the same title.   Leary's routine focuses on vegetarians, cigarette smoking, drug use, and political correctness.  The album was recorded live at Irving Plaza, New York City on October 10, 1992 and at Sorcerer Studios, New York City. The television version of No Cure for Cancer was first broadcast by Channel 4 in the United Kingdom on February 3, 1993, followed by Showtime in the United States on February 20, then in Australia on the Nine Network on April 6, 1994.  In 2005, the DVD Complete Denis Leary was released. A collection of his most famous stand-up performances including: No Cure for Cancer and Lock 'n Load. Special features include: the music videos for "Asshole" and "Love Barge", and the Making of No Cure for Cancer, a documentary with Leary and others. Although Leary had been friends with fellow comedian Bill Hicks for many years, when Hicks heard No Cure For Cancer he felt that Leary had stolen his act. The friendship ended abruptly as a result.  Several comedians have publicly stated they believe Leary stole Hicks' persona and attitude, in addition to his material.     Jokes on the album about Keith Richards, Judas Priest, smoking and "good men dying young" are frequently cited as bearing similarities to Hicks' routines. In the August 2006 Playboy, an interviewer told Leary "Much has been written about you and comedian Bill Hicks...People have accused you of appropriating his persona and material." Leary replied: According to Cynthia True's biography American Scream: The Bill Hicks Story, after listening to No Cure For Cancer, Hicks was furious. "All these years, aside from the occasional jibe, he had pretty much shrugged off Leary's lifting. Comedians borrowed, stole stuff and even bought bits from one another. Milton Berle and Robin Williams were famous for it. This was different. Leary had, practically line for line, taken huge chunks of Bill's act and recorded it."  