 Maëlys de Araujo (5 November 2008 – 27 August 2017) was a French child who was last seen alive in the early morning of 27 August 2017 at a wedding in the Chambéry region of South-Eastern France.  Her remains were found on 14 February 2018, when Nordahl Lelandais, who admitted to killing her, led investigators to the area where he had disposed of the body.    Maëlys was last seen at the wedding at approximately 3:00 am, when the DJ announced she was missing. Guests immediately started looking for her and after an hour of searching, a police report was filed. The search took months, holding France's attention. In the months that followed, police interviewed 250 wedding guests. Along with local volunteers, they also searched the dense woodland around the Pont-de-Beauvoisin area.  Nordahl Lelandais, an ex-soldier (born 18 February 1983) was a guest at the wedding. He was taken into custody in September 2017 after traces of Maëlys' DNA were found in his Audi A3 car. Le Parisien reported that two police dogs fell seriously ill after examining the car. He had reportedly used a strong detergent to clean it a few hours after Maëlys disappeared. A car wash CCTV camera recorded him cleaning the car for more than two hours.   Investigators also reported CCTV evidence that showed Lelandais leaving the wedding venue with a "small, frail form in a white dress" in the passenger seat shortly before Maëlys was reported missing. Maëlys was wearing a white party dress when she disappeared from the wedding.  Lelandais' mobile phone was put in airplane mode around this time, and then reconnected 39 minutes later, when he returned to the wedding alone.  On 14 February 2018, after traces of Maëlys' blood were found in his car, he admitted to killing the nine year-old. At a press conference, Jean-Yves Coquillat, the Grenoble prosecutor, said, "Tonight, Maelys' parents are no longer in the dark. They know that their daughter is dead, that she was killed. We informed them a few minutes ago that we had found the child’s remains." Lelandais told prosecutors he had killed Maëlys "involuntarily" but refused to elaborate further. He had disposed of the body "in a forest in a mountainous area," he said. He first hid the body near his home and returned to the wedding. Later, said the prosecutor, he "put the body in his car boot, then disposed of it in a small, extremely remote ravine." Prosecutors said they had recovered "nearly all of her remains, along with clothes and a shoe" after being led to the site by Lelandais. According to information from RTL, the autopsy revealed that the girl had a fractured jaw, possibly from a violent blow to the face. This finding alone, however, remains insufficient to prove that Lelandais struck her. This theory may in fact be challenged by the legal defense of Nordahl Lelandais, who says the girl's death was "an accident". The fracture in her jaw could be the result of the impact to the child's body when Lelandais disposed of it in the ravine. Lelandais has been held in custody since 16 February 2018, in a psychiatric unit in a prison in Bron, just outside the eastern city of Lyon. In a Facebook post just after Lelandais' confession, the child's grief-stricken mother, Jennifer Cleyet-Marrel, called him a "murderer" and a "monster" and said he would be haunted by his deeds. She said, "I had to wait five and a half months before this monster finally broke his silence. Maëlys will haunt you night and day in prison until you die and go to hell. Maëlys had her life in front of her. You ended it. We never saw her again because of you. I couldn't hold her in my arms and tell her how much I love her." "My little angel, I couldn't protect you from this predator, and this guilt will follow me for a long time. Maëlys, I am so proud of you my sweetheart, you are so beautiful, so smiling, you are my marvel, my sunshine, you will always be in my heart." "This monster won't hurt anyone now. May justice be done and no child subjected to such an act. We miss you so much. We will carry on your fight until the end, my princess". Prosecutors investigating the death of Maëlys believe that he may be a serial killer, and subsequently charged the former army dog handler with a second murder.   Lelandais was charged on 21 December 2017 with the killing of Arthur Noyer, a 23-year-old soldier who vanished after hitchhiking from a disco in Chambéry on 12 April 2017.  Investigators found that Lelandais' cell phone had been in the same area at the same time as Arthur Noyer's. Lelandais' Audi A3 car was identified in the area on surveillance cameras. An analysis of his computer found he had searched for "decomposition of a human body" on the internet two weeks after Noyer disappeared.  Lelandais admitted having given a lift to Arthur Noyer but first denied any involvement in his death,  before eventually admitting the killing on 29 March 2018. Other potential cases that may be linked to Lelandais involve Jean-Christophe Morin and Ahmed Hamadou, both of whom vanished from a festival in Fort de Tamié in 2011 and 2012 respectively. 