  Revelle Sabine Balmain (11 July 1972-c. 5 November 1994) was an Australian model, dancer and escort who mysteriously disappeared from the Sydney suburb of Kingsford in early November 1994. Her body has never been found. Balmain was planning on visiting Japan for her fourth cabaret tour. She had been working as an escort to establish herself, and she was planning on finishing escort work so that she could fully concentrate on her showbusiness career.  At 4 o'clock on the afternoon of 5 November, Balmain, who worked as an escort under the name of "Mischa", visited a client in the south-eastern Sydney suburb of Kingsford. After the two-hour appointment was over she had planned to meet friend Kate Brentnell for a drink. After that she would be seeing her new boyfriend, a 27-year old writer involved in the film industry.  At 7.15 pm Revelle rang Kate Brentnell to say that she was about to leave her client and suggested that they meet at the Royal Hotel, Paddington. She did not keep that appointment.  On the following day, 5 November, Balmain's bag, make-up, diary, credit cards and keys to her Bellevue Hill flat were found scattered around several Kingsford streets. One of her shell-studded platform shoes was retrieved from one street; the other shoe was found in another street.  Police interviewed Balmain's client, who said that he had driven her to the nearby Red Tomato Inn at about 7.00 pm on the evening of 5 November. Police officers also questioned the escort agency's owners, but the enquiries resulted in no charges being laid.  After a couple of fruitless weeks of searching, the New South Wales government offered a reward of $100,000 for anyone who could provide information that would lead to the arrest of Balmain's killer.  The reward for information is now up to $250,000.  In May 1999 the Deputy State Coroner, John Abernethy, handed down an open finding into Balmain's presumed death. He said he "could not ascertain" how she died, as her body had never been found. In 2008, forensic evidence suggested that Balmain was murdered in the house of the client who she had visited, which belonged to Gavin Owen Samer. The 1999 coronial inquiry suggested Samer as a suspect, but fell short of recommending charges.  Members of Balmain's family also believe that there were major flaws in the police investigation of the disappearance.  