Pamela Mastropietro was an 18-year-old Roman girl who was last seen on 29 January 2018 and was murdered soon after in Macerata, Italy. The suspects are three Nigerian immigrants, as of 7 July 2018 these allegations are still being investigated and the accused criminals are in custody.  Parts of Mastropieto's body were missing, which sparked allegations of the murder having been a muti killing involving cannibalism. Mastropietro was born and lived in Rome.  She was 18 years old and had moved away from the recovery community for drug addiction where she was a guest in Marche, the Pars of Corridonia, on 29 January. Her mother stated that Mastropietro began abusing drugs after dating a Romanian man, and was attending a drug treatment facility at the time of her death.  When she left the community she did not take her mobile phone and identification documents. She is believed to have sought drugs in Diaz Gardens, a known gathering place for dealers, addicts and criminals. Mastropietro's body was found severely mutilated, hidden in two suitcases; though believed to be a murder victim her exact cause of death was unclear as of February 2018.   Soon after, Italian police said they found her bloodied clothing at the home of Innocent Oseghale, a Nigerian who came to Italy in 2014 but dropped out of a refugee assistance program and began selling drugs.  Along with Oseghale, police arrested Desmond Lucky and Lucky Awelima. A fourth suspect, a Ghanese drug dealer, was sought as a fugitive.       The murder caused public outrage, anger and anti-immigrant sentiment in Macerata. Innocent Oseghale, described as "a 29-year-old Nigerian with an expired residency permit and a criminal record of drug dealing," is suspected and was arrested soon after the body was found.  On 7 June 2018 the magistrate of Macerata, Giovanni Maria Manzoni, has revoked custody in prison, but only for allegations of murder, vilification, destruction and concealment of corpse, against Lucky Awelima and Desmond Lucky initially arrested for competition with Innocent Oseghale for the murder of Pamela Mastropietro and the dismemberment of the corpse in Macerata.  Lucky Awelima and Desmond Lucky remain in jail for heroin dealing. Matteo Salvini, the newly-elected deputy prime minister and interior minister, has often mentioned the Mastropietro murder as part of his hard-on-crime policies and skepticism towards immigration.  Alessandro Meluzzi, a psychiatrist and criminologist, has alleged that the murder was associated with Nigerian organized crime gangs.  On 3 February 2018, 28 year old Italian shot and injured six African immigrants in a drive-by shooting incident that was described as an act of revenge motivated by the murder of Mastropeitro. The suspect, Luca Traini, was arrested wearing the Flag of Italy draped over his shoulders near a WW2 memorial in Macerata.   Triani was described as a far-right political sympathizer  who locals report was acquainted with Mastropietro and smitten with her but there is no indication they were ever romantically involved.  