Nicole Brown Simpson (May 19, 1959 – June 12, 1994) was the German-American wife of retired professional football player and actor O. J. Simpson and the mother of their two children, Sydney and Justin. She was found murdered at her home in Brentwood, Los Angeles, California, USA on June 13, 1994, along with her friend, 25-year-old American restaurant waiter Ron Goldman. Simpson was charged with both murders; after a controversial and highly-publicized criminal trial, Simpson was acquitted in 1995, but found liable for both deaths in a civil suit in 1997 and ordered to pay $33.5 million in punitive damages to the Brown and Goldman families. Brown was born on May 19, 1959, in Frankfurt, West Germany, to Juditha Anne Brown (née Baur; 1931) and Louis Hezekiel Brown (1923–2014).    Her mother was German, and her father was American.  She attended Rancho Alamitos High School in Garden Grove, California, and later Dana Hills High School in Dana Point, California.  Brown met Simpson in 1977 , when she was eighteen years old and working as a waitress at a Beverly Hills private club called The Daisy.   Although Simpson was still married to his first wife, Marguerite, the two began dating. Simpson and Marguerite divorced in March 1979.  Simpson and Brown were married on February 2, 1985, five years after his retirement from professional football.  The marriage lasted seven years, during which they had two children, Sydney and Justin. Simpson pleaded no contest to spousal abuse in 1989.  Brown filed for divorce on February 25, 1992, citing "irreconcilable differences" as the reason.  Still, the abuse continued; Brown called 9-1-1 on 25 October 1993, crying and saying that "[Simpson] is going to beat the shit out of me".  Brown is alleged to have had an affair with Simpson's friend, fellow football player and football analyst Marcus Allen, during her separation from Simpson.   Allen denies the allegation, though it is backed by multiple members of his and Brown's inner circle, such as Simpson,  Faye Resnick,  confidants to Sheila Weller,  and Simpson's defense attorneys, who claimed Allen confessed the affair to Simpson. Simpson nonetheless let his friend get married at Simpson's North Rockingham Avenue estate.    Brown lived at 875 South Bundy Drive, in Brentwood, Los Angeles, California, with her two children.    Early on the morning of June 13, 1994, Brown, aged 35, was found dead outside her home along with restaurant waiter Ron Goldman, lying in the fetal position in a pool of blood.  An autopsy determined that Brown had been stabbed seven times in the neck and scalp, and had a 5.5 inches (140 mm)-long gash across her throat, which had severed both her left and right carotid arteries and breached her right and left jugular veins.  The wound on Brown's neck was so severe it had penetrated a depth of .75 inches (19 mm) into her cervical vertebrae,  nearly decapitating her.  She also had defensive wounds on her hands. . Brown's funeral, which was covered by reporters, was held on June 16 at the St. Martin of Tours Catholic Church in Brentwood, with mourners including Simpson and their children, members of Brown's family, family friend Al Cowlings, house guest Kato Kaelin, Steve Garvey, Bruce Jenner and the Kardashians. Brown is buried in Ascension Cemetery in Lake Forest, California.    Simpson, Brown's ex-husband, was arrested and prosecuted for her murder, but he was found not guilty in a controversial criminal trial that received international publicity.  He was later found liable for the deaths in a civil suit brought by the two victims' families.   A foundation, Nicole Simpson Foundation, was established in 1994 in her memory.  Later renamed the Nicole Brown Charitable Foundation, it reportedly cut back on grantmaking in 1999 due to a drop in donations and questionable management practices.   Her sister, Denise Brown, has been at the center of controversy surrounding the foundation,  but maintains its "purpose is to bring awareness, education, and inspiration to our communities".  In 1995, Brown's close friend Kris Jenner named her daughter Kendall Nicole Jenner in memory of Brown.  In 1996, after the conclusion of the trial, a judge granted Simpson's petition to give him full custody of Sydney and Justin.  Brown's parents continued unsuccessfully to fight for custody.   Following the deaths of Brown and Goldman, the townhouse at the site of their killing, 875 South Bundy Drive,    sat empty for two years, until the next owner extensively remodeled it and had the address changed.  Brown was portrayed by Jessica Tuck in the TV movie The O. J. Simpson Story. She was portrayed by Sandra Olson in Reenactment of the Century. She will be portrayed by Charlotte Kirk in Joshua Newton’s upcoming 2019 film Nicole & O.J.. 