Rotherham shoe rapist is a media epithet given to convicted British serial rapist James Lloyd from Rotherham who after attacking his victims stole their footwear and jewellery to keep as "trophies".  For a period of a least four years during the 1980s a man violently attacked and raped lone women, aged between 18 and 54, returning from a night out during the early hours of the morning in the Rotherham area of South Yorkshire, England. During the attacks the perpetrator carried stockings and tights to use as a mask and to tie up his victims. The offender always stole shoes from his victims; he also often stole jewellery.  While several suspects were identified and interviewed at the time, the case grew cold. The crimes were featured on the BBC Television programme Crimewatch, which prompted 350 names being provided to authorities; Lloyd was not among those named.  Following advancements in genetic profiling and forensic science, South Yorkshire Police re-opened the case. Investigators produced a list of 43 individuals possibly related to the rapist; police subsequently spoke to James Lloyd's sister who had provided a DNA sample after a prior drink-driving offence. Lloyd then called his father to advise him he had committed serious crimes and was intending on committing suicide. Police have stated they believe Lloyd may have had as many as 120 victims.   James Lloyd, a married father of two from Thurnscoe was manager of Dearne Valley Printers in Wath upon Dearne.  When police searched Dearne Valley Printers they discovered a secret trap door to which only Lloyd had a key. Bags containing over 100 pairs of stiletto shoes, some new and some used, and bags of new and used stockings and tights were found. Detective Inspector Angie Wright stated after Lloyd's conviction that "Obviously he had a fetish. There may well be other victims who have not come forward and some of the shoes may belong to other victims which were stolen at the time. Some are brand new but we know he took some from his victims to keep as sort of trophies. Some of the victims were able to identify the shoes that had been taken."  Police also found a document titled "The Perfect Victim" which detailed identical crimes to the ones committed by Lloyd.  Following a trial at Sheffield Crown Court, in September 2006 Lloyd was sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum non-parole period of 14 years and six months, with a reduction for the amount of time spent on remand. However, Lloyd successfully appealed the severity of his sentence, with judges at the Court of Appeal reducing his minimum term to seven years and 263 days.  Detective Inspector Sue Hickman was awarded first prize in the Crime Investigation category at the Airwave Police Professional Awards in 2007 for her work on the case.  The novel Dead Like You, in the Detective Superintendent Roy Grace crime series, written by Peter James is based on the case.  An episode of the CBS Reality series Written in Blood aired in 2017 explores the crime and the efforts to bring Lloyd to justice.  