  Groups of Aboriginal people were killed on many occasions from the British colonisation of Australia in 1788 until to the 1920s. These events were a fundamental element of the frontier wars.  Recent research efforts are attempting to map the massacres.   Using strict criteria University of Newcastle researchers have mapped 250 massacre sites (that could rise to 500),  now rendered as an interactive online resource   The following list tallies a few of the better documented massacres of Aboriginal Australians, which took place mainly during the colonial period.  1788 Two unarmed rushcutters murdered by aboriginals being the first murders committed since first fleet arrival.  destroy as many as they could meet with..in the hope of striking terror, to erect gibbets in different places, whereon the bodies of all they might kill were to be hung ...Seven or eight Bediagal people were killed.   A crippled man, some children and five women (one being heavily pregnant) were taken to Sydney as prisoners. One of the women and her baby had serious gunshot wounds. The child died not long after as did the newborn baby of the pregnant woman.  The fires were burning but deserted. A few of my men heard a child cry [...] The dogs gave the alarm and the natives fled over the cliffs. It was moonlight. I regret to say some (were) shot and others met their fate by rushing in despair over the precipice. Fourteen dead bodies were counted in different directions. (formerly Van Diemen's Land) Two or three of us were one day looking for ebony wood (for stockwhip handles) when we suddenly came on a heap of human bones, among which were 15 or 20 skulls ... At first we thought it was an old burying place of the blacks, but I afterwards learnt from a black that it was the spot where the native police had come upon a large camp of blacks and dispersed them. (then part of New South Wales) (then part of South Australia) [The] Kaititja in 1874 did only what Europeans living in occupied countries were to do during the 1939-45 war to enemy officials ... guerilla fighters and patriotic individuals made their attacks upon the intruders wherever and whenever opportunities arose. (then part of South Australia) Kimberley region – The Killing Times – 1890–1920: The massacres listed below have been depicted in modern Australian Aboriginal art from the Warmun/Turkey Creek community who were members of the tribes affected. Oral histories of the massacres were passed down and artists such as Rover Thomas have depicted the massacres. 