October is the tenth month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian Calendars and the sixth of seven months to have a length of 31 days. The eighth month in the old Roman calendar, October retained its name (from the Latin ôctō meaning "eight") after January and February were inserted into the calendar that had originally been created by the Romans. In Ancient Rome, one of three Mundus patet would take place on October 5, Meditrinalia October 11, Augustalia on October 12, October Horse on October 15, and Armilustrium on October 19. These dates do not correspond to the modern Gregorian calendar. Among the Anglo-Saxons, it was known as Winterfylleth, because at this full moon (fylleth) winter was supposed to begin.  October is commonly associated with the season of autumn in the Northern hemisphere and with spring in the Southern hemisphere. This list does not necessarily imply either official status or general observance. (Please note that all Baha'i, Islamic, and Jewish observances begin at sundown prior to the date listed, and end at sundown of the date in question unless otherwise noted.) The last two to three weeks in October (and, occasionally, the first week of November) are the only time of the year during which each of the "Big Four" major North American professional sports leagues schedule games; the National Basketball Association begins its preseason and about two weeks later starts the regular season, the National Hockey League is about one month into its regular season, the National Football League is about halfway through its regular season, and Major League Baseball is in its postseason with the League Championship Series and World Series. There have been 17 occasions in which all four leagues have played games on the same day (an occurrence popularly termed a "sports equinox"), with the most recent of these having taken place on October 19, 2017.  Additionally, the Canadian Football League is typically nearing the end of its regular season during this period, while Major League Soccer is beginning the MLS Cup Playoffs. October Star Stones: Planetary Stone:  Sapphire; Lucky Charms:  Opal, Sardonyx, Chrysolite; birthstone:  pink Tourmaline, Opal Planetary Stone:  Garnet, Ruby; Lucky Charms:  Aquamarine, Beryl 