The sum of the reciprocals of all prime numbers diverges; that is: This was proved by Leonhard Euler in 1737,  and strengthens Euclid's 3rd-century-BC result that there are infinitely many prime numbers. There are a variety of proofs of Euler's result, including a lower bound for the partial sums stating that for all natural numbers n. The double natural logarithm (ln ln) indicates that the divergence might be very slow, which is indeed the case. See Meissel–Mertens constant. First, we describe how Euler originally discovered the result. He was considering the harmonic series He had already used the following "product formula" to show the existence of infinitely many primes. Here the product is taken over the set of all primes. Such infinite products are today called Euler products. The product above is a reflection of the fundamental theorem of arithmetic. Euler noted that if there were only a finite number of primes, then the product on the right would clearly converge, contradicting the divergence of the harmonic series. Euler considered the above product formula and proceeded to make a sequence of audacious leaps of logic. First, he took the natural logarithm of each side, then he used the Taylor series expansion for ln x as well as the sum of a converging series: for a fixed constant K < 1. Then he invoked the relation which he explained, for instance in a later 1748 work,  by setting x = 1 in the Taylor series expansion This allowed him to conclude that It is almost certain that Euler meant that the sum of the reciprocals of the primes less than n is asymptotic to ln ln n as n approaches infinity. It turns out this is indeed the case, and a more precise version of this fact was rigorously proved by Franz Mertens in 1874.  Thus Euler obtained a correct result by questionable means. The following proof by contradiction is due to Paul Erdős. Let pi denote the ith prime number.  Assume that the sum of the reciprocals of the primes converges; i.e., Then there exists a smallest positive integer k such that For a positive integer x, let Mx denote the set of those n in {1, 2, …, x} which are not divisible by any prime greater than pk (or equivalently all n ≤ x which are a product of powers of primes pi ≤ pk). We will now derive an upper and a lower estimate for |Mx|, the number of elements in Mx. For large x, these bounds will turn out to be contradictory. Upper estimate: Lower estimate: This produces a contradiction: when x ≥ 22k + 2,  the estimates (2) and (3) cannot both hold, because x/2 ≥ 2k√x. Here is another proof that actually gives a lower estimate for the partial sums; in particular, it shows that these sums grow at least as fast as ln ln n. The proof is an adaptation of the product expansion idea of Euler.  In the following, a sum or product taken over p always represents a sum or product taken over a specified set of primes. The proof rests upon the following four inequalities: Combining all these inequalities, we see that Dividing through by 5/3 and taking the natural logarithm of both sides gives as desired. ∎ Using (see the Basel problem), the above constant ln 5/3 = 0.51082… can be improved to ln π2/6 = 0.4977…; in fact it turns out that where M = 0.261497… is the Meissel–Mertens constant (somewhat analogous to the much more famous Euler–Mascheroni constant). From Dusart's inequality, we get Then by the integral test for convergence. This shows that the series on the left diverges. While the partial sums of the reciprocals of the primes eventually exceed any integer value, they never equal an integer. One proof  is by induction: The first partial sum is 1/2, which has the form odd/even. If the nth partial sum (for n ≥ 1) has the form odd/even, then the (n + 1)st sum is as the (n + 1)st prime pn + 1 is odd; since this sum also has an odd/even form, this partial sum cannot be an integer (because 2 divides the denominator but not the numerator), and the induction continues. Another proof rewrites the expression for the sum of the first n reciprocals of primes (or indeed the sum of the reciprocals of any set of primes) in terms of the least common denominator, which is the product of all these primes. Then each of these primes divides all but one of the numerator terms and hence does not divide the numerator itself; but each prime does divide the denominator. Thus the expression is irreducible and is non-integer. 