Swedification refers to the spread of the Swedish language, people and culture or policies which introduced these changes. Following the Treaty of Roskilde, which was one of the treaties that successfully ended the Second Northern War, all areas in the historical region of Skåneland were ceded by Denmark-Norway to the Swedish Empire in early 1658. One of the most important questions for the Swedish Empire was on how to make the Scanians feel like they were Swedish, rather than a part of Denmark. On 16 April 1658, representatives of Scania, Blekinge and Halland's nobility, citizens, clergy and peasants gathered for a day of fury in Malmö Town Hall. On a given sign, the ombuds fell to the knees and promised their new king's faithfulness. The oath was appointed by a secretary. Charles X Gustav was not present himself but was represented by an empty chair surrounded by Swedish soldiers. In 1662 a so-called farm day in Malmö was held, where the Scanians accepted new taxes and regulations that differed completely from Danish law. "Lilla tullen" ("the small customs") was such an idea. All goods brought into the cities would be charged with customs, just as in all Swedish cities. In each city council there should also be at least two Swedish-born people among the councilors. In the same way as in the rest of Sweden, the cities were divided into stacks and settlements. Many nationals also forced into mayor seats. At the same time, the inhabitants of Scania received representation in the Riksdag, unlike other areas that had been conquered by the Swedish Empire. As early as when Charles X Gustav landed in Helsingborg in 1658, he met Bishop Peder Winstrup from Lund on the pier. The bishop became a driving force for the establishment of University of Lund as a Swedish counterweight to University of Copenhagen. In 1666 the university was established under the name "Regia Academia Carolina". The official opening ceremony took place in January 1668. The Swedification of Scania did not begin until about two decades after the Roskilde peace treaty.  Johan Gyllenstierna suggested that it should have been done by forced immigration to the Baltics, something that was never carried out.[clarification needed] 