This is a list of Asian cuisines, by region. A cuisine is a characteristic style of cooking practices and traditions,  usually associated with a specific culture or region. Asia, being the largest and most populous continent, has many great cuisines. Horse meat platter. Kazakh cuisine revolves around mutton, horse meat and various milk products. A Tajik feast Khorkhog, a barbeque dish consumed in Mongolia Sturgeon kebabs cooking in Turkmenistan Uzbek manti Lagman, a dish of Uyghur and Dungan ethnic minorities East Asian cuisine has evolved with a common usage of oils, fats and sauces in the preparation of dishes (with the notable exception of Japanese cuisine). Southeast Asian cuisine – includes a strong emphasis on lightly prepared dishes with a strong aromatic component that features such flavors as citrus and herbs such as mint, cilantro (coriander) and basil. Ingredients in the region contrast with the ones in the Eastern Asian cuisines, substituting fish sauces for soy sauce and the inclusion of ingredients such as galangal, tamarind and lemon grass. Cooking methods include a balance of stir-frying, boiling and steaming.  Malaysian nasi lemak. Food stall in Chiang Mai, Thailand selling ready cooked food. Vietnamese cuisine. South Asian cuisine includes the cuisines from the Indian subcontinent and when included in the definition, also that of Afghanistan. It has roots in South Asia, including practices taken from the Hindu beliefs practiced by the large population found in the region, alongside in some regional cuisines, certain influences from neighboring regions and cultures, particularly from Muslim cultures of the Middle East and Central Asia. Dishes in this area of the world are known for their use of hot peppers, black pepper, cloves, and other strong spices along with the flavored butter ghee. Common meats include lamb, goat and chicken; beef is not as common as in western cuisines because the tenets of the Hindu faith prohibit its consumption. Other staples of many of the cuisines include rice, chapati made from wheat and barley, and beans.  The cuisine of South Asia has mostly indigenous roots, as well as practices taken from the Hindu beliefs practiced by the large population found in the region. Naan, a type of flat bread from the former regions, is a common part of meals in many parts of South Asia. Chicken Fesenjān with Persian rice, an Iranian dish Fatayer is a meat pie or pastry that can alternatively be stuffed with spinach (sabaneq), or cheese (jibnah). It is eaten in Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and other countries in the Middle East. Fahsa is a famous Yemeni dish, containing beef or lamb meat cooked in a stony pot called Madara. Falafel balls Doner kebab, Istanbul, Turkey  Media related to Cuisine of Asia at Wikimedia Commons 