This is a list of European cuisines. A cuisine is a characteristic style of cooking practices and traditions,  often associated with a specific culture. European cuisine (also called "Western cuisine") refers collectively to the cuisines of Europe and other Western countries.  European cuisine includes cuisines of Europe, including (depending on the definition) that of Russia,  as well as non-indigenous cuisines of North America, Australasia, Oceania, and Latin America, which derive substantial influence from European settlers in those regions. The term is used by East Asians to contrast with Asian styles of cooking.  This is analogous to Westerners referring collectively to the cuisines of Asian countries as Asian cuisine. When used by Westerners, the term may refer more specifically to cuisine in Europe; in this context, a synonym is Continental cuisine, especially in British English. The cuisines of Western countries are diverse by themselves, although there are common characteristics that distinguishes Western cooking from cuisines of Asian countries  and others. Compared with traditional cooking of Asian countries, for example, meat is more prominent and substantial in serving-size.  Wheat-flour bread has long been the most common sources of starch in this cuisine, along with pasta, dumplings and pastries, although the potato has become a major starch plant in the diet of Europeans and their diaspora since the European colonization of the Americas. Pretzels are especially common in Southern Germany. Austrian Wiener Schnitzel Pub grub – a pie, along with a pint. Public houses are a part of British,  Irish,  Scottish,  Canadian, and Australian culture  Fish and chips Fermented shark, hákarl, is an example of a culinary tradition that has continued from the settlement of Iceland in the 9th century to this day. A traditional Cornish pasty filled with steak and vegetables is a type of meat pie. Lohikeitto is a creamy salmon soup and a common dish in Finland and other Nordic countries. A variety of tapas: appetizers or snacks in Spanish cuisine Rabbit meat and polenta, a traditional peasant food of Veneto, Italy A range of different cakes, pastries, meals, dishes and sweets: common elements of Sardinian cuisine A large paella, a Valencian rice dish Mediterranean cuisine in Dalmatia, Croatia Swiss cuisine –  paprika sausage with potatoes at the Zeughauskeller ("Impressive House Cellar"), Zürich, Switzerland Bouneschlupp is a traditional Luxemburgish green bean soup with potatoes, bacon, and onions. 