Kathe S. Perez is an   speech pathologist who has   focused her work on helping those in the transgender community discover their true voice through the use of her   voice feminization program. Perez was born on August 22 in San Juan, Puerto Rico and spent her childhood in West Haven, Conn.  She is founder and president of  Exceptional Voice, Inc. which has headquarters in Denver, Colo.   Of mixed heritage (Mexican-Irish-German-American) and from a family of modest means, Perez felt a bit different living in affluent Connecticut. From this early outsider experience, Perez sought to discover her own true voice.  Early on, she explored her talent as a singer, but she soon found that her skills as a special education teacher helping young children with learning and emotional difficulties find their voices best fit her, that experience lead her to pursue her graduate degree in speech pathology.    During her graduate studies, she discovered her now current passion for the human voice – speech and voice therapy. Kathe has done extensive graduate and PhD work in the field, and has helped people from all corners of the globe find their true voice.  Perez currently resides with her partner Kevin.  Her two adult daughters share her passion of advocacy and non-profit projects for the underserved populations.  In her free time, Kathe enjoys running (she ran four half marathons in one year), snowshoeing, hiking, gardening, traveling, live theater and reading.   Perez is an expert in the care and training of the human voice, and for more than 25 years she has helped thousands find their true voices. As founder and president of Exceptional Voice, Inc., she specializes in giving those in the transgender (TG) community the voice training and tools they need to live their lives to the fullest and most authentic expression of their true gender.   A certified speech-language pathologist, Perez developed a voice feminization training system that has helped individuals from all over the world express themselves as the women they truly are.  From her 30-Day Crash Course Transgender Voice Feminization Program  and YouTube channel  to one-on-one sessions, Kathe has given thousands of TG women a variety of resources they can use to transform their voices.  Perez has presented and demonstrated her voice feminization techniques and exercises at conferences around the world including, Be-All, California Dreamin’, Colorado Gold Rush, Esprit, Fantasia Fair, First Event Transgender Conference, Holiday en Femme, IFGE Conference, Keystone Conference, and Southern Comfort Conference. She has co-authored a number of scholarly articles for professional publications. She collaborated   with noted voice coach Lynn Skinner for the voice feminization audio training series "Fundamentals of Your Feminine Voice" [http://www.voicefeminization.com/,  which has received international recognition and acclaim. She also provides speech, voice and public speaking training programs for companies and small businesses as well as individuals such as singers, actors, broadcasters, auctioneers and teachers.  She has taught graduate and undergraduate courses at the University of Colorado Boulder, Metropolitan State College Denver and the University of Northern Colorado Greeley.  Nationally, she has conducted customized workshops, seminars and training programs for professionals who wish to improve their voices.  In 1993, Perez undertook doctorate coursework for speech and voice motor learning at the University of Colorado Boulder. She received her Master of Arts degree from the University of Colorado-Boulder in 1986.  She studied under famed Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences Professor Lorraine Ramig, PhD,  at the University of Colorado-Boulder and interned with Robert Sataloff, MD.  She is a certified speech-language pathologist and a member of the American Speech-Language and Hearing Association.  Perez has written for a number of professional publications, including chapters on clinical voice therapy and clinical voice laboratory in the much-acclaimed textbook, Professional Voice: The Science and Art of Clinical Care (2005) by Robert Sataloff.  In addition, she has contributed to Vocal Health and Pedagogy (2006), also by Sataloff.  Her  research appears in a number of scholarly papers that have been published in professional journals. 