 Lionel George Logue, CVO (26 February 1880 – 12 April 1953) was an Australian speech and language therapist and amateur stage actor who successfully treated, among others, King George VI, who had a pronounced stammer. Lionel George Logue was born in College Town, Adelaide, South Australia, the oldest of four children. His grandfather Edward Logue, originally from Dublin, in 1856 founded Logue's Brewery, a predecessor of the South Australian Brewing Company.  His parents were George Edward Logue, an accountant at his grandfather's brewery who later managed the Burnside Hotel and Elephant and Castle Hotel, and Lavinia Rankin.  Although not a Catholic himself, he was reportedly related to Michael Logue, who was the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Armagh and Primate of All Ireland in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.  He attended Prince Alfred College between 1889 and 1896. Unable to decide what to study, Logue came across Longfellow's The Song of Hiawatha:  Then Iagoo, the great boaster, He the marvellous story-teller,  He the traveller and the talker, He the friend of old Nokomis, Made a bow for HiawathaWhat inspired Logue was the rhythm and he decided to put his interest in voices to good use.  After leaving school at sixteen, he received elocution training from Edward Reeves. Reeves had moved to Adelaide in 1878 and taught elocution to his pupils by day and gave popular recitals to audiences in Victoria Hall by night. Logue worked for Reeves as a secretary and assistant teacher from 1902, while studying music at the University of Adelaide's Elder Conservatorium. While working for Reeves, Logue began to give recitals of his own for which he was praised for his "clear, powerful voice."  After his father died on 17 November 1902, Logue set up his own practice as a teacher of elocution. By 1904, he had gained a good reputation and was receiving praise from the local newspapers.  However, he decided to take a contract with an engineering firm some 2,000 kilometres (1,200 mi) westward in Kalgoorlie, Western Australia, installing an electricity supply at a gold mine.   His professional career began in Perth, where, in addition to teaching elocution, acting, and public speaking, he put on plays and recitations, and also founded a club for public speakers. He was also involved with Perth's Young Men's Christian Association and schools such as Methodist Ladies' College, Loreto Convent, Scotch College, Perth Technical School, and Claremont Teachers College. In 1911, Logue and his wife set out on a tour of the world to study methods of public speaking. Later he developed treatments for Australian First World War war veterans who had shell shock–induced impaired speech.  In addition to physical exercises, which helped with patients' breathing, Logue's distinctive therapy emphasised humour, patience, and "superhuman sympathy". In 1924, Logue took his wife and three sons to England, ostensibly for a holiday. Once there, he  took jobs teaching elocution at schools around London, and in 1926 he opened a speech-defect practice at 146 Harley Street. Logue used fees paid by wealthy clients to subsidise patients unable to pay.  It was here that the Duke of York – the future King George VI – sought Logue's help.  Logue became a founding fellow of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists in 1944.  Before ascending the throne as George VI, the Duke of York dreaded public speaking because of a severe stammer;  his closing speech at the British Empire Exhibition at Wembley on 31 October 1925 proved an ordeal for speaker and listeners alike. Resolved to find some way to manage his stammer, the Duke engaged Logue in 1926   after being introduced to Logue by Lord Stamfordham.  Diagnosing poor co-ordination between the Duke's larynx and thoracic diaphragm, Logue prescribed a daily hour of vocal exercises. Logue's treatment gave the Duke the confidence to relax  and avoid tension-induced muscle spasms. As a result, he suffered only the occasional hesitancy in speech. By 1927, he was speaking confidently and managed his address at the opening of the Old Parliament House in Canberra  without stammering.  Logue worked with the Duke through the 1930s and 40s. He used tongue-twisters  to help his patient rehearse for major speeches, his coronation as King and his radio broadcasts to the British Empire throughout the Second World War. The two men remained friends until the King's death. In 1944, King George VI appointed Logue a Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (CVO), elevating him from Member of the Order (MVO), which was conferred upon Logue at the time of George VI's Coronation.     King George VI died on 6 February 1952. On 26 February 1952, Logue wrote to the late king's consort, Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother, stating that since 1926 the king: The Queen Mother replied two days later:   Logue married Myrtle Gruenert, a 21-year-old clerk, at St George's Anglican Cathedral, Perth, on 20 March 1907.  They had three sons , Valentine, Laurie, and Anthony—Valentine trained at King's College London and St George's Hospital and went on to become one of the most distinguished neurosurgeons of his generation . Lionel Logue was a Freemason, initiated, passed, and raised in 1908, and became Worshipful Master in 1919; he was a member of St. George's Lodge (now J.D. Stevenson St. George's Lodge No.6, Western Australian Constitution).   He lived in a 25-room Victorian villa called Beechgrove in Sydenham from before 1933 until about 1940.   Myrtle died in June 1945  and Logue died, in London, on 12 April 1953. His funeral was held 17 April in Holy Trinity, Brompton before his body was cremated.  Representatives of Queen Elizabeth II and Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother attended the funeral.  With Peter Conradi, Logue's grandson Mark wrote a book, The King's Speech: How One Man Saved the British Monarchy, about his grandfather's relationship with the king.  The short title was used for the 2010 British film The King's Speech, a historical drama written by David Seidler, in which Logue was played by Geoffrey Rush and his patient by Colin Firth. In February 2011, The King's Speech won four Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Actor for Firth. Rush was nominated for an Academy Award and won a 2010 BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role for his portrayal of Logue in the film. In the West End stage adaptation of The King's Speech at Wyndham's Theatre, Australian actor Jonathan Hyde played Lionel Logue. Welsh actor Michael Elwyn played Logue in the 2002 television film Bertie and Elizabeth. Derek Lawson portrayed Logue in the 2015 comedy A Royal Night Out. 