  Rebecca Judd   (née Twigley; born 27 January 1983) is an Australian model, television presenter, speech pathologist and the wife of former Australian Football League player Chris Judd. She is currently host of Victorian-based travel program Postcards and was previously weekend weather presenter on Nine News Melbourne. In September 2004, Judd received considerable media attention due to her wearing a revealing red Tarvydas dress to the Brownlow Medal presentation. The dress was custom-made by Perth designer Ruth Tarvydas and was valued at A$2000.  Although Chris Judd, at that time her boyfriend, won the Brownlow Medal, much of the media attention focused on Judd's dress.  Following the Brownlow presentation, Judd received a number of offers from Australian television networks.  Her first television role was as a guest presenter on Nine Perth program Just Add Water.  Judd also presented a news report about Melbourne Cup fashion for Seven News in October 2006.  The following year, Judd started presenting the weekend weather for Seven News in Perth. Her presenting role drew criticism from some public, who complained that she looked anorexic. She spoke out against the claims, saying that she had never suffered from an eating disorder and she believed the fuss was due to her relationship with Chris Judd. Seven News director Shaun Menegola said it was a shame Judd had been attacked by some viewers and explained that her tall stature meant she looked thinner on camera.  She is also a fashion ambassador for Myer, attending events such as the Melbourne Cup and the Australian Open golf. In 2011, Judd joined the Nine Network as host of Victorian-based travel program Postcards. In the second quarter of 2013, she filled in for Livinia Nixon presenting the weather on Nine Afternoon News and Nine News Melbourne whilst Nixon was on maternity leave with her second child. In April 2014, Judd was appointed weekend weather presenter on Nine News Melbourne.  In May 2014, Judd designed a capsule fashion collection with Australian fashion brand Skin and Threads. In November 2016, Judd resigned from Nine News Melbourne to spend more time with her family. She will continue to host Postcards.   In January 2017, Judd joined the KIIS Network to host the 3PM Pick-Up along Katie 'Monty' Dimond and Yumi Stynes. In September 2007, Judd announced that she would be moving to Melbourne with then boyfriend Chris Judd. She completed her studies in speech and language pathology at La Trobe University in 2008 and worked in adult rehabilitation at the Alfred Hospital. On 31 December 2010, Judd (née Twigley) married Chris Judd at Melbourne's Carousel at Albert Park.  They have a son, Oscar Dylan (born July 2011), and a daughter, Billie Kate (born February 2014). In April 2016, the couple announced they were expecting twins in October.  On 29 September 2016, Judd gave birth to twins Tom Andrew and Darcy Hugh Judd.  