Professor Rosemary Sage is a British academic who specialises in the field of education, with particular focus on communication and special educational needs. Since 2008, she is a professor of education at the College of Teachers and was dean of academic affairs until 2014. She previously worked at Liverpool Hope University, where she was made a professor of communication in education in 2007, and at the University of Leicester, where she was a senior lecturer. She has also been a visiting professor at Nara Women's University in Japan and at the University of Havana in Cuba. Sage has been an outside examiner at several universities and has given key speeches at international conferences across the world. She has published 15 books and over 200 articles in international academic journals. Her communication opportunity group strategy has earned her national and international awards.  Sage is a qualified speech and language pathologist, neuro-psychologist, psycholinguist and teacher (English and maths). She has worked in health, education and social services and been a director of health services in Leicester/Leicestershire. She has also been a senior language advisor in LEAs. Her research has been in the area of communication, language, education and employment. Her communicative model of teaching has been translated into Japanese, French and German and has been taught in Japan, Cuba and Latin America, the Czech Republic, Poland, Finland, Latvia and Bulgaria. It has been reviewed by academics as one of the best researched models of teaching and learning with many attesting to the personal and academic development gained from the approach. (see Evaluation of The Communication Opportunity Group scheme (COGS) by Nelson and Burchell (1998) and an Evaluation of COGS by Cooper (2004). Sage has served as the president of Human Communication International, as a member of Sir Michael Rutter's Advisory Committee on Language Research, as a member of the Research Committee of the British Stammering Association, and as an educational advisor to the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists. She has also served as a trustee of the Association for Speech Impaired Children and of the Independent Panel for Education Advice. She is a member of the judiciary and served on the Lord Chancellor's training committee.  