Sandra Bond Chapman is a cognitive neuroscientist, founder and chief director of the Center for BrainHealth, Dee Wyly Distinguished Professor in Brain Health,  and a professor in the School of Behavioral and Brain Sciences at The University of Texas at Dallas. Chapman began her career in the 1970s as a speech pathologist, where she often worked with children diagnosed with severe autism. During this time, Chapman encountered several children able to solve complex puzzles despite their hindering diagnosis. This contradiction sparked Chapman's interest in the brain’s potential.  Chapman's fascination the brain's modifiability later evolved into the idea of a multidisciplinary center housing brain researchers and therapists working collectively to prevent, arrest, and reverse brain traumas.  Only 20 years after it was first conceptualized, Chapman opened the Center for BrainHealth in Dallas, Texas.  Chapman continues to serve as the Center for BrainHealth's chief director. Chapman’s cognitive research has laid the theoretical framework and empirical foundation for the development of measurements of higher order reasoning [Test of Strategic Learning] and the development of brain training programs for children and adults.  Her research elucidates novel approaches to maximize cognitive function in people with healthy brains  as well as those with brain injury,  stroke, ADHD,  autism,  schizophrenia, substance abuse, and progressive brain diseases like Alzheimer's disease.  Chapman's research has resulted in more than 120 publications,  nearly 60 funded research grants, and has served as a national public health road for maintaining cognitive fitness and building critical thinking and reasoning skills in adolescents.  Chapman was the principal member writing the first state plan for BrainHealth fitness for adults.  She is a core member for NIH's selection process of central data elements for nationwide clinical trials on acquired brain injury. Throughout her career, Chapman has  received major federal, state, and private research support to advance the treatment of veterans, sports-related brain injuries, concussions, autism, schizophrenia, adolescent reasoning, and brain development, among others. Chapman received her B.A. (in Speech Pathology) and M.A. (in Communication Disorders) from the University of North Texas. Her Ph.D. in Communication Disorders is from University of Texas at Dallas. Chapman is a member of the following organizations:  