Hospitality management is the study of the hospitality industry. A degree in the subject may be awarded either by a university college dedicated to the studies of  hospitality management or a business school with a relevant department.  Degrees in hospitality management may also be referred to as hotel management, hotel and tourism management, or hotel administration. Degrees conferred in this academic field include BA, Bachelor of Business Administration, BS, BASc, MS, MBA, and PhD. Hospitality management covers hotels, restaurants, cruise ships, amusement parks, destination marketing organizations, convention centers, and country clubs. In the USA, hospitality and tourism management curricula follow similar core subject applications to that of a business degree, but with a focus on tourism development and hospitality management. Core subject areas include accounting, administration, finance, information systems, marketing, human resource management, public relations, strategy, quantitative methods, and sectoral studies in the various areas of hospitality business. In 2016, Ministry of Tourism, Government of India started giving hospitality management students the option to choose only vegetarian cooking. This was introduced at three of the institutes (IHMCTAN Ahmedabad, IHMCTAN Bhopal and IHMCTAN Jaipur) affiliated with the Ministry. This decision to offer a vegetarian option by IHMCTANs may be the first amongst any of the hospitality training institutes of the world. It is expected that all IHMCTANs in India will start offering a vegetarian cooking option from academic year 2018 onwards.   . These top ten lists are specific to departments that specifically give degrees in the hospitality field itself.  For the more general type of degree, see the list of business schools in the United States, and similar articles for other countries.  For restaurant-related hospitality industry degrees in nutrition, see list of universities with accredited dietetic programs.  For overall rankings of universities by various metrics, see college and university rankings. In a broad industry survey of senior managers from luxury hotels in 2013, conducted a market survey of hospitality employers regarding their opinions of the top ten hospitality management schools.   Laureate Hospitality Education, a division of Laureate Education Inc, commissioned TNS to conduct each of these surveys, and 2 schools out of 10 (numbers 6, 8) belong to Laureate Hospitality Education. The result appeared as follows:  The Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Research completed an analysis of the top ten hospitality and tourism programs in the world.  The results appeared as follows:  