  March for Our Lives (sometimes MFOL)  was a student-led demonstration in support of tighter gun control that took place on March 24, 2018, in Washington, D.C., with over 800 sibling events throughout the United States and around the world.      Student organizers from Never Again MSD planned the march in collaboration with the nonprofit organization Everytown for Gun Safety.  The event followed the February 14, 2018 Stoneman Douglas High School shooting in Parkland, Florida, which was described by many media outlets as a possible tipping point for gun control legislation.    Protesters urged for universal background checks on all gun sales, raising the federal age of gun ownership and possession to 21,  closing of the gun show loophole, a restoration of the 1994 Federal Assault Weapons Ban, and a ban on the sale of high-capacity magazines and bump stocks in the United States.  Turnout was estimated to be between 1.2 and 2 million people in the United States,    making it one of the largest protests in American history.  Following the school shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, on February 14, Cameron Kasky, a junior at the school, and his classmates, announced the march four days later.  Also joining the march efforts are Alex Wind of Stoneman Douglas High School, who along with four friends created the "Never Again" campaign.  Emma González and David Hogg, also survivors of the shooting, have been vocal supporters of the march.  The date was chosen in order to give students, families and others a chance to mourn first, and then on March 24, talk about gun control.  Organizers filed a permit application with the National Park Service during the week of February 23, and expected as many as 500,000 people to attend.   However, the National Mall, which was the planned site of the main march in Washington, D.C., was reportedly already booked for March 24; the application, filed by an unidentified local student group, claimed it was for a talent show.   A permit was later obtained for Pennsylvania Avenue.  The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority announced it would operate extra trains for the march.  The Enough! National School Walkout was held on the one month anniversary of the Stoneman Douglas shooting.   It involved students walking out from their classes for exactly seventeen minutes (one for each of the victims of the massacre)  and involved more than 3,000 schools across the United States   and nearly one million students.  Thousands of students also gathered and staged a rally in Washington, D. C., after observing 17 minutes of silence with their backs to the White House.   After the success of the walkout, Hogg posted a tweet  that included a provocative, NRA-style advertisement calling out lawmakers for their inaction on or opposition to gun control efforts, asking "What if our politicians weren't the bitch of the NRA?", and ending with a promotion for the upcoming March.  George Clooney and Scooter Braun were major forces behind the organization of the march, and aided in fundraising efforts behind the scenes.  Amal and George Clooney donated $500,000 to support the march and announced they would attend. Oprah Winfrey matched the Clooney donation to support the march.   Jeffrey Katzenberg and his wife Marilyn also contributed $500,000.  Film director and producer Steven Spielberg and actress Kate Capshaw Spielberg donated $500,000, also matching the donation of the Clooneys.  On February 23, Gucci announced they were also donating $500,000 towards the march.  Other people and organizations offering support have included Justin Bieber,  Gabby Giffords, Lauren Jauregui, Alyssa Milano, Moms Demand Action, Amy Schumer, St. Vincent, Harry Styles,  Hayley Williams,   Paul McCartney,  Kanye West, and Kim Kardashian.   John Legend and Chrissy Teigen donated $25,000.  Jimmy Fallon pledged to attend an event with his family.  Samantha Bee interviewed kids.  Jim Jefferies interviewed participants in San Diego.  Other celebrities including Taylor Swift have donated an undisclosed amount of money toward the campaign.  Justin Timberlake, Will Smith, Cher and Amy Poehler also participated in the March.  James Corden promoted the March for Our Lives event.  John Zimmer and Logan Green, the co-founders of Lyft, announced their support of the rallies and stated that their company would provide free rides for those attending demonstrations.  Dating app Bumble CEO Whitney Wolfe Herd subsequently announced that they were supporting the NeverAgain movement by banning all images of firearms on their dating application.  John Cena and Millie Bobby Brown applauded the March for Our Lives event at the Kids Choice Awards.  In Washington, D.C., a prayer and vigil was held at the Washington National Cathedral on the eve of the rally, as a memorial for the victims of gun violence, and to declare the church's belief, "This work is rooted in our commitment to Jesus' command to love our neighbors as ourselves... We gather out of a conviction that the right to bear arms does not trump the right to life."    The litany also included the following refrain: From so many heartbreaks comes forth a united commitment to go into the streets of our cities and towns and promote a way of peace and well-being for all people. With compassion sown from the threads of sadness and terror, we will mend a nation tattered by gun violence and weave a new cloth of hope and peace.  Guest speakers included Philip and April Schentrup, parents of 16-year-old Carmen Schentrup, who was killed in the shooting in Parkland, Florida.   March for Our Lives was among the biggest youth-led protests since the Vietnam War era.    Estimates of participation at the main event in Washington, D. C., range from 200,000 to 800,000.    The speakers—all of whom were high schoolers or younger—included Marjory Stoneman Douglas students Cameron Kasky, David Hogg, Delaney Tarr, Sarah Chadwick, Alex Wind, Jaclyn Corin, Ryan Deitsch, Aalayah Eastmond, Samantha Fuentes, and Emma González.      Hunter Pollack, brother of victim Meadow Pollack, was scheduled to speak but did not attend due to a logistical issue,  which he contended was a result of being misled by event officials.   David Hogg tweeted out a video of Hunter's speech from a later event.  Other participants included Naomi Wadler, who is an elementary school student in Alexandria, Virginia,    Trevon Bosley from Chicago whose brother was shot and killed leaving church,  Edna Lizbeth Chavez, a high school student from Los Angeles,  and Zion Kelly, whose twin brother was shot and killed during an armed robbery.  Yolanda Renee King, granddaughter of Martin Luther King Jr., also made an appearance  along with Mya Middleton, a student from Chicago representing After School Matters,  Matt Post, a senior from Montgomery County,  Christopher Underwood, an 11-year old from New York,  Alex King and D'Angelo McDade from Chicago,  and Matthew Soto, brother of Sandy Hook victim Victoria Soto.  González, after speaking and naming the seventeen victims, stood silent for over four minutes, after which a cellphone alarm went off and she announced that it was the six minute and twenty second point in her speech, equal to the length of the Parkland shooting.    González ended her speech saying, Since the time that I came out here, it has been 6 minutes and 20 seconds. The shooter has ceased shooting, and will soon abandon his rifle, blend in with the students as they escape, and walk free for an hour before arrest. Fight for your lives before it's someone else's job.  then walked off stage as the entire crowd along Pennsylvania Avenue applauded loudly. Her speech and emotional moment of silence was praised by media organizations as one of the "most memorable"  and "powerful" moments in the day's events.   Singers Ariana Grande, Lin-Manuel Miranda, Ben Platt, Miley Cyrus, Jennifer Hudson, Andra Day, Common, Selena Gomez, Lady Gaga, and Demi Lovato joined student-led marchers in Washington, D. C.   On March 21, NRA TV host Grant Stinchfield stated that "March for Our Lives is backed by radicals with a history of violent threats, language and actions"; fact-checker PolitiFact has rated this statement as being "without merit" and "Pants on Fire" indicating that it is a "ridiculous claim".   While the march was occurring, the NRA posted a membership drive video on their Facebook page, declaring that the "protests aren't spontaneous. Gun-hating billionaires and Hollywood elites are manipulating and exploiting children as part of their plan to DESTROY the Second Amendment". Another video dubbed "A March for Their Lies" was uploaded to YouTube featuring Colion Noir, in which he described the planned rally as a "carnival of a march". Noir also said in the video that there is an "agenda that's a million times bigger than the guns".    The Washington Post reported that there were many Democrats encouraging the marchers, and many of them, including candidates for office, participated from the sidelines in the march, but few Republicans did similarly.  The White House said in a response that they "applaud the many courageous young Americans exercising their first amendment rights".  On the day of the protests, Florida Republican senator Marco Rubio responded by stating: "However, many other Americans do not support a gun ban" and "view banning guns as an infringement on the Second Amendment rights of law abiding citizens that ultimately will not prevent these tragedies". He called for protesters to find "common ground with those who hold opposing views" for change to happen. However, a blanket gun ban was not called for by the protests.    Former Republican senator and presidential candidate Rick Santorum criticized the Parkland activists, suggesting during an interview with CNN that students should be learning ways to respond to a shooter rather than asking lawmakers "to solve their problem"; Santorum advised students to take classes in CPR rather than marching in Washington.   The Washington Post quoted several doctors responding to Santorum that CPR would not be at all effective on gunshot victims as they were suffering from blood loss.  Former Democratic President Barack Obama said that he was "so inspired by all the young people" who made March for Our Lives possible. He addressed them: "Keep at it. You're leading us forward. Nothing can stand in the way of millions of voices calling for change."  A report in The New Yorker praised the leaders of the march for their "extraordinary inclusiveness" in that they expanded the locus of concern from suburban schools to those of urban neighborhoods as well.  On social media, fake pictures and GIFs of Emma González tearing up a copy of the U.S. Constitution were circulated in an effort to discredit the march. The images were doctored from originals of González tearing up a shooting target sign. Actor and conservative commentator Adam Baldwin defended circulating the doctored images as "political satire".   Jesse Hughes, a survivor of the Bataclan terrorist attack, called the march "pathetic", but after being criticized for his comment, later apologized saying, "I was not attempting to impugn the youth of America and this beautiful thing that they accomplished. I truly am sorry, I did not mean to hurt anyone or cause any harm."     In anticipation and planning of the day's events, many streets in the nation's capital were closed to vehicle traffic.   Several blocks of streets encompassing much of the National Mall, stretching from the Washington Monument to the United States Capitol and from Independence Avenue to E Street, were closed to vehicle traffic.   Some of the rally-goers grouped at Trump Hotel, expressing displeasure that the Trump administration has not addressed school safety nor gun control in a meaningful way.  In Connecticut, marches took place in Hartford,   East Haddam,  Enfield,  Guilford,  Middlebury, New Haven, Old Saybrook,  Pawcatuck, Roxbury, Salisbury, Shelton, Stamford  and Westport.  In Maine, demonstrations took place in at least fifteen communities throughout the state,  the largest demonstration occurring in the city of Portland,  with smaller marches in the cities of Bangor,  Orono,  Lewiston   and Presque Isle.  In Massachusetts, demonstrations were held in Boston (Boston Common),   Cape Ann  and Martha's Vineyard.  WGBH reported that marches took place in Beverly, Hyannis (1,500 participants), Worcester (1,000 participants), Springfield (several hundred),  Falmouth (500 participants). Boston Police estimate 80,000 people joined the demonstration.  In New Hampshire, marches took place in Concord  and Portsmouth  and Jackson.  The Concord event was organized by Eve Caplan, a sophomore at John Stark Regional High School,and another high school student in Plymouth, New Hampshire.  Portsmouth had a demonstration in Market Square, and was organized Sarah Mae Brown, a leader of The Resistance Seacoast.  In New Jersey, demonstrations took place in Trenton, Newark,  Asbury Park,  Hackensack,  Haddon Heights,  Hoboken,  Jersey City, Montclair,  Morristown,  Ocean City,  Somerset County   Somerville, Union and Westfield.  In New York, demonstrations were held in Albany,  Binghamton,  Buffalo,  Cobleskill,  Ithaca,  Oneonta,  Rochester (Washington Square Park),  and White Plains.  In New York City, where an estimated 200,000 people marched, the musician Paul McCartney cited the murder of John Lennon as motivation for joining the protests when he told a CNN journalist, "One of my best friends was killed in gun violence."    In Pennsylvania, marches took place in Allentown,  Bloomsburg,  Doylestown,  Easton,  Erie,  Lancaster,  Philadelphia,  Pittsburgh,   Reading,  Scranton  and State College.  Jay Leno made an appearance in West Chester, Pa.  A march took place in Providence, Rhode Island.  Thousands of people gathered on the lawn of the Rhode Island State House.  In Montpelier, Vermont, city officials estimated that 2,500 people participated in the demonstration on the State House lawn.  Elsewhere, demonstrations took place in Bennington, Putney, Rutland, Manchester and Middlebury.   In Illinois, demonstrations were held in Chicago,  Glen Ellyn, Springfield,   Vernon Hills, and Downers Grove.  In Indiana, a march was planned in Indianapolis.   In Iowa, marches were planned in Des Moines,  Iowa City  and in Cedar Rapids.   In Michigan, Marches occurred in Detroit,   Grand Rapids, Lansing,  among many statewide.  In Minnesota, 20,000 people attended a march in Saint Paul   Other marches were held in Rochester,   Grand Marais,  Duluth,  Aitkin, Karlstad, Ely, Brainerd,  Starbuck, Sartell,  North Branch, Willmar, Mankato.  In Missouri, marches took place in Kansas City, O'Fallon,  Springfield  and St. Louis. The St. Louis march was scheduled to begin at 10:00am at Union Station and culminate at the Gateway Arch.  Initial estimates anticipate 10,000 attendees.  The Kansas City rally held at Theis (Volker) Park, just south of the Nelson-Atkins Art Gallery, drew 6,000 participants.  The KC March was organized by students from area-wide high schools, who set up a Facebook page chronicling the event.  Twenty-one Kansas & Missouri organizations hosted the event.  The rally culminated in a march through the nearby Country Club Plaza upscale shopping district.  Organizers partnered with the Poor People's Campaign  to promote their Faith Assembly at Community Christian Church—planned by Kansas and Missouri organizers together.  In North Dakota, marches took place in Fargo,  Bismarck  and Minot.  In Ohio there was a rally in Cleveland in Public Square.   In Cincinnati a rally took place at City Hall, which followed a performance with seventeen flutes made from shotgun barrels, as a memorial to the victims of the Parkland shooting.  Another march occurred in Columbus at the Ohio Statehouse,  and other rallies took place in Athens and Dayton, each drawing hundreds of protesters. In South Dakota, hundreds attended a march in Sioux Falls.  Sister marches were held in Rapid City  and Vermillion.  In Wisconsin, marches were planned in Green Bay, La Crosse, Madison, Appleton and Milwaukee.   In Kansas, demonstrations were planned in Wichita,  Topeka,  Lawrence, and Kansas City's Theis Park. Police estimated 5-6,000 participants in Kansas City's event.   In Alabama, marches took place in Birmingham, Mobile, Dothan, Montgomery, Selma, Jasper, and Florence. The largest of these, the Birmingham march, drew over 5,000 attendees.  In Florida, demonstrations took place in Gulf Breeze,  Miami Beach, Orlando  and West Palm Beach,  Naples where 3,000 people gathered at Cambier Park for the march and a rally. The Orlando march was organized by Florida Resistance, and was held at Lake Eola Park in downtown Orlando.  The city where the school shooting occurred, Parkland, also had a march.  Similar marches were also held in northeast Florida in Jacksonville, Fernandina Beach, and Saint Augustine  A rally in Jacksonville had a turnout of over 1,000 people in Hemming Park. Hundreds of people marched from Hemming Park to the Duval County Courthouse with signs including: "Grab them by the mid-terms" and "#neveragain".  Notable speakers included John Phillips, the civil attorney of Jordan Davis, the seventeen year old who was shot and killed at a gas station in 2012 and Stranger Things actor Chester Rushing. In Saint Augustine, the march began by walking over the Bridge of Lions, down Avenida Menenedez, ending at Fort Castillo. The event was organized by Flagler college students with assistance from Indivisible St. Johns, St. Johns DEC, Women's March St.Augustine, and Ponte Vedra United Progress.  The Fernandina march saw a turnout of around 1,200, and began north on 6th Street and then down Centre Street. One sign read: "Let's be responsible adults"; another stated: "Organizing, An Active Form of Grieving".  In Georgia, rallies were held at the Georgia State Capitol in Atlanta.   Athens, Augusta,  and Dahlonega.  In Kentucky, marches were held in Bowling Green,  Calvert City,  Lexington,  Louisville  and Marshall County.  In Louisiana, marches were held in Baton Rouge,  Lafayette,  and New Orleans.  In Maryland, students from Severna Park High School and other Anne Arundel County Public Schools  planned a demonstration to be held at Lawyer's Mall in Annapolis.  They invited 188 state legislators. Students, teachers, the Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley, and Moms Demand Action were scheduled to speak.  In Baltimore, student members of the Student Activist Association at Baltimore Polytechnic Institute organized a march to begin at War Memorial Plaza in front of City Hall and ending near the Inner Harbor.   The Mayor of Baltimore, Catherine E. Pugh also announced that she was organizing 60 free buses to take students to the demonstrations in Washington, D. C.  In North Carolina, marches were held in Asheville,  Charlotte,  Durham,  Raleigh,   and Wilmington.  In Oklahoma, marches were held in Oklahoma City  and Tulsa.  In South Carolina, marches were held in downtown Charleston, Greenville,  and Columbia.  In Tennessee,  demonstrations were held in Chattanooga,  Knoxville,  Memphis,  Cookeville, and Nashville.  In Texas, demonstrations were held in Austin,   Corpus Christi,  Dallas,  El Paso, Fort Worth,  Houston, and San Antonio. In Corpus Christi, students from W. B. Ray High School were scheduled to lead a march at 3:00pm in Sherill Veterans Memorial Park.  In Virginia, Richmond Public Schools planned a march to take place at the Virginia State Capitol at 10:00am.  A march was also scheduled in downtown Norfolk.  In Alaska, A march attended by hundreds of people occurred in Anchorage. Marches also took place in Fairbanks, Homer, Juneau and Ketchikan.  In Arizona, marches were held in Phoenix,  Prescott,  Tucson  and Sahuarita. In California, marches were held in Encinitas,  Escondido,  Fresno,  Los Angeles,  Orange County,  Sacramento,  San Diego,  San Luis Obispo,  San Jose,  Oakland,  and San Francisco.  In Hawaii, demonstrations were held in Honolulu,  Kahului,  and Waimea.  A march was held in each of the cities of Denver, Colorado;  Boise, Idaho;  Idaho Falls;  and Helena, Montana;  In New Mexico, marches were held in Albuquerque   and Santa Fe.  In Oregon, marches happened in Corvallis,  Bend,  Eugene,  Salem,  Florence,  Coos Bay   and Portland.  The Portland event included a march from the North Park Blocks  to Pioneer Courthouse Square, where Portugal. The Man performed.   In Utah, there were several marches planned including in Logan, Salt Lake City, Park City, Provo, Cedar City and St. George.   In the state of Washington, marches attended by hundreds took place in Spokane,  and Yakima.  Thousands marched in Seattle and Bellingham.   In an official announcement to the state, Governor Ricardo Rosselló announced that he commissioned the Secretary of State, Luis G. Rivera Marín, to begin preparations for the march in San Juan.  Rosselló called for all citizens and civic, religious, and private sector organizations to stand united in solidarity for improved gun control.  He also remarked that Puerto Rico has the strictest gun control regulations of all jurisdictions in the country.  Rivera Marín stated that "our communities need to be a place where our people have peace, not fear".  He announced that the march would begin at Condado Lagoon and culminate at the Peace Pavilion in Luis Muñoz Rivera Park.  In British Columbia, marches were planned in Vancouver and Victoria.  Marches were set to take place in Calgary and Edmonton, Alberta.  Students from R.D. Parker Collegiate in Thompson, Manitoba, were planning to march.  In Ontario, marches were planned in Ottawa,  Guelph, Kitchener,  Stratford,  Toronto,  and Waterloo.  In Quebec marches were planned in Montreal, Westmount,  Quebec City, and Sherbrooke.  New Brunswick was set to have a march in Fredericton.  Newfoundland and Labrador planned a march to take place in St. John's.  Marches were planned in Accra, Ghana;  and Mozambique.  Survivors from the Parkland shooting spoke at the rally in Tel Aviv, Israel, which took place at the U.S. Embassy.  Marches were planned for Hong Kong; Mumbai, India; and Tokyo and Okinawa, Japan.  Students from the International School of Geneva in Switzerland organized a rally outside the European headquarters of the United Nations, attracting hundreds of students.  In Germany, protests were held in Berlin,  Hamburg,  Frankfurt,  Friedrichshafen, Heidelberg, Munich, and Wiesbaden.  Events also took place in Reykjavík,  Barcelona,  Oslo,  Stockholm,  and Geneva.  In the United Kingdom, hundreds marched outside the US embassy in London.  Marchers also held a "die in" and lay on the ground outside the US embassy to show solidarity with the Parkland students.  Demonstrations also took place in Belfast  and London.  In Scotland, relatives of the Dunblane massacre victims joined a demonstration outside the US consulate in Edinburgh.  International and American students rallied in Rome near the US embassy, some holding signs that read "Protect People, Not Guns", "Enough is Enough", and "Dress Codes Are More Regulated Than Guns", as they wanted to make their voice clear to America.  The march in Rome was organized by the Rome chapter of American Expats for Positive Change (AEPC); the organizers stated their efforts to support America and safety in U.S. schools, even though gun violence was not solely an American issue.  In Amsterdam, hundreds participated in a demonstration near the US consulate on the Museumplein.  The organizers and speakers included American and Dutch high school students, an alumna of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, and a Florida student walkout organizer who lost a friend in the Parkland shooting.    Protests were also held in Vienna, Paris, The Hague,  Majorca, Copenhagen,  and Brussels.    Marches were planned for Melbourne, Brisbane, Canberra,  and Sydney, Australia.  New Zealand planned marches in Albert Park, Auckland; Parliament House, Wellington; Cathedral Square, Christchurch; and Union Hall at the University of Otago, Dunedin.  In Argentina, a march was planned in Buenos Aires.  Washington, D. C. Washington, D. C. 