The Amsterdam Dance Event (ADE) is a five-day electronic music conference and festival held annually in mid-October. The event is organized by The Amsterdam Dance Event Foundation  and offers a full program of daytime conferences at ADE Pro, ADE Tech, HDE, ADE University, ADE Next, ADE Beamlab and ADE Green, alongside the nighttime ADE Festival which features 450 events and 2,200 artists over five days in 115 clubs and venues. The shows attract over 350,000 people from all over the world to the city, making Amsterdam   one of the busiest clubbing cities in the world. Started in 1995 as a three-day conference  and attended by 300 delegates with thirty DJs performing, the ADE was initially based in De Balie for the daytime conference and at night featured shows in three venues: Paradiso, Melkweg and Club Escape. The event starts off on Wednesday with ADE Pro, ADE Tech. ADE Green and ADE University,  plus in the evening the DJ Cook-Off, which was won for a third time by Seth Troxler in 2013. Alongside that, ADE also now includes the awards ceremony of the DJ Mag Top 100 DJs Poll.   The ADE Pro daytime program, which attracted 5,500 music, media and technology industry professionals in 2014, is based around the Felix Meritis centre and the Dylan Hotel, both located on the Keizersgracht.  ADE University, is a program for aspiring music industry professionals, with ADE Green (in association with SFX) taking place at the Chicago Social Club. The festival also includes the Hard Dance Event (HDE) in the Melkweg for harder styles of electronic music.   ADE also opens its doors to non-professional musicians with ADE Next, where aspiring artists and producers are invited to meet some of the world’s most popular and in-demand artists, DJs and producers face-to-face in order to get expert opinions on their work.  The event's latest initiative is ADE Playground, which started in 2011 as a new technology showcase, but since 2012 features around 30 pop-up events, surprise daytime appearances by top DJs, special product lines, film screenings, and discounts in shops and bars.  In 2012 it was also announced that ADE would officially go from a four-day event to five days due to the rapidly growing number of 'afters' events on Sunday. The nighttime line-up features over 2200 DJs and artists as well as a selection of upcoming local and international talent, playing to a total of more than 350,000 clubbers in venues all over the city.  According to the Dutch Daily News, artists who have appeared at ADE in the past include "Chuckie (NL), Armin van Buuren (NL), David Guetta (FR), Laidback Luke (NL), Fedde Le Grand (NL), Fatboy Slim (GB), Jay Lumen (HU), Richie Hawtin (CA), Afrojack (NL), Paul van Dyk (DE), Junkie XL (NL) and Chase & Status (GB)".  