The Bangladesh Drug War or Bangladesh's War on Drugs refers to the raid on alleged drug dealers by the Government of Bangladesh under Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina in 2018. The extra-judicial killings of alleged drug dealers by the elite anti-crime unit, the Rapid Action Battalion (RAB), and the police have been criticized by human rights groups and foreign diplomats.   Bangladesh has an unknown number of drug addicts, with estimates ranging from 100,000 to 4 million .  Since 2015, there has been a government focus on tackling a cheap methamphetamine tablet known as Yaba and police have made significant pill seizures.  More than 29 million "Yaba" pills were seized in 2016, contrasted to just 1.3 million in 2011, according to a 2016 Bangladeshi government report.  There are allegations that a number of big dealers are linked to the ruling Awami League party,  pro-government Jubo League, and Shechasebok League.  Bangladesh started a major "Yaba" crackdown in mid-May, 2018 in response to a surging trade of “Yaba”. Fifty-two accused drug dealers were confirmed to be killed in the first 10 days of the operation.  According to a Bangladesh Police spokesperson, about 15,000 people have been arrested in nationwide raids in the first three weeks of the operation.  22,000 people were arrested from mid-May, 2018 to July, 2018 due to alleged involvement in the drug trade.  According to Odhikar, a Dhaka-based human rights group, 211 drug suspects have been killed from mid-May, 2018 to July, 2018. Among them more than a third were first arrested.  Most of the killings followed a common script: alleged drug dealers died in “gunfights”, usually at night, with weapons and drugs recovered near the deceased drug dealers.  Some of the notable incidents of killing are: According to The Telegraph, there are "allegations the campaign is a cover for a wave of extrajudicial killings and political intimidation ahead of a general election later this year."  In a cited incident, Habibur Rahman, an activist for the opposition party, was killed in an alleged shootout. His family said that he had been arrested at a mosque and had never used drugs.  Marcia Bernicat, the US ambassador to Bangladesh, the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights, the European Union, and Human Rights Watch expressed concern over the number of people killed.    Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina dismissed the allegation of any innocent people being harassed. Asaduzzaman Khan, the Minister of Home Affairs, dismissed any allegation of extra-judicial killing.  One police officer in charge of an operation that ended with killing an alleged drug dealer said drug use led to crime and claimed that arresting drug dealers did not help.  "They come out on bail and they do the same thing, selling and using drugs," he said. "Every drug dealer should be killed. Then drugs can be controlled." Home Minister Asaduzzaman Khan denied allegations the police were executing suspects without taking them through the judicial process. "Our law enforcement people don’t execute anyone. If they do so, they will going against ethics, and will be fired if investigations prove they acted outside the law," he told Reuters. "This is not a lawless country."  