 Various cells 83 civilians killed The Islamist insurgency in Mozambique is an ongoing conflict in Cabo Delgado Province, Mozambique, between Ansar al-Sunna, an Islamist militant group attempting to establish an Islamic state in Mozambique, and Mozambican security forces. Civilians have also been targets of attacks by Islamist militants.  Ansar al-Sunna (English: Supporters of the tradition) is similar to the name of an Iraqi Sunni insurgent group that fought against US troops between 2003 and 2007. Locals call them "Al-Shabaab" but they are a separate organization from Somali Al-Shabaab.  The militants are known to speak Portuguese, the official language of Mozambique, Kimwane, the local language, and Swahili, the language spoken in the Great Lakes region. Reports also state that members are mostly Mozambicans from Mocimboa da Praia, Palma and Macomia districts, but also include foreign nationals from Tanzania and Somalia.  Russia's state-owned broadcaster, TASS, reported that the Russian and Mozambican governments signed an agreement on military and technical cooperation in late January, 2017. The document stipulates deliveries of arms and military equipment, as well as other military-oriented products, spare parts and components as part of the war on terrorism.  Ansar al-Sunna, also known by its original name "Ahlu Sunnah Wa-Jamo" (translated "adepts of the prophetic tradition"), was initially a religious movement in northern districts of Cabo Delgado  which first appeared around 2015. It was formed by followers of the radical Kenyan cleric Aboud Rogo, who was killed in 2012. Thereafter, some of members of his movement settled down in Kibiti, Tanzania, before moving into Mozambique.  Ansar al-Sunna claims that Islam as practised in Mozambique has been corrupted and no longer follows the teachings of Muhammad. The movement's members consequently entered traditional mosques with weapons in order to threaten others to follow their own radical beliefs.  The movement is also anti-Christian and anti-Western, and has tried to prevent people from attending hospitals or schools which it considers secular and anti-Islamic.   This behavior alienated much of the local population instead of converting them to Ahlu Sunnah Wa-Jamo, so that the movement's members broke away and formed their own places of worship.  Over time, the group became increasinly violent: It called for Sharia law to implemented in the country,  no longer recognized the Mozambican government, and started to form hidden camps in Macomia District, Mocímboa da Praia District, and Montepuez District. There, Ansar al-Sunna militants were trained by ex-policemen, and ex-frontier guards who had been fired and held grudges against the government. The movement also contacted other Islamist militants in East Africa, and reportedly hired al-Shabaab trainers from Somalia, Tanzania, and Kenya. These al-Shabaab trainers acted as mercenaries, however, and aided Ansar al-Sunna not out of actual connections between al-Shabaab and Ansar al-Sunna, but due to the pay they received from the latter.  Some of the Ansar al-Sunna militants have also journeyed abroad to receive direct training by other militant groups.  The militants are not unified, but split into different cells which do not appear to much coordinate their actions.  By August 2018, the Mozambiquan police had identified six men as leaders of the militants in Cabo Delgado: Abdul Faizal, Abdul Raim, Abdul Remane, Ibn Omar, "Salimo", and Nuno Remane.  Ansar al-Sunna funds itself through heroin, contraband and ivory trade.  While religion does play a fundamental role in the conflict, analysts believe the most important factors in the insurgency are widespread social, economic and political problems in Mozambique. Unemployment and especially youth unemployment are considered the main causes for locals to join the Islamist rebels. Increasing inequalities have led many young people to be easily attracted by such a radical movement,     as Ansar al-Sunna promises that its form of Islam will act as "antidote" to the existing "corrupt, elitist rule".  