A U.S. Air Force military training leader (MTL) is a non-commissioned officer with specific duties.They are assigned the duty of transitioning non-prior service airmen in the Air Force into the personal adjustment to military life. The MTLs' main responsibility is to continue the training the airman has learned in basic military training. The military training leader (8B100) career field has undergone numerous changes to make it what it is today.  Student training advisor (STA) first started around 1973 as 99128’s.  At that time they were combined with the military training instructors and then split to their own AFSC[clarification needed] (99138) in 1975. In late 1991 the name was changed to military training manager. In October 1998, Chief Master Sergeant Doug Hodge changed the name to military training leader. This name was created as a more descriptive way to explain the duties of this position. Showing how leadership was paramount in this position. Being able to show leadership is what being an MTL is all about. Another change to the program was the creation of a Command MTL position at 2 AF on 7 Aug 1997.  Command MTLs are the OPR for all NPS military training programs and responsible for the selection and training of all assigned MTLs. Prior to a phase program airmen went from basic military training’s very structured, controlled environment to a “no rules” tech school environment; discipline problems were common. Phase programs were instituted at several tech-training locations in the early 80’s, but a standardized MAJCOM directed phase program was not implemented until 1996; a MAJCOM directed phase program was implemented 1983 (est.) AETCI 36-2216, Administration of Military Standards and Discipline Training, directs the phase program. MTL Mission:  To adapt NPS airmen to military life and provide the AF with highly trained, motivated, self-disciplined, and physically fit airmen with exceptional military bearing. Unlike the Army, the Air Force uses a different specialist (MTLs) to continue military training during advanced individual or technical training. What we know now as Military Training Leaders was created in 1973. Over the years the name has changed but the responsibilities has increased. Student Training Advisor (STA) 1973-1992 Military Training Manager (MTM) 1992-1998 Military Training Leader (MTL) 1998–Present CONUS locations with Military Training Leaders: (as of Sep 09): Most people are unaware of how many locations in the CONUS there are Military Training Leaders assigned. There are over 37 locations. The bases under the bold indicate the Detachment or Geographically Separated Unit (GSU). Headquarters Second Air Force, Keesler AFB Lackland AFB Keesler AFB Sheppard AFB Vandenberg AFB, CA Headquarters Nineteenth Air Force, Randolph AFB Air Force Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson AFB 59th Medical Wing, Lackland AFB Flag folding Monitoring airmen Drill and ceremonies Military training leader Open ranks inspection Parade 