Inverted relief, inverted topography, or topographic inversion refers to landscape features that have reversed their elevation relative to other features.  It most often occurs when low areas of a landscape become filled with lava or sediment that hardens into material that is more resistant to erosion than the material that surrounds it.  Differential erosion then removes the less resistant surrounding material, leaving behind the younger resistant material, which may then appear as a ridge where previously there was a valley. Terms such as "inverted valley" or "inverted channel" are used to describe such features.  Inverted relief has been observed on the surfaces of other planets as well as on Earth. For example, well-documented inverted topographies have been discovered on Mars.  Several processes can cause the floor of a depression to become more resistant to erosion than its surrounding slopes and uplands:  A classic example of inverted relief is Table Mountain, Tuolumne County, California. Multiple lava flows filled an ancient fluvial valley that cut westward through the central Sierra Nevada range to the Central Valley about 10.5 million years ago. These Miocene lava flows filled this ancient river valley with a thick sequence of potassium-rich trachyandesite lavas that are significantly more resistant to erosion than the Mesozoic siltstone and other rock in which the valley was cut. Thus, subsequent differential erosion left these volcanic rocks as a sinuous ridge, which now stands well above landscape underlain by more deeply eroded Mesozoic rocks.  Inverted relief in the form of sinuous and meandering ridges, which are indicative of ancient, inverted fluvial channels, is argued to be evidence of water channels on the Martian surface in the past.      An example is Miyamoto Crater, which was proposed in 2010 as a potential location to be searched for evidence of life on Mars.  Other examples are shown in the photographs below. CTX image of craters in Aeolis quadrangle with black box in the large crater at lower right showing location of next image. Image from previous photo of a curved ridge that may be an old stream that has become inverted. Illumination is from the NW. Image taken with HiRISE under the HiWish program. Meandering Ridges that are probably inverted stream channels. Illumination is from the NW. Image taken with HiRISE. Sinuous Ridges within a branching fan in lower member of Medusae Fossae Formation,   as seen by HiRISE. Illumination is from the NW. Inverted Streams near Juventae Chasma, Syrtis Major quadrangle, as seen by Mars Global Surveyor.  These streams begin at the top of a ridge then run together. Inverted Channels near Juventae Chasma, as seen by HiRISE.  Channels were once regular stream channels. Image in Coprates quadrangle. Scale bar is 500 meters long. Inverted Channel with many branches in Syrtis Major quadrangle. Inverted Stream Channels in Antoniadi Crater, as seen by HiRISE. Inverted Channel in Miyamoto Crater, Margaritifer Sinus quadrangle, as seen by HiRISE. Illumination is from the NW. The scale bar is 500 meters long. CTX context image for next image that was taken with HiRISE.  Note long ridge going across image is probably an old stream.  Box indicates area for HiRISE image. Example of inverted terrain in Parana Valles region, as seen by HiRISE under the HiWish program. Illumination is from the NW. Possible inverted stream channels, Amazonis quadrangle, as seen by HiRISE under HiWish program.  The ridges were probably once stream valleys that have become full of sediment and cemented.  So, they became hardened against erosion which removed surrounding material. Illumination is from the left (west). 