HaShir Shelanu (Hebrew: השיר שלנו‎, lit. Our Song) was an Israeli daily comical musical telenovela that ran for four seasons on the yes-5 Israeli Movie Channel (Arutz Ha'kolnoa Hayisraeli) and repeating on Channel 2. The last episode was broadcast in April 2007. 118 episodes Ninet (Ninet Tayeb) is a young, unknown girl from the country who comes to Tel-Aviv and works with her cousin Ronnie (Niv Raz) at his cafeteria in Yardena Tamir's (Alisa Rosen) Academy of Music. After school hours are over Ninet goes to the classroom and sings. Her talent is revealed accidentally by the music teacher, Doron Sadeh (Sa'ar Badishi) who has her enrolled in the school. Ninet falls in love with Zohar Lahat (Ran Danker) and the couple go on a rocky road towards happiness disturbed mainly by Noa Shahar (Efrat Boymold) who wants Zohar for herself. Her best friend Dana Snir (Aliyana Bakyer) and her mother Naomi (Hana Laslow) help her by driving Zohar and Ninet apart. 100 episodes Three years after graduating from the academy, Ninet and Zohar became the country's most well-known couple and they plan to get married. They have moved into the luxury "Sun and Beach" apartment complex in Tel-Aviv and, surprisingly enough, their friends from the academy have also moved into the complex. Due to the ending of the first season in which Givon (Guy Zo-Eretz) was killed while trying to murder Ninet and frame Naomi, his brother Ariel (Oshri Cohen) and sister (Yael Sharoni) are in town and plan their revenge on Ninet, Naomi and Noa. While conspiring to assassinate them, Ariel falls in love with Ninet. 73 episodes At the beginning of the third season viewers find out that the first two seasons of the show were actually a TV show called Her Song. The two leading actors of Her Song, Rani Aviv who played Zohar Lahat (Ran Danker) and Yonatan Barak who played Ariel Silver (Oshri Cohen), prepare to go to the army the day after they finish shooting the final episode of the second season. Rani goes to the paratroopers unit and Yonatan goes to an army band. All the other characters from the first two seasons occasionally appear under their real names. New characters join the show. 75 episodes Almost the plot of the third season. The plot mostly concerns the investigation of who tried to murder Tamara and Karin Koren. Karin Koren knows who tied to murder her by shooting her twice in the stomach when she was pregnant and shooting Tamara three times in the chest. Karin Promises Yotam  that she will not tell anyone he shot her if he starts going out with her. After Yotam shot both Karin and Tamara they stayed in the hospital asleep for six months. Tamara wakes up and does not remember anything and does not remember that ten minutes before Yotam shot her she asked Rani Aviv to marry him and he accepted, so she does not love him any more. Rani still fights over her to get her back with him. Later in the season, some people discover that the inspector for the case of the shooting of Tamara and Karin Nora Spector is Karin's mother. 