  Hollywood 7 (known as S Club 7 in Hollywood in the U.S.) was the third series in the BBC television series starring British pop group S Club 7 and the second television series shot in California. The programme was shown every week on CBBC from 27 September 2001 and 20 December 2001  and starred all seven members of the band as fictionalized versions of themselves. The series also featured former Brady Bunch actor Barry Williams as Dean Strickland, S Club 7's manager. Following the pattern of the previous series of the show, the show was renamed S Club 7 in Hollywood for American audiences. It aired on the renamed ABC Family network from 29 September 2001 to 26 January 2002.  In the first episode of the series, the group decide to give themselves 24 hours to get themselves a new manager. The group come across Dean Strickland and he adopts the seven as their new manager. Shortly into the series, the group find themselves without a record deal and so they have to search for a deal, or else they'll disband. Luckily, the group find a record company willing to sign them. Unlike Miami 7 and L.A. 7, which portrays the S Club 7 as struggling just to make known of their existence, Hollywood 7 portrays the group's experiencing what they've been hoping for since they came to the States: having an agent, getting a record deal, becoming publicized, etc. They film their first music video, become a support act for a Latin heart-throb, and even have their first concert. At the end of the series, the group have to move back to England to record their album and start internationally promoting S Club 7, just as they're starting to become fully assimilated into American life. The series also saw, mirroring real life, a relationship between Hannah and Paul develop.  In the fifth episode of the series, they share a kiss which sends shock waves throughout the band. Hollywood 7 was released on PAL video on 29 April 2002. Unlike previous releases, it is only available in a "Complete Boxset" containing all thirteen episodes. The series was never released in America on NTSC VHS, nor was it ever released on DVD in United States or the United Kingdom. 