Stereotypes of librarians in popular culture are frequently negative: librarians are portrayed as puritanical, punitive, unattractive, and introverted if female, or timid and effeminate if male.  Such inaccurate stereotypes are likely to have a negative impact on the attractiveness of librarianship as a profession to young people.   In modern times, the archetype of the "sexy librarian" has also begun to gain some traction, introduced in an effort to subvert the popular matriarchal image and make them more appealing to the average consumer. Both archetypes boil down to a similar idea, however – an authoritative, implacable guardian of the books who, through either power or sex appeal, keep the library patrons in fear and thus maintain themselves as exclusive guardians of the otherwise obscure organization system in the library.  Children's literature offers a generally positive portrayal of librarians as knowledgeable, helpful, amazing and friendly, becoming more positive over the course of the 20th century.  Adult literature, however, portrays the profession more negatively.  Between these, portrayals of librarians in young adult fiction are neutral to negative.  Here librarians are predominantly female, middle-aged, usually unattractive in some way, and mostly unmarried.  Personality is mixed between positive traits such as intelligence, likeability, and kind-heartedness; and negative traits such as strictness, timidity, excess fastidiousness, and eccentricity.  While some provide assistance to the main characters, several are the villains of the story.  Duties generally include reference, but may only show clerical tasks; however the amount of technology used by librarian characters has increased over time.  A disproportionate number of the librarians represented in novels are in the detective fiction genre, frequently as an amateur detective and protagonist.  Although the stereotype of the librarian as "passive bore" does not seem reconcilable with the intensity of a mystery, the stereotypical librarian does share many traits with the successful detective.  Their mindset is focused, calm, unbiased in considering viewpoints, and focused on the world around them.  By personality they are industrious perfectionists—and eccentric.  The drab and innocuous look of the stereotypical librarian is perfect for avoiding suspicion, while their research skills and ability to ask the right questions allow them to procure and evaluate the information necessary to solve the case.  The knowledge they have gained from wide reading successfully competes with a private investigator's personal experience.  For example, Jacqueline Kirby is drawn into the mystery in Elizabeth Peters' novel The Seventh Sinner (1972) due to her awareness of her surroundings.  Wearing the stereotypical bun, glasses, and practical clothes, together with an eccentrically large purse, she is self-possessed and resourceful, knowledgeable in a variety of fields and skilled at research.  Papers on librarians in popular culture have also analyzed: In the Sune series, Sune's mother Karin is a librarian who does not like comic books, a reference to the comic book debates of earlier decades.  Other appearances of fictional librarians in literature include: Ashanti White, author of the 2012 book, Not Your Ordinary Librarian: Debunking the Popular Perceptions of Librarians, wrote that the shushing buttoned-down, older librarian was the most common depiction of librarians, in fiction, followed by the sexy librarian] stereotype. Ramirose Ilene Attebury, in Library Philosophy and Practice reported she found that the sexy librarian stereotype was more popular than the old maid stereotype, in YouTube videos.  According to Ann Seidl, director of the documentary The Hollywood Librarian,  librarians in film are often portrayed as meek, timid, and unassertive in nature.   After indexing hundreds of appearances of librarians in film, she found that "the shorter the reference to a librarian in a film, the worse the stereotype."  By the 1950s, movies had established the stereotype of librarians as "spinsters" and "eggheads".   Thus, female movie librarians are usually unmarried, prim, and introverted.  They are usually young and may be attractive, but dress drably and are sexually repressed.  The "fate-worse-than-death view of librarians"  is particularly evident in movies such as It's a Wonderful Life and The Music Man. Male movie librarians – mild, intelligent, and timid – have fewer and less important roles.  Seidl's documentary discusses such stereotypes as: in contrast with such more well-rounded characters as: In 1994's live-action animated film The Pagemaster, frightened and pessimistic Richard Tyler (Macaulay Culkin) is sent on an errand by his parents but ends up caught in a thunderstorm. He takes shelter in a library, where he meets an eccentric librarian, Mr. Dewey (Christopher Lloyd), who encourages Richard to get a library card, despite Richard's protests that he doesn't want a book while he waits out the storm. Mr. Dewey tells Richard that a library card is a "passport to the wonderful and quite unpredictable world of books." While Richard looks for a phone, he accidentally falls. When he awakens, the library art around him is melting and overtakes him - turning everything into animated illustrations. Richard befriends three books and has to overcome obstacles from classic literature to get back to his real life. At the end of the film, Mr. Dewey "bends the rules" and allows Richard to check out all three books (even though the library has a borrow policy of only two books). Mr. Dewey also smiles to Richard as he leaves, hinting that Mr. Dewey is actually the Pagemaster and none of the adventure was a dream. Mr. Dewey introduced Richard to the adventures possible in libraries and books as he "knows just how magical of a place a library can be."  Librarians are usually ordinary people caught up in circumstances, rather than being heroes; likewise they are rarely villainous although they may have flaws, such as racism in Goodbye, Columbus.  Other movie appearances of librarians noted in the literature include: In Only Two Can Play Peter Sellers plays the role of a poorly paid and professionally frustrated Welsh librarian and occasional drama critic, whose affections fluctuate between glamorous Liz and his long-suffering wife Jean.  The 1999 movieThe Mummy has a main character, Evelyn Carnahan (Rachel Weisz) who is a librarian. The character is awesomely clumsy and later moves away from her profession in the sequels. But a memorable quote from her, upon introduction to the other main character shows a more positive depiction of librarians:Evelyn: "Look, I... I may not be an explorer, or an adventurer, or a treasure-seeker, or a gunfighter, Mr. O'Connell, but I am proud of what I am."Rick: "And what is that?"Evelyn: "I... am a librarian."In the Disney/Pixar's 2013  film Monsters University, Alison Nastasi of Flavorwire says the university librarian "isn’t fond of noise and doesn’t think twice about tossing rowdy students out the window into a pond below".  The television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer (1997-2003) featured the character of Rupert Giles as school librarian at Sunnydale High and mentor for the main character of Buffy. At the start of the series Giles is often portrayed stereotypically, for example he wears old-fashioned clothes and spectacles, is intelligent and well-read though has a dislike for computers, and is overly concerned with following regulations. As the series progresses the character is given the opportunity to develop beyond these stereotypes as we learn that Giles was a rebellious and angry teenager who was partly responsible for the death of a friend after dabbling in dark magic. He is also depicted at being competent with weaponry and hand-to-hand combat and at playing the guitar and singing. Though Giles never has a long-lasting on-screen relationship and has never been married, he does have brief romances on screen and is acknowledged as an attractive man by other characters in the show; therefore at least partially refuting the usual stereotype. From 2004-2008, the John Rogers fantasty-adventure television film franchise, The Librarian, aired on TNT. The three films focus on a librarian (portrayed by Noah Wyle) who protects secret artifacts in the Metropolitan Public Library in New York.  The film franchise led to the television series The Librarians  which began airing in 2014 on TNT. It follows a new team of librarians who solve mysteries, recover powerful artifacts, and fight against supernatural threats.  In the 2009 "Ron and Tammy" episode of the NBC comedy series Parks and Recreation, Leslie Knope's dreams of a local park are almost squashed by Tammy, the new library director at the Pawnee Public Library and Ron Swanson's ex-wife. Tammy places a claim for the lot that Leslie intended to use for her park. Tammy then tries to sexually manipulate Ron into giving her the lot for the library. Leslie calls librarians "diabolical, ruthless bunch of bureaucrats" as well as "punk-ass book jockeys." In "Ron and Tammy: II", Leslie says Tammy is "just a manipulative, psychotic, library book-peddling, sex-crazed, she-demon." Tammy also has books on "Approved" and "Rejected" shelves, which insinuate that the library operates in a biased manner. The depictions of the library on Parks and Recreation "illuminate the nature of library anxiety."  Actress Christi Waldon appeared in season two of Stranger Things as "Marissa", the librarian of the Hawkins Public Library. The episodes she appeared in were season one episode three, "Holly, Jolly", and season two episode three, "The Pollywog". In season two episode six of CSI: Crime Scene Investigation entitled "Caged", actor Michael A. Goorjian plays Aaron Pratt, an autistic librarian who witnesses the death of a colleague. Aaron states that he has "a masters in library science and an English Degree from UNLV."   The PBS puppet series Between the Lions promotes early reading to little children. Theo and Cleo Lion are the librarians. In creating the Australian miniseries The Librarians, co-producers and -writers Wayne Hope and Robyn Butler consulted with real librarians for research, and took their advice to avoid shushing and cardigan-wearing librarian characters.  In currently running SyFy show The Magicians (based on the series by Lev Grossman), the Library of the Neitherlands is an archive that contains all of the knowledge in the universe. Librarians formed the Order of the Librarians, a group that protects that knowledge. The Library is staffed by Zelda Schiff, a prim, glasses-and-cardigan wearing librarian whose biggest concern is possible defacement of library books. the Librarian was in 1993 Stop-motion Episode of The Dreamstone, is voiced by Richard Griffiths There have been several characters associated with the library field in the realm of interactive entertainment,  often portrayed as guides and/or purveyors of knowledge who help the user progress within the game. Monkey Island II: LeChuck's Revenge, a PC game from 1991, features a notably large library, complete with a female librarian who wheels around in her chair between shelves and shushes the protagonist.  In 2006 Microsoft introduced an early version of what was to become the bing search engine that used over 600 pre-recorded video clips of actor Janina Gavankar, portraying the character of "Ms Dewey", described as a sexy librarian character.   Stardew Valley, an indie role-playing game released in 2016, features a town Library and Museum, staffed by Gunther, the museum curator. The Library and Museum is empty at the beginning of the game and Gunther asks players to help fill it by donating artifacts and minerals and finding the library's lost books. In 2003, Archie McPhee brought out a librarian action figure, modeled on Seattle Public Library librarian Nancy Pearl. 28,000 action figures were sold in the first week of their availability.  Wearing a suit, bun and glasses, the action figure sparked controversy, particularly for the button-triggered shushing motion.  Many librarians took it in a light-hearted spirit, while others felt it perpetuated negative stereotypes.  The original version of the action figure was discontinued, but Archie McPhee now sells a super-hero version of Nancy Pearl with a "removable cape and a deep understanding of how knowledge is organized."  