Lock-Up is an American crime drama series that premiered in syndication in September 1959 and concluded in June 1961. The half-hour episodes had little time for character development or subplots and presented a compact story without embellishment. The program stars Macdonald Carey as real-life Philadelphia corporate attorney Herbert L. Maris and John Doucette as police detective Lieutenant Jim Weston. Each episode began with the following introduction: "These stories are based on the files and case histories of Herbert L. Maris, prominent attorney, who has devoted his life to saving the innocent." The foundation of each episode is the cornerstone of English and American jurisprudence: a person charged with a crime is innocent until proven guilty in a court of law. The series featured stories persons who were unjustly accused, usually due to circumstantial evidence. The program's primary theme is that when individuals are charged with a crime not all is as it first appears and a thorough investigation is duly warranted in order to uncover vital facts pertinent to the case. Herbert L. Maris had an uncanny sense about the honest, innocent persons who had been falsely accused. He was an attorney who spent his spare time helping defendants unjustly charged by the  State. The stories do not involve federal crimes. Among the many guest stars on the show were:     Ziv Television Programs, Inc., of Cincinnati, Ohio, a producer and distributor of more than 40 television shows during the 1950s including Highway Patrol, Sea Hunt, Science Fiction Theatre, and subsequently, ZIV-United Artists produced the television series. Later, Showcase Media of Studio City, California distributed the series. ClassicFlix announced that they would release Season 1 on DVD in region 1 in 2017.  However, these plans were shelved indefintely on April 17, 2018, when ClassicFlix announced that they wouldn't be moving on with the project after all, due to the film elements not being in good enough shape.  