 Martin is an American sitcom that aired for five seasons on Fox from August 27, 1992, to May 1, 1997. Reflecting the rising popularity of the Fox network throughout the 1990s, Martin was one of the network's highest-rated shows during the sitcom's run. Set in Detroit, Michigan the series stars Martin Lawrence in the role of Martin Payne, a disc jockey with a girlfriend named Gina Waters (Tisha Campbell-Martin). Martin works for the fictional radio station WZUP and later for local Public-access television station Channel 51. A common theme of the series is Martin's selfish and free-spirited nature. Episodes often center on Martin's inappropriate behaviors and incessant smart mouth towards his friends, neighbors, and whoever else finds themselves in his presence. When all is said and done, however, Martin loves his family and friends—it just takes dire situations for him to show it.  As the series progressed, plotlines saw Martin eventually move on to become the host of the talk show Word on the Street, which aired on the small Detroit public-access television station Channel 51. He retained this position until the series' final episode, in which he and Gina prepared to move to Los Angeles, from where his show would be syndicated nationally. The move coincided fortuitously with Gina's promotion by her boss Mr. Whitaker to head up his company's new Los Angeles headquarters, after having shut down the Detroit office. Gina's best friend Pam, whom Whitaker let go two episodes earlier due to this consolidation and downsizing, went on to pursue a career in the music industry as an artists & repertoire (A&R), executive at Keep It Real Records. (This plotline is the subject of a backdoor pilot episode that was included in the Martin series for a planned sitcom on Fox starring Tichina Arnold to be called Goin' for Mine (Episode 129, "Goin' for Mine"). This sitcom never materialized, however.) And at series' end, Cole[who?] proposed to his even more dimwitted, but attractive and devoted girlfriend Shanise (portrayed by Maura McDade), and they made plans to move into their own place. The only actor to appear in every episode as the same character is Thomas Mikal Ford as Tommy. In early episodes, Lawrence began with a monologue of him speaking directly to the camera and audience from the darkened radio studio. In 1997, Tisha Campbell filed a lawsuit against her co-star Martin Lawrence and the show's producers for sexual harassment and verbal and physical assaults, and she did not appear in most of the season five episodes. The explanation in most of the episodes Campbell did not appear in was that Gina was "out on business", though in the two-part episode "Going Overboard" it was stated that Gina had arrived too late to board the boat for the trip alongside everyone else.  HBO Studios eventually settled the case with Campbell so that the show's last season could be completed.  Campbell did return to the Martin set to film the two-part series finale of the show under the condition that she would not share any scenes with or interact in any way with Martin Lawrence.  In the episode, Martin and Gina kept entering and exiting the sets at different times and the storyline was adjusted so that the characters were both part of it but never crossed paths. One of the trademark running gags of Martin, especially early in its run, was Lawrence playing multiple characters, utilizing various costumes and prosthetic appliances. This was often done as a plot device or comic relief. Season four was the last season to feature Lawrence as multiple characters on a regular basis. This technique was rarely used in Season 5, which was the final season of the series. The only characters that appeared in Season 5 were Sheneneh, Roscoe and Elroy. Mama Payne does not appear but her voice is heard in the holiday episode "Scrooge". Most of the other characters were last seen in Season 4 and the episodes they last appeared in seemingly wrote them out of the series. Reruns have been seen in first run syndication in the past. Reruns began airing on MTV2 on February 21, 2011. As of October 2015, reruns of Martin now air on BET. HBO Home Video has released all five seasons of Martin on DVD in Region 1. In January 2018, rumors have circulated that the popular series was possibly slated for a reboot due to a post that Martin Lawrence's fiance teased on Instagram, which made viral headlines to a popular blog The Shade Room. She posted a picture of the Martin TV show title card logo with the caption: "Got word from my fiance that my favorite TV show may be coming back" ending the comment with the peeking wide eyes emoji and Martin replied to the post with the same emoji, which can insinuate a common nod towards each other.  HipHollywood, another internet entertainment media blog, questioned Tisha Campbell-Martin on the rumor during an interview, in which she gave a ecstatic response that she can't speak upon it stating "It has been an honor to be Gina all these years and its surprising that people still love those characters so much. So, i can't tell you guys anything, but it is very excitng".  Adding insult to injury, a few days later during an E! News Daily Pop interview, she was caught off guard by the host who asked her about it, and instead of answering it, she jokingly denied it and brushed it off by changing the subject.  Her responses caused an immediate interest from all media outlets to believing that she confirmed a possible reboot.  Early February, TMZ caught up with Tichina Arnold, Tisha Campbell-Martin and Martin Lawrence altogether leaving Morton's Steakhouse in Burbank, California, all smiles and anticipating the same question. Martin replied by saying "Never Say Never", Tichina added by stating "In life there's always new beginnings, and there's always change...so we'll see what's happening". Tisha ended it bluntly and jokingly by blurting out  "We can't tell y'all shit, how 'bout that", The interview continues to go more in depth about questioning the shows popularity from the past and how a reboot can be made up to date with current events and hold its' popularity if it's greenlighted. Tichina and Tisha's responses kind of hinted and gave it away that it may happen, but realizes the questions already pushed them to reveal their answer, in which Tisha ends it with the same blunt quote she stated earlier in the interview.  The interview is also the first time Tisha and Martin is seen publicly together since their past cast debacle, which was part of the reason for the show's cancellation in 1997. It is also rumored that Affion Crockett may be part of the cast as Dragonfly Jones. 