Mary Shelley's Frankenhole is an American adult stop-motion animated television series created by Dino Stamatopoulos.   The series premiered on June 27, 2010 on Cartoon Network's late night programming block Adult Swim. It ended on March 25, 2012, with a total of 20 episodes, over the course of 2 seasons. Dr. Victor Frankenstein has completely mastered immortality and has now also created an infinite number of Einstein–Rosen Bridges (wormholes) or "Frankenholes" between Somewhere in Eastern Europe (which is teeming with monsters and supernatural forces) and every time period from the past and the future. This allows historical figures and celebrities seeking the doctor's services to find him. Although many classic horror monsters are present, the series' main focus is Dr. Frankenstein and his family. Creator Dino Stamatopoulos says "regular human beings are the monsters."  Besides Dr. Frankenstein himself, other characters from Frankenstein appear. Episodes in the first season were requested to air out of order by the series creator, Dino Stamatopolous, following the show's theme that all time takes place at once and is meaningless. Mother Teresa just can't say "no" to anyone, and ends up becoming the Frankensteins' indentured servant. Thomas Jefferson visits Dr. Frankenstein in hopes of pleasing his slaves, requesting Barack Obama's penis. After Victor Frankenstein forgets his 1000th anniversary with Elizabeth, he embarks on a time-travelling quest to prevent his past self from making Elizabeth immortal. Meanwhile, Jesus Christ stops by and asks Frankenstein and Polidori to invent socks to keep his feet warm. Season two episodes are titled in commemoration of famous writers and poets of classic science fiction.  John Belushi drinks Dr. Jekyll's potion, which turns him into Jim Belushi. Tired of movie theater disruptions, Victor hatches a plan with Joe to end vampires. Japan turns to Victor to defeat Hyralius, a Godzilla-like monster who makes lame jokes about Asian stereotypes. Death asks Jesus for advice on how to kill better, but Jesus cannot stop talking about himself. To prove he isn't jealous, Victor offers everyone in town with an under-average sized penis to have sex with Elizabeth. Meanwhile, the Invisible Man accidentally exposes himself to a little girl. Every episode, with the exception of "Mother To Be-Sa", is available for digital purchase on iTunes,  Google Play,  Amazon Video  and Microsoft.  