 Miranda was a British television sitcom written by and starring comedian Miranda Hart. It originally aired on BBC Two from 9 November 2009 and later on BBC One.  Developed from Hart's semi-autobiographical BBC Radio 2 comedy Miranda Hart's Joke Shop (2008), the situation comedy revolves around socially inept Miranda, who frequently finds herself in awkward situations.  The show features actors Sarah Hadland, Tom Ellis, Patricia Hodge, Sally Phillips, James Holmes and Bo Poraj. It was filmed in front of live audiences at the BBC Television Centre and The London Studios. Receiving positive comments from critics, Miranda won a Royal Television Society award and gained several BAFTA TV Award nominations.    The series has since been regularly repeated on British television and is available in the United States through Hulu.  The episodes revolve around the difficulties Miranda (Miranda Hart) gets herself into. She is 6 ft 1 in (185 cm) tall and, sometimes mistaken for a man, is addressed as 'Sir'. She has never fit in with her old boarding school friends, Tilly (Sally Phillips) and Fanny (Katy Wix), and finds social situations awkward, especially around men. She is a constant disappointment to her mother, Penny (Patricia Hodge), who is desperate for her to get a proper job and a husband. Although Miranda owns and lives above her own joke shop and boutique, she lacks any real capacity for business, so it is managed by her childhood friend Stevie Sutton (Sarah Hadland). The restaurant next door is initially run by Clive Evans (James Holmes), until series three, when the restaurant's chef, Gary Preston (Tom Ellis), purchases it from him. After many failed attempts at dating, Miranda and Gary, a friend from university whom Miranda fancies, decide to be just friends. Nevertheless, when Gary gets a girlfriend called Rose (Naomi Bentley), it prompts Miranda to start a new relationship with Michael Jackford (Bo Poraj), a local reporter whose work soon takes him to Africa. Upon his return he proposes to Miranda, as does Gary when he realises his love for her. Miranda accepts Gary's proposal rather than Michael's and Miranda and Gary get married in the final episode. Abigail Wilson, who worked for comedians Dawn French and Jennifer Saunders, suggested Hart pitch a show to the BBC after seeing her perform in 2003.  Following a read-through of her script with Saunders and BBC executives,  a television pilot, based on her semi-autobiographical writing, was filmed in early 2008,  and the series was then developed into a sitcom for radio;  Miranda Hart's Joke Shop aired on BBC Radio 2 in August and September 2008.  A television series was commissioned in August 2008 and began filming in June 2009.   Outdoor shots for series one were filmed in Hounslow, West London.  In an interview with the BBC's Writersroom, Hart said of the semi-autobiographical basis for the series: Well I developed this stand-up persona, and that's where it all started from. I realised I was getting laughs being a version of me, and that's what ended up in the sitcom. You do ultimately start from yourself but I'm pleased to say I did have to exaggerate for comedic effect. It wasn't entirely autobiographical. I'm not quite that mad. Each episode begins with a welcome to audience and a 'Previously in my life ...' segment, and Hart says a joke shop is the "right place" as the setting after being asked to consider an office to "normalise" the character.  Her love of 1970s comedy programmes, such as Some Mothers Do 'Ave 'Em, is the influence for Miranda. The episodes end with a 'You have been watching ...' credits section where each cast member waves goodbye, as seen concluding Jimmy Perry and David Croft sitcoms such as Dad's Army and Hi-de-Hi!.  Quoted in The Times, Hart says "I'm saying this is what I'm doing and I'm not scared to do it. Some of my comedy peers do slightly fear being a mainstream figure, as if it's slightly uncool. Well, I thought I'm going to embrace it."  Throughout each episode, Hart breaks the fourth wall and addresses the audience directly, a technique described as a "simple creative decision [that] makes this infectious comedy sing";  another critic stated "this is hard to pull off, but it works well".  Following the conclusion of the first series, the BBC commissioned a second series for BBC Two in 2010.  Of this, Hart said "I am not only relieved but totally overwhelmed by the response and thrilled that people have enjoyed the series. I am very grateful for all the support and to the BBC for giving me the chance to do another series next year."  Filming started during the first weeks of summer, and the new series began broadcast in November 2010.    The second series comprises six episodes and saw the return of Miranda's mother and friends, Stevie, Gary and Tilly.  For the BBC broadcast, following the end of each episode viewers could press the red button, or go online, to watch Hart interview a guest who had inspired her during the writing of the show.  Hart's friend Clare Balding was the first guest and they discussed how Balding influenced the character of Tilly.   Frank Skinner was interviewed for the second episode.  Following the end of episode five, which is a two-hander between Miranda and Penny, the red-button feature saw Hart interview her real-life mother.  In late 2010, Hart announced that she would be filming a special edition of Miranda for Comic Relief.  The sketch saw Miranda team up with dancers from Pineapple Dance Studios.  Miranda was recommissioned for a third series by BBC Comedy commissioner Cheryl Taylor in January 2011.  Hart revealed that the third series might not be ready until 2012, but she may write a Christmas special.  The following month it was announced that the third series of Miranda would be shown on BBC One.  In April 2011, Hart announced on The Graham Norton Show that she had set herself to start writing the third series the following month.  However, Hart revealed in November she had still not started writing the series.  That same month it was announced Hart would not be doing a new Christmas special, though the 2010 Christmas episode would be repeated on BBC One.  On 17 December 2011, Andrew Mickel of Digital Spy reported Hart's involvement with BBC One drama Call the Midwife had delayed the third series of Miranda until Autumn 2012.  Filming on the third series ended in early October 2012.  A month later, a BBC News reporter revealed that Gary Barlow would appear in an episode of the third series as himself. They stated that he would "get friendly in an unexpected way" with Hart.  The third series began broadcasting from 26 December 2012.  The outdoor scenes for the second episode of the third series were filmed in Church Street, Kingston upon Thames.  Due to the cliffhanger at the end of the third series, it was suspected that Miranda would return for a fourth series. However, in July 2014, Hart announced that there are no plans for a fourth series but 'a couple of specials' would be made.  Hart later announced that the two Christmas specials would be the end to the sitcom. Hart said the end was "going to be really emotional," but added that she didn't want her sitcom character "to keep falling over and making a fool of herself".  The first special, titled "I Do, But To Who?" aired on 25 December 2014  and the final episode titled "The Final Curtain" aired on 1 January 2015.  At the end of the final episode, Miranda said to the audience/viewers: "I don't know when and if I'll see you again..." In June 2015, Miranda Hart revealed that she hadn't ruled out a possible return for Miranda.  Sarah Hadland has suggested that the sitcom is set to return. Speaking in an interview with The Telegraph, the actress – who plays Miranda's friend Stevie in the show – confirmed that the comedy will be back "in some format". However, she wouldn't be drawn on specifics, just saying: "I can say there will be something".  In late May 2017, Tom Ellis suggested the possibility of future episodes in an interview on BBC Radio 2, saying that "we may be revisiting Miranda in the next couple of years".  The main cast of Miranda (aside from Ellis and Holmes), reunited for the 2017 Royal Variety Performance, for which Hart was the host. They appeared several times throughout the evening in character. In August 2018, it was reported that The Big Bang Theory star Jim Parsons was developing a US remake for Warner Bros. Television. Hart would be involved in developing the remake as a producer, but it was not revealed if she would star as well.   The first series was picked as one of the top 10 forthcoming TV shows for Autumn 2009 by The Sunday Times.  Ahead of the first episode airing, Dominic Maxwell in an article for The Times described it as an "old-school" sitcom and said that "It's good fun, if you buy into it. And if you do, it's because of Hart."  Also describing it as "old-fashioned", Vicky Frost for The Guardian said of the slapstick physical comedy that "It's not clever – but it is funny. And that, I think is at the heart of Miranda's appeal."  Mark Wright for The Stage said that Hodge gives a "brilliant, brilliant performance" and that "what sets Miranda out as something special is Hart herself, and the rest just gels around her."  The first series opened with 2.63 million viewers (10% audience share), rising to 3.14 million viewers (12% share) for the fourth episode.   The second series opened with 3.19 million viewers, rising to 4.01 million viewers for the third episode.   Rachel Tarley from the Metro said Miranda is an acquired taste and that an episode can be a mixed bag.  However, Tarley enjoyed the festive episode of series 2, saying "Hart got away with a lot of the more irritating qualities of her work, with help from the fantastic Patricia Hodge and Sally Phillips. Tonight was also the first we saw of Miranda's father, played by Tom Conti, who filled most of the episode's falling-over quota, so that Miranda finally remained pretty vertical throughout the episode."  She added that Hart is "a great observer of everyday dilemmas" and the best thing of all is she left the door open for a third series.  Dominic Cavendish of The Daily Telegraph called Miranda "the sitcom of the year",  while Chris Harvey of the same newspaper said "The truth is, pretty much every time Miranda turns and looks at the camera, I burst out laughing. And even when her slapstick is so obvious it wouldn't confuse a small child [..] I still laugh. Even when I'm trying not to. Even when I really, really don't want to."  Meanwhile, Catherine Gee said the show was a flop and listed six reasons why, which included unoriginal jokes, Hart's asides to the camera and the show retaining "the worst aspects of the sitcoms of yesteryear."  The opening episode of the third series became one of the most watched shows in the UK over the Christmas period, attracting a total audience of over 11.5 million viewers.  For The Telegraph, Michael Deacon compares the programme to a childish Christmas panto, finally adding, "Perhaps I’m just getting old. I’m sure I’d have loved this show when I was six."   Keith Watson, writing for Metro, says the series three finale is a "great end to an up-to-scratch season, Miranda never fails to cheer up an evening, reminding many of us that we aren’t alone in the everyday awkward situations that we might find ourselves in – to some extent, anyway."  George Entwistle stated, "Miranda's been a tremendous hit with audiences on BBC Two and I'm very glad she's let us persuade her to move to BBC One, where we believe we can build an even bigger following for her multi-award-winning show. BBC Two has done an exceptional job of supporting and nurturing Miranda over a number of years and I'm certain she'll be equally well looked after at BBC One."  In March 2010, Hart won the comedy performance prize at the 2009 Royal Television Society Awards for her role; the series was also nominated for the scripted comedy and comedy writing (for Hart, Cary and Hurst) awards.   The series also gained two nominations at the 2010 British Academy Television Awards: scripted comedy and female comedy performance for Hart.  Both Hart and Hodge received Best Actress nominations at the 2010 Monte Carlo Television Festival.  In November 2010, Miranda was nominated for Best Comedy Programme at the Broadcast Awards.  In January 2011, the show won Best New British TV Comedy at the British Comedy Awards, while Hart won Best TV Comedy Actress and the People's Choice Award For The King Or Queen Of Comedy 2010.  Miranda was also nominated for Best Sitcom.  Hart won Best Comedy Performance and Miranda was named Best Scripted Comedy at the Royal Television Society Awards in March 2011.  Miranda earned the award for Best Comedy Show at the 37th Broadcasting Press Guild Awards.  Juliet May received a nomination for Best Director at the 2011 British Academy Television Craft Awards.  Hart and the show received nominations from the British Academy Television Awards for Female Performance in a Comedy Role and the YouTube Audience Award respectively.  In December 2011, Hart won Best TV Comedy Actress at the 22nd British Comedy Awards.  She also earned nominations for Best Female TV Comic and the People's Choice Award For The King Or Queen Of Comedy.  Miranda was nominated for Best Sitcom.  2013 saw Hart nominated for Best Female Performance in a Comedy Programme at the British Academy Television Awards.  