Real Husbands of Hollywood (abbreviated RHOH) was an American reality television parody on BET which debuted on January 15, 2013.  The series was co-created by comedian Kevin Hart, and follows the daily lives of him and other married celebrities, each playing a fictionalized version of themselves, as they venture through their surreal life in Hollywood.  Members of the initial cast include: Boris Kodjoe, Nelly, Duane Martin, J.B. Smoove, Nick Cannon, Oliver (Hart's assistant, played by James Davis), and Robin Thicke, who did not return for the second season due to his music career, though Hart has stated that the door is open for Thicke to return.  The series is intentionally filmed in a style similar to Bravo's The Real Housewives. Episodes often hinge on the "real" Kevin Hart's desperately unsuccessful attempts to climb Hollywood's celebrity social ladder (which always backfire in humiliating ways), and the character's barely-hidden jealousy of his more successful celebrity friends. A sneak peek was shown as a segment during the 2012 BET Awards and the official promo was released in October 2012.  Special guests during the first season include: Laila Ali, Ed O'Neill, Jennifer Freeman, Russell Simmons, Melanie Fiona, Estelle, Cedric the Entertainer, Shane Mosley, Elise Neal, Keri Hilson, La La Anthony, Rocsi Diaz, Alec Mapa, Terry Crews, Tisha Campbell-Martin, Takhorra Taylor, Young Jeezy, Nicole Ari Parker, Jay Leno, Ed O'Neill, Shaquille O'Neal, Faizon Love, James Davis, Common and Trey Songz.  Season 2 guest stars include Chris Rock, Conan O'Brien, Wanda Sykes, Katie Couric, Keenen Ivory Wayans, Nadine Velazquez, Kelly Rowland, Bobby Brown, Ralph Tresvant, Tichina Arnold, James Davis, Wayne Brady, Eric Benet, Selita Ebanks, Eva Marcille, Erykah Badu,  and more.  Season 3: Tamar Braxton, Mariah Carey, Regina Hall, Sanaa Lathan, George Lopez, Snoop Dogg, Jennifer Freeman, Lance Bass, Chrisette Michele, Jessica White, Fred Williamson, and more. Season 4: Bobby Shmurda, Chris Brown, Brandy, Nia Long, Arsenio Hall, Wayne Brady, Mary J. Blige, Craig Robinson, EJ Johnson, Faith Evans, NeNe Leakes, Terry Crews, and more. Season 5: Letoya Luckett, Nia Long, Johnny Depp, Keke Palmer and more. After it was announced in March 2013, a twelve episode second season  premiered on October 15, 2013.  The following day, on October 16, 2013, the show began airing on The Comedy Channel in Australia.  In April 2014, Real Husbands of Hollywood was renewed for a third season, which premiered on October 14, 2014.  The fourth season premiered on August 18, 2015.  On January 21, 2016, the show was renewed for a fifth season, which premiered on October 11, 2016.  The show has received positive reviews from critics. Entertainment Weekly chose the show as No.1 for their "The Must List: The Top 10 Things We Love This Week," writing, "Step aside, Housewives! Our new favorite divas are the men who take the spotlight in star/exec producer Kevin Hart's uproariously funny reality TV spoof."  