The Goldbergs is an American television period sitcom that premiered on September 24, 2013, on ABC. The series was created by Adam F. Goldberg and stars Wendi McLendon-Covey, Jeff Garlin, Sean Giambrone, Troy Gentile, Hayley Orrantia, and George Segal.  The show is produced by Goldberg, Seth Gordon, and Doug Robinson.   It is based on Goldberg's childhood and family in the 1980s, complete with a childhood version of himself. The fourth season premiered on September 21, 2016.  In May 2017, ABC renewed the series for a fifth and sixth season.  The sixth season is set to premiere on September 26, 2018.  The Goldbergs is set in the 1980s in Jenkintown, Pennsylvania. The show is loosely based on the showrunner's childhood, during which he videotaped events, many of which are reenacted throughout the program. It shows the reality of the '80s through a young boy's eyes.  The series stars Jeff Garlin as patriarch Murray and Wendi McLendon-Covey as matriarch Beverly. Their two older children are Erica (Hayley Orrantia) and Barry (Troy Gentile). The youngest child, Adam (Sean Giambrone), documents his family life with his video camera. Beverly's father, Albert "Pops" Solomon (George Segal), is frequently around to provide advice or to help out his grandchildren (often behind his daughter's back). The present-day "Adult Adam" (Patton Oswalt) narrates every episode as taking place in "1980-something". Many references to real-life Philadelphia-area businesses are made, including the Wawa Inc. convenience store chain, Gimbel's department store, Willow Grove Park Mall, and Kremp's Florist of Willow Grove, Pennsylvania. The project originally received a script commitment from Fox in August 2011. After Adam Goldberg's previous show, Breaking In, was canceled, he did not want to wait for another pilot season to arrive and moved it to ABC, who agreed to immediately produce it.   On January 11, 2013, Wendi McLendon-Covey was cast as the pilot's lead;  later, Jeff Garlin and George Segal joined the cast.   The pilot episode was directed by Seth Gordon. On May 10, 2013, ABC picked up the show to series to air in the 2013–14 American television season.  It was later picked up for a full season order on November 1, 2013.  The program is filmed on a series of stages at Sony Pictures Studios. The show's theme song, "Rewind," was written at Goldberg's request by I Fight Dragons, his favorite band, specifically for the show.  A soundtrack, featuring songs performed on the show by the cast members, was released on December 6, 2017.  The Goldbergs first season received mixed reviews, averaging a score of 52% on Metacritic based on reviews from 26 critics.  Tim Goodman of The Hollywood Reporter called it "one of the rare freshman comedies to deliver", giving credit to the show's "outstanding writing" and "strong cast".  David Wiegand of the San Francisco Chronicle wrote, "you'll immediately like everyone in the family and the jokes derive from credible situations".  Hank Stuever of The Washington Post said the show was "obnoxiously loud".  David Hinckley of The New York Daily News said the show is "just awful".  Tierney Bricker of E! News gave a more positive review, saying that the show is "like Modern Family mixed with A Christmas Story".  The Goldbergs was included in TV Guide's 2013 Top Twenty "Best Shows of the Year",  along with The Hollywood Reporter  and Today.  In addition, SpoilerTV awarded The Goldbergs with the honor of Best Comedy of 2013–2014.  The second season had a Rotten Tomatoes score of 100% fresh with five reviews,  and there were many calls from both critics and the public to renew the show for a third season.  The show continued to be well received, with Entertainment Weekly calling the season two premiere "the best of any family comedy on TV in the way it eschews dysfunction for its more appropriate, real-world term: love".  After the series was renewed for season 3, ABC network chief Paul Lee stated that both he and ABC believed that the show will be around for "a long time".  The Goldbergs originally premiered on ABC on 24 September 2013.  The pilot was made available on Hulu and ABC.com before it premiered on television.  In Australia, the show airs on the Seven Network. It has been broadcast in the United Kingdom on E4 since 20 April 2015, in Ireland on RTÉ2 since 19 October 2015 and in Turkey on DiziSmart since 2015.  In France, the series began broadcasting since 17 October 2015 on Comedie+. The show has been broadcasting on Neox TV channel in Spain since May 8, 2016 (2016-05-08). In India, the series is aired on Star World. In Germany, the series is aired on the Disney Channel since February 16, 2016.  In Portugal, the series is aired on Fox Comedy, while in Italy on Italia Uno, Mediaset. The show went into syndication in September 2017 and began airing on local stations on September 11, Nick at Nite on September 18, and Pop on September 24. In November 2016, it was first reported that ABC was developing a spinoff that would centre around recurring character Rick Mellor, played by Bryan Callen.  On January 10, 2017, Wendi McClendon-Covey's character was reported as appearing in the script in a guest appearance.  The script was ordered to pilot on February 2, 2017.  On March 16, 2017, it was confirmed that Nia Long had been cast as the female lead in the role of Lucy Winston. At the same time it was confirmed that Tim Meadows would reprise his recurring role from The Goldbergs as Andre Glascott. Jay Chandrasekhar was also confirmed to direct.  On May 17, 2017, ABC passed on the spin-off,  despite it reportedly testing very well - going as far to test better than the pilot of the original series.  At the same time, Adam F. Goldberg revealed the title of the failed spin-off - "Schooled".  On January 8, 2018, it was announced that the pilot would air as a special episode of The Goldbergs on January 24, 2018, under the episode title The Goldbergs: 1990-Something. Along with Nia Long as Lucy Winston and Tim Meadows as teacher-turned-principal Andre Glascott (who is also revealed to be Lucy's brother), the pilot also starred Rachel Crow as Lucy's rebellious teenage daughter Felicia, and Summer Parker as Felicia's bubbly younger sister Gigi, with Octavia Spencer narrating as the present-day Felicia. After the pilot aired, Goldberg had expressed hope that the airing would prompt discussions with ABC that could lead to the series being picked up for the 2018–19 TV season.  Three months later, on April 16, 2018, it was announced that ABC had officially picked up the spinoff, Schooled, for a 13-episode season slated to air in 2018. It was also announced that AJ Michalka would reprise her role as Lainey Lewis from The Goldbergs in the new show, but Nia Long will not return to the spinoff due to being a regular cast member on the CBS drama series NCIS: Los Angeles.  