 Time Squad is an American children's animated television series created by Dave Wasson for Cartoon Network, and the 10th of the network's Cartoon Cartoons. It follows the adventures of Otto Osworth, Buck Tuddrussel, and the robot Larry 3000, a trio of hapless "time cops" living in the far distant future who travel back in time attempting to correct the course of history. During their adventures, they run into major historical figures such as Julius Caesar, Abraham Lincoln, Sigmund Freud, Leonardo da Vinci, the Founding Fathers, and Montezuma, who have taken a drastically different course of life than history dictates. The mission of the Time Squad is to guide these figures onto the correct path and ensure the integrity of the future. The series premiered during Cartoon Network's marathon block "Cartoon Cartoon Summer" on June 8, 2001, and ended after two seasons on November 26, 2003, airing 26 episodes in total. In the course of its run, the series received five Annie Award nominations. Creator Dave Wasson described the series as "a C-student's guide to history".  It is also the final Cartoon Network original series to premiere during Betty Cohen's tenure, as she later resigned due to creative disagreements with Jamie Kellner, then-head of Turner Broadcasting System. The show is set in the year 100,000,000 AD, on a satellite which orbits Earth. This future Earth is never visited directly, though it is referred in dialogue as a peaceful utopia where there are no longer any problems to solve. All nations of the world have merged into one, and according to Tuddrussel, there are "no wars, no pollution, and bacon is good for your heart". Despite this cheerful vision of the future, the space station on which the characters live and from which they travel to the past is remarkably dystopic. It features a shooting range, a terrarium and a prison for repeat offenders, but it is dank, outdated (for the time) and unclean. Mostly this seems to be down to officer Buck Tuddrussel (Rob Paulsen), a scruffy and immature perennial bachelor, who nevertheless happens to be the station's most senior officer. The only other official member of Buck's unit is Larry 3000 (Mark Hamill), a translator robot and former diplomat who was rendered more or less obsolete when all of the world's nations merged. Buck's mindless machismo clashes with Larry's effete sensibilities, and the two bicker terribly. Added to this the fact that neither of them has any great knowledge of history, they made a rather poor team together. However, when they encounter Otto Osworth (Pamela Adlon), an 8-year-old boy who happens to be an orphan from the 21st century, he is quickly recruited and added to the team. Otto is shown to be the only one on the team with any enthusiasm or competence for the job. The problem is, neither of the other two are particularly willing to listen to his advice, and he must often resort to trickery to make sure the mission is completed. The Time Squad organization is set up to ensure that history is maintained and the future protected.  According to Larry 3000, "time is like a rope", and, as it is woven at one end, ages and gradually unravels and frays at the other. In the context of the show, this often means that historical figures have made different, sometimes anachronistic, choices in life (see free will), and as such will not be able to fulfill the role that history says they fulfilled (an example of this Henry Ford didn't invent the automobile assembly line due to constant hostility of the dodo birds that never became extinct). According to creator Dave Wasson, "We started by basically knowing what a guy did in history, then found the most outlandish way he could go wrong".  Note: Despite were all directed by series creator Dave Wasson, Larry Leichliter co-directed with him in "Keepin' It Real with Sitting Bull", "A Thrilla at Attila's", "Pasteur's Packs O' Punch", "Love at First Flight", "Child's Play", "Father Figure of Our Country", and "Floral Patton". While searching for Eli Whitney (who is building flesh-eating robots instead of the cotton gin), time cop Buck Tuddrussel and his robot partner, the Larry 3000, end up at an orphanage in 2001, where they encounter an orphaned history buff named Otto Osworth and take him with them to complete their mission. The Time Squad travel to Ancient Greece, where it is the King of Troy's birthday. The Spartan army brings the fabled Trojan Horse to the festivities, but fail to realize that it is supposed to be a trap, not an actual gift. So Otto and Tuddrussel must show them the proper way to ambush Troy. The Time Squad get sentenced to the guillotine when they end up in 18th century France, and Buck mistakes the diminutive leader for a child. Things get more complicated when it's revealed that Napoleon's wife is nagging him around and Napoleon is too cowardly to stop her. So it's up to Time Squad make Napoleon man up and stand up to his wife so he can take his rightful place in history as the powerful emperor of France. After Tuddrussel gets in a fight with the toaster (and beats into a pulp), they are sent to help Chinese philosopher Confucius. It turns out that Confucius is performing his historical duty by devising clever aphorisms; unfortunately, he uses them as the conclusions to extremely long-winded and boring novels that no one is reading. Otto gives Confucius a suggestion to shorten his conclusions to help attract customers. The Time Squad must go back to the year 1899 to convince Dr. Sigmund Freud to stop hypnotizing his patients and making them act like animals, and to get him analyzing their dreams instead. To make thing's worse, Freud makes Tuddrussel think he is a chicken. The Time Squad meet up with famous artist, scientist & inventor Leonardo da Vinci, who is now a beatnik. They eventually inspire him to become a painter again when they introduce him to a young waitress with a very mysterious and familiar smile. The Time Squad travel to 1945, where Albert Einstein is now a brash car salesman in Texas, instead of being a scientist. Otto, who loves Einstein, is devastated when he sees the genius disguising his smarts, which eventually prompts a change of heart in "Big Al". After arguing with Tuddrussel over being overworked and underappreciated, the Larry 3000 tries to upgrade himself, but accidentally gets a downgrade and becomes subservient to Tuddrussel and begins serving him nothing but hamburgers. Luckily, Otto discovers how to make Larry his old self again and upgrades him; however, Tuddrussel dismantled him in a fit of stupidity in trying to fix Larry his way. Abraham Lincoln grows tired of being "Honest Abe" and upstanding and begins playing pranks on people. When Tuddrussel joins in on the fun, it's up to Larry and Otto to give both him and Abe a taste of their own medicine. The Time Squad go back to the Age of Pirates, where Edward Teach (a.k.a. Blackbeard) is more concerned about saving the environment than looting and pillaging. Time Squad has Blackbeard compromise: he can still help save the environment, so long as he loots and pillages to collect funds. After a problem with Tuddrussel messing with the controls, the Time Squad travel to the year 46 BC to rebuild the flimsy city of Rome for Julius Caesar, but by the time the mission's complete, Tuddrussel is hailed the new leader and challenges Caesar to a gladiator match. So Otto must train Caesar gain strength to over throne Tuddrussel.  After Otto and Tuddrussel accidentally breach a hole in the golf dome swallowed to outer space (and try to cover it up from Larry), Time Squad visits Robin Hood, who is now stealing from the poor and giving to the rich instead of the opposite. So Otto must teach Robin to properly follow history by showing him that stealing from the rich to the poor is beneficial to them (although the peasants are rude and disrespectful).   The Time Squad head to 1903, where Orville and Wilbur Wright are incompetent stuntmen, that are supposed to be building the very first airplane. So Tuddrussel forces to two to properly follow history by staying in their warehouse all night to do so. Meanwhile, Otto learns about Larry and Tuddrussel's problems in completing a mission before they took him into the future, ranging from Nostradamus's failures to use his fortune telling abilities to Lady Godiva riding a horse naked in a video Larry shows him. The Time Squad finish a relatively easy assignment in helping Nicholas Copernicus become an astronomer instead of a farmer, but the crew ends up waiting until the Larry 3000 can restart his time travel software in order for them to go home. After they finally leave, Copernicus realizes that he knows nothing about astronomy; in other words, they have to go back. The Time Squad get sent to the time of the great musician Ludwig van Beethoven, who is now a pro wrestler fighting other classical musicians-turned-wrestlers, and Tuddrussel challenges Beethoven to a match to preserve the dignity of pro wrestling. When Tuddrussel is caught in a hopeless match, Otto uses Larry's AM radio station to have Beethoven listen to a musical score he composed that helps him see the error of his ways. After being upset with grumpy Tuddrussel (who just wants a cup of coffee), Larry is delighted to find that instead of dumping tea into the Boston Harbor, the Sons of Liberty are having civilized tea parties. Tuddrussel and Otto have to convince them into dumping the overtaxed colonial beverage for the sake of all America. To do that they must use coffee, which makes the Sons of Liberty act just like Tuddrussel, much to Larry's disgust. The Time Squad discover that famed horror writer Edgar Allan Poe is now an overly-cheerful children's book author, and must remind Poe of how horrible the world really is. Only by insulting his cooking do they finally manage to break his spirit and make him the master of macabre he's supposed to be. While checking up on Ludwig van Beethoven and the Sons of Liberty, the Time Squad get a report from George Washington, whose troops are with Betsy Ross in her Woodstock-esque hippie farm. The peace-loving Ross is preventing the American Revolution with her protests. This leaves Otto without answers. However, the Sons of Liberty help save their mission when they bring coffee and get them to join Washington's cause. Ross eventually sees the error of her ways after Otto points out the manner of her own behavior and helps Washington by creating the first American flag. Winston Churchill, the prime minister who led England through World War II, is leading everyone into being naked — including Larry, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, and Joseph Stalin! Churchill eventually changes his mind after seeing video footage of his large naked butt that Larry filmed. The Time Squad go back to the time of George Washington Carver, who actually is doing what he was famous for: making use of the peanut in history; thus it is strange they would have to go there. The trouble comes when it's revealed that George Washington Carver has an evil twin brother, Todd Washington Carver, who is bent on making George look bad. The Time Squad tries to reform Kubla Khan, who is now a comic book nerd, by using alternate means. Tuddrussel sends Larry and Otto away to enjoy being tourists, so he can deal with Khan himself. When he insults Khan by ripping up his comics, it gets him sentenced to die. When Larry and Otto can't bust Tuddrussel out, Larry calls Tuddrussel's ex-wife, Sheila Sternwell (also a time cop, albeit a more competent one) and her robot partner, the XJ5 for backup.  The Time Squad go back to the era of Lewis & Clark, where the exploring duo have broken up after an argument. While Larry is left to comfort Lewis, Tuddrussel and Otto find Clark and become his exploring partners. However, this turns out to be futile as Clark realizes that he is lost without Lewis to read the maps properly. Meanwhile, Lewis is having a grand time exploring the Louisiana Purchase with Larry. After a mission to fix Russian barbaric king, Ivan the Terrible, Tuddrussel sneaks Ivan back on the satellite and keeps him as a pet (since he acts just like one), much to Larry's displeasure. Eventually, Larry has had enough and forces Tuddrussel to return Ivan at once. Instead of helping form the Pony Express, Buffalo Bill is now a crazed conspiracy theorist with his own tabloid magazine that no one reads. Otto tricks him into following history by convincing him to deliver his conspiracy magazine to everyone while delivering their mail. After losing a virtual reality game, the Time Squad go on a mission to stop magician Harry Houdini who is using his illusions to commit crimes. After Larry stands up to Tuddrussel thanks to a self-help program from the 1980s, the Time Squad go back to the time of the Hatfields and the McCoys, the McCoys are being peaceful rather than fighting. Larry's encouragement in helping them maintain peace doesn't help matters. So Otto encourages Tuddrussel to pay him back by using pranks to vandalize both properties. This helps save their mission by making the infamous feud continue. Earl of Sandwich gives his edible creation the name "Stinky pile of poo" (he insists this is his mother's maiden name), ensuring that no one will buy it. Meanwhile the Larry 3000's souffles become a sensation. Time Squad eventually gets the sandwich circulating around the world, but only by having Tuddrussel help shut up the Earl and having Otto correctly name it. A mission to keep Cleopatra from turning the pyramids into a shopping mall proves difficult when Tuddrussel falls in love with her and Larry is eager to help with the project. Then Otto calls in Julius Caesar to get Tuddrussel back to his senses; history states that Caesar and Cleopatra dated. When Tuddrussel squashes a fly in the Stone Age, it causes a butterfly effect where the future is ruled by giant flies.Note: The title of this episode is a parody of Planet of the Apes. The Time Squad must deal with Sitting Bull, who wants to party with younger people after misinterpreting a vision from his ancestors. Tuddrussel doesn't help matters when he finds how much he likes Sitting Bull behaving similar to himself due to their shared love for partying. Otto and Larry trick Sitting Bull into his correct mind in time the battle of Custer's Last Stand. In a parody of Rashomon, Tuddrussel, Larry, and Otto each have different accounts of their mission on turning Attila the Hun from a nebbish coward into a bloodthirsty fighter and argue over which account to report to their boss. Otto's story turns out to be true; however, Tuddrussel and Larry are official Time Cops and they get to write whatever they want on the report, meaning they can omit Otto's version. Larry gets electrocuted while fixing a fuse and experiences wild shifts in his personality (including acting drunk, becoming violent, and impersonating Jerry Lewis), leading the Time Squad to go back to the time of Louis Pasteur, who is making Kool-Aid-style fruit drinks. To teach Pasteur a lesson and get him to correctly follow history, Otto pitches ideas to Marie Curie to make fruit popsicles. After Otto catches a cold from not wearing a coat during the Time Squad's mission to Russia to get Karl Marx to write the Communist Manifesto instead of building the world's largest igloo, Tuddrussel and Larry must complete a historical mission without Otto helping them by trying to get Benjamin Franklin to be an author of the Declaration of Independence. Tuddrussel and Larry revealed to be highly incompetent on their mission. They don't know anything about Ben Franklin, leading a sick Otto to assist them once more. The Time Squad travel to the 1920s, where gangster Al Capone, who had a traumatic experience with a terrible entertainer at a birthday party in his childhood, has made himself and all of his minions become clowns. Otto snaps Capone back to his senses when he shows the famous mobster that the clowns who he's forced out of work trying to run his criminal empire, with disastrous results. Larry and Tuddrussel get caught up in arguing with each other and don't notice that they left Otto on a deserted island following a historical mission. While Otto desperately tries to survive, Larry and Tuddrussel isolate each other, only to experiment with each other's hobbies and come to an understanding. Otto celebrates his birthday on the satellite, but the festivities are short-lived when they must go back in time to cure a mysophobic Amelia Earhart, so she would become the first female pilot to fly solo across the Atlantic Ocean. Tuddrussel's slovenly ways eventually "cure" her, but in the process, both she and Otto become just like the burly Time Cop. Tuddrussel eventually fixes his mistake when he discovers that Earhart wants to marry him. The Time Squad are sent to the Alamo, where everyone there (including Tuddrussel's ancestor, Jeremiah) is setting up a fiesta for the Mexican forces rather than defending themselves from them. When Larry refuses to cooperate by assisting in the party decorations, it's up to Otto and Tuddrussel to save the mission. After sabotaging the fiesta, Jeremiah and the others blame Larry for it. They are convinced to correctly follow history and defend the Alamo from the forces. After Tuddrussel hurts Larry's feelings at his own art show, Otto tries to teach him to be more sensitive while they go on a mission to stop Aztec emperor Montezuma from performing stand-up comedy. Tuddrussel's attempts and Larry's lack of appreciation leads to an insult contest between the two that wins the audience over. In a parody of the original Scooby-Doo cartoon series, the Time Squad go back to the days of President William Howard Taft, who claims that the White House (which has been reduced to a decrepit state) is haunted by the ghosts of former commanders in chief. The rumors are keeping Woodrow Wilson from running for President, so Otto, Larry, and Tuddrussel investigate and fight a zombie Zachary Taylor, vampire Benjamin Harrison, and Frankenstein-esque James Buchanan. But Otto is not fooled and discovers Taft's plot that gets him arrested. The Time Squad go on a mission to stop Alfred Nobel from giving nobel prizes to people who commit evil acts and are soon assisted by Shela and XJ5, who have a history with Nobel. The Time Squad crew decide to go on vacation rather than save Henry Morton Stanley from being captured by cannibals, prompting a much cooler Time Squad crew J.T. Lazer and Lance 9 Trillion (that happen to be idols in the eyes of Larry and Tuddrussel, except Otto obviously aware they're vain and arrogant) to finish the job. In this self-referential episode, the Time Squad meet William Shakespeare, who is now doing kids' plays, and finds inspiration in creating a new play from the Time Squad crew, but things get sticky when Larry acts as a censor and Tuddrussel is too busy coming up with a new catchphrase to do anything about the situation. Tired of being stuck with the chores, Larry uses his room full of spare parts to make a clone of himself. This starts a chain reaction that leads to a plethora of Larry 3000s, who turn the satellite into a resort. Larry, Otto, and Tuddrussel become addicted to a trashy 1980s soap opera, but before they learn one of the show's big secrets, the Time Squad must go back in time to force Samuel Morse to invent Morse code. The crew gets a surprise when another Time Squad made up of elderly versions of themselves appears. The Time Squad encounters Billy the Kid, who is literally acting like a kid (wearing a diaper and bib and carrying around a rattle), making him a useless outlaw. The Time Squad become outlaws themselves to teach Billy the Kid how to be a proper criminal, and they end up getting chased by a Clint Eastwood-esque sheriff. The Time Squad goes back to help George Washington, who is sick of being famous and wants to be a father. Otto happily fills the role of Washington's son, and while Tuddrussell tries to get Otto back, Larry is too busy shopping in colonial America to intervene.Note: During the closing credits, there is a special credit that reads, "Mission SK77: Billy the Baby is dedicated to Sergio Leone and Tex Avery". The paths of Tuddrussel and Sheila's units meet again when their missions, Joan of Arc and Johannes Gutenberg switch roles. Soon afterwards, Tuddrussel and Sheila start to fall in love all over again, which makes Larry worried that Tuddrussel may ditch him. After Larry gets a birthday present from Otto (but not before he gets mad at Tuddrussel, who claims that robots don't have birthdays), the Time Squad go back in time to have Dr. Sigmund Freud help Paul Revere overcome his fear of horses so he can warn the townspeople of Concord and Lexington that the British are coming. They discover Revere had suffered a childhood trauma because his first horse was hysterical and ruthless; even inflicts Time Squad. So, Freud hypnotizes Revere to being a horse and together make the midnight ride.  The Time Squad goes back in time to find General George S. Patton running a florist shop, and he recruits the Time Squad to fight back against a rival (replica) florist shop. Time Squad must convince Patton to end his business and head to Europe to fight in World War II. While on a mission to 2002 to have George W. Bush forget about building the world's biggest ball of twine, Otto is taken back to the orphanage from which he came (as seen in the first episode) by Sister Thornley. Without Otto, Larry and Tuddrussel must once again try to complete a historical mission (this time centered on Christopher Columbus) on their own, but when that fails, they scour many orphans from the past to find a replacement boy genius. However when they realize that no one could replace Otto, Larry and Tuddrussel go back to the orphanage to rescue him from Sister Thornley. In the process, they abandon a kid they got from another orphanage, whom Sister Thornley takes advantage of. Time Squad has not received any official DVD releases. However, the episode "Dishonest Abe" is featured in the Powerpuff Girls VHS Meet the Beat-Alls. Cartoon Network and Subway partnered to release five Time Squad-themed toys in Subway Kids Paks. The promotion lasted from September 30 to November 17, 2002.  Though the series has no official video games, the character Larry-3000 appears in the Cartoon Network game Cartoon Network Universe: FusionFall. 