American Institutes for Research (AIR) is a nonprofit, nonpartisan behavioral and social science research, evaluation, assessment and technical assistance organization based in Washington, D.C.   One of the world's largest social science research organizations,  AIR has more than 1,800 staff in locations across the United States and abroad.  In 2010  and 2011,  The Washington Post selected AIR as one of the top ten nonprofit firms in the Washington metropolitan area. AIR's founder, John C. Flanagan, a pioneer in aviation psychology,  is known for developing the Critical Incident Technique, an innovative method for screening and selecting personnel. While working for the U.S. Army Air Forces during World War II, Flanagan developed CIT as an aptitude test to identify potential combat pilots.   Later, the technique was adapted for other industries, and CIT is still a model for numerous organizations and researchers.     Flanagan established American Institutes for Research in 1946.  He focused on workforce education research and launched Project Talent, a longitudinal study following 400,000 high school students across the U.S.,  which has continued for the past 50 years and provided data for hundreds of researchers and publications.   AIR ran a Defense Department-funded counter-insurgency program in Thailand during the Vietnam War years, which involved designing programs that supported "assassinating key spokesmen [and] strengthening retaliatory mechanisms and similar preventative measures."  Charles Murray, the controversial political scientist, worked on this AIR program  and claimed the experience was formative in his later advocacy.  "AIR's mission is to conduct and apply the best behavioral and social science research and evaluation towards improving peoples' lives, with a special emphasis on the disadvantaged."  Some of the work Flanagan and AIR are known for includes: Project Talent, the largest and most comprehensive study of high school students ever conducted in the United States; core evaluations for U.S. Department of Education programs; technical expertise on the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA); Project A, the largest personnel survey in the history of the U.S. Army;  partnering with states to design and administer student assessment testing in schools across the U.S.;   and projects including Regional Education Labs (RELs) and Comprehensive Centers, National Center for Family Homelessness, Center for Analysis of Longitudinal Data in Education Research (CALDER), College and Career Readiness and Success Center, Center for English Language Learners, among others.  Education researcher David Myers is AIR's president and CEO and serves on its board of directors. Previously, Myers was senior vice president and chief strategy officer at Mathematica Policy Research.   The twelve-member board of directors is led by chair Patricia B. Gurin, professor emerita of social psychology and women's studies at University of Michigan and vice chair Lawrence D. Bobo, a professor of social sciences at Harvard University.   