This is a list of media associated with the anime and manga series Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo. The only differences between the Japanese version and the English version of Wild Challenger is at very the beginning it shows the English title edit (and has a different sequence for showing it, however the music remains the same) and Jelly Jiggler doesn't jiggle in the middle of the opening (when stepped on) and at the very end (note that the Jelly Jiggler also didn't jiggle in the Japanese opening for the 2 first episodes yet he does in the later episodes). Small parts of Baka Survivor are used in episodes 38, 45, 52, and 69. This ending includes scenes from Baka Survivor and music from the series. Small parts of H.P.S.J. are used in episodes 38, 45, and 52. List of Bobobo merchandise available in the U.S. so far. Released on February 13, 2007, this volume contains episodes 1-4. The cover features BoBoBo-Bo holding up three fingers. Released on May 1, 2007, this volume contains episodes 5-8. The cover features Softon in front with Don Patch coming out of BoBoBo-Bo's afro in the background. Special features include the opening and closing with Kanji credits, line art, and character profiles. This was going to be released on May 22, 2007. This volume would have contained episodes 9-12. The cover features Gasser in front with Geha the Gale enraged in the background. Many fans, however, were very disappointed when the first DVD was "uncut" but still dubbed pretty much the same. Even more disappointing, however, was that it was "dubtitled", or just subtitles using the dubbed version. Released on April 10, 2012, this 4-disc DVD collection contains episodes 1-38. This collection says that it includes Japanese with English Subtitles when it was actually shown with no subtitles at all. It does, however, include original scripts from all of the episodes from that set. Released on November 19, 2012, this 4-disc DVD collection contains episodes 39-76. This collection fixes the problem, admitting that S'more Entertainment didn't have the cost to do subtitles. This set also includes original scripts from all of the episodes from that set. Many fans were very disappointed about S'more Entertainment not translating for the Japanese language, especially when the first collection misled them. Due to the controversial decisions, it wasn't too long for Toei to pull the license away, letting S'more shut down not long afterwards. During Discotek Media's panel at Otakon in August 2018, they announced the license of the series and it will be released as a 2-disc SD on BD set with all the 76 episodes in the future. This is the first time the Japanese version of the show will be shown subtitled in its entirety. Illumitoon's B'tX, Beet, BoBoBo-Bo DVDs Discontinued 