 Naruto (ナルト?) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Masashi Kishimoto and published by Shueisha in Weekly Shōnen Jump. It tells the story of Naruto Uzumaki, an adolescent ninja who searches constantly for recognition and dreams of becoming the hokage, the ninja in his village who is acknowledged as the leader and the strongest of all. The manga made its debut on September 21, 1999, and it concluded on November 10, 2014. A total of 72 volumes and 700 chapters were released. The books published in Japan by Shueisha under various imprints were adapted or expanded upon the Naruto manga and anime series. Several of the titles have been licensed for publication in North America by Viz Media. The first part of the anime was released on October 10, 2002, and it concluded on February 8, 2007, with a total of 220 episodes. The second part of the anime was released on February 15, 2007, and it concluded on March 23, 2017, with a total of 500 episodes. Aside from that, there has been other material released based on the series, such as anime comics, light novels, artbooks, supplemental guidebooks, original video animation (OVAs), and movies. Various anime comics have been released in Japan under Shueisha's Jump Comics inprint, typically adapting the Naruto and Naruto Shippuden theatrical films, though adaptations of the first Naruto OVA and a sixth season Naruto Shippuden TV special were also produced. Viz Media licensed and published the anime comic adaptations of the three Naruto films in North America in October 2007 and November 2008. From 2002 through 2009, Shueisha published light novel adaptations of the first seven Naruto and Naruto Shippuden films, as well as adaptations of the "Land of Waves" Naruto story arc and the first Naruto OVA, all written by Masatoshi Kusakabe. Adaptations of Blood Prison and Road to Ninja were published in 2011 and 2012, written by Akira Higashiyama and Yuka Miyata, respectively. The first two of Masatoshi Kusakabe's novelizations were licensed by Viz Media for publication in North America in November 2006 and October 2007. Three original stories written by Akira Higashiyama and illustrated by Masashi Kishimoto have been published in Japan. Naruto Secret Chronicles (NARUTO -ナルト- 秘伝, Naruto Hiden") is a light novel series illustrated by Masashi Kishimoto, which explores the stories of various characters after the conclusion of the original Naruto manga series. Announced in November 2014 alongside the final chapter of the manga, the series comprises six volumes, with the first released in February 2015.  Viz Media began publishing English translations of the novels in November 2015, starting with Naruto: Kakashi's Story.  Naruto True Stories (NARUTO -ナルト- 真伝, Naruto Shinden) is a light novel trilogy illustrated by Masashi Kishimoto, which explores Itachi Uchiha's past and Sasuke Uchiha's future. The Naruto True Story novels were announced in June 2015, with a publication date in Fall 2015.  Viz Media began publishing English translations of the novels in November 2016.  Several supplemental guides and artbooks have been published, collecting information and artwork from the manga and anime series. Three of the artbooks collect Masashi Kishimoto's illustrations for the manga and related promotional materials, while a fourth anniversary book features artwork produced over the first ten years of the anime series' broadcast. Among the guidebooks, there are three anime profile books, which contain character profiles and images taken from the anime; two fanbooks, which include interviews, articles, and special features relating to the manga; and three data books, which collect detailed information on the characters, abilities, locations, and story arcs seen in the manga. A guidebook for the theatrical film Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie was also published and distributed with copies of Naruto volume 61; featuring information on the film, an interview with Kishimoto, and the Movie 9: Road to Naruto the Movie one-shot, it was printed in the same format as a standard Naruto volume. 