Asia Theological Association (ATA)  is one of 8 Regional International Evangelical Accrediting Associations of ICETE (The International Council for Evangelical Theological Education).  The other 7 members, or sponsors, of ICETE cover the other continents. ATA is a nongovernmental association formed by evangelical Christians in Asia to confer accreditation to theological institutions in Asia. ATA was formally established in 1970 as a direct outcome of the Asia-South Pacific Congress of Evangelism held in Singapore in 1968. It grew out of a concern that "evangelicals had neglected theological scholarship in the past and that the Asian church leadership was increasingly being influenced by Western liberal theology."  Its primary goal was to develop "evangelical scholars, thinkers and teachers" for the leadership of the Asian church.  Accreditation services were rendered to institutions in 1978.  Since then, it has developed in serving its member theological institutions in teaching evangelical biblical theology and in the training of Christian pastors and church workers. Its operating principles include strengthening partnership, enhancing scholarship, furthering academic excellence, fostering spiritual and ministerial formation, and mobilizing resources to fulfill global Christian mission within diverse Asian cultures. The main reason for the establishment of ATA was to be an aid to theological institutions in contextualising theology in the Asian context. Through this Christian pastors and Christian churches can be aided to be more effective in supporting Christian ministry more effectively with other Asians in their own context. Today the majority of Evangelical Bible colleges in Asia are members of ATA. The ATA's Statement of Faith indicates that theologically it "follows mainstream evangelicalism in the west."  Asia Theological Association accredits theological seminaries in the Asian region. ATA is the Asian sponsor of the International Council for Evangelical Theological Education (ICETE),  the theological education network covering all the continents that operates under the auspices of the World Evangelical Alliance (WEA).  This effectively partners ATA with established accreditation bodies from other regions of the world, such as The Association for Biblical Higher Education (ABHE)  in North America. ICETE is the umbrella organisation, and it includes in its membership of 8 sponsors the ABHE (The Association for Biblical Higher Education),  which is a North American accrediting body recognised by CHEA (The Council for Higher Education Accreditation).   The ATA published two journals: the Journal of Asian Evangelical Theology and the Journal of Asian Mission. Both are published twice a year.  