The Boston Bar Association (BBA) is a volunteer non-governmental organization in Boston, Massachusetts, United States. With headquarters located at 16 Beacon Street in the historic Chester Harding House, across from the Massachusetts State House on Beacon Hill, the BBA has 11,000  members drawn from private practice, corporations, government agencies, legal aid organizations, the courts and law schools. It traces its origins to meetings convened by John Adams, the lawyer who provided pro bono representation to the British soldiers prosecuted for the Boston Massacre and went on to become the second president of the United States. Governed by a Council of 30 members, the Boston Bar Association has 24 sections and more than 100 committees dedicated to substantive areas of law as well as issues such as access to justice and the administration of justice. The Association makes its policy positions known via the filing of amicus briefs,  the drafting of legislation and official comments on proposed government actions. Recent public policy positions taken by the Boston Bar Association include: March 2012: The Boston Bar Association Task Force on the Civil Right to Counsel released "The Importance of Representation in Eviction Cases and Homelessness Prevention   which recommended pilot projects to learn more about the mechanisms for providing counsel, the effect of creating a right to counsel, the costs involved, and the potential cost savings to the Commonwealth.  October 2011: The association released the Report of the Boston Bar Association Task Force on the Future of the Profession  in response to the 2008 recession and its effects on the legal market. May 2011: The association released a report, Justice on the Road to Ruin,  on the Massachusetts State Trial Court’s state budget. The report states that continued inadequate court funding will inflict pain on real people. March 2010: The association's Task Force on the FY 2011 Judiciary Budget released their report.  The Report warns that further cuts to the Judiciary would have severe consequences for the administration of justice in the Commonwealth.  November 2006: The Boston Bar Association, with the New York City Bar Association, the Beverly Hills Bar Association, the Los Angeles County Bar Association and the Bar Association of San Francisco, filed an amicus brief in American Civil Liberties Union, Et Al. v. National Security Agency, et al., a case now pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The brief urges the Court of Appeals in Cincinnati to affirm a lower court ruling that permanently enjoined the National Security Administration's warrantless surveillance program.  September 2005: The association was one of a number of organizations which signed on to an amicus brief in United States v. Darryl Green. In addition, the BBA drafted a petition to the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts urging the Court to revise its jury plan to remedy the under-representation of minorities in the federal jury pool.  June 2005: The association's President-Elect Edward P. Leibensperger testified before the Massachusetts Legislature's Joint Committee on the Judiciary, urging the defeat of all bills related to reinstating capital punishment in Massachusetts.  September 2002: The association filed an amicus brief in Goodridge v. Department of Public Health in support of gay marriage as a civil rights issue stating that discrimination against gays and lesbians is unacceptable and unconstitutional.  Four times a year (winter, spring, summer, fall) the Boston Bar Association publishes a magazine called the Boston Bar Journal.  The Journal is an online publication managed by a volunteer Board of Editors that presents information, analysis, and opinions in articles written by attorneys, judges, and others interested in the development of the law. The Journal is free to all Association members, and available as well to paid subscribers. The association also publishes BBA Week, a weekly e-newsletter that provides information on pro bono and public service opportunities, updates from law firms and the state and federal courts, previews of upcoming legal education programs and special events, and photo albums. In addition, the association's Sections and Committees publish online newsletters. The Boston Bar Association has established public service programs utilizing lawyer volunteers. Among these programs are: Notable past presidents include: 