The Kagerou Project (カゲロウプロジェクト, Kagerō Purojekuto, lit. "Heat Haze Project"), also known as "Kagerou Daze" (カゲロウデイズ, Kagerō Deizu, lit. "Heat Haze Daze")  or "Kagerou Days", is a Japanese mixed-media project. It started as a Vocaloid song series created by Jin (Shizen no Teki-P) (じん(自然の敵P)). The story revolves around the Mekakushi Dan, a group of teenagers with unusual eye-related powers. The series became popular on the video sharing website Niconico after the release of the song "Kagerou Daze", which also gave the series its name. The song has amassed over 3 million views and is the most popular song of the project. Seven light novels have been released, written by Jin and illustrated by Sidu (しづ, Shizu). A manga adaptation with illustrations by Mahiro Satou (佐藤まひろ, Satō Mahiro), began serialization in Monthly Comic Gene on June 15, 2012. A 12-episode anime adaptation titled Mekakucity Actors (メカクシティアクターズ, Mekakushiti Akutāzu, lit. "Blindfold-city Actors")—"Mekakucity" being a portmanteau of "mekakushi" ("blindfold" in Japanese) and "city"—aired between April 12 and June 28, 2014. The series was directed by Akiyuki Shinbo and animated by Shaft. Shintarō Kisaragi is an 18-year-old hiki-NEET who has not left his room in two years, engrossing himself with his computer and the internet. However, on August 14, due to the messing about of the cyber girl Ene, who lives inside his computer, Shintarō spills soda on his computer keyboard and is forced to go outside to buy a new one, due to the fact that during the Obon festival none of the stores will deliver until August 17. Shintarō goes to the department store, where a group of criminals break in and hold the people inside hostage for ransom. Here he comes in contact with a group of teenagers calling themselves the "Mekakushi Dan" (メカクシ団, lit. "Blindfold Gang"), who stop the robbery with their mysterious eye powers and force Shintarō to join into their group. Before this occurs, Shintarō's younger sister, Momo Kisaragi, is a popular idol who has the ability to attract people's attention. This is due to the "Drawing Eyes" ability, which she cannot control and causes people to look at her wherever she goes. One day, while fleeing from a horde of fans, she meets the Mekakushi Dan leader, Tsubomi Kido, who invites Momo to join, which she does. While meeting the first four members of the Mekakushi Dan, Marry trips and gets Momo's phone wet, they all go to the department store to buy a new phone for Momo. Kido uses her ability to keep people from staring at Momo, but while in the store, they find out Shintarō is there at the same time. The terrorists break in and take all the shoppers hostage, but with Kido's eye power, she, Momo, Marry, Seto, and Kano are invisible and thus do not get caught. They work together to stop the heist, though Shintarō passes out, and they bring him to their hideout and introduce him and Ene as members once the former awakens. They all go to the amusement park and have fun afterwards. The prologue is told in the second novel, -a headphone actor-. Takane Enomoto and Haruka Kokonose, students of Kenjirō Tateyama, plan a class booth for their school's cultural festival. Haruka gets an idea to host a shooting booth; however this idea could not be fulfilled due to Kenjirō spending all their booth funds on a rare specimen. Takane, being a highly skilled gamer, decides that instead of a shooting booth with a large amount of equipment, they should make a video game of a first-person shooter. Kenjirō would be in charge of programming, Haruka was in charge of illustration and Takane was responsible for playing as the opponent. Their plan captured a great amount of attention, good and bad. The series had about 3 endings: Bad Ending: Also known as 'Route XX'. In this route, Shintaro becomes mentally unstable in the years after Ayano's death due to his loss of her and regret of not recognising her more. Two years later, Shintaro kills Ene and himself as a result, is sent into the Heat Haze Daze. Although he is reunited with Ayano in the Daze he was unable to accept her death, so was unable to receive the Snake of Favouring Eyes from her, leading to the whole main cast's demise and the time being reversed once again by Marry, Good Ending: Also known as 'Route 1'. In this route, Shintaro accepts Ayano's death and meets all of the Mekakushi Dan. He is killed after Black Konoha (the possessed version of Konoha) aims a gun at his own head (reasons unknown), and Shintaro then knocks Konoha aside and is fatally shot. Shintaro is then sent into the Heat Haze Daze and summarily reunited with Ayano who then gave him her power, as the requirement to receive a new life and a Snake is that a pair of people must have died on August 14/15, and one of the pair must stay in the Heat Haze Daze permanently. Ayano chooses to stay and give the new life to Shintaro, along with the Snake. Shintaro then exits the Heat Haze Daze, and the Snake of Clearing Eyes is defeated (through unknown means), allowing the cast to move on with their life. True Ending: 'Anime only'. Happened after Routes 1 and XX. Instead of Shintaro being killed by Black Konoha, Shintaro is reminded of his power given to him personally by Marry at the very first route after seeing a family picture of Ayano with Kido, Kano and Seto that was on a shelf at the Mekakushi Dan's hideout. This shocked him into remembering all the routes that he dreamt about were reality via his dormant Snake speaking to him. Whilst this happens, Ene regains her original body. He then commits suicide to purposefully enter the Daze to retrieve Ayano and awaken Haruka to help the Mekakushi Dan to fight against Black Konoha. Ayano and Shintaro return from the Daze, and Ayano transfers Shintaro's memories of all the routes into Marry, allowing Marry the ability to make the Snakes swallow the time line. Kenjiro declines the Snake of Clearing Eyes' services (as his wish to be with his wife Ayaka was granted with his death) and instead Konoha forces upon the Snake his last wish - for Hiyori, the pair of Hibiya in the Heat Haze Daze to be alive. As such, Hiyori receives the Snake of Clearing Eyes power, and a new life. The Snake of Clearing Eyes' consciousness then ceases to exist. Haruka regains his original body and is healed of his illness, and all the members of the Mekakushi Dan continue on their lives, vowing to make a new future. The series began as a series of albums that were released alongside the novels. The soundtracks were produced by Jin and released by IA Project. The first album is titled Mekakucity Days (メカクシティデイズ, Mekakushiti Deizu) and was released on May 30, 2012. It was followed by a single, "Children Record" (チルドレンレコード, Chirudoren Rekōdo), on August 15, 2012. A second album titled Mekakucity Records (メカクシティレコーズ, Mekakushiti Rekōzu) was released on May 29, 2013. A third album titled Mekakucity Reload (メカクシティリロード, Mekakushiti Rirōdo) was announced on August 15, 2017.  This song has reached over 700,000 views in Nico Nico Douga. Apart from being the first song in the series, it is also Shizen no Teki-P's first work. The song has over 1,000,000 views on Nico Nico Douga. This is Kido's song, despite mostly being about the Dan rather than herself. This song used to be known as "Mekakushi Code", but was later called "Mekakushi Chord" in the "daze" PV and by official English translations of light novel and manga chapters named after the song. This song was uploaded on September 30, 2011, and quickly gained in views, becoming Shizen no Teki-P's most popular song, and in turn the most popular song in the series. It has reached over 3,000,000 views in Nico Nico Douga. It also gave the Kagerou Project its name. This song was also featured in Hatsune Miku: Project DIVA F 2nd. The video of "Headphone Actor" reached over 1,500,000 views on Nico Nico Douga. A theory is that it is a metaphor for Takane's feelings trying to reach Haruka. This song has also received a million views on Nico Nico Douga, and is the first IA song to do so. It is also known as "Sōzō Forest" (想像フォレスト, "Imagination Forest"). Jin later decided to officially call it "Kūsō Forest" instead of "Sōzō Forest", but it is still more commonly known by its previous name. Nicovideo broadcast is not available because the music video was originally meant to be exclusive to the album Mekakucity Days. A person who uploaded the video onto Nico Nico Douga was posing as Jin and revealed as the fake he was later on. This song quickly became popular after its music video release. It had over 100,000 views after only one day from its release. This song has reached over 1,000,000 views on Nico Nico Douga, and is the first Miku and IA duet to achieve that. It is also the third song in this series to do so. The video has currently reached over 1,500,000 views. The song is featured on the Mekakucity Days (メカクシティデイズ) album, but there is not much known about it yet. It tells Kenjirō's story. The song is featured on the Mekakucity Days (メカクシティデイズ) album, but there is not much known about it yet. It tells Azami's story. The song was released on the DVD single "Children Record" (チルドレンレコード). It got an extra manga chapter in the limited edition release of Mekakucity Records (メカクシティレコーズ). Jin announced Yobanashi Deceive several months before its publication and finished it in January 2013. In an interview he stated that the song goes from blues, over funk, to rock. After being released on February 17, 2013, also the same day the project was started two years ago, it quickly hit 100.000 views in just one night. Jin announced a music video to be released a bit after the last album was published, but it was cancelled due to heavy spoilers the video would have contained. The music video was included in Mekakucity V's; a screening of the video was held in Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka on December 25, 2013. After posted by Jin, this video quickly became the 1st in the Nico Nico Douga ranking. Outer Science is known as the bad end of the story. The song is the official ending and last song and music video of the project. The song tells what happens with Mekakushi Dan and with the characters after the end of the story. The song is about Tsubomi Kido's experience growing up. The song is about Ayano Tateyama's suicide. The Kagerou Daze light novels are written by Jin with illustrations from Kagerou Project music video maker Sidu. The first volume was released on May 30, 2012 by Enterbrain on their KCG Bunko imprint, and will conclude in the eighth volume on December 29, 2017. Yen Press has been releasing the novels in English in North America since May 26, 2015.  There is an anthology series called Mekakushi Dan: Watchers (メカクシ団:ウォッチャーズ, Mekakushi Dan: Uotchāzu) that is made up of short stories from a Pixiv contest. There is a novel anthology series named Kagerou Daze Novel Anthology (カゲロウデイズノベルアンソロジー, Kagerō Deizu Noberu Ansorojī) made from other Pixiv competitions. The Kagerou Daze  manga is illustrated by Mahiro Satou.  It began serialization in Media Factory's Monthly Comic Gene on June 15, 2012.  The first tankōbon volume was released on November 27, 2012;  ten volumes have been released as of October 27, 2017.  Yen Press will release the manga in English in North America, with the first volume released on April 21, 2015.   There is also an ongoing anthology series called Kagerou Daze Official Anthology Comic (カゲロウデイズ公式アンソロジーコミック, Kagerō Deizu Kōshiki Ansorojī Komikku) and each volume goes with a certain theme. It is written and illustrated by various people including Kagerou Daze light novel artist and music video creator Sidu, the Kagerou Daze manga artist Mahiro Satou, and Kagerou Project music video creator Wannyanpu (わんにゃんぷー, Wannyanpū). A Kagerou Project anime titled Mekakucity Actors (メカクシティアクターズ), directed by Akiyuki Shinbo and produced by Shaft,  began airing on April 12, 2014. [n 1] The anime has been licensed for streaming by Aniplex of America.  The opening theme is "Daze" sung by Maria from Garnidelia and the ending theme is "Days" by Lia. For episode six, the opening theme is "Headphone Actor" (ヘッドフォンアクター) and the ending theme is "Yūkei Yesterday" (夕景イエスタデイ); both songs are sung by LiSA. For episode eight, the ending theme is "Lost Time Memory" (ロスタイムメモリー) sung by Kōta Matsuyama from Byee the Round. For episode nine, the opening theme is "Ayano no Kōfuku Riron" (アヤノの幸福理論) sung by Aki Okui. All songs are composed by Jin. A Kagerou Project short anime film titled Kagerou Daze -in a day's- (カゲロウデイズ-in a day's-) was directed by Sidu and produced by Studio Jumonji.  It was produced with MX4D presentation in mind and premiered on November 4, 2016. The opening theme is "Red" by Gouache, a band Jin is a part of. A Kagerou Project anime titled Mekakucity Reload (メカクシティリロード) was announced at the Seek at Mekakucity event on August 15, 2016.  