Leeds University Library's Cookery Collection is one of the five Designated collections held by the Brotherton Library at University of Leeds. It comprises an extensive collection of international books, manuscripts and archives relating to food, cooking and culinary culture.  The collection began with a donation in 1939 to the Library of 1,500 books and a selection of manuscripts. The collection has grown since then and has been supplemented with further donations over time. It now consists of more than 8,000 printed cookery books and 75 manuscripts, spanning the period of 2500 BC to present day, with the majority of the works being from the early 16th – 20th century.  In addition to recipes and cookery books, the collection includes texts about food production, household management, brewery, gardening and the medicinal uses of food.  Numerous food historians have used the Cookery Collection to inform their research and publications. The Cookery Collection is located in Special Collections in the Brotherton Library, University of Leeds. The Cookery Collection was awarded Designation status in 2005 by the Museums, Libraries and Archives Council.  The Designation Scheme is a mark of distinction which recognises collections in non-national institutions of outstanding national and international importance for users.  The scheme is now administered by Arts Council England.   The Cookery Collection is one of five Designated collections held by Special Collections at Leeds University Library.  It is the only library to hold as many as 5 Designated collections.  The Cookery Collection encompasses a series of collections from different origins which have been acquired by the Brotherton Library over time and are now grouped together by the subject of cookery as a single collection group.   The Cookery Collection at Special Collections in the Brotherton Library began in 1939 when Blanche Legat Leigh, the Lady Mayoress of Leeds, donated her 1,500 printed books and some manuscript volumes to the Library.  The majority of these books were British, French and Italian cookery books dating from the early 16th century to 1930.  An item of note from Leigh’s collection is a first edition of Mrs Beeton’s Book of Household Management with a letter inserted in it written to Leigh from Mrs Beeton’s son, Sir Mayson Beeton.  Leigh’s donation included her correspondence with book owners, now held in Special Collections’ archives.  In 1954 some of the books from Blanche Leigh’s collection were displayed in an exhibition titled Cookery Books 1500–1954 held in Times Bookshop in London. John F Preston was also displaying his collection at this exhibition and consequently became interested in Leeds University Library’s collection. In 1962 he presented his collection to the Library of over 600 English cookery books from 1584–1861.   In the 1980s the Camden Public Library in London was running low on adequate space to hold their collection of books on food and drink. Their cookery books were advertised and as a result were rehomed in the Brotherton Library. The books spanned 1900–1975 and filled a period that was until then lacking in the Library’s Cookery Collection.   The Cookery Collection was recognised as an outstanding collection and accredited Designation status in 2005. Since then, the collection has continued to grow with more donations.  A few years after the death in 2006 of Michael Bateman, the food writer and journalist,  Leeds University Library received his collection of international cookery books in 2011.   Special Collections also holds an archive of his papers from his career as a food writer.  Some material which was already held by the Brotherton Library and related to cookery has since been associated with the Cookery Collection in the interest of strengthening the subject.  For example, Alfred Chaston Chapman’s collection of books about beer and brewery was donated to Leeds University Library in 1939.   The Cookery Collection at Leeds University Library is still being added to and augmented with new acquisitions. Leeds University Library is currently collecting manuscripts about cookery or medicinal remedies with a regional focus. More generally, Leeds University Library aims to collect titles which are not already represented in the Cookery Collection.   The Cookery Collection has been catalogued in two distinct groups: Cookery Manuscripts and Cookery Printed Books.   The Cookery Printed Books collection has been split into several series and sub-collections. These include Cookery A: British books, Cookery B: French books, Cookery C: Chinese books, Cookery D: books from other cultures. Later donations, such as from Michael Bateman and Camden Library, are also grouped in separate series.  The following items are some of the most notable pieces in the Cookery Collection. The headings indicate which sub-collection or series each item is catalogued under.  In Blanche Leigh’s original 1939 donation to Leeds University Library was a Babylonian clay tablet dating approximately 2500 BC.    This Middle Eastern tablet was once used a receipt for barley with ancient cuneiform script marks.  It is on permanent display in the Treasures of the Brotherton Gallery.  Cookery A consists of British printed cookery books.  Among the major works held are four copies of Hannah Woolley’s The Queen-Like Closet. The earliest edition is from 1672.   Woolley was one of the first women in England to have earned a living from writing and selling books.  There are two copies of Pomona: or the Fruit Garden Illustrated (1729) written by the English garden designer, Batty Langley;  the book is a gardener's manual for growing, picking and preserving fruits, as well as pruning and caring for plants.  Charles Carter's The Complete Practical Cook : or, a new system of the whole art and mystery of cookery (1730) is an illustrated recipe book.  It contains copperplate engravings showing how to set and arrange a table for various courses in an 18th-century dinner.  Charles Carter cooked for nobility and specialised in French baroque cuisine.  The Cookery Collection holds several different editions of The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy by Hannah Glasse, first published in 1747.   This book was a best seller for more than one hundred years and was written to help instruct servants in the preparing of meals.  In the collection there are also four copies of The Forme of Cury,  a compilation from about 1390 of medieval recipes written by the cooks of Richard II and then edited and published by Samuel Pegge in 1780.  It is one of the oldest known English cookery manuscripts.  In the Cookery Collection there are multiple copies of one of the earliest health and safety conscious food books, Friedrich Christian Accum’s  A Treatise on Adulterations of Food and Culinary Poisons (1822).  The text provides instructions about how to identify dangerous additives in common foods and raises awareness about the dishonest practices of food sellers who use adulterated food to increase sales.   Eliza Acton’s Modern Cookery, in all its Branches : Reduced to a System of Easy Practice, for the use of Private Families was first published in 1845 and a number of editions are in the Cookery Collection at Leeds.  Acton was extremely influential because she was the first cookery book writer to list the ingredients needed in a recipe and to note how long a dish takes to cook - an innovation which has become a standard feature of modern recipes.  The Cookery Collection is home to seven copies of the Victorian best seller, Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management; Comprising Information for the Mistress, edited by Mrs Beeton and first published in 1861.   The book is a collection of recipes and advice for women about conducting their housekeeping duties. It was an enormous commercial success and sold 2 million copies by 1868.  The Cookery D collection contains a large number of printed cookery books from Italy as well as a number other countries.  For example, Opera di Bartolomeo Scappi (1570) is an illustrated Italian cook book with recipes and images of kitchen utensils.  The author is Bartolomeo Scappi, renowned renaissance chef, who cooked for Pope Pius IV and Pope Pius V in the Vatican kitchen.  Cookery D also contains the one incunabulum in the Cookery Collection, which the Library received from Blanche Leigh's donation.  Regimen sanitatis Salernitanum is a poem which offers the reader a health regime and advice about keeping a good diet. For example, it recommends not eating too much.  The exact date of the copy in the Cookery Collection is unknown but it is thought to be post 1500 and is cited in The British Library's Incunabula Short Title Catalogue.  The printer Bernardino dei Vitali was active from 1494 to 1539.  Among Camden Public Library's donation of 20th century cookery books to Leeds University Library were many works by the influential cookery writer, Elizabeth David.  In her first cook book, A Book of Mediterranean Food (1950), she reintroduced more exotic ingredients – such as figs, garlic and olive oil – that had been absent from British cooking during the war.  Alfred Chaston Chapman was a chemist with a specialist interest in fermentation and brewing. He was president of the Institute of Brewing and Distilling from 1911 to 1913. In 1939 his widow donated to Leeds University Library his collection of books which cover the history of brewing, winemaking, the legality of alcohol and drinking in society.   Some titles in his collection include: The Anatomy of Drunkenness (1840), The History and Science of Drunkenness (1883) and Oxford Night Caps: Being a Collection of Receipts for Making Various Beverages Used in the University (1835).   Individual manuscript volumes in the Cookery Collection have been grouped in the archive collection, Cookery Manuscripts. There are 75 items spanning the period 1561–2000 and covering the subjects of cookery, household management and medicinal remedies. Some of these manuscripts were part of Blanche Leigh and John Preston’s original donations to Leeds University Library but there are also more recent acquisitions.  The Cookery Collection at Leeds University Library has proved to be an insightful research resource for scholars.  The Cookery Collection at Leeds University Library has informed an array of publications. Anne Wilson was a member of staff at the Brotherton Library and catalogued the Preston donation to the Leeds University Library Cookery Collection in 1964. This inspired her interest in food history. She went on to found the Leeds Symposium on Food History in 1986. Thus the Brotherton Library’s Cookery Collection was integral to the establishment of the Symposium.  The Leeds Symposium has held annual meetings for the discussion of food history and the presentation of papers since 1986.  Anne Wilson wrote Food and Drink in Britain (1973) which draws on the Cookery Collection's early cook books.  She wrote The Book of Marmalade which was published in 1985. In it, she cites the Cookery Collection: "Most of the older recipe books consulted are among those in the Blanche Leigh and John F Preston collections of early cookery books in the Brotherton Library at the University of Leeds."  Anne Wilson edited Luncheon, Nuncheon and Other Meals: Eating with the Victorians (1994) and The Country Kitchen Garden 1600–1950 (1998). Both of these books mention the Brotherton Library’s Cookery Collection in their acknowledgements.   Eileen White is a food historian specialising in domestic English cookery in the 15th and 16th centuries.  White edited and contributed to The English Cookery Book: Historical Essays, based on papers from the 16th Leeds Symposium on Food History held in March 2001. The book celebrates the Cookery Collection at Leeds University Library and pays tribute to its value for researchers. All the illustrations in the book are taken from the Brotherton Library’s collection.  White also edited Feeding a City: York (2000) and The English Kitchen: Historical Essays (2007), which also acknowledge the Brotherton Library’s Cookery Collection.   In 2003 White wrote Soup in which she acknowledges "The collection of cookery books in the Brotherton Library at Leeds University has given me access to a wide range of original sources."  Peter Brears, Lynette Hunter and Jennifer Stead are other food historians who have consulted the Cookery Collection at Leeds University Library and contributed essays to the Leeds Symposium on Food History publications.    Cecilia Leong-Salobir cites "The Cookery Collection, Leeds University Library" as source in the acknowledgments for her book, The Food Culture in Colonial Asia: A Taste of Empire, Routledge, 2011.  A guide to the Cookery Collection is available on the Leeds University Library website. This provides an overview to the collection, its history and its uses.  The Cookery Collection has been fully catalogued online.  In the Library catalogue the contents and hierarchy of the Cookery Collection can be viewed, as can descriptions of individual items.   A selection of pieces in the Cookery Collection have been photographed and digitised.   Researchers can consult the Cookery Collection in person by visiting the reading room in Special Collections at the Brotherton Library, University of Leeds.   