Ruben Papian (born June 6, 1962 in Yerevan, Armenia) is an esotericist and para-scientist specializing in subjects such as metaphysics and parapsychology. He is best known as an energy healer and a developer and teacher of unique self-improvement methods.  Ruben Papian was born in  Yerevan, Armenia.  As a very young boy, Ruben heard stories about the existence of UFO’s and life outside our planet. It was a shock for him. After this, his affection towards paranormal sciences and exploration began to grow. This made him different from other children. Not only because of his interests, but also because he was a fast learner and could communicate and socialize with people who were much older than him. This influenced his further growth. In Armenia, Ruben attended the Yerevan State University of Architecture and Construction. In addition to this he was also interested in painting and music. His musical career began when he was 12 years old. Ruben is the founder, leader and singer of a student rock band called Oleess that projects progressive ideas. A turning point of his life was when his mother was diagnosed with a serious illness. Ruben could not do anything to help her – at the time he was only 18. One day an energy healer came to their family house to help cure the disease. Ruben saw him standing in front of her waving his hands. “I’ve never seen anything like that before. He was treating my mother with no medicine or medical equipment. The only thing he had were – his hands”.  When the energy healer finished, Ruben expressed a wish to learn everything about the method he was using. The healer gave him a book called “Caucasian Yoga” by Count Stefan Colonna Walewski. It was hand-written in Russian and was the first step in Ruben’s self-tutoring. With this book came an understanding of human energy and a glance at the possibilities that he had within himself. “When I was 16, I started noticing human pain. I don’t know how to explain it, but I knew if this or that person was sick. I could even see the exact place of the pain.”  With “Caucasian Yoga” he started learning energy healing and this profession played an important role in his later life. In 1987 Ruben was invited to go to Moscow. His energy healing abilities were highly appreciated by Soviet Union State Department officials. During the time he spent in Moscow, his energy method increased in both quality and efficiency in the area of anatomy, the nervous system and mind functions. He came to the conclusion that the main key to solving health problems lay in the mind. He developed a method called “Mental Correction and Communication”.  In 1988 he was invited to come to Yugoslavia to solve a certain health problem. After a few visits, in 1990 he decided to move to Belgrade,  Yugoslavia with his family and formed a “Center for Alternative Healing” where he performed personal and group treatments using his method “Mental Correction and Communication”. By 1993 his knowledge had become enriched and he began to understand human complexity. It led to the formation of the association for personal harmonic development “The Golden Step”.  In 1994 the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science in the Netherlands involved him in a project called “The theory and methodology of finding and developing the talents of gifted children”.    The same year he moved to the Netherlands, and from 1995 to 1998 he continued energy healing, mentored different courses, worked in an International Dutch company as a negotiation trainer for high management.  From 1998 to 2005 the name Ruben Papian became well-known worldwide.  In 2005 Ruben developed “The Golden Step” into the first “Institute of Esotery and Parapsychology Ruben Papian” in Belgrade, Yugoslavia. The Institute offered educational programs such as Energy Therapy Healing, Mental Correction and Communication and Harmonic Personal Development.  In 2004 in the Netherlands Ruben developed a construction called “The Energy Pyramid”. Ever since he started researching cosmic energies, he had become interested in pyramids, the way they function and affect the human organism. In a short time he developed an energy flow concept and understood the basis of the mystical powers of those large monuments that could be found anywhere in the world. In 2008 Ruben produced an Armenian movie called “Welcome Papa”.  Since 2010 he has been Senior Advisor of the International Challenge:Future competition.  Challenge:Future is an international youth think tank and competition that connects corporate and global challenges with the power of youth-driven innovation based on sustainability principles. It’s a place where you can put your creativity to the test and collaborate with others to prove yourself and win amazing awards.  At the very start of 2011, the “Institute of Esotery and Parapsychology Ruben Papian” in Belgrade, Serbia became the “SFERA movement”. Thanks to his great success and to the people who were interested in his unique training methods, Ruben opened another “SFERA movement” in Kazakhstan, Almaty in December 2011.  In 2011 he wrote his first book, How to Wish.  This book is in the first part of a transformational series called “The Books of Essence”.  The book was published in June 2013.  