Mobility Car Is a vehicle issued to a disabled person, to allow them to travel without burden of their disability. Mobility cars are obtained from a scheme called "Motability". This page refers to the United Kingdom scheme called "Motability" - Motability is a registered charity - and not as many people believe, a Government agency. If a person has a long term illness that causes them physical disablement, they are entitled to a mobility car. People with conditions such as multiple sclerosis, often need a car, as sufferers find it physically exerting to walk long distances. The car is leased to the customer with a "Mileage Limit" this means that the customer can drive their mobility car until their limit is reached, and the car must be returned to Motability. There are two mileage options. The five-year offer which includes 100,000 miles, and a three-year offer which includes 60,000 miles. If the customer is disabled to a point where they cannot drive, two friends, relatives or carers can be nominated to drive the car instead. The nominees, however, must not have any serious convictions, disqualifications, or other endorsements within the last five years. Only one named driver can be under the age of 21, and drivers under the age of 25 can only drive cars in the lower insurance groups of one to 18. To find out a car's insurance group, the Motability website provides a "car search". Holders of provisional licenses who wish to drive the car, must be over 21, however if it is their car they can drive on a provisional at 16 years of age provided they are accompanied by a driver age 21 or over, and held a full licence for 3 years min, and on the insurance policy. The car is maintained for free by Motability. This covers tyres, windscreens, and general wear and tear to the vehicle. If the car is returned in a damaged state that affects re-sale at the end of the contract, a fee will be imposed to repair the damage.If the car is returned in good condition, the customer may be rewarded with a £250 bonus. Motability leases now come with a mileage allowance of 60,000 miles for three-year agreements and 100,000 for five-year Wheelchair Accessible Vehicle (WAV) agreements. If the disabled person is aged between 16–24 years old, they may be entitled to a free driving course.The 6 hour training course is delivered by the AA. In the event of a claim, drivers who have successfully completed the training will pay a lower amount of excess than the standard amount for drivers in this age bracket. Customers can arrange to take driving courses through their dealer when they collect their car. Mobility cars are intended for the use of the Motability customer only, and must only be used to transport the motability customer, or for their benefit. The motability customer does not need to be in the car for every journey. Claiming a mobility car and giving it to somebody else to use can be sanctioned by the loss of the mobility car. Deliberately damaging the mobility car is against the Motability terms of use, and can result in a fee for damage, or loss of mobility car. Deliberate damage can take on the forms of: Physical damage, where the car is damaged by the person physically, and driving in a manner that damages the vehicle. Using the Mobility car for financial gain is also against the terms of use. This can mean using the mobility car as a taxi, or otherwise charging people to use the car. If it is discovered that the customer was feigning their disability, they will lose their mobility car. Breaking the terms of use can result in a warning, a fine, or the loss of the car. 