 Codecademy is an online interactive platform that offers free coding classes in 12 different programming languages including Python, Java, JavaScript (jQuery, AngularJS, React.js), Ruby, SQL, and Sass, as well as markup languages HTML and CSS.    The site also offers a paid "pro" option that gives users access to a personalized learning plan, quizzes, realistic projects, and live help from advisors.  Codecademy was founded in August 2011 by Zach Sims and Ryan Bubinski.  Sims dropped out of Columbia University to focus on launching a venture, and Bubinski graduated from Columbia in 2011.   The company, headquartered in New York City, raised $2.5 million in Series A funding in October 2011 and $10 million in Series B funding in June 2012.   The latest round of funding was led by Index Ventures.  Crunchbase reports an additional Series C round of funding for an undisclosed amount, by Bloomberg Beta in June 2013.  On July 22, 2014, the site appeared with a new redesigned dashboard.  In August 2015, Codecademy partnered with the White House, willing to host in-person meet-ups for 600 students from disadvantaged women and minority groups over a twelve-month period.   In September 2017, Codecademy partnered with Amazon for free Alexa skills training.  In early 2017, Codecademy removed the PHP course previously offered. Community Manager @danieloduffy explained in a blog post that the course was the least popular course offered by the website and the number of people taking the course didn't justify the cost of maintaining and migrating the course to their new eLearning infrastructure.  At time of writing, the course is still accessible via old links but is no longer listed on the website or in the dashboard. The platform also provides courses for learning command line and Git.  In September 2015, Codecademy, in partnership with Periscope, added a series of courses designed to teach SQL, the predominant programming language for database queries.  In October 2015, Codecademy created a new course, a class on Java programming. As of January 2014, the site had over 24 million users who had completed over 100 million exercises.    The site has received positive reviews from the New York Times  and TechCrunch.  As part of the Computer Science Education Week held in December 2013, Codecademy launched their first iOS app called "Hour of Code". The app focuses on the basics of programming, including the same content from the website.  Code Year was a free incentive Codecademy program intended to help people follow through on a New Year's Resolution to learn how to program, by introducing a new course for every week in 2012.  Over 450,000 people took courses in 2012,   and Codecademy continued the program into 2013. Even though the course is still available, the program has stopped. 