  FutureLearn is a digital education platform founded in December 2012. The company is wholly owned by The Open University in Milton Keynes, England.   It is a Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) learning platform, and as of May 2018 included 143 UK and international partners, including non-university partners.  FutureLearn was launched with 12 university partners, seeking those who "consistently rank at the top end of the…league tables".  The 12 founding partners are: The Open University, University of Birmingham, University of Bristol, Cardiff University, University of East Anglia, University of Exeter, King's College London, Lancaster University, University of Leeds, University of Southampton, St Andrews University, and University of Warwick.   The launch was described as a move to 'fight back' and provide a space for UK institutions to engage in the MOOC space.   According to Financial Times, FutureLearn was the first platform to enable students to earn credits towards a degree from a top UK university from their tablets and smartphones, 2016.  FutureLearn's courses span a broad range of topics. The first course opened on 14 October 2013.  The first courses to be made available included "Web science: how the web is changing the world" (University of Southampton), "Introduction to ecosystems" (The Open University), "Improving your image: dental photography in practice" (University of Birmingham), "Causes of war" (King's College London), "The discovery of the Higgs boson" (University of Edinburgh), "Discover dentistry" (University of Sheffield), "Muslims in Britain: changes and challenges" (Cardiff University), "Begin programming: build your first mobile game" (University of Reading) and "England in the time of King Richard III" (University of Leicester). The first course to launch was "The secret power of brands", conducted by professor Robert Jones of the University of East Anglia. In April 2017, FutureLearn blocked their courses for users in Crimea, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Syria as a result of US sanctions to those countries.  These restrictions were lifted in November 2017.  