Treehouse or (Teamtreehouse) is an online technology school that offers beginner to advanced courses in web design, web development, mobile development and game development taught by a team of expert teachers.  Its courses are aimed at beginners looking to learn coding skills for a career in the tech industry. The Treehouse learning program includes videos combined with interactive quizzes and code challenges. Treehouse Tracks are guided curricula, composed of courses that train students in large topic areas. Treehouse Organizations is designed to assist businesses, organizations, schools and community programs in technology training. Companies including Simple and LivingSocial currently use Treehouse to recruit new employees based on their progress and achievements on Treehouse.  In April 2012, Treehouse raised $4.75M in funding.  In April 2013, Treehouse closed a US$7 million Series-B fundraising round led by Social+Capital and Kaplan bringing its total raised capital to $12.6 million.  In May 2016, Treehouse launched the Techdegree Program, a learning program focused on helping people prepare for a tech career. Treehouse was founded by Ryan Carson, a computer science graduate from Colorado State University.  After graduating, Carson worked for Fingal, a design agency in London before moving to Bath, United Kingdom. In 2004, Ryan Carson and his wife Gillian Carson founded Carsonified, a company built towards training web designers and developers based in Bath, United Kingdom.  In addition to training designers and developers, Carsonified also created web applications and hosted web industry events, conferences and workshops. In 2008 Carsonified sold its file-sharing application DropSend to the Florida-based company Webminds.  In 2011, Ryan Carson sold Carsonified which is now named Future Insights and started working on his new project, Treehouse. Ryan Carson founded Treehouse in 2011, a project that emerged from Carson's previous company, Carsonified, and its video-tutorial service Think Vitamin Membership.  Carson decided to redesign and rebrand the service as Treehouse because the name "reflects the wonder of learning as a child."  Treehouse’s mission is to offer affordable technology education to users globally.  In 2011, Treehouse opened their first office in Orlando, Florida, In 2012 they opened their second office and moved Treehouse HQ to Portland, Oregon.  In July 2013, Treehouse released its first iPad app for accessing Treehouse's content.  Treehouse also released an Android application in 2014 and added a course for Apple’s Swift programming language.  Carson is currently the active CEO of Treehouse.  In May 2016, Treehouse announced the launch of the Techdegree Program. The Techdegree program is a guided learning program that is designed to help students prepare for entry-level development jobs. The Techdegree program is available for six competencies: Android, front-end web development, Full Stack Javascript, iOS, Java, and Python.  Program length varies by Techdegree. Below is a breakout of how much time it takes to complete a program, including courses and projects. Up until 2015, Treehouse had a four-day work week and no managers,  and practiced open allocation.   In August 2015 the company introduced middle management  and temporarily stopped practicing the four-day work weeks to help its growing size (with about 100 employees). In early 2016, they resumed the four-day work week. Originally, co-founder Ryan Carson established the short work week in an effort to prevent burnout and reward employees by limiting the number of hours they worked.    