Bendor Gerard Robert Grosvenor (born 27 November 1977) is a British art dealer, art historian and writer. He is known for discovering a number of important lost artworks by Old Master artists, including Sir Peter Paul Rubens, Claude Lorrain and Peter Brueghel the Younger.  As a dealer he specialises in Old Masters, with a particular interest in Anthony van Dyck. During 2011 - 2016 he performed specialist research for, and appeared in, the BBC1 art programme, Fake or Fortune?  He then presented the BBC4 series Britain's Lost Masterpieces  with Jacky Klein and Emma Dabiri, which ran from 2016 - 2017. Grosvenor was educated at Harrow School, Pembroke College, Cambridge and the University of East Anglia where he completed his PhD entitled "The Politics of Foreign Policy: Lord Derby and the Eastern Crisis, 1875-8".  Before becoming an art historian he worked in politics, first as an adviser to the Labour MP Tony Banks, Lord Stratford, and then to the Conservative MP Hugo Swire. His first major art discovery was a mis-catalogued portrait by Sir Thomas Lawrence in 2003 that was being sold at a London auction as a work by Lawrence's pupil, George Henry Harlow.  From 2005 until 2014 he worked for Philip Mould Ltd , where he made a number of significant art historical discoveries, including lost works by artists such as Sir Joshua Reynolds, Thomas Gainsborough, and Sir Anthony Van Dyck, on whom he is an acknowledged specialist.  He now has his own company, and specialises in establishing the authenticity of paintings. [not in citation given] He recently[when?] sold a newly identified portrait by Joan Carlile, the first professional British female artist, to the Tate gallery.   In 2017 he discovered the "lost portrait" of George Villiers, 1st Duke of Buckingham  at Pollok House, Glasgow, Scotland. The painting was thought to be a copy of a painting by Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens that had been lost for nearly 400 years, but after restoration was found to be the original by Rubens.  Grosvenor has been a member of the Lord Chancellor's Advisory Council on National Records and Archives, and the Lord Chancellor's Forum for Historical Manuscripts and Academic Research.  He also works as a journalist and writer, and presents programmes for BBC2's The Culture Show. Grosvenor has made a special study of Jacobite portraiture. In 2009 he proved that the Scottish National Portrait Gallery's iconic portrait of Charles Edward Stuart by Maurice Quentin de La Tour was in fact a portrait of Charles' brother, Henry Benedict Stuart, Cardinal York.   In 2013 he discovered the lost portrait of Charles Edward Stuart by Scottish artist Allan Ramsay at Gosford House, the home of the Earl of Wemyss near Edinburgh.  This portrait is now on display at the Scottish National Portrait Gallery, and has taken the place of the La Tour pastel as the definitive portrait of Charles.  The name Bendor is derived from the Grosvenor family's medieval heraldic shield, a bend or, a golden bend (diagonal stripe), which they used until 1389 when it was claimed instead by the Scrope family, in the case Scrope v Grosvenor. The 2nd Duke of Westminster was nicknamed "Bendor".  Bendor is the grandson of The 5th Baron Ebury, and the 4th cousin once removed of The 7th Duke of Westminster. (He is fourth in line to the Marquessate of Westminster after The 8th Earl of Wilton, Viscount Grey de Wilton, and his first cousin Alexander Grosvenor.) He is also of Swiss heritage. 