  The Medical Council of India (MCI) is a statutory body for establishing uniform and high standards of medical education in India. The Council grants recognition of medical qualifications, gives accreditation to medical schools, grants registration to medical practitioners, and monitors medical practice in India. The current President of MCI is Dr. Jayshreeben Mehta. Now the Supreme Court has allowed the Central Government to replace the medical council and with the help of five specialized doctors monitor the medical education system in India, from July 2017. The planning commission has recommended the replacement of Medical Council of India (MCI) with National Medical Commission (NMC). The decision has been approved by most states and after its approval by the Prime Minister it will be proposed as final bill in the upcoming parliamentary sessions.    The Medical Council of India was first established in 1934 under the Indian Medical Council Act, 1933. The Council was later reconstituted under the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 that replaced the earlier Act. Following this, the Council was superseded by the President of India and its functions entrusted to a Board of Governors. The present Board of Governors was notified on 13 May 2011. Again vide Govt. of India notification, the Council re-constituted and functioning currently The main functions of the Medical Council of India are as follows: Registration of doctors and their qualifications is usually done by state medical councils. The MCI was dissolved by the President of India on 15 May 2010 following the arrest of MCI's president Ketan Desai by the CBI on 22 April 2010. Desai, alleged middle-man J. P. Singh and doctors Sukhwinder Singh and Kanwaljit Singh have been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act.   The CBI recovered 1.5 kg of gold and 80 kg of silver from Desai's premises. Further, gold worth ₨ 35 lakhs were recovered from Desai's bank lockers in Ahmedabad.  Ketan Desai, the head of urology at B J Medical College and president of the Gujarat Medical Council was caught by the CBI for accepting a bribe of 2 crores to grant recognition to a private college. He was immediately removed from the Medical council and his registration cancelled. The council was revamped in 2013 and the current President of MCI, Dr.Jayshreeben Mehta was elected unanimously. She  became  the first woman president of MCI in 80 years since the council came into being. "MCI Online" is the portal of the Medical Council of India for online processing of applications for registration (of medical qualifications) and for professional certificates. "MCI Online" also provides online search of the Indian Medical Register. 