The Yidan Prize (/ji: ‘dan/） is an educational prize founded in 2016 by Dr. Charles Chen. The prize is awarded each year to two individuals or organizations whose work has made profound contributions to education research and development. The prize comprises two categories: the Yidan Prize for Education Research, which recognizes outstanding research that makes significant contributions to education, and the Yidan Prize for Education Development, which recognizes innovative ideas that tackle pressing challenges in the field of education. The prize is financed and governed by a HK$2.5 billion (about US$320 million) independent trust. Each prize carries an award of HK$30 million (about US$3.87 million)  – half cash award and half project fund – as well as a gold medal. Through a series of initiatives, the prize serves to provide a platform that allows the global community to engage in conversation around education and to play a role in education philanthropy. Nominees can be either individuals or teams of up to three representatives, who can be teachers, researchers, academics, policy makers and advocates among others. The two independent judging panels will screen valid nominations and select a candidate for each prize category. Candidates are assessed on four criteria: future orientation, innovation, transformation and sustainability. The Yidan Prize unveiled its inaugural laureates on 19 September 2017 in Hong Kong. They are Carol S. Dweck of Stanford University and Vicky Colbert, founder and director of Fundación Escuela Nueva. At the inaugural Yidan Prize Award Presentation Ceremony and the Yidan Prize Summit, they shared their ground-breaking work in education. The prize was established in 2016 by the Yidan Prize Foundation. Chen Yidan (English name Charles Chen), established the foundation and the prize to promote educational causes globally.     The first prize winners were announced during September 2017 and the first award ceremony took place during December 2017 in Hong Kong.    The prize is overseen by the Yidan Prize Foundation. The members of the global advisory board are: Given on an annual basis, the Yidan Prize recognizes and supports individuals for forward-looking innovations that creates sustainable impacts on the education systems of today and tomorrow. Each nomination is reviewed according to a set of rigorous criteria in order to identify the very best individuals. Projects must be sustainable,future-oriented, transformative and innovative. The Yidan Prize invites government bodies, non-government organizations and professional associations, and individual thought leaders, to propose nominees. Self-nomination is allowed in exceptional cases. Nominees can be individuals or working teams of up to three people and can be teachers, researchers, academics, policy makers, advocates or those who work in related roles. Posthumous nominations are not accepted but nominees who are not awarded can be nominated again in the future. The Yidan Prize is managed and governed by the Yidan Prize Foundation board of directors, an international judging committee and a global advisory board formed by a respected team of independent and authoritative experts. The board of directors is responsible for approving the judging committee’s awardee recommendations. The Judging Committee is responsible for screening nominations and selecting laureates. It comprises two independent judging panels. The committee is composed of: Chairman: Dr Koichiro Matsuura - former director-general, UNESCO The Yidan Prize for Education Research Judging Panel The Yidan Prize for Education Development Judging Panel The Yidan Prizes consist of a medal as well as a financial award for each recipient. The medals were designed by Kan Tai-keung. They feature a book motif on one side representing important texts in Chinese literature, On the other side, the Yidan Prize Foundation logo is incorporated with scenes of a figure contemplating the horizon near a tree. The financial award of a cash prize of HK$15 million and a project fund of HK$15 million to each of the two top candidates is supported by a US$320 million endowment. The inaugural laureates for the Yidan Prize, Dr Carol Dweck and Vicky Colbert, were announced on September 19, 2017.  On September 19, 2017, the Yidan Prize Foundation launched the first Worldwide Educating for the Future Index. The index was commissioned by the Yidan Prize Foundation and conducted by the Economist Intelligence Unit. It evaluates how 35 developed and developing economies, representing 88% of global GDP and 77% of global population, are preparing the next generation with the skills needed for the future. The index is based on 16 indicators across three thematic categories: education policy, teaching environment and socio-economic environment. It's the world’s first ever comprehensive benchmarking tool that focuses on inputs to education systems, as opposed to outputs such as test scores. The index examines the strengths and weaknesses of education systems for the next generation and creates a blueprint for governments to improve.  