The Journal of Geophysical Research is a peer-reviewed scientific journal. It is the flagship journal of the American Geophysical Union.  It contains original research on the physical, chemical, and biological processes that contribute to the understanding of the Earth, Sun, and solar system. It has seven sections: A (Space Physics), B (Solid Earth), C (Oceans), D (Atmospheres), E (Planets), F (Earth Surface), and G (Biogeosciences). All current and back issues are available online for subscribers. The journal was originally founded under the name Terrestrial Magnetism by the American Geophysical Union's president Louis Agricola Bauer in 1896.   It was entitled Terrestrial Magnetism and Atmospheric Electricity from 1899–1948.  In 1980, three specialized sections were established: A: Space Physics, B: Solid Earth, and C: Oceans.  Subsequently, further sections have been added: D: Atmospheres in 1984,  E: Planets in 1991,  F: Earth Surface in 2003,  and G: Biogeosciences in 2005.  The scopes of the current seven sections, published as separate issues, are: Each of the sections has one or more editors who are appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the President of the American Geophysical Union for terms of three to four years. Each editor can in turn appoint associate editors.  According to the Editor-in-Chief of JGR-Space Physics, "With the switch to Wiley, the separate sections of JGR were given distinct ISSN numbers. This means that in a couple of years, each section of JGR will have its own Impact Factor."  The journal is indexed by GEOBASE, GeoRef, Scopus, PubMed, Web of Science, and several CSA indexes.  It published 2995 articles in 2010. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2010 impact factor of 3.303, ranking it 15th out of 165 journals in the category "Geosciences, Multidisciplinary". Journal of Geophysical Research—Atmospheres was also the 6th most cited publication on climate change between 1999 and 2009.  Among the most highly cited papers in the Journal of Geophysical Research (with over 1000 citations each) are:  