Ichchadhari Naag (male) or Naagin (female) are mythical shape-shifting cobras in Indian folklore. These creatures would obtain their power by living for 100 years and not biting any living beings. They prefer to be in the form of a human being most of the time.  Ichchadhari Naag, in snake form, possess a gem called "Naag Mani", considered much more valuable than a diamond. Legends tell of many people losing their lives through snake bites, when the snakes took revenge for stolen Mani, or if either of a pair of snakes was killed. According to legend, the snakes can be controlled using Been, the musical instrument used by snake charmers. It is believed that it is the idol of snakes, but there is no proof of this.[clarify] These types of snakes will take revenge on anyone who disturbs them.  The legends of Ichchhadhari Naag have been used as a plot basis for many comic plot and stories. The comic book superhero character "Nagraj" ("Cobra-King") is also based on these legends. There is another famous Hindi comic character, named Tausi, who was a male shape shifting snake. Apart from these, the concept had been used for many children's short stories.  Many Bollywood films incorporate the Ichchhadhari Naag legends, or the character of Nagraj, such as Nagin, Sridevi in the 1986 film Nagina, and Reena Roy in Nagin (1976). In 2007, a television series called Naaginn began on Zee TV, in which Sayantani Ghosh played role of an Ichchhadhari Naagin. In 2015, a television series called Naagin began, in which Mouni Roy and Adaa Khan play the lead role of serpents. In 2016, the soap opera Ichhapyaari Naagin started, starring Priyal Gor in the lead role of a serpent. In 2016, Naagakanya started, starring Deepika Das. Another television series which has shape shifting snake role is Nandini which started airing on 23rd January 2017. This series is being simultaneously aired in  four different Indian languages, viz. Tamil (Original version), Kannada (Re-shot), Telugu (dubbed) and Malayalam (dubbed). 