The King asleep in mountain (D 1960.2 in Stith Thompson's motif index system)  is a prominent folklore motif found in many folktales and legends. Thompson also termed it as the Kyffhäuser type.  Some other designations are: king in the mountain, king under the mountain, or sleeping hero. Examples include the legends of Frederic Barbarossa at Kyffhäuser, Kraljevic Marko, Ogier the Dane, King Arthur, and Charlemagne.   The motifs A 571 "Culture hero asleep in mountain", and E 502, "The Sleeping Army" are similar and can occur in the same tale.  A related motif is the "Seven Sleepers" (D 1960.1,  also known as the "Rip Van Winkle" motif), whose type tale is the Seven Sleepers of Ephesus (AT tale type 766). King in the mountain stories involve legendary heroes, often accompanied by armed retainers, sleeping in remote dwellings, including caves on high mountaintops, remote islands, or supernatural worlds. The hero is frequently a historical figure of some military consequence in the history of the nation where the mountain is located. The stories gathered by the Brothers Grimm concerning Frederick Barbarossa and Charlemagne are typical of the stories told, and have been influential on many variants and subsequent adaptations. The presence of the hero is unsuspected, until some herdsman wanders into the cave, typically looking for a lost animal, and sees the hero. The stories almost always mention the detail that the hero has grown a long beard, indicative of the long time he has slept beneath the mountain. In the Brothers Grimm version, the hero speaks with the herdsman. Their conversation typically involves the hero asking, "Do the eagles (or ravens) still circle the mountaintop?" The herdsman, or a mysterious voice, replies, "Yes, they still circle the mountaintop." "Then begone! My time has not yet come." The herdsman in this story was then supernaturally harmed by the experience: he ages rapidly, he emerges with his hair turned white, and often he dies after repeating the tale. The story goes on to say that the king sleeps in the mountain, awaiting a summons to arise with his knights and defend the nation in a time of deadly peril. The omen that presages his rising will be the extinction of the birds that trigger his awakening.   A number of kings, rulers, fictional characters and religious figures have become attached to this story. They include the following: Sometimes this type of story or archetype is also attached to not-so-heroic figures, who are either simple anti-heroes or fully villains, whose return would mean the end of the world, or whose sleep represents something positive. This kind of archetype is known as the "Chained Satan" archetype.  Among examples of this are: 