The Arizona Geographic Information Council (AGIC) was established by executive order as Arizona's primary forum and oversight group for coordination efforts related to geographic information systems (GIS). AGIC identifies standards and implementation strategies to provide a framework for optimizing Arizona's investment in GIS. Through cooperation and partnerships, AGIC facilitates the acquisition, exchange and management of geospatial data and technology to benefit State agencies and the Arizona GIS community. AGIC meets on a regular basis and conducts an Annual GIS Conference to address statewide GIS issues, requirements and solutions.  AGIC hosts an annual training symposium bringing together GIS professionals statewide to share their best practices.  "The AZGEO Clearinghouse is an initiative of the Arizona Geographic Information Council. AZGEO is designed to provide GIS users with links to Internet map services, FGDC compliant metadata, and geospatial data downloads. Data include GIS layers for administrative boundaries, demographic, environmental factors, hydrology, imagery, indices, mining, natural features, transportation and more."  AGIC is composed of an Executive Management Board and standing technical committees to advise the Board on technical issues and to assist the Board in the implementation of AGIC programs. Member organizations are: Arizona Department of Administration Arizona Department of Commerce Arizona Department of Economic Security Arizona Department of Education Arizona Department of Environmental Quality Arizona Department of Health Services Arizona Department of Public Safety Arizona Department of Revenue Arizona Department of Transportation Arizona Department of Water Resources Arizona Game and Fish Department Arizona Geological Survey Arizona State Cartographer's Office Arizona State Land Department Arizona State Parks Arizona State University Northern Arizona University University of Arizona Bureau of Indian Affairs Bureau of Land Management Bureau of Reclamation National Geodetic Survey Natural Resources Conservation Service U.S. Forest Service U.S. Geological Survey Arizona Association of Counties League of Arizona Cities and Towns Arizona Professional Land Surveyors Association Maricopa Association of Governments Northern Arizona Geographic Information Forum Pima Association of Governments Yuma Regional Geographic Information System Additionally, one representative from a private sector organization sits on the Board.  