The Association of Geographic Information Laboratories for Europe (AGILE) was established to promote academic teaching and research on Geographic Information Systems at the European level.  AGILE was established in early 1998 to ensure the continuation of the networking activities that have emerged as a result of the EGIS Conferences and the European Science Foundation GISDATA Scientific Programmes. AGILE seeks to ensure that the views of the geographic information teaching and research community are fully represented in the discussions that take place on future European research agendas. AGILE also provides a permanent scientific forum where geographic information researchers can meet and exchange ideas and experiences at the European level. Activities of AGILE are managed by an eight-person council elected by its members. Its main tasks are to develop an organisational structure to realise the goals of AGILE, to further develop with the help of the members a European research agenda, to instigate and stimulate initiatives, and to organise a yearly GI-conference. The title of the organisation conveys the following: The idea of an Association presents few problems nor does the term "Europe". However, the use of the term "geographic information laboratories" needs some clarification. The term "laboratories" emphasises that this is an association of groups rather than individuals. It also reflects the fact that geographic information teaching and/or research tends to be a group activity in most institutions. The mission of AGILE is: "to promote academic teaching and research on GIS at the European level and to ensure the continuation of the networking activities that have emerged as a result of the EGIS Conferences and the European Science Foundation GISDATA Scientific Programme." Although rather wordy, the mission statement highlights the two main objectives of AGILE: The content of this page is derived by the AGILE webmaster (kartoweb at itc.nl) from the About Agile page (CC-licensed) of the Official Website. 