Society portals:  Arts ·  Anthropology ·  Community ·  Culture ·  Economics ·  Education ·  Geography ·  Gender studies ·  Globalization ·  History ·  Human rights ·  Internet ·  Law ·  Philosophy ·  Social movements ·  Social sciences ·  Sociology  Law is a system of rules that are created and enforced through social or governmental institutions to regulate behavior. Law is a system that regulates and ensures that individuals or a community adhere to the will of the state. State-enforced laws can be made by a collective legislature or by a single legislator, resulting in statutes, by the executive through decrees and regulations, or established by judges through precedent, normally in common law jurisdictions. Private individuals can create legally binding contracts, including arbitration agreements that may elect to accept alternative arbitration to the normal court process. The formation of laws themselves may be influenced by a constitution, written or tacit, and the rights encoded therein. The law shapes politics, economics, history and society in various ways and serves as a mediator of relations between people. A general distinction can be made between (a) civil law jurisdictions, in which a legislature or other central body codifies and consolidates their laws, and (b) common law systems, where judge-made precedent is accepted as binding law. Historically, religious laws played a significant role even in settling of secular matters, and is still used in some religious communities. Islamic Sharia law is the world's most widely used religious law, and is used as the primary legal system in some countries, such as Iran and Saudi Arabia. The Marshalsea was a prison on the south bank of the River Thames in Southwark, now part of London. From the 14th century until it closed in 1842, it housed men under court martial for crimes at sea, including those accused of "unnatural crimes," political figures and intellectuals accused of sedition, and—most famously—London's debtors, the length of their stay determined largely by the whim of their creditors. Run privately for profit, as were all prisons in England until the 19th century, the Marshalsea looked like an Oxbridge college and functioned as an extortion racket. For prisoners who could pay, it came with access to a bar, shop, and restaurant, as well as the crucial privilege of being allowed out during the day, which meant debtors could earn money to satisfy their creditors. Everyone else was crammed into one of nine small rooms with dozens of others, possibly for decades for the most modest of debts, which increased as unpaid prison fees accumulated. A parliamentary committee reported in 1729 that 300 inmates had starved to death within a three-month period, and that eight to ten prisoners were dying every 24 hours in the warmer weather. (more...) Learned Hand (1872–1961) was an influential United States judge and judicial philosopher. He served on the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and later on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Hand has reportedly been quoted more often than any other lower-court judge by legal scholars and by the Supreme Court of the United States. Born and raised in Albany, New York, Hand majored in philosophy at Harvard College and graduated with honors from Harvard Law School. After a short career as a lawyer in Albany and New York City, he was appointed as a Federal District Judge in Manhattan in 1909 at the age of 37. The profession suited his detached and open-minded temperament, and his decisions soon won him a reputation for craftsmanship and authority. He ran unsuccessfully as the Progressive Party's candidate for Chief Judge of the New York Court of Appeals in 1913, but withdrew from active politics shortly afterwards. In 1924, President Calvin Coolidge promoted Hand to the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which he went on to lead as the Senior Circuit Judge (later retitled Chief Judge) from 1939 until his semi-retirement in 1951. Friends and admirers often lobbied for Hand's promotion to the Supreme Court, but circumstances and his political past conspired against his appointment. Hand possessed a gift for language, and his writings are admired as legal literature. (more...)  The French Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen Iustitia ("Lady Justice") is a symbolic personification of the coercive power of a tribunal: a sword representing state authority, scales representing an objective standard, and a blindfold indicating that justice should be impartial. The judges of the International Court of Justice in the Hague A march in Washington D.C. during the Civil Rights Movement in 1963 The United Nations' New York headquarters houses civil servants that serve its 193 member states. The "McLibel case" two were involved in the longest-running case in UK history for publishing a pamphlet criticising McDonald's restaurants. First page of the 1804 edition of the Napoleonic Code. U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers A trade union protest by UNISON while on strike In civil law systems such as those of Italy, France, Germany, Spain and Greece, there is a distinct category of notary, a legally trained public official, compensated by the parties to a transaction. This is a 16th-century painting of such a notary by Flemish painter Quentin Massys. The New York Stock Exchange trading floor after the Wall Street Crash of 1929, before tougher banking regulation was introduced The G20 meetings are composed of representatives of each country's executive branch. The Italian lawyer Sir Alberico Gentili, the Father of international law. A depiction of a 17th-century criminal trial, for witchcraft in Salem The Court of Chancery, London, early 19th century The Constitution of India is the longest written constitution for a country, containing 444 articles, 12 schedules, numerous amendments and 117,369 words. Richard Posner, one of the Chicago School, runs a blog with Bank of Sweden Prize winning economist Gary Becker. The famous Carbolic Smoke Ball advertisement to cure influenza was held to be a unilateral contract The debating chamber of the European Parliament Bentham's utilitarian theories remained dominant in law until the 20th century. A trial in the Ottoman Empire, 1879, when religious law applied under the Mecelle Max Weber in 1917, Weber began his career as a lawyer, and is regarded as one of the founders of sociology and sociology of law. A painting of the South Sea Bubble, one of the world's first ever speculations and crashes, led to strict regulation on share trading. King John of England signs Magna Carta Providing a constitution for public international law, the United Nations system was agreed during World War II. King Hammurabi is revealed the code of laws by the Mesopotamian sun god Shamash, also revered as the god of justice. Al-Kateb v Godwin was a decision of the High Court of Australia, which ruled on 6 August 2004 that the indefinite detention of a stateless person was lawful. The case concerned Ahmed Al-Kateb, a Palestinian man born in Kuwait, who moved to Australia in 2000 and applied for a temporary protection visa. The Minister for Immigration's decision refusing his application was upheld by the Refugee Review Tribunal and the Federal Court. In 2002 Al-Kateb declared that he wished to return to either Kuwait or Gaza. However, when it was discovered that no country would accept Al-Kateb, rendering him stateless, he was detained under the policy of mandatory detention. The two main issues considered by the High Court were whether the Migration Act 1958 (the legislation governing immigration to Australia) permitted a person in Al-Kateb's situation to be detained indefinitely, and if so, whether this was permissible under the Constitution of Australia. A majority of the court decided that the Act did allow indefinite detention, and that the Act was not unconstitutional. The controversy surrounding the outcome of the case resulted in a review of the circumstances of twenty-four stateless people in immigration detention, nine of whom, including Al-Kateb, were ultimately granted bridging visas and allowed to enter the community. (more...) The Alaska Mental Health Enabling Act of 1956 was an Act of Congress passed to improve mental health care in the United States territory of Alaska. Introduced in the House of Representatives by Alaska Congressional Delegate Bob Bartlett in January 1956, it became the focus of a major political controversy. The legislation was opposed by a variety of far-right, anti-Communist and fringe religious groups, prompting what was said to have been the biggest political controversy seen on Capitol Hill since the early 1940s. Prominent opponents nicknamed it the "Siberia Bill" and asserted that it was part of an international Jewish, Roman Catholic or psychiatric conspiracy intended to establish United Nations-run concentration camps in the United States. With the sponsorship of the conservative Republican senator Barry Goldwater, a modified version of the Act was approved unanimously by the United States Senate in July 1956 after only ten minutes of debate. (more...) For a list of good articles on legal topics, see here. What are WikiProjects? The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database 