Strawman theory (also called the Strawman illusion) is a pseudolegal theory prevalent in various movements such as sovereign citizen, tax protestor, freeman on the land, and the redemption movement. The theory holds that an individual has two personas, one of flesh and the other a separate legal personality (i.e., the "strawman"). The idea is that an individual’s debts, liabilities, taxes and legal responsibilities belong to the strawman rather than the physical individual.  The strawman theory is recognized in law as a scam: The FBI considers anyone promoting it a likely fraudster,  and the IRS considers it a frivolous argument and fines people that use it on their taxes.   Strawman theory traces its origins to the ancient Roman legal practice of capitis deminutio ("decrease of head"), a term used in Roman trials for the extinguishment of a person's former legal capacity. Capitis deminutio minima meant a person ceased to belong to a particular family, without loss of liberty or citizenship. Capitis deminutio media involved loss of citizenship and family, but not liberty. Capitis deminutio maxima involved loss of family, citizenship and liberty (i.e., a slave or a prisoner of war).  Strawman theory commonly takes the term capitis deminutio spells it "Capitis Diminutio" and claims capitis diminutio maxima was represented by an individual’s name being written in capital letters. This led to the idea that individuals had a separate legal personality now called a "strawman".  The theory holds that an individual has two personas. One of them is a physical, tangible human being, and the other as their legal person, often referred to as a legal fiction. When a baby is born in the U.S., a birth certificate is issued, and the parents apply for a Social Security number. Sovereigns say the government uses that birth certificate to set up a secret Treasury account which it funds with an amount ranging from $600,000 to $20 million, depending on the particular sovereign belief system. Hence, every newborn's rights are split between those held by the flesh-and-blood baby and the corporate shell account.  Proponents of the theory believe the evidence is found on the birth certificate. Since most of them use all capitals to spell out a baby's name, JOHN DOE, is actually the name of the "straw man," and John Doe is the baby's "real" name. As the child grows, most legal documents will utilize capital letters, which means that his state-issued driver's license, his marriage license, his car registration, his criminal court records, his cable TV bill, correspondence from the IRS, etc... all pertain to his strawman and not his sovereign identity.  In reality this is typically done to make certain statements clear and conspicuous, although this is not always the case.  The main use of strawman theory is in escaping and denying debts, liabilities and legal responsibility. Tax protestors, "commercial redemption" and "get out of debt free" scams claim that one’s debts and taxes are the responsibility of the strawman and not of the real person. They back this claim by misreading the legal definition of person  and a misunderstanding of the distinction between a juridicial person  and a natural person.  In accepted legal theory there is a difference between what is known as a natural person and that of a corporate person. A corporate personhood applies to business, charities, governments and other recognized organisations. Courts recognize human beings as 'persons', not as a legal fiction joined to a flesh and blood human being but as one and the same.  They have never recognized a right to distance oneself from one's person, or the ability to opt out of personhood and when this defense has been tried judges have rejected it.  Believers of the theory also extend it to law and legal responsibilities, claiming only their strawman is required to adhere to statutory laws. They also claim that legal proceedings in are taken against strawmen rather than persons and when one appears in court they appear as representing their strawman. The justification for this is the false notion that governments cannot force anybody to do anything and so a strawman is created which they are free to command. Proponents cite a misinterpretation of a passage in chapter 39 of King John's Magna Carta stating in part that, "no freeman will be seized, dispossessed of his property, or harmed except by the law of the land,”.  Freemen believe that separating from their strawman or refusing to be identified as such enables escape from their various liabilities, responsibilities, and laws. This is typically done by denying they are a person in the same way as their strawman or by writing their name in non-standard ways, use red ink, and place finger prints on court documents.  Judge Norman K. Moon found such tactics an unconvincing argument in 2013 when it was attempted by Brandon Gravatt to appeal a drug conviction and get out of prison, the case was summarily dismissed by the court.  It is impossible to dodge the law by insisting that you are different from your person. If a court can establish your identity, regardless of your consent or cooperation, then it is free to engage in proceedings and sanctions against you. This is due to the legal principle known as Idem sonans (Latin for "sounding the same") which states that similar sounding names are just as valid in referring to a person.  The earliest legal precedent is R v Davis in the United Kingdom in 1851.  This is not an exhaustive list 