Wotagei or otagei (ヲタ芸 or オタ芸) refers to a type of dancing and cheering gestures performed by wota, fans of Japanese idol singers (and thus seen as Akiba-kei), involving jumping, clapping, arm-waving and chanting slogans. Wotagei is performed at concerts, or at events such as anime and manga conventions and meetings of idol fan groups, and it is thought to have developed from the ōendan, organised cheering squads common at sporting events in Japan. Wotagei is particularly associated with fans of Hello! Project and AKB48 idols, as well as fans of anime voice actresses, who often perform theme songs for the series in which they appear. There are specific actions associated with "wotagei", such as physical poses and chants (shout or yell).  The "Call" is commonly used shout or yell The most commonly used chant is known as the mix, which follows a set rhythm and is typically shouted during the introduction and instrumental breaks of an idol's song. However, it is generally considered improper to use it during a slow or emotional song. The mix is universal and is not associated with a specific idol group. It consists of three main variations: the Standard Mix, the Japanese Mix, and the Ainu Mix. Some idols also have their own specific versions of the Mix unique to them. The Standard Mix is the most commonly used mix of the three, and is also known as the First Mix as it is typically heard during the introduction of the song. In English, it follows the order below. "Tiger, Fire, Cyber, Fiber, Diver, Viber, Jyaa jyaa!!" "タイガー、ファイヤー、サイバー、ファイバー、ダイバー、バイバー、ジャージャー"　("Taigā, Faiyā, Saibā, Faibā, Daibā, Baibā, Jā jā!!") The Japanese Mix is the translated Standard Mix, and is typically heard at the end of the first instrumental break, leading into the second verse of the song. Due to this, the Japanese Mix is sometimes referred to as the Second Mix. "虎、火、人造、繊維、海女、振動、化繊飛除去" "トラ、ヒ、ジンゾウ、センイ、アマ、シンドウ、カセントビョキョ"　("Tora, Hi, Jinzō, Sen'i, Ama, Shindou, Kasentobijokyo!!") Oftentimes, "Kasentobijokyo" is abbreviated to "Kasen."  The Ainu Mix is another translated version of the mix. It is also known as the Third Mix, but is only used when there is a third instrumental in the song.  "チャペ、アペ、カラ、キナ、ララ、トゥスケ、ミョーホントゥスケ"　("Chape, Ape, Kara, Kina, Rara, Tusuke, Myōhontusuke!!") "wotagei" is performed with Glow stick  