  A Philosothon is an annual competition wherein students explore philosophical and ethical issues. Philosothons are held in all Australian states, New Zealand, and the UK.     At a Philosothon school aged students are assessed by university based professional philosophers and score highly where they demonstrate rigour and clarity of thought. An essential component of a Philosothon is the pedagogical model for teaching Philosophy to young people called Community of inquiry. The event has grown alongside and within the Philosophy for Children movement.  The first Australasian Philosothon was held at Cranbrook School, Sydney in 2011   and the first UK Philosothon was held in 2012 at King's College, Taunton. In 2007, Hale School in Perth Western Australia initiated a project to promote higher order thinking among secondary school students.  At the first Philosothon nine local high school teams, each including five students came together for an evening of philosophical investigation. The word 'Philosothon' was created in the first few years of the event by Matthew Wills and Leanne Rucks.   Following the first Philosothon it was decided to promote the event more broadly to other schools around the country and later in the UK. Philosothons now take place annually in each Australian capital city and in regional locations around the country. They also take place in the UK   Recently Primary school Philosothons have been conducted in various Art Galleries in some Australian states and in the UK.    In 2017 The Templeton Religion Trust awarded $281,656 AUD to the Philosothon project in order to "grow existing Philosothons and support the establishment of new ones, particularly in remote schools and at schools catering for students from low socio-economic backgrounds" in Australasia.  The rationale for the Philosothon methodology is based on empirical evidence that teaching children reasoning skills early in life greatly improves other cognitive and academic skills and greatly assists learning in general.  Students are given the topic questions in advance and some stimulus reading materials.  Examples of topic questions from recent Philosothons are these: Students, teachers and parents gather on a particular evening each year for the event. The students participate in a series of Communities of Inquiry which are facilitated by teachers or Phd. philosophy students from the local universities. While participating in this process students are scored by Philosophy lecturers also from local universities. The scores are then collated, ranked and later in the evening awards are given to students at each age level and encouragement awards to the most promising male and female philosopher. Also a trophy is awarded to the winning school.  Some might argue that Philosophy cannot be undertaken in the context of a competition.  They believe that by ranking individuals the process of developing a Community of Philosophical Inquiry is fundamentally compromised.  However, others have responded that many students forget they are involved in a competition and engage in the exact sort of investigation and collaboration we would hope to see in Philosophy. Others have suggested that the same process is undertaken in any academic institution, tertiary or secondary where students are ranked against criteria. The only difference is that one of the more important criteria in a COI is collaboration.  In July 2011 the Federation of Australasian Philosophy in Schools Associations (FAPSA) decided to host the first National Philosothon at Cranbrook School. Each Australian state sent three teams (those schools that won the 2010 Philosothon in each state) and so twelve schools in total arrived in Sydney to participate in the inaugural event.      The 2012 it was held at Bond University and AB Paterson College on the Gold Coast. In 2013 it was held in Melbourne, Victoria and hosted by the National Art Gallery of Victoria and Ballarat Grammar's City campus. In 2014 Hale School in Perth Western Australia hosted the event.  and in 2015 North Sydney Girls High School hosted the 5th Annual FAPSA Australasian Philosothon. In 2016 Churchie in Brisbane hosted it and in 2017 St Andrew's Cathedral College in Sydney hosted the event. Philosothons have been run in the UK since 2013. Revd. Mark Smith & Julie Arliss from the Philosophy of Religion and Ethics Department at King's College, Taunton, UK, have spearheaded the Philosothon movement in the United Kingdom in collaboration with Dr Michael Lacewing from Heythrop College and Lizzy Lewis from Sapere.  Wells Cathedral College won the first event. Since then Philosothons have been run annually around the UK including many Primary School Philosothons hosted by the Philosophy Foundation. Other Philosothons have been held around the UK.  In 2012 an inaugural Primary School Philosothon was held at the National Gallery of Victoria (NGV).      In 2013 the first WA Primary school Philosothon was hosted by John XXIII College at the Art Gallery of WA. Since then Annual Primary School Philosothons have been conducted in Victoria, WA and the UK.  