The Student Initiative Rahel (SIR) (German: Rahel-Bildungsprojekt) is a project of the Institute for World Church and Mission (IWM) (German: Institut für Weltkirche und Mission) which is a part of the Sankt Georgen Graduate School of Philosophy and Theology in Frankfurt-Sachsenhausen. The nonprofit organization supports in a scholarship youths - mostly young women - in Adigrat in the north Of Ethiopia, who are disadvantaged for various reasons, and accompanies them financially and ideally during their studies at a university or their education. The project is funded mainly by current and former students at the university.  It is largely funded by donations.  The idea for the educational project was developed in 2010 during a research trip on the subject of AIDS by the then head of the IWM, Albert-Peter Rethmann. It was in the context of a research project of the German Bishops' Conference (German: Deutsche Bischofskonferenz) in Adigrat in Tigray Region in northern Ethiopia.  In this region, many young people have no access to higher education due to lack of family support, many are AIDS orphans. Young women are particularly affected by this situation through discrimination. An initiative of the Adigrat Diocesan Catholic Secretariat (ADCS) of the Ethiopian Catholic Eparchy of Adigrat has already supported ten young people with micro-scholarships for obtaining a university entrance qualification and at least one bachelor's degree in their own country. One of the sponsored students was the AIDS orphan Rahel Hailay.  The result of the journey resulting from the trip was an international initiative of students for students in the age of globalization as an overall project.    Due to personnel fluctuation among students at the Sankt Georgen Graduate School of Philosophy and Theology, the project has been phasing out slowly since the end of 2017. The tasks of the support are gradually taken over by the Adigrat Diocesan Catholic Secretariat (ADCS) and former graduates in Ethiopia.  The project supports disadvantaged, primarily female, young people in the Tigray Region who lack equal access to education for reasons of poverty or gender.  The financial support consists of micro-scholarships. The scholarship holders are accompanied during their studies or education. The name of the project comes from Rahel Hailay, who completed the study of biology and zoology at the universities in Axum and Mek'ele from 2009 to 2014.     By 2015 the training of 47 young Ethiopians had been made possible. Nowadays the promotion of 40 young people at the same time is possible. In addition to financial support, an important further aspect is the promotion of networking among scholarship holders and the promotion of ethical behaviour in Christian sense. Through women who are given a higher level of education through this project, others should be given the idea of achieving a higher level of education.  This development cooperation is intended to give freedom to the beneficiaries without material needs and making their lives self-responsible. An important factor for a lasting effect is, in particular, the motivation of those who want this development. Central is therefore the promotion of the autonomy and self-initiative of the scholarship holders in the sense of the Catholic social doctrine. The initiative of the students from Germany can serve as a model for the students in Ethiopia. It is possible that the project will in the future develop into an Ethiopian alumni project where graduates who are in work assist other young people in their education.  As a secondary effect, training programs such as the Rahel project are also a medium to long-term contribution to the fight against become a refugee due to lack of education and resulting poverty.  The educational project is financed through public donations and campaigns, such as at the Frankfurter Stadtkirchenfest at Frankfurt Cathedral (German: Kaiserdom St. Bartholomäus),  collects in Catholic church parishes and the Centre for Christian Meditation and Spirituality of the Diocese of Limburg, as well as the salvation of festivities such as the summer festival of the Sankt Georgen Graduate School of Philosophy and Theology  with an Ethiopian coffee ceremony, auctions and other revenues. In addition, these actions also serve to create new contacts, information and exchange on the project.  There is a special purpose for the missio donation bank account for transfers to the Rahel project.  These actions are also supported by the Network of Frankfurt One World Groups in Frankfurt.  In addition to the internet, media such as the Radio Horeb also include public relations activities.  The Rachel educational project is funded by the Cusanuswerk, a gifted support program under the supervision of the Catholic German Bishops' Conference  and by the Center for Christian Meditation and Spirituality of the Diocese of Limburg.  The project is supported by the Pontifical Mission Societies (German: missio) in all financial matters, such as account management, the administrative costs or the transfer of money to Ethiopia. In Ethiopia the project is supervised locally by the Adigrat Diocesan Catholic Secretariat (ADCS) of the Ethiopian Catholic Eparchy of Adigrat under the patronage of the diocesan bishop Tesfay Medhin  within the framework of the OVC project (Orphans and Vulnerable Children). The OVC project is active in the areas of Adigrat and other areas particularly affected by poverty. The project manager of the ADCS Woldemariam Besirat selects the scholarship holders  and organizes religious education workshops on scholarship meetings with their own and external lecturers on topics such as AIDS, the consequences of emigration as refugees or on other medical or ethical issues. In addition to financial support, the promotion of self-reliance, self-confidence and self-esteem, the promotion of self-responsibility, the awareness of responsibility and the ability to work together are important aspects of the work of the OVC project.   Coordinates: 50°05′55″N 8°42′43″E﻿ / ﻿50.09848°N 8.712°E﻿ / 50.09848; 8.712 