  The Global Open University is an Indian university in the state of Nagaland, with campuses in Dimapur and Kohima. The University was founded by the fully sponsoring body President Dr. P. R. Trividi, President, World Institution Building Programme (WIBP),  Reverend Dr. M. Motsuo Ngullie, Founding Father and the first Vice-Chancellor of the Global Open University Nagaland (2007-2008) is the witness signatory between the Government of Nagaland represented by Dr. Edward Lotha, Director of Higher Education and M. Yanrenthung Ngullie, the first Assistant Registrer of TGOUN, Nagaland Peoples Front (NPF) Vice-President, Pinyimthung Patton were the pioneers to established the said University which received the assent of the Hon'le Governor and passed the Global Open University Act 3 of 2006 in Wokha as permanent (Main Campus/Headquarter) in the state of Nagaland and campuses in Kohima and Dimapur. As stated above, It has been established under the provisions of The Global Open University Act 2006 (Act 3 of 2006) of the Government of Nagaland with a view to introducing vocational, job oriented and employment centric education in the North-East in general and in the State of Nagaland in particular. The Global Open University, Nagaland has been legislated by the Nagaland State Legislative Assembly under The Global Open University Act 2006 (Act 3 of 2006) which received the assent of the Governor of Nagaland on 30 August 2006 and was notified vide Notification number Law/Act-10/2006 on 18 September 2006. The provisions of The Global Open University Act 2006 were published in the Nagaland Official Gazette on 18 September 2006 for general information. After much hardship, the third reading in the Nagaland Legislative Assembly and the assent of the Hon'ble Governor was passed and became an act (Act 3 of 2006), the inaugural programme was launched with the courses offered by the TGOUN in the field of higher vocational and professional field. Hon'ble Minister for Higher Education (2007), Dr. Shurhozelie inaugurated the Global Open University Nagaland, Headquarter: Wokha on 31 May 2007 as the Chief Guest. In his inaugural speech, Dr. Shurhozelie said education is vital for social development and so is higher education for higher level of development and achievement. He spoke on the successful implementation of communitisation of public institution in the state. He extended his gratitude to Dr. P. R. Trivedi, Pro-Chancellir Global Open University Nagaland, Headquarter and main campus, Wokha and reverend Dr. Motsuo Ngullie, Vice-Chancellor (2007-2008) who is the brain-child to establish the Global Open University in Nagaland and invested all his potential ability to pursue for establishing TGOUN since 2004 to make it a reality for the larger interest of India and North-East in general and Nagaland in particular in the field of higher education and encourage one and all to become a 'Job giver but not job seeker' and ventured to provide facilities for higher level of vocational and professional learning to the people of Nagaland. Parliamentary Secretary, Nkhao Lotha also spoke on the occasion and appealed to the citizens of Wokha to extent full support and cooperation to the university. Dr. P. R. Trivedi announced the views and action plans of TGOU (The Global Open University) Nagaland, Wokha. Reverend Dr. M. Motsuo Ngullie, Vice-Chancellor (2007-2008) gave the welcome speech and brief how he work tirelessly to establish the TGOU in Nagaland after he was officially appointed as the Director, Indian Institute of Ecology and Environment, Nagaland extension, Wokha which is based in Paryavaran Complex, South of Saket in New Delhi as its main campus. He also opied that Naga youths will be suitabilly rewarded through gainful opportunities, thereby giving relief to the problem of educated unemoloyed youths and extended his gratitude to the sponsoring body President,  World Institution Building Programme, Dr. P. R. Trivedi, Rev. Dr. N. Ezung said the invocation prayer. The function was chaired by N. Mhao Lotha, Administrative Officer, TGOUN. A host of dignitaries including Dr. Deorani, Principal Secretary, Higher Education, Thepfulhovi Solo, Rtd. Principal CCF, Deputy Commissioner, Wokha Mikha Lomi, heads of offices, Lotha Hohi, Lotha Students' Union, public leaders and students attended the function followed by a grand feast. The whole arrangement of the said programme was initiated by the first Assistant Registrer of the Global Open University Nagaland, Oking, Wokha, Shri. M. Y. Lotha and his team. The university has operated from its Headquarter, Wokha District. However, with the instication of some vested interested individuals convinced the President of the sponsoring body of TGOUN and theteby, neglected its Main Campus/Headquarter: Wokha at 'Tzukum Valley' since April 2012 till date (2017) and abandoned the demarkated land of the university which was submitted to the Hon'ble Governor to give his assent after proper and justified verification. The university's Dimapur campus was inaugurated by the Chief Minister of Nagaland, Neiphiu Rio, on (World Environment Day) 5 June 2007. Two other campuses have subsequently been launched at Kohima and Dimapur with permanent headquarter at Wokha as stated above. The Governor of Nagaland is the Chancellor/Visitor of the University. The Global Open University (TGOU), Nagaland is administered by a Governing Council and Executive Council. The Global Open University is a joint public-private partnership venture between the Government of Nagaland and the World Institution Building Programme (WIBP). The state government gives grants-in-aid to sponsor the students from Nagaland by paying their fee, and the WIBP as the sponsoring agency for the university provides Rs. 7 Crore as the Corpus Fund in the name of The Global Open University.  TGOU is provisionally recognized (2008-2009) as a Private University by the University Grants Commission of India (UGC)  The Association of Indian Universities (AIU) recognizes IGNOU conferred degrees as on par with the degrees conferred by its members. In 2008, the Global Open University was recognised provisionally by the Distance Education Council for offering distance programmes the same year. The Global Open University offers academic degree programmes at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels in the following areas:  The university also offers short-term online certificate courses apart from its distance education degree courses. These certificate courses are totally online which includes online registration, online study material and also have online examination system. This University also has the courses of laparoscopic surgery conducted at World Laparoscopy Hospital, New Delhi headed by Dr. Mishra. It also awards distance education degrees in various programmes.  