Kepler is a nonprofit higher education program that operates a university campus in Kigali, Rwanda. It is one of the first programs worldwide to integrate massive open online courses (MOOCs), flip teaching, and other education technology practices into a blended learning curriculum, with the goal of lowering the cost of higher education without a reduction in academic quality or outcomes. All graduates of the program receive an accredited U.S. degree through the competency-based College for America at Southern New Hampshire University.  Kepler is funded primarily through a grant from the IKEA Foundation.  In October 2017 Daniel Gwinnell]] joined the organization as its CEO.  Kepler is being incubated within Generation Rwanda, a non-governmental organization founded in 2004. Its aim is to provide scholarships to local universities to Rwanda’s highest achieving secondary school graduates that could not otherwise afford higher education. The organization claims to have a 98% graduation rate as well as a 98% employment rate—outcomes far higher than the regional average.  In 2013, Kepler ran its first pilot program, using a University of Edinburgh course through Coursera. In 2013, 50 students were chosen from 2,696 applicants and enrolled in the founding class. In 2014, another class of 100 students was selected, following a series of tests and interviews. Kepler operates an experimental university campus in Kigali, Rwanda that combines online courses with in-person facilitation and career training. They employ no faculty, opting to use MOOCs and other online resources for expert-level content, while retaining teaching experts to support student learning. Kepler’s Teaching Fellows are a mix of international educators and local Rwandan teachers. According to its website, Kepler’s goal is “to create a global network of universities that deliver the skills that emerging economies need for a price that [its] students can afford.”  In addition to Kepler’s direct work as a university program, they promote the secondary aim of creating a “university in a box.” All of their data is being provided as open source content in order to encourage other institutions to adopt aspects of Kepler’s model in order to reduce the cost and increase the quality of current higher education options.  