Pedago is an educational technology company founded by Alexie Harper, Tom Adams, and Ori Ratner focused on the development of online education solutions and interactive courses. It currently offers an online MBA and Executive MBA program as well as several business foundation courses through its "mobile-first" Smartly platform, first launched in September 2015. It offers over 600 lessons in nine business subjects, including accounting, economics, and statistics.  An application process that runs several times a year is required for the admission of candidates. Candidates are required to pass its business foundation courses in order to be considered for application. However, its MBA program is free upon acceptance by the admissions team.  Pedago was founded by Tom Adams, together with Alexie Harper and Ori Ratner in May 2013 in Arlington, Virginia  upon the realization that traditional MBA programs were not achieving the same return on investment as they used to apart from several top-tiered MBA programs.  Adams came up with the idea as he was leaving Rosetta Stone, and together with Alexie Harper and Ori Ratner, who were former directors of Rosetta Stone, they bootstrapped Pedago as a 20-person education technology company.    It accepted its first cohort of MBA candidates in July 2016  and several of its alumni  have since been honorees of the Forbes 30 Under 30.  The Smartly MBA and EMBA programs currently offer a free online platform for students to study subjects and then connects them with top employers worldwide. Its business model is based on receiving financing from employers searching for MBA graduates sourced from its selective free MBA and EMBA program, allowing it to cut down on overhead in the case of traditional recruitment.  Affiliated hiring organizations already include Square, Capital One as well as smaller startups such as Door Dash.  Pedago is largely funded by Tom Adams and a few unnamed external investors.  It has also partnered with Uber to train its drivers in Africa and to help incoming MBA students in Georgetown University prepare them in introductory courses.   Pedago's first product is the Smartly platform, which offers both an MBA and EMBA program through its web and mobile application, combining interactive problem solving with instant feedback while using the active learning method. Instead of using video as its primary medium of delivering its content often seen in many MOOCs, it focuses on delivering its lessons through piecemeal concepts. All Smartly MBA applicants are required to possess a bachelor's degree or previous business experience in lieu of a bachelor's degree, as well as an essay component and completion of its business foundation courses in order to be accepted as a candidate. Applicants are required to submit academic transcripts upon acceptance, similar to traditional university matriculation procedures.    The MBA core curriculum consists of sections divided according to various functional departments in an organization, including accounting, finance, marketing, supply chain management, and strategy. Communication is also done through Slack with weekly discussion for candidates.  Optional elective courses are also offered in topics including game theory, intellectual property laws, M&As, as well as topics in entrepreneurship.  