Shaw Academy is an online education organisation based in Dublin, Ireland.   Founded in 2013, Shaw Academy provides live, interactive online courses, which are later reused in subsequent iteration of that course, in a wide range of subjects including photography, financial trading, nutrition, and digital marketing.   Shaw Academy differentiates itself by focusing on live online teaching combined with human support.  Shaw Academy was founded by James Egan and Adrian Murphy in 2013.  By January 2016, Shaw Academy was teaching about 55,000 new students each month.  By November of that year, it was teaching 400,000 new students every month and had surpassed teaching over 1.84 million students.   In January 2016, founder Adrian Murphy and Irish Minister for Jobs, Richard Bruton, announced 40 new education positions in the Dublin office.    The CEO of Irish government agency Enterprise Ireland, Julie Sinnamon, described Shaw Academy at the time as "an example of an innovative Irish company in the growing online learning market, who are also supporting other Irish SMEs to grow through their extensive suite of online courses."   In January 2017, Shaw Academy launched its own personalised educational platform, called Phoenix, to accommodate rapidly growing student numbers. Phoenix enables Shaw Academy to teach more students live online simultaneously than ever before whilst also providing a far more automated yet personalised service to its students.  Shaw Academy offer courses ranging from business related topics such as digital marketing, social media marketing and web development to wellness programmes such as health and fitness and sports nutrition and lots more.  All courses are delivered live and also with recordings of the live presentations.   Students can log on to the dedicated portal to complete assignments, exams, review modules, replay lectures, view additional content etc. which are available to them at any time. Educational and technical support teams are also readily available to students.   Courses are internationally accredited and aim to develop and build practical skills.  Advanced Shaw Academy courses are officially accredited and internationally recognised. As of July 2017, all Shaw Academy Professional Higher Diploma programmes are credit rated to EQF Level 5 by Edinburgh Napier university.   The Shaw Academy Professional Higher Diploma – EQF Level 5 – is the equivalent to an Associate Degree (USA), AQF Level Six (Australia), NQF Level Six (South Africa) & OQF Level Eight (Canada). The European Qualifications Framework relates different countries' national qualifications systems to a common European reference framework. Shaw Academy has formed global partnerships with major players in the e-commerce, telecom, and the recruitment sector such as Adobe, GoDaddy and Naukri.com.   In November 2016, Shaw Academy partnered with Indian e-commerce marketplace Flipkart to provide certified courses on its portal.   Headquarters are located in Dublin, Ireland, as well as offices elsewhere, employing approximately 200 staff globally.   In September 2015, Shaw Academy set up an office in Bangalore, India, which employs over 120 staff.  