The concept of demographic threat (or demographic bomb) is a term used in political conversation to refer to population increases from within a minority ethnic group in a given country that are perceived as threatening to alter the ethnic identity of that country. On 1984 Geoffrey Blainey an Australian historian and academic said in response to the prediction of the "increasing Asianisation" of Australia made by Labor's Immigration Minister Stewart West, Blainey argued: "I do not accept the view, widely held in the Federal Cabinet, that some kind of slow Asian takeover of Australia is inevitable. I do not believe that we are powerless. I do believe that we can with good will and good sense control our destiny.... As a people, we seem to move from extreme to extreme. In the past 30 years the government of Australia has moved from the extreme of wanting a white Australia to the extreme of saying that we will have an Asian Australia and that the quicker we move towards it the better".   In the 1996 election Pauline Hanson was elected to the federal seat of Oxley. In her controversial maiden speech to the House of Representatives, she expressed her belief that Australia "was in danger of being swamped by Asians". Hanson went on to form the One Nation Party, which initially won nearly one quarter of the vote in Queensland state elections before entering a period of decline due to internal disputes.  The name "One Nation" was meant to signify national unity, in contrast to what Hanson claimed to see as an increasing division in Australian society caused by government policies favouring migrants (multiculturalism) and indigenous Australians.  Thousands of Bahraini Shia Muslims protested in March 2011 against the Bahraini government's naturalisation policy of granting citizenship to Sunni Muslims from other countries serving in the military of Bahrain.  Bhutan has a long-standing concern with the demographic threat posed by the immigration of ethnically distinct Nepali immigrants.     During the 19th and 20th centuries (until the 1960s), the French-speaking Catholic minority of Canada managed to maintain its share of the population due to a high birth rate, dubbed the "revenge of the cradle." In Estonia, one of the causes of the Singing Revolution was the concern over the demographic threat to the national identity posed by the influx of individuals from foreign ethnic groups to work on such large Soviet development projects as phosphate mining.   Many Hindu Indians see Muslims as a "demographic threat" because of their large population growth due to high fertility rates  and because of the high rate of illegal immigration from Bangladesh.    In the 1950s, Shoham Melamad found that the high fertility rate of Arabs was viewed as a demographic threat to the Jewish nation.  Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, however, stated that Arabs in Israel should be treated equally to any other Israeli citizens and be allowed to have children just like any other citizen.  A 1967 Maariv editorial  suggested that Jews should be encouraged to have large families, while Palestinians in the West Bank, Gaza Strip and in Israel should be encouraged to adopt birth control measures. Schnitzer also advocated for the adoption of an open policy encouraging Arabs to emigrate from Israel.  In 2003, Benjamin Netanyahu opined that if the percentage of Arab citizens of Israel rises above its current level of about 20 percent, Israel would not be able to retain a Jewish demographic majority, the basis of Israel's self-definition as a "Jewish democratic state". Netanyahu's comments were criticized as racist by Arab Knesset members and the Association for Civil Rights in Israel.   In May 2009, Michael Oren wrote an article in Commentary in which he discussed the "Arab Demographic Threat" as one of "Seven Existential Threats" facing Israel.  In 2005, Shimon Peres told US officials that Israel had "lost" land in the Negev "to the Bedouin" and would need to take steps to "relieve" the "demographic threat". In 2010, Netanyahu warned in a government meeting that a Negev "without a Jewish majority" would pose "a palpable threat".  In February 2014, then Israeli finance minister Yair Lapid said failure to establish a Palestinian state would leave Israel facing a demographic threat that could undermine its Jewish and democratic nature.  The Malaysian government has been accused of masterminding Project IC to alter the demographic pattern of the East Malaysian state of Sabah.  In Northern Ireland, Protestants are more likely to favour continued political union with the UK, while Catholics are more likely to favour political union with the rest of Ireland. When Ireland was partitioned in the 1920s and Northern Ireland came into existence, Protestants were roughly 60% of the population, but as a result of higher fertility rates among Catholics, their share of the population has dropped to less than 50% in the 2011 census, while Catholics numbered only slightly fewer than Protestants. There is debate over whether and to what extent this trend will continue and its possible impact on the political situation. Russia fears the "demographic threat" posed by the potential for "large-scale Chinese immigration" to its thinly populated far east.   Illegal immigration of Chinese nationals is a special concern.  Some in the United States have expressed concern about the "demographic threat" posed by millions of migrants from Mexico and Latin America and their descendants.  Migration Stock is the number of people that live in an area that they were not originally from and Migration Flow is the number of new people entering a new territory. It is important to know the difference because the main issue that is associated with immigration is the migration flow of new people entering United States. In the distant future, around 2050, the United States will be a diverse country and whites will no longer be the majority. The future economy for United States will depend heavily on the future immigrants that come to the United States, according to Joel Kotkin.  United States has a high amount of debt and it does not look like it will reduce soon. Changing the immigration system to a more flexible system can help the U.S. future economy. So why the scare? It has always been thought that the more immigration there is the fewer Primary sector jobs for the population that was born in the United States.  However according to Diana Furchtgott-Roth this statement is a fallacy.  The United States can benefit from the immigration because they can use the migrants for Secondary sector jobs that mainly consist of intense labor that requires no skills. It does not ruin the opportunity but in turn actually raises the wages for working class Americans. If the stigma that immigration ruins the chances for working Americans ends and the United States puts in place more flexible immigration laws then the United States might see a brighter future with a better economy. 