 Some common childhood onset chronic illnesses are cystic fibrosis, cerebral palsy, juvenile diabetes, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, and cancer.  Chronic illness is often a risk factor for developing psychopathologies, due to the psychological toll it takes on the children and their developing brains.  Approximately 10 million children in the United States suffer from a childhood onset chronic illness.  Chronic illness can affect a child’s development at any stage.  During infancy and childhood chronic illness can be detrimental to the development of secure attachment, interpersonal trust, self-regulation, and/or peer relation skills.  During middle adolescence, chronic illness can prevent a child from being in school on a regular basis.  This can affect a child's academic and social competence.  During adolescence, chronic illness can affect the development of autonomy and self-image.  It can also interfere with peer & romantic relationships, and the desire for independence can lead to poor treatment compliance.  Pain is a concept that develops and grows more sophisticated over our lifespan.  Not being able to understand or make sense of pain can also be detrimental to a child’s mental state.  During infancy and toddlerhood, pain is external and not localized.  This means that an infant cannot determine the location of pain and pain does not seem to be an internal force.  During middle childhood an individual can determine the qualities of pain and have a more abstract way of thinking about pain.  During adolescence an individual can describe pain, understand physiological and psychological factors/causes.  Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is one of the most common techniques used to build resilience in children suffering from chronic illnesses.  CBT includes the practice of breathing exercises, relaxation training, imagery, distraction methods, coping models, cognitive coping skills, reinforcement for compliance, behavioral rehearsal, role-play and direct coaching.  Another intervention that is gaining popularity is the PASS Theory of Intelligence.  The PASS Model combines a multitude of interventions to create a well-rounded program to foster resiliency in not only the children but the families affected as well.  The goals of the pass model are to minimize trauma symptoms, develop adaptive coping skills, strengthen resiliency, and connect families to support networks.  Kerig, P., Wenar, C. (2005). Developmental Psychopathology: From Infancy Through Adolescence. New York, NY: McGraw Hill. Morison, J.E., Bromfield, L.M., Cameron, H. J. (2003). A Therapeutic Model for Supporting Families of Children with a Chronic Illness or Disability. Child and Adolescent Mental Health, 8 (3), pp. 125–130. 