Hyperimmunoglobulinemia E syndrome  (HIES), of which the autosomal dominant form is called Job's syndrome  or Buckley syndrome,   is a heterogeneous group of immune disorders. Job's is also very rare at about 300 cases currently in the literature. It is characterized by recurrent "cold" staphylococcal infections,  unusual eczema-like skin rashes, severe lung infections that result in pneumatoceles (balloon-like lesions that may be filled with air or pus or scar tissue) and very high concentrations of the serum antibody IgE. Inheritance can be autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive.  Many patients with autosomal dominant STAT3 hyper-IgE syndrome have characteristic facial and dental abnormalities, fail to lose their primary teeth, and have two sets of teeth simultaneously. Abnormal neutrophil chemotaxis due to decreased production of interferon gamma by T lymphocytes is thought to cause the disease.  Both autosomal dominant and recessive inheritance have been described:   Autosomal dominant: Autosomal recessive: Elevated IgE is the hallmark of HIES.  An IgE level greater than 2,000 IU/mL is often considered diagnostic.   However, patients younger than 6 months of age may have very low to non-detectable IgE levels. Eosinophilia is also a common finding with greater than 90% of patients having eosinophil elevations greater than two standard deviations above the normal mean.  Genetic testing is available for STAT3 (Job's Syndrome), DOCK8 (DOCK8 Immunodeficiency or DIDS), PGM3 (PGM3 deficiency), SPINK5 (Netherton Syndrome - NTS), and TYK2 genetic defects. HIES often appears early in life with recurrent staphylococcal and candidal infections, pneumonias, and eczematoid skin. Most patients with hyper IgE syndrome are treated with long-term antibiotic therapy to  prevent staphylococcal infections. Good skin care is also important in patients with hyper IgE syndrome. High-dose intravenous gamma-globulin has also been suggested for the treatment of severe eczema in patients with HIES and atopic dermatitis.  HIES was first described by Davis et al. in 1966 in two girls with red hair, chronic dermatitis, and recurrent staphylococcal abscesses and pneumonias.  They named the disease after the biblical figure Job, whose body was covered with boils by Satan. In 1972, Buckley et al. described two boys with similar symptoms as well as coarse facies, eosinophilia, and elevated serum IgE levels. These two syndromes are thought to be the same and are under the broad category of HIES.  peripheral: Purine nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency 