Reflex seizures are epileptic seizures that are consistently induced by a specific stimulus or trigger making them distinct from normal epileptic seizures, which are usually unprovoked.    Epilepsy syndromes characterized by the presence of repeatable reflex seizures are thus known as reflex epilepsies.    Reflex epilepsies are relatively rare and make up approximately 5% of all epilepsy syndromes.   In susceptible people, reflex seizures may be elicited by many different kinds of stimuli with the most common type being flickering lights that cause photosensitive seizures which make up 75-80% of all reflex seizures.  Reflex seizures are caused by the stimulation of a normally existing network of neurons by the specific trigger which results in the reflex seizure.   These reflex seizures are clinically similar to unprovoked seizures and may be focal or generalized seizures including both simple and complex partial seizures as well as myoclonic or absence seizures.   Different types of seizures are associated with the different types of reflex epilepsy.  For example, photosensitive seizures are often associated with myoclonic, absence, or focal seizures in the occipital lobe, whereas musicogenic seizures are associated with focal seizures of the temporal lobe.  Reflex epilepsies are generally thought to be genetic in origin, however, the exact genetic inheritance of many reflex epilepsies is still unknown.   This genetic inheritance pattern is again dependent on the type of reflex epilepsy in question with some reflex epilepsies lacking genetic inheritance patterns altogether.   For example, photogenic epilepsy is thought to follow an autosomal dominant pattern with incomplete penetrance, while seizures induced by proprioceptive stimuli do not follow any observable inheritance pattern.  Reflex seizures can be either generalized or focal seizures or both.  However, for any given stimulus there may be a large variation between the kind of elicited seizure.  For example, reading epilepsy may cause myoclonic jerks in the jaw or may cause focal seizures in the regions of the brain responsible for reading.   Generalized Seizures are more common when compared to focal seizures in reflex epilepsies.  Generalized seizures are seizures that arise in large areas of the brain including both hemispheres.  Generalized seizures can take the form of myoclonic jerks, absences, or generalized tonic-clonic seizures.   Myoclonic jerks are the most common generalized seizures seen among reflex seizures and can be the located in the limbs, trunk, or in specific regions of the body (Ex. in the muscles of the jaw or the eyelids).  Reflex absence seizures are also common especially in response to certain kinds of triggering stimuli such as light, proprioseptive, cognitive, emotional, or linguistic.   Generalized tonic-clonic seizures are less common and can occur independently or more commonly after a cluster of myoclonic jerks or absence seizures.  Focal seizures are seizures that arise from a small area of the brain in one hemisphere.   Focal seizures are divided into simple or complex focal seizures.   Simple focal seizures do not involve the impairment of consciousness but instead may have motor, sensory, or autonomic manifestations.   Complex focal seizures do involve impairment or loss of consciousness.   Focal seizures are usually only seen in certain types of reflex epilepsies such as occipital lobe seizures in photosensitive occipital lobe epilepsies or temporal lobe seizures in musicogenic epilepsies.   Focal seizures can be located only in the area of the brain responsible for the stimulus, spread to other areas of the brain, or even develop into a generalized seizure.  Epileptic seizures occur due to changes in the brain that result in the lowering of the seizure threshold in a particular individual making that person vulnerable to recurring seizures.   These changes can be a result of a structural abnormality, brain lesions, or simply a genetic disposition to seizures.  In reflex epilepsy, these changes in the brain result in a small area that is capable of interrupting normal firing patterns and more likely to produce the synchronous firing patterns that characterize a seizure.  These hyper-excitable areas may then be activated by certain stimuli resulting in a reflex seizure.  Reflex seizures are thus notable because the presentation of a particular stimulus, that activates the hyper-excitable areas of the brain, directly overcomes the seizure threshold, and results in a reflex seizure.  The activation of the hyper-excitable areas of the brain are additionally regulated by facilitating factors that may increase the likelihood of eliciting a seizure.  Most commonly these include fatigue, sleep deprivation, or stress.   Facilitating factors are different for each individual.  Due to the large variance between the many different kinds of reflex epilepsies, the specific mechanism causing reflex seizures may vary.  Stimuli that cause reflex seizures can be categorized as either intrinsic or extrinsic.  However, for any given person, the stimulus that triggers their reflex seizures may be intrinsic, extrinsic, or a combination of both types of stimuli.  Extrinsic stimuli are generally sensory stimuli that originate from the person's environment.  Similar to intrinsic stimuli, extrinsic stimuli can also be divided into two categories, either simple or complex.    Examples of simple extrinsic stimuli include flashing lights or touch while complex extrinsic stimuli can include music, language, reading, or the stimulation from eating.      Some of the more common types of reflex epilepsy include:  Photosensitive epilepsy is an abnormal sensitivity of the brain to visual stimuli and is the most common trigger found in reflex seizures.  Reflex seizures can be induced by both flickering or non-flicking light, television, video games, or other visual patterns.   Most people who have photosensitive epilepsy are sensitive to specific patterns for visual stimuli.  Visual stimuli of a particular frequency (15-25  flashes/second), wavelength (red light at 660-720 nm), and at high contrast have been shown to have a higher risk of inducing seizures in people who are photosensitive.   In addition, emotional excitement, fatigue, or length of exposure can all effect the risk of seizures in people who are photosensitive.  Musicogenic epilepsy is a rare reflex epilepsy that is thought to be an abnormal sensitivity of the brain to musical stimuli, however, the exact mechanism of these seizures is unknown.   People with musicogenic epilepsy may have seizures triggered not just by musical stimuli but also by the emotional content or memory associated with that melody or rhythm.   Seizures can also be triggered when people with this condition think about certain kinds of music without actually hearing the musical stimulus.   In addition, musicogenic epilepsy may occur with auditory sounds that one would not usually associate with music, the sounds of machinery for example may also be an auditory trigger for a musicogenic epilepsy.   While certain types of music may induce a seizure in a certain person, listening to other kinds of music may prevent or terminate the epileptic activity.  Intrinsic stimuli are specific actions or activities performed by the person that result in a reflex seizure.  Intrinsic stimuli can be divided into two categories, either elementary or elaborate.    Elementary intrinsic stimuli are usually simple motor movements while elaborate intrinsic stimuli can include emotions, thoughts, calculations or decision making.   Thinking epilepsy is a rare form of reflex epilepsy that is triggered by a specific cognitive task.  This can include thinking, calculations, solving problems, abstract reasoning, or making decisions.   Thinking epilepsy does not occur in response to reading, writing, or verbal communication.  Reading epilepsy is recognized as another distinct kind of reflex epilepsy.  Thinking epilepsy usually results in generalized seizures which manifest as bilateral monoclonus, absence seizures, or generalized tonic-clonic seizure that are preceded by myoclonic jerks.  The diagnosis of reflex epilepsy usually includes a comprehensive medical and family history as well as a variety of tests.   These tests may include a Electroencephalography (EEG), Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), as well as genetic testing.  The procedure for diagnosing epilepsy generally follows three steps:  The treatment of reflex epilepsies generally involves managing the exposure to a person's triggers as well as anti-epileptic drugs.    Specific treatment depends both on the person as well on the kind of reflex triggers.   For example, in photosensitive epilepsy, some people may rely only on managing exposure to their triggers, while others, may benefit greatly from anti-epileptic drugs.   In addition, different anti-epileptic drugs may be used in order to treat a given person's reflex epilepsy depending on the kind of seizures that they experience.  Photosensitive reflex epilepsy is usually treated with both lifestyle modifications and/or anti-epileptic drugs.  Some lifestyle modifications that may be recommended in managing photosensitive reflex epilepsy are limiting the amount of time one is exposed to the television or screens, watching television in a bright well-lit room at a distance of at least 2 meters away, and avoiding television or video games when tired or fatigued.  LCD TV screens or Televisions with higher refresh rates (100 Hz) cause less flickering and thus lower the likelihood of a seizure.    In addition, special blue lens Z1 glasses have been shown to reduce seizures in many people with photosensitive reflex epilepsy.  If the above lifestyle modifications are not enough to manage the condition, anti-epileptic drugs may also be used.  Valproate is usually the first line drug of choice in people with photosensitive reflex epilepsy with many people who suffer from this condition becoming seizure free.     Second line anti-epileptic drugs for photosensitive reflex epilepsy include levetiracetam, benzodiazepines (Ex. clonazepam),  lamotrigine, carbamazepine, brivaracetam, ethosuximide, and topiramate.    Photosensitive reflex epilepsy tends to decrease with age, especially in one's thirties.   In 25-50% of people with this condition, seizures may spontaneously subside or disappear.  In 2015 the CDC reported that general epilepsy was found in about 1.3% of the population in the United States of America.  This number is broken down into approximately 3 million adults and 470,000 children who have epilepsy.    Reflex epilepsy is a rare form of epilepsy that is found in approximately 5% of people who suffer from epilepsy.   Reflex epilepsy takes many forms some of which are more common than others.  Photosensitive epilepsy for example is the most common kind of reflex epilepsy and accounts for approximately 75-80% of all reflex epilepsies.   In addition, reflex epilepsies may show preferential distribution between the two sexes or certain age groups.  Photosensitive epilepsy, for example, is more common in females (60% of cases) and is also more common in younger people (7-19 years old).     Additional Information concerning the epidemiology for various reflex epilepsies are presented in the table below.  More common in younger people Although reflex seizures are thought to have a significant genetic component, research regarding the exact genes involved is still ongoing.   As of now the major genes for reflex seizures have not been found however, some genes of interest have been identified for some of the different types of reflex epilepsies.   7q32 13q31 16p13 4q24–q28 Synapsin 1 GPR56 Triggering seizures in epilepsy has been a phenomenon that has been observed since ancient times. The Apologia records instances of a spinning potter's wheel causing seizures in epileptic slaves. More recently, however, Marshal Hall described the role of specific stimuli on causing seizures in 1850. Since then, many types of stimuli that can elicit seizures have been identified.  The International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE) identified epilepsy caused by a specific stimuli in 1989 in their official definition of epilepsy and more recently, has updated this definition to recognize new types of focal and generalized seizures.  Currently reflex epilepsies are classified as miscellaneous types of epilepsy and are identified by the type of triggering stimulus.  