Roseola is an infectious disease caused by certain types of virus.  Most infections occur before the age of three.  Symptoms vary from absent to the classic presentation of a fever of rapid onset followed by a rash.   The fever generally lasts for three to five days.  The rash is generally pink and lasts for less than three days.  Complications may include febrile seizures, with serious complications being rare.   It is caused by either human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) or human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7).  Spread is usually through the saliva of those who are otherwise healthy.   However, it may also spread from the mother to baby during pregnancy.  Diagnosis is typically based on symptoms but can be confirmed with blood tests.  Low numbers of white blood cells may also be present.  Treatment includes sufficient fluids and medications to treat the fever.  Nearly all people are infected at some point in time.  Males and females are affected equally often.  The disease was first described in 1910 while the causal virus was determined in 1988.  The disease may reactivate in those with a weakened immune system and may result in significant health problems.  Roseola typically affects children between six months and two years of age, and begins with a sudden high fever (39–40 °C; 102.2-104 °F). In rare cases, this can cause febrile convulsions (also known as febrile seizures or "fever fits") due to the sudden rise in body temperature, but in many cases the child appears normal. After a few days the fever subsides, and just as the child appears to be recovering, a red rash appears. This usually begins on the trunk and then spreads to the arms, legs, and neck. The rash is not itchy and may last 1 to 2 days.  In contrast, a child suffering from measles would usually appear sicker, with symptoms of conjunctivitis, cold-like symptoms, and a cough, and their rash would affect the face and last for several days. Liver dysfunction can occur in rare cases. A small percentage of children acquire HHV-6 with few sign or symptoms of the disease. Exanthema subitum occurs in approximately 30% of children during primary HHV-6 infection.  Others may show symptoms significant enough that other more serious infections, such as meningitis or measles should be ruled out. In case of febrile seizures, medical advice can be sought for reassurance. However, febrile seizures are not harmful, do not require treatment, and have no long term negative effects unless they last longer than five minutes. In rare cases, HHV-6 can become active in an adult previously infected during childhood and can show signs of mononucleosis.  Roseola is caused by two human herpesviruses, human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) and human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), which are sometimes referred to collectively as Roseolovirus. There are two variants of HHV-6 (HHV-6a and HHV-6b) and studies in the US, Europe, Dubai and Japan have shown that exanthema subitum is caused by HHV-6b. This form of HHV-6 infects over 90% of infants by age 2. There is no specific vaccine against or treatment for exanthema subitum, and most children with the disease are not seriously ill. Most cases of HHV-6 infection get better on their own.  If encephalitis occurs ganciclovir or foscarnet may be useful.  John Zahorsky MD wrote extensively on this disease in the early 20th century, his first formal presentation was to the St Louis Pediatric society in 1909 where he described 15 young children with the illness. In a JAMA article published on Oct 18, 1913 he noted that "the name 'Roseola infantilis' had an important place in the medical terminology of writers on skin diseases" but that descriptions of the disease by previous writers tended to confuse it with many other diseases that produce febrile rashes. In this JAMA article Zahorsky reports on 29 more children with Roseola and notes that the only condition that should seriously be considered in the differential diagnosis is German Measles (rubella) but notes that the fever of rubella only lasts a few hours whereas the prodromal fever of Roseola lasts three to five days and disappears with the formation of a morbilliform rash.  HHV-6 has been tentatively linked with neurodegenerative disease.  