The Doctor of Management (D.M., D.Mgt. or DMan) is a doctoral degree focusing on advanced study and research in the applied science and practice of professional management.  The D.M. was introduced at Case Western Reserve in 1995,  and several universities have since developed their own programs. In the UK, the Doctor of Management (DMan) was introduced at the University of Hertfordshire in 2000.  The D.M. program is an applied professional practice doctorate including a similar strong emphasis on research to the academically-equivalent PhD in management, but with a focus on the application of management theories rather than on developing and extending those theories.  In addition to research, it is focused on developing the talents, skills and abilities of organization executives and experienced management professionals.  In most cases, the distinction between the degrees is one of orientation and intended outcomes. The Ph.D. is highly focused on developing theoretical knowledge, while the D.M. further emphasizes applied research leading to the practical application of this theoretical knowledge. The Ph.D. thus prepares students for careers in academia, while the D.M. is more aimed at those seeking a career in management.  Some D.M. programs require a dissertation, while others have replaced this with a number of applied research projects.   The British DMan is a professional doctorate with the same academic status as a Ph.D.  The U.S. Doctor of Management is also a professional doctorate but is not (as of the report Doctorate Recipients from U.S. Universities: 2014) recognised as a Ph.D.-equivalent research doctorate by the U.S. National Science Foundation.  However, this doctorate is sometimes viewed as a variant of the Ph.D. in Management (especially when a dissertation is required in the program).  To be admitted as a doctoral management student in the U.S., one must hold a management-related master's degree, have sufficient managerial experience, and pass a comprehensive entrance exam or doctoral essay. In the UK (and in many programs in the U.S.), there is a minimum of five years of management or professional consulting experience required. In the UK, an honours degree plus a relevant master's degree is preferred.  The student must then complete necessary coursework (typically focused on leadership and strategy, and including training in research methodology), perform independent original research under supervision of a qualified doctoral advisor, pass the doctoral dissertation or doctoral thesis defense, and in some cases, teach examinable courses. Although it can be completed in as little as three years, the D.M. typically takes 4–6 years to complete.   The first two years of the program are usually focused on intensive doctoral-level coursework and generally at least one research practicum (near the end of core courses, residencies, and research and writing training). It may be followed by a comprehensive examination (comps) at this point if the candidate has successfully reached this stage.   Similar to the PhD, the subsequent dissertation completion phase for the D.M. can take an additional two or more years. In some programs where the candidate has a good deal of professional management practical experience, the D.M. can be completed in as little as three years if the candidate has proven capable of taking a full load of credits each term, as well as successful completion of the required dissertation and its defense. Common research methodologies used in management studies include both quantitative and qualitative approaches such as: Modeling, Econometrics, Experiments, Descriptive and Field Studies, Phenomenology, Case Study, Action Research or Mixed Methods strategies of inquiry. 