The Master of Management (MM, MBM,MIM, MMgt) is a post-graduate master’s degree awarded to students who normally complete a one- to two-year program of graduate level coursework in business management at an accredited academic institution.   As the program is designed for students interested in entering leadership roles, the degree attracts applicants from diverse academic disciplines. The MM program structure is similar to that of the Master of Business Administration, Master of Arts in Management, and Master of Science in Management degrees. The MM structure varies from program to program, but typically adheres to the rigor of Management science. The mode delivery of the program can be full-time,  part-time, distance-learning, accelerated, or executive.  The MM program for younger professionals with limited professional experience often resembles an MBA program. It typically prepares students to handle management issues in all areas of business with the option to concentrate or specialize in one area. Most programs begin with a set of required courses and then offer more specialized courses two thirds of the way through the program.  Topics in the MM program often include those listed aside, while concentrations may focus on accounting, finance, business administration, international business/global management, marketing management, supply chain management, human resources, nonprofit management, and entrepreneurship.   The MM program for senior professionals with managerial experience (typically 10+ years) often resembles an Executive MBA (EMBA) program. It typically prepares students to handle the tasks associated with interdisciplinary business-related subjects such as ethical decision making, business law, global business values, workplace security, corporate crime, and employee motivation.  These programs focuses on helping entry and mid level managers improve their management practice with cultural competence that enable them to function across England, Canada, India, China and Brazil. Business school admission committees normally evaluate applicants based on bachelor degree and GPA score (and graduate GPA if applicable), detailed resume, letters of recommendation, essays, and personal interviews. Based on these indicators, the committee decides if the applicant is suitable for the academic profile of the program, can demonstrate considerable leadership potential, and contribute positively to the student body of the school as a whole. 