Ros Beiaard of Dendermonde is a large folkloristic horse. It differs from the other Ros-Beiaard horses because it is used only once every ten years and because the horse is carried by people. The Ros Beiaard is on UNESCO's list of Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity. The Ros Beiaard of Dendermonde is carried through the town every ten years by a guild of bearers, called the 'Pijnders'. In keeping with the legend, four young brothers from Dendermonde (de Vier Heemskinderen) wearing full armour sit astride the horse. The legend of Ros Beiaard is acted out during the procession. From the ground to the tallest part of the head, the Ros Beiaard is 4.85m high. If one adds the decorations on top, then the horse is 5.8m high. From nose to tail, the Ros is 5.2m long and the width is exactly 2m. The head of the Ros Beiaard is made out of oak wood and it is 120 cm long and 50 cm wide. The horse weighs 800 kg without the brothers on top. The wooden frame has three spaces and has space for 12 bearers or 'Pijnders'. Every ten years, the selection of the four 'Heemskinderen' is difficult. The criteria are severe: In 1807, the Ros was ridden by Pieter-Emmanuel, Pieter-Frans, Pieter-Jan and Bernard-Jozef Blomme. The horse was used to celebrate the birthday of  Napoleon I and the Concordate. In 1850 the brothers were Edmond, Désiré, Henri and Lodewijk Spanogh. The procession celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Court and the Academy of Arts. The historian David Lindanus was also commemorated and king Leopold II attended the procession. The inauguration of the statue of Pater De Smet in 1878 entailed a new procession and the knights were Isidoor, Omer, Petrus and Frans Willems. They also celebrated the inauguration of the new lock in the Dender. When Polydore de Keyser, Lord Mayor of London, visited his birth town Dendermonde in 1888, the Heemskinderen were Henri, Lodewijk, Gustaaf and Alfons Pieters. In 1899, the Ros Beiaard was ridden by Pieter, Adhemar, Lucinthe and Leo Dieltjens. They celebrated a new bridge over the Scheldt. In 1914, the knights were Jan, Leo, Pieter and Edward De Bruyn. The celebration was the appointment of Leo Bruynincx as mayor of Dendermonde. In 1930, Dendermonde celebrated the centenary of the Belgian independence and the Horse was ridden by Henri, Jean, Pierre and Albert Van Damme. In 1952, Jozef, Rafaël, Pieter and Jan Bombay were the knights. The town hall existed for 500 years and this was celebrated. In 1958, because of the World's Fair in Brussels, the brothers Emiel, Albert, Jozef and Luc Leybaert rode the Ros. In 1975 the brothers Dirk, Wim, Boudewijn and Kris De Jonghe rode the Horse.  In 1990 the honour befell the brothers Veldeman.  In 2000 the brothers Roy, Nick, Ken and Dean Coppieters rode the Ros. In 2010 the procession was held in May and the  Van Damme brothers rode the horse.  The guild of the Pijnders originated in the 14th century and had the monopoly on loading and unloading ships and cellars with wine and beer. Today, the Pijnders are the only persons allowed to carry the Ros Beiaard in the processions. The task of the Pijnders must not be underestimated, as they occupy a main function in the procession in carrying the horse. The movements of the horse have to be synchronized with the directions of the director. The Pijnders are divided into three groups consisting each of twelve carriers. Every group has its leader who has to set the pace and order the special movements. The legend is told in the city hymn of Dendermonde. The hymn also refers to the rivalry with the neighbor city of Aalst who purportedly envy the Dendermonde for its horse. 't Ros Beiaard doet zijn ronde In de stad van Dendermonde Die van Aalst die zijn zo kwaad omdat hier 't Ros Beiaard gaat. refrein: De vier Aymons kinderen jent Met blanke zweerd in d'hand Ziet ze rijden 't Zijn de schoonsten van ons land 't Ros Beiaards ogen fonk'len Zijne brede manen kronk'len En hij wendt hem fraai en vlug Met vier broers op zijnen rug.  Hun harnas, schild en lansen blinken bij de zonneglanzen En den beiaard 't voisken geeft daar het Ros zijn eer in heeft. O Dendermondenaren Blijft altijd den roem bewaren Van het peerd zo wijd vermaard Als den grootsten man op aard.  't Ros Beiaard is ons glorie en benijdt g' ons die victorie Aelst, gij hebt nog min verstand als ons ridder ros vaillant. 't Ros Beiaard is verheven heeft zich in het vuur begeven en het week op 't oorlogsveld alles voor zijn groot geweld. 