 SOTA Mapping Project (SMP) is a website (www.sotamaps.org) offering mapping resources for radio amateurs participating in the Summits On The Air (SOTA) awards program. It aims to provide comprehensive mapping information in graphical form based on Google Maps on summits included in the program, for participants in the program as well as for the general user. The site is built and maintained by a small group of radio amateurs with interests in SOTA,  hill walking and mountaineering, mapping and open source programming.  They also maintain  a similar site (www.iotamaps.org) for the Islands on the air (IOTA) award scheme. The site has five main mapping pages, each providing different sets of functionality. This is the page most often used, since it is referenced directly by links from each of the SOTAWatch Summit pages.  In addition to being able to view various SOTA Associations, Regions and individual summits, the page offers the exporting or downloading of such data in GPX (for import into a GPS device) or KML (for importing into Google Earth) formats. The Range page provides tools with which the user can perform various distance-measurement tasks. The most often used of these is the "range" facility itself, which will find summits within a certain distance of some reference point. The user can input a central location in one of several forms - latitude/longitude, Maidenhead ("Grid") Locator, or an address or place-name - and can then choose one of three range-types within which the summits should be found: All summits so found will be presented in a list and also on the map. Export of data for the summits found is also provided. The Tracks Page allows the user to view, draw, or upload tracks or walking routes leading to SOTA summits. The three main sets of options are: Export of tracks data for the summits is also provided. Presents the latest SOTAWatch Alerts  - data are refreshed once every minute. Each Alert as it arrives is presented in the listview on the right-hand side of the main map. Presents the latest SOTAWatch Spots  - data are refreshed once every minute. Each Spot as it arrives is presented in the listview on the right-hand side of the main map. Clicking on an entry in the list will cause the map to navigate to the summit mentioned in the Spot and an information window will open, listing all Spots reported for that summit within the time-frame of the query. Each of the five mapping pages, in addition to their specific functionality, also feature a set of map tools common to all. These are situated at the top of the map area in each of the mapping pages. 