  National Astronomy Week (NAW) is an event held every few years in the United Kingdom to promote public awareness of astronomy by celebrating notable astronomical events. During the week, astronomy societies, planetaria, schools, universities and other organisations from all over the UK organise events to promote interest in, and knowledge of, astronomy. The organisers promote the week using extensive contacts with the media and all the major UK astronomical organisations, many of whom provide funding. Events range from talks, visits and in particular the opportunity for children and adults alike to observe the sky through a range of equipment.  The 2014 event is described in Astronomy & Geophysics magazine.  The need for National Astronomy Week (NAW) was first defined in the late 1970s.  A group of both professional and amateur astronomers as well as teachers and educators was formed to define and run the first ever event. NAW was proposed in 1979 and a steering committee was set up in 1980. Since then a total of seven events have run as listed below. The seventh event, named "Target Jupiter", ran from 1–8 March 2014. Jupiter was at a very high position in the sky, the best that will be achieved for many years. Observing conditions were generally well above average. More than 200 events were run across the UK. Participating organisations included Astronomy Societies, Schools, Universities, and Scouts/Guides. The details are listed on the National Astronomy Week website.  The event was widely announced in the UK, for example in Astronomy & Geophysics magazine,  and there is also information on the NAW Twitter page  and on Facebook.  A special event radio station, call sign GB1NAW, transmitted  from Lockyer Technology Centre during National Astronomy Week (and the week preceding), between 7.060 MHz and 7.200 MHz LSB (Lower Side Band) during daylight hours and between 3.600 MHz and 3.800 MHz LSB after dusk. National Astronomy Week is sponsored (and funded) by some of the most significant science organisations in the UK, including the Science & Technology Facilities Council and the Royal Astronomical Society. 