CetraRuddy Architecture is a New York City-based architecture and interior design firm with projects in New York City, the United States, Europe, and the Middle East. It provides high-end architectural and interior design services for residences, hotels, schools and cultural institutions. The firm was founded in 1987 by John Cetra and Nancy J. Ruddy, and is led by four principals and three associate principals with a staff of over 100 architects and interior designers. CetraRuddy is driven by a commitment to design excellence and creating memorable place making. The strength of their work is a product of their team of over 100 passionate and talented professionals who share their vision and commitment to architecture and interior design of integrity. The collective experience and unparalleled level of personalized service of the principals and the highly talented CetraRuddy team contribute to their sophisticated understanding of the multi-faceted requirements of every space, incorporating technology, construction and branding.  The resulting solutions embody integrity and authenticity while adding poetry and inspiration to the urban fabric and human experience.  They strive to elevate the building typologies they touch by combining their craft, attention to the specific, and humanity and scale to compositions of strong geometric forms. These designs are integrated with advanced building technologies and engineering, and are responsive to the challenges of efficient construction.  Their process has allowed them to create long term strategic relationships with their clients on projects worldwide and across the residential, hospitality, education, cultural and commercial sectors. http://cetraruddy.com/  Cetra-Ruddy is known for its design of One Madison, a 50-story "sliver building" condominium tower on East 23rd Street at Madison Avenue, south of Madison Square Park.  In 2014, the building received the Architizer A+ Jury Award for Residential High Rise,  and since 2013, it has been part of the "Sky High & the Logic of Luxury" exhibition at the Skyscraper Museum in New York City. The firm is also responsible for the adaptive reuse into residences of the Walker Tower, a former telephone switch building in Chelsea, Manhattan, and for the new Lincoln Square Synagogue building, which received an Honorable Mention for Religious Institution for Interior Design magazine's Best of Year Awards. Most recently, they were featured in the New York Times for their new-construction multi-family residential project ARO, rising in place of the late Roseland Ballroom. https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/17/realestate/next-act-for-roseland-ballroom-site.html  CetraRuddy is an international award-winning architecture, planning and interior design firm that has won numerous awards over the years for their significant contributions exemplifying architectural and design excellence. Most recently, John Cetra and Nancy Ruddy were inducted into the Interior Design Hall of Fame  (http://www.interiordesign.net/articles/11311-john-cetra-and-nancy-ruddy-2015-hall-of-fame-inductees/), and John Cetra was recognized as a fellow of the American Institute of Architects. AIA Fellows are recognized as the AIA’s highest membership honor for their exceptional work and contributions to architecture and society. The prestige of FAIA after your name is unparalleled with only 3 percent of AIA members having this distinction. John holds a Master’s degree in Architecture and Urban Design from Harvard University and a Bachelor of Science degree from the Spitzer School of Architecture of the City College of New York and has taught architecture at both institutions. He is a fellow of the American Institute of Architects as well as a member of the Urban Land Institute, Municipal Arts Society, The Skyscraper Museum, Society of American Registered Architects, New York Landmarks Conservancy, Friend of Fallingwater, and Harvard Club. Nancy Ruddy has directed program development and strategic planning for more than twenty million square feet of architectural and interior design work, leading a team of skilled professionals to produce highly original, custom solutions for commercial, residential, cultural, and educational clients. Her honors include "100 Women Leaders for the 21st Century" by Real Estate Weekly and the Association of Real Estate Women, “Business Owner of the Year” by the National Association of Women Business Owners and the Career Achievement Award of the School of Architecture of the City College of New York in addition to the numerous design and sustainability awards garnered by the firm’s many award winning projects.  Notes  