 This is a list of currently active separatist movements in Asia. Separatism includes autonomism and secessionism. What is and is not considered an autonomist or secessionist movement is sometimes contentious. Entries on this list must meet three criteria: Under each region listed is one or more of the following: Breakaway state:  Artsakh  Chittagong Hill Tracts  Bangabhumi (বঙ্গভূমি)  Arakan  Zo Asia  Kachin  Kawthoolei  Karenni Kokang  Mon State  Northern Arakan (Rohang State) [dubious  – discuss]  Shan States  Wa State  Zale'n-gam  Zogam Self-declared state:  Northern Cyprus The  People's Republic of China (China, PRC) considers itself the sole legitimate state representing China. The PRC's territory consists of Mainland China, Hong Kong, and Macau. The PRC also claims the ROC-controlled area to be its territory. The PRC established the Special Administrative Region in Hong Kong and Macau under one country, two systems policy. The  Republic of China (Taiwan, ROC) also identifies itself as the sole legitimate state representing China. The ROC's territory consists of the island of Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen, Matsu, and nearby islands. The ROC also constitutionally claims the PRC-controlled area to be its territory. Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region Tibet Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region  Hong Kong Special Administrative Region   Breakaway states: Abkhazia  South Ossetia Proposed autonomous movements:  Armenians in Samtskhe-Javakheti Kashmir Khalistan  Nagaland Tripura Manipur Assam Bodoland Kamtapur Aceh Kalimantan South Moluccas Minahasa   West Papua Riau Azerbaijan (Iran) Turkmen Sahra Khūzestān Iranian Kurdistan Balochistan See: Minorities in Iraq Proposed states:  Kurdistan  Assyria  Turkmeneli Sinjar   Hokkaido    Okinawa ChaoFa Member of the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization  Sarawak    Sabah   Madhesh  Balochistan   Sindh   Gilgit-Baltistan See: International recognition of Palestine/currently mostly occupied by Israel as part of the Palestinian territories  State of Judea Bangsamoro Region Cordillera Administrative Region National Capital Region  Siberian regionalism  Sakha Republic  Tuva  Tamil Eelam  Rojava Proposed states:  As-Suwayda  Aram [original research?]  Assyria  Syrian Turkmen Badakhshan  Patani  Northern Kurdistan   South Vietnam  Karakalpakstan  South Yemen  Hadhramaut 