This article lists the orders of the Viridiplantae. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the division Chlorophyta. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Pedinophyceae. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Prasinophyceae. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Chlorophyceae. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Trebouxiophyceae. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Ulvophyceae. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the Infrakingdom Streptophyta. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Klebsormidiophyceae. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Charophyceae. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Coleochaetophyceae. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Mesostigmatophyceae. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Zygnematophyceae. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the division Marchantiophyta. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the division Bryophyta. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the division Anthocerotopsida. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Isoetopsida. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Lycopodiopsida. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Equisetopsida. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Marattiopsida. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Polypodiopsida. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Psilotopsida. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the division Angiosperm. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Cycadopsida. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Ginkgoopsida. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Gnetopsida. This section lists the orders of Viridiplantae within the class Pinopsida. 