The Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Lahore (BISE Lahore) is a secondary and intermediate education examining board in Lahore Division. It is located at 86 Mozang Road, Lahore. It was established in 1954. The Board's jurisdiction has been confined to the districts of Lahore, Kasur, Sheikhupura and Nankana Sahib. The Board is the mainstream of education[clarification needed] throughout the country. The Lahore Board is considered as the biggest educational board in Pakistan: around 2 million students are examined every year through this board in matriculation and intermediate exams.  Since Pakistan emerged on the map of the world, the examinations of the matriculation and intermediate level were conducted under the aegis of University of the Punjab. However, through the promulgation of the Punjab University Act (Amendment) Ordinance 1954, the Board of Secondary Education, Punjab was established in the province which took from the said University control of examinations of Secondary, Intermediate and Pakistani & Classical Languages. The first-ever examination for these stages was conducted in the year 1955.  Owing to tremendous increase in the candidature, two more Boards were established at Multan and Sargodha under West Pakistan Boards of Intermediate and Secondary Education (Multan & Sargodha) Ordinance No.XVII of 1968. As a result of further bifurcation, Boards were also established at Rawalpindi and Gujranwala. The re-construction of the Board of Intermediate & Secondary Education, Lahore has been done through the Punjab Boards of Intermediate & Secondary Education Act 1976 (lately amended by Punjab Ordinance No.XLVII) and presently in the administrative setup of the province, nine Boards are functioning at division level. At the time of its inception in 1954, the Board inherited vast territorial jurisdictions for conducting examinations in the provinces of Punjab, Baluchistan, Azad Kashmir and Northern Areas. To accommodate overseas candidates, the Board also constituted examination centers at Kuwait and Nairobi (Kenya).  Current jurisdiction of the Board of Intermediate & Secondary Education Lahore has been confined to the districts of Lahore, Kasur, Sheikhupura and Nankana Sahib. According to Clause 5 of the Act, the Governing Body controlling the whole affairs of the office is called the 'Board' which consists of the following members: (i) The Chairman (ii) The Vice-Chancellor of the University or a University Professor nominated by him; (iii) All Executive District Officers (Education) related to the area within the jurisdiction of the Board;  (iv) The Director of Technical Education, Punjab, Lahore or his nominee; (v) One representative each of the Finance and Education Departments not below the rank of a Deputy Secretary; (vi) One Principal of a Degree College situated within the jurisdiction of the Board to be nominated by the Controlling Authority; (vii) One Principal of an Intermediate College situated within the jurisdiction of the Board to be nominated by the Controlling Authority; (viii) Two Headmasters and one Headmistress of Schools situated within the jurisdiction of the Board to be nominated by the Controlling Authority; and (ix) Two persons nominated by the Controlling Authority from amongst scholars and retired educationists.  Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education conducts Intermediate and Secondary exams every year. The result of Secondary exams usually announced every year in the mid of August or in its end while the Intermediate result is announced in the end of August or in the start of September. Datasheets and results of intermediate and secondary exams are also available on board's website. 