Responsive evaluation is an approach to measure the effectiveness of educational programs developed by Robert E. Stake.  This approach enables to evaluate the educational and other programs by comparing the program activity, the program uniqueness, and the social diversity of the people. The most important feature in the Responsive evaluation is the responsiveness to main issues and problems, in particular those cases where people recognize at the site.  The Responsive evaluation emphasizes: In order to achieve a well responsive evaluation, it is essential to preordinate the evaluation. This approach designs a "front-loaded" with the evaluation tools consumed to accomplish the observations by interpreting them. The Preordinate Evaluation has a relative contrast with the Responsive Evaluation  The Preordinate Evaluation design highlights: The fundamental project of the Responsive predispositition is Stake’s 12 Prominent Events: a) Identify program scope b) Overview program activities c) Discover purposes and concerns d) Conceptualize issues and problems e) Identify data needs f) Select observers, judges, and instruments (if any) g) Observe designated antecedents, transactions, and outcomes h) Thematize and prepare portrayals and case studies i) Winnow, match issues to audiences j) Format for audience use; k) Assemble formal reports (if any) l) Talk with clients, program staff, and audiences (Stake, 1976)  The responsive approach is applicable to summative and formative evaluations  The formative evaluation is useful when the project staff needs help monitoring the program and when no one knows what problems are going to face it.  In summative evaluation is useful this approach when audiences want to understand the activities, the strengths and the shortcoming of the project  The Responsive Evaluation is preferred over the Pre-ordinate evaluation when someone wants to know the extent to which set objectives have changed (Stake, 1972). The responsive approach let to generate large bases of data,  to allow for a thick description of a program.  In conclusion, the Responsive Evaluation allows for evaluations of programs which are either limited or broad in scope and is especially suited for programs which are in transition   Gender-Responsive evaluation is important as a means for building strong systems for generating and using evidence in order to improve the work that people do to achieve gender equality and women’s empowerment. Gender-responsive evaluation is a powerful resource for accomplish the transformative agenda of the Sustainable Development Goals.  Gender-responsive approach can improve gender equality and the empowerment of women by incorporating gender and women’s rights aspects into evaluation approaches, methods, processes and use. Therefore, the evaluation is a link of positive change towards gender equality and the empowerment of women, but moreover the process itself also empowers the involved stakeholders and in this way, it prevents further gender discrimination and exclusion  Effective gender-responsive programs and interventions enhance to eliminate social factors such as racism, sexism, and economic oppression which cannot be overlooked in discussions of effective interventions for women offenders. In termes of dealing with individual issues is important to take in consideration the social issues of poverty, race and gender inequalities because they have a profound impact on women lives. Successful interventions must relate to the social realities where women come from and to which they will return. Gender-Responsive Evaluation is sensitive to cultural differences and expectations. The very first challenge is to use theories and research development that support the implementation of these critical programs.  