The Certified Safety Professional (CSP) is a certification offered by the Board of Certified Safety Professionals (BCSP).  The CSP is accredited in the United States by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies and internationally by the International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC 17024) (see ANSI) and 193 Countries Consortium . The requirements to become a CSP  are: CSPs are further required to provide BCSP with proof that they are maintaining a high level of competency in safety work by recertifying every five years. Similar to the CSP in the US, Canada offers the CRSP (Canadian Registered Safety Professional) designation, through the Board of Canadian Registered Safety Professionals  Pre-Requisite: Applicants must meet some prerequisites prior to submitting a formal application:  Registration Process: 1. Application:  Once the applicant has met the prerequisites, they must complete the "Application for Canadian Registered Safety Professional Designation", obtained from the BCRSP board.  The lengthy application requires a compilation of all the applicant’s course and job descriptions. 2. Evaluation:  The BCRSP Board reviews the application.  The applicant is then advised if they meet the minimum requirements or not.  If the application is accepted, then the applicant is advised that they will soon be contacted for an interview. 3. Interview: The interview is set up with a member of the BCRSP’s Regional Screening Centre personnel in the applicant’s geographical area.  It’s an informal meeting, where the applicant’s work and educational Occupational Health & Safety experience are discussed. 4. Examination:  The applicant has to write a comprehensive 3.5 hour multiple choice exam that covers Accident Theory, Environmental Practices, Ergonomics, Fire Prevention and Protection, Health Promotion, HSE Auditing, Law and Ethics, Occupational Health Safety and Environment Systems, Occupational Hygiene, Risk Management, and Safety Techniques and Technology.  Study guides and books are recommended by the Board, and numerous preparatory courses are available through: 4. Approval:  If the applicant minimally achieves the passing score on the examination, they receive notification of such. 5. Confirmation:  The applicant revives the CRSP Designation along with their designation registration number.    Career Development: In Order to maintain a professional safety designation continuing education is often required with most designations.  To be  in good standing with the certification body, continuing education units (CEU) or professional developmental conferences (PDC) must be completed within a designated time frame and approved by the certification body.  Some provincial trade associations and safety associations have their industry designations such as: Internationally, other countries have set up similar programs. In the UK the highest professional standing is that of a chartered safety and health practitioner or fellow of IIRSM. The standards are maintained by both the UK’s largest body for safety professionals Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH) and also the International Institute of Risk and Safety Management (IIRSM). Like North American safety professional programs, to achieve these grades the applicant must be professionally qualified and have relevant experience. Continuing professional development (CPD) is also a strong requirement of both memberships. IIRSM also offer Recognised Safety Professional (not to be confused with 'registered safety practitioners' of OSHCR) these honorary post nominal letters given by IIRSM to recognised safety practitioners. 