A closed system drug transfer device or "CSTD" is a drug transfer device that mechanically prohibits the transfer of environmental contaminants into a system and the escape of hazardous drug or vapor concentrations outside the system. Open versus closed systems are commonly applied in medical devices to maintain the sterility of a fluid pathway. CSTDs work by preventing the uncontrolled inflow and outflow of contaminants and drugs, preserving the quality of solution to be infused into a patient. Theoretically, CSTDs should enable complete protection to healthcare workers in managing hazardous drugs, but possibly due to improper handling or incomplete product design, contaminants can still be detected despite use of CSTDs.  Hazardous drugs are often used for patients suffering from cancer.  For example, chemotherapy agents are routinely used in the treatment of cancer. However, chemotherapy can be dangerous to a person even if they don't have cancer, as chemotherapy often indiscriminately affects both healthy and cancerous cells.  For the healthcare worker tasked with preparing hazardous medications like chemotherapy, manipulation of these agents presents a substantial risk; for example, it may negatively affect their fertility, increase their risk of developing certain cancers themselves, or have unwelcome effects on fetuses.  As an addition to standard safe handling practices, CSTDs are devices that are designed to additionally limit exposure of hazardous drugs to the personnel that manipulate them.  Investment and interests in CSTDs continue to grow  over the past decade as concerns of Occupational Safety and Health (OSH), together with increased awareness of drug risks have pushed the market to explore better options for handling hazardous materials. A Cochrane review found "no evidence for or against adding CSTD to safe handling of hazardous medicines" based on a review of 23 studies, but acknowledged that the studies did not use randomised controlled trials nor evaluate the value of treatment. CSTDs used in this study include PhaSeal, Tevadaptor and SpikeSwan.  It remains that new solutions to increasing safety of handling hazardous drugs have to be developed. Conceptually, through operating in a closed system, CSTDs should significantly reduce risks to nurses. However, the robustness of product design and extent of proper usage by nurses affects the efficacy of the CSTD in achieving OSH. The first FDA-approved CSTD was in 1998, called PhaSeal. Since that time, many other CSTD products have been developed in the United States.  MD Anderson hospital was the first hospital in the United States to widely implement CSTD technology.  The definition of a closed system drug transfer device was first published in an alert warning released by the American National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). This warning was issued in relation to studies that showed a correlation between working with or near hazardous drugs in a health care environment and the increased risk of developing skin rashes, infertility, miscarriage and infant birth defects, as well as the possibility of developing leukemia and other forms of cancer. This NIOSH alert recommended that a closed system drug transfer device be used whenever hazardous drugs were to be handled. NIOSH, in response to the need for a working model as to what a "closed system" and what a "closed system drug transfer device" was, provided the following definition: The NIOSH definition is the only definition that includes drug vapors.  NIOSH considers the containment of vapor extremely important, such that in September 2015, NIOSH issued a Testing Protocol to assess the effectiveness of closed systems.  NIOSH developed and tested 5 CSTDs to assess its "closeness." 2 of the 5 CSTDs tested passed. This protocol is aimed as being a test standard for CSTDs to assess the "closeness" of each system. ISOPP, the International Society of Oncology Pharmacy Practitioners, splits the definition of a closed system into two different categories: In September 2015, the CDC issued a proposal for a testing protocol designed to test various CSTDs on the market today to help healthcare decision makers decipher between various systems available on the market today.  This protocol had an initial close date of November 2015 but was extended until March 2016. Findings from "Fred Massoomi's Response to Docket No. CDC-2015-0075, NIOSH-288" include: Commercially available CSTD products include the following:  