Karen Messing (born 2 February 1943) is a Canadian geneticist. She is an emeritus professor in the biological sciences at the University of Quebec at Montreal.  She is known for her work on gender, environmental health and ergonomics. She was given the Jacques Rousseau Award in 1993 and the Governor General's Award in 2009. Messing was born in Springfield, Massachusetts in 1943. She studied social sciences at Harvard before deciding to focus on science. She went to McGill University in Montreal where she studied biology, genetics and chemistry. She faced prejudice from colleagues because she was a single mother.  She began teaching at University of Quebec at Montreal in 1976 and two years later she was conducting research amongst phosphate workers. She knew of the potential and radioactivity and discovered that amongst six workers, four of them had children with birth defects like a club foot. She did manage to get dust extraction equipment installed but only on the provisp that the researchers left the factory. Messing reflects that this event focused her later work on occupational health.  In 1990 she spent a year studying a toilet cleaner named Nina who walked 23 km every day as she cleaned toilets in 1–2 minutes. This work led to recommendations that were adopted and to her specializing in ergonomics and winning an award.  She was given the Jacques Rousseau Award in 1993. This award recognises leading Canadians who are working across disciplines.  Messing co-founded the Center for Interdisciplinary Research in Biology, Health, Society and the Environment (CINBIOSE) at her university.  She has worked for thirty years to also increase opportunities for women. She chaired the committee that advises on gender and ergonomics at the International Association of Ergonomics. In recognition of this she was given the Governor General's Award in 2009 that commemorates the 80th anniversary of the persons case. This was a case where Canadian acknowledged that women were included in the legal phrase of "person" and were therefore entitled to all those legal rights.  She was given the Yant Award in 2014.  