Occupational cardiovascular disease is disease of the heart or blood vessels that are caused by working conditions, making them a form of occupational illness. Little is known about occupational risks for heart disease, but links have been established between cardiovascular disease and certain toxins (including carbon disulfide, nitroglycerin, and carbon monoxide), extreme heat and cold, exposure to tobacco smoke, depression, and occupational stress. Other occupational hazards potentially related to cardiovascular disease include noise exposure at work, shift work, and physical activity at work.  A 2015 SBU-report including a systematic review of non-chemical riskfactors for occupation cardiovascular disease found an association between certain occupational risk factors and developing cardiovascular disease in those:  Specifically the risk of stroke was also increased by:  Hypertension develops more often in those who experience job strain and who have shift-work.  Differences between women and men in risk are small, however men risk suffering and dying of heart attacks or stroke twice as often as women during working life.  A 2017 SBU report found evidence that workplace exposure to silica dust, engine exhaust or welding fumes is associated with heart disease.  Associations also exist for exposure to arsenic, benzopyrenes, lead, dynamite, carbon disulphide, carbon monoxide, metalworking fluids and occupational exposure to tobacco smoke.  Working  with  the  electrolytic production of  aluminium  or  the  production  of  paper  when  the  sulphate pulping  process  is  used  is  associated with heart disease.  An association was also found  between  heart  disease  and  exposure  to  compounds  which  are  no  longer  permitted  in certain  work  environments,  such  as  phenoxy acids containing TCDD(dioxin) or asbestos.  Workplace exposure to silica dust or asbestos is also associated with pulmonary heart disease. There  is  evidence  that  workplace  exposure  to  lead,  carbon  disulphide,  phenoxyacids  containing  TCDD,  as  well  as  working  in  an  environment  where  aluminium  is  being  electrolytically  produced,  is  associated with stroke.  