  The Prime Minister's Prizes for Science are annual Australian awards for outstanding achievements in scientific research, innovation, and teaching. The prizes have been awarded since 2000, when they replaced the Australia Prize for science. The major awards are the Prime Minister's Prize for Science, regarded as the national award for the advancement of knowledge through science,  and the Prime Minister’s Prize for Innovation (created in 2015), as the national award for  translation of science into commercial outcomes. In 2016, an additional Prize for New Innovators was also created.  The Frank Fenner Prize for Life Scientist of the Year (previously known as the Science Minister's Prize for Science ) and the Malcolm McIntosh Prize for Physical Scientist of the Year were also created in 2000. Prizes for excellence in science teaching at primary and secondary schools were added in 2002. The recipient(s) of this prize can be an individual or jointly up to four individuals, if the achievement is the result of a collaborative team effort. The recipient receives AUD 250,000, an embossed solid gold medallion and lapel pin. Source:Department of Industry, Innovation and Science The recipient(s) of this prize can be an individual or jointly up to four individuals, if the commercialisation is the result of a collaborative team effort. The recipient receives AUD 250,000, an embossed solid gold medallion and lapel pin.  Source:Department of Industry, Innovation and Science This prize is awarded only to an individual and the recipient receives AUD 50 000, a silver medallion and lapel pin. Source:Department of Industry, Innovation and Science This award is for early to mid-career scientists, not more than ten years or full-time equivalent past the award of their highest degree (e.g. Master’s or PhD), working in the life sciences. The recipient receives $50,000, a medal and a lapel pin.  This award is for early to mid-career scientists, not more than ten years or full-time equivalent past the award of their highest degree (e.g. Master’s or PhD), working in the physical sciences. The recipient receives $50,000, a medal and a lapel pin.  This prize is awarded to an individual who has made a significant contribution to teaching science at a primary school level. The recipient is awarded $50,000,a medal and lapel pin. Department of Industry, Innovation and Science This prize is awarded to an individual who has made a significant contribution to teaching science at a secondary school level. The recipient is awarded $50,000, a medal and lapel pin. Department of Industry, Innovation and Science The Australia Prize was the predecessor award to the Prime Minister's Prizes for Science and was awarded annually from 1990 to 1999 (although no award was made in 1991). It was an international award, aimed at a worldwide audience for an outstanding specific achievement in a selected area of science and technology promoting human welfare. It achieved widespread recognition by individuals and organisations throughout the world, receiving nominations from 18 countries. The Government awarded the Australia Prize to both Australian and international scientists. Of the 28 recipients, 18 were Australian, demonstrating Australia's strong international standing in many scientific fields. The Australia Prize was replaced in 2000 by the current set of prizes.  