Bone Marrow Donors Worldwide (BMDW) is an organization based in Leiden, Netherlands, that coordinates the collection of the HLA phenotypes and other relevant data of volunteer hematopoietic cell donors (used to perform what used to be called bone marrow transplants, but now referred as hematopoietic cell transplants) and cord blood units across the globe. BMDW was founded in 1986 with its office in Leiden (the Netherlands). The BMDW Editorial Board consists of one representative of each stem cell donor registry or cord blood bank participating in BMDW, and meets twice a year to discuss achievements and necessary improvements. On 1 January 2017 BMDW merged with NetCord  and has become a service of the World Marrow Donor Association (WMDA).  For the last two years prior to the merger, the three organisations had been working closely together and the merger was a natural move to work towards high-quality stem cell products worldwide for patients in need of a transplant. Joining BMDW database requires a registry to be fully operational, and must have at least 50 HLA-typed unrelated stem cell donors or cord blood units. For further details on how to become part of the BMDW registry database visit "Registry requirements" on the BMDW website. To facilitate the exchange of information and improve business relations, the WMDA provides access to contact data of organisations  that are listing donors or cord blood products in the global database of Bone Marrow Donors Worldwide. The BMDW is the world's largest hematopoietic cell database, listing more than 29.5 million stem cell donors and over 721,289 cord blood units. BMDW participants consist of 75 hematopoietic cell donor registries from 53 countries, and 53 cord blood banks from 36 countries. For further details on the number of Donors/Cord Blood Units (CBU) per registry within the BMDW database click here. These global hematopoietic cells from donors or cord blood units are used to transplant patients around the world with a variety of with life-threatening blood disorders such as leukemia, lymphoma, aplastic anemia, as well as certain immune system and metabolic disorders. BMDW's mission is to create a comprehensive, fair, and equitable global list of unrelated stem cell donors and cord blood products that shall allow fast determination of whether a matched donor is available for a patient in need of a hematopoietic stem cell transplant. The purpose of BMDW still remains the same, to collect the HLA phenotypes of volunteer stem cell donors and cord blood units and to co-ordinate their worldwide distribution. To summarise BMDW's purpose is: 