The Breast International Group (BIG)-aisbl is a non-profit organisation for academic breast cancer research groups from around the world, with its headquarters at the Jules Bordet Institute in Brussels, Belgium. BIG facilitates breast cancer research at international level by stimulating cooperation between its members and other academic networks, and collaborating with, but working independently from, the pharmaceutical industry. Such large-scale cooperation is crucial to make significant advances in breast cancer research, reduce the wasteful duplication of effort, and optimally serve those affected by the disease. Founded by leading European opinion leaders in 1996, BIG now constitutes a network of 50 groups based in Europe, Canada, Latin America, Asia and Australasia. These research entities are tied to approximately 3000 specialised hospitals and research centres worldwide. More than 30 clinical trials are run or are under development under the BIG umbrella. BIG also works closely with the US National Cancer Institute (NCI) and the North American Breast Cancer Groups (NABCG), so that together they act as a strong integrating force in the breast cancer research arena. International collaboration makes it possible to conduct studies that would not be possible for a single research group or network to carry out on its own, especially as treatments become increasingly targeted. Combining efforts makes it possible to quickly enrol large numbers of patients, or to share data and knowledge and efficiently answer important scientific questions. Faster results mean faster direct benefits to patients. BIG to date has been mainly focused on large adjuvant trials looking at questions related to optimal chemo-, hormono- and biological therapies, or to special groups of patients, such as the young or the elderly. BIG trials incorporate a substantial translational research component and emphasise the collection and banking of biological specimens for future research. However, BIG also provides a discussion forum for prevention trials and studies in advanced breast cancer, and it launched a biomarkers and drug development programme centred on neo-adjuvant studies, NeoBIG. While nearing the end (in 2011) of its formal support by the European Commission under Framework Programme VI, the TRANSBIG consortium, managed by the BIG Headquarters, will leave a lasting legacy in the form of a biological materials bank (“biobank”). Extremely valuable for translational research, this will allow researchers from around the world to access to genomic data and biospecimens. Moreover, many of the TRANSBIG committees and structures are being adapted to expand their expertise across BIG, benefitting the association in the longer term. 