100 Wall Street, 9th Floor  The Catholic Medical Mission Board (CMMB) is an international, faith-based NGO, providing long-term, co-operative medical and development aid to communities affected by poverty and healthcare issues.   It was established in 1912 and officially registered in 1928. CMMB is headquartered in New York City, USA, and currently has country offices in Haiti, Kenya, Peru, South Sudan, and Zambia.  CMMB’s health programs include Children and Mothers Partnerships (CHAMPS), shipping of medical supplies, placement of international medical and non-medical volunteers,  HIV/AIDS,   prevention and treatment of neglected tropical diseases,  and disaster relief to areas that experienced natural or political catastrophes.  In 2015, CMMB provided health services to 680,000 people, including 200,000 pregnant women and children under age of five, trained 3,843 health workers, and placed 1,200 volunteers.  CMMB actively works with the U.S. government on programming, such as the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and   USAID.  CDC  multilateral donors include UNICEF,   UNHCR,  and PAHO,  and public-private partnerships, including the Survive and Thrive Global Development Alliance.  Children and Mothers Partnerships (CHAMPS) is CMMB's long-term initiative to address the leading causes of maternal and child death, disability, and illness, including diarrhea, pneumonia, malaria and HIV. The program works both at community and clinical levels throughout Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean.  It addresses common causes of poor health, including access to clean water, healthcare facilities and medicine supply, sanitation, agriculture/nutrition, and socio-economic development.  Sending volunteers and medical supplies to resource-poor areas are two of the original and continuing programs of CMMB.  The Healing Help  pharmaceutical program distributes donated medicines and medical supplies. Over eight years CMMB provided over US$2 billion worth of donated medicines to local healthcare partners in 120 countries.  CMMB’s volunteer program provides medical and business expertise for community development at faith-based facilities in Haiti, Kenya, Peru, South Sudan, Zambia, and elsewhere.   CMMB provides HIV/AIDS care, treatment, and support across all age groups and genders. Between 2003 and 2013 CMMB has participated in the U.S. government-funded AIDS Relief care and treatment program (PEPFAR)  which has helped more than 700,000 HIV-infected people worldwide.  It also partnered with the Choose To Care program of the Southern African Catholic Bishops Conference, which was funded by the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation and others, lending assistance to more than 140 community-based initiatives in South Africa, Namibia, Swaziland, Lesotho, and Botswana.  The history of CMMB (known as a committee of the Catholic Hospital Association until 1927) dates back to 1912, when a personal tragedy inspired CMMB’s founder Dr. Paluel J. Flagg to commit to medical missionary work, beginning with leprosy patients in Haiti.  For many decades, CMMB prioritized the shipping of medical supplies and equipment to missionaries and health partners around the world.  In 1949, Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, television personality and national director of the Society of the Propagation of the Faith, joined CMMB’s board and served for 26 years.  Another stalwart supporter of CMMB has been the surgeon Tom Catena.   In 2002, CMMB introduced Born To Live,  a program designed for the prevention of  mother-to-child (PMTCT) transmission of HIV which affected nearly 60,000 women in Haiti, Kenya and South Sudan. In 2003, CMMB launched Action for Family Health to help reduce the mortality and morbidity rates of children in five Central American and Caribbean countries, through a partnership with the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), Catholic healthcare networks, and the respective Ministries of Health in each country,  providing deworming medicines to children.  In 2004, CMMB supported international and local partners in response to the tsunami disaster, committing US$3.1 million in health aid to survivors in India, Indonesia, and Sri Lanka.  CMMB became a member of the AIDS Relief consortium in response to President Bush's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief.  In 2010, CMMB provided over US$49 million and over 500 tons of pharmaceutical and medical supplies worth US$46.7 million to Haiti for earthquake relief through its local partners,  and co-founded the Haiti Amputee Coalition to provide amputees with urgent medical care, basic needs, therapy and high-quality prostheses.  In 2013, CMMB delivered medicine and medical supplies valued at more than US$10 million to survivors of typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) in the Philippines. CMMB’s work in Haiti goes back to 1912  and focuses on providing treatment and medicine for people living with HIV/AIDS.  It is also building a primary healthcare facility, the Bishop Joseph M. Sullivan Center for Health, in Côtes-de-Fer, which will make basic and emergency care available to 55,000 Haitians. Joseph M. Sullivan had been Bishop of Brooklyn, New York, and on CMMB's Board of Directors.  CMMB has run comprehensive HIV care programs in Kenya since 2003. In 2010, CMMB was providing life-saving antiretroviral treatment to nearly 47,000 Kenyans, and through its mentors helps more than 24,000 people living with HIV/AIDS,  including issues like social stigma, in Kenya, South Sudan and Haiti. CMMB’s Women Fighting AIDS Kenya (WOFAK) is a community-based organization, providing prevention education, support groups, and clinical and nutritional care to 15,000 women and 5,000 children each year.  CMMB provides voluntary medical male circumcision services  as part of a comprehensive HIV-prevention package  in Nairobi and Kisumu County. CMMB focuses on improving the health and nutrition of children under the age of five and pregnant women in under-served areas of Peru. It trains professional and community healthcare workers, advises parents on health and nutrition, provides nutritional supplementation to malnourished children, institutes community health-surveillance, and addresses issues of economic self-sufficiency through agricultural programs.  A special program offers holistic care for children with mental disabilities. In 2010-2013, CMMB, Bon Secours Health System, CHRISTUS Health, and Caritas del Peru partnered to implement the Unidos Contra la Mortalidad Infantil (United Against Infant Mortality) program,  which was designed to decrease morbidity and mortality in children under five years of age. CMMB’s work in South Sudan includes HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and treatment, refugee health services, gender-based violence prevention, child protection, and primary healthcare. In 2009, CMMB established ANISA, healthcare initiatives to support local HIV/AIDS program. ANISA, meaning “together” in the Zande language, aims to reduce the incidences of new HIV infections through HIV testing and counseling, and to prevent PMTCT and sexual transmission of the disease.  CMMB partners with World Vision which provides community outreach in HIV prevention for a target audience of over 120,000 people annually.  Since 2012, CMMB trains and provides support to birth attendants and nurses in safe delivery and infant health, along with ambulance services.  CMMB focuses on maternal and child health including a four-year program for prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV (PMTCT),  increasing uptake of voluntary medical male circumcision, and HIV counseling and testing (HCT),  implementing community-based HIV prevention programs and preventing and treating malaria, TB, and leprosy. CMMB promotes male involvement  in antenatal clinics and responsibility for the health of the family under the Men Taking Action (MTA™) model,  including PMTCT, HCT services, and antiretroviral (ARV) treatment at 31 participating Church Health Institutions.  Between 2009-2012, CMMB managed the USAID-funded Malaria Communities Program under the President's Malaria Initiative (PMI) in the high transmission Luapula Province.  