FDI World Dental Federation was established in Paris in 1900 as the Fédération Dentaire Internationale and is the world's leading organization representing the dental profession. It serves as the principal representative body for over one million dentists worldwide, developing health policy and continuing education programmes, speaking as a unified voice for dentistry in international advocacy, and supporting member associations in oral health promotion activities worldwide. FDI’s membership includes over 200 national member associations and specialist groups in some 130 countries. A non-governmental organization based in Geneva, Switzerland, FDI is governed by a General Assembly, with policy enacted by its Council and activities implemented through five standing committees comprising 60 volunteers from among its national member associations. Every year, some 300 delegates attend FDI’s World Dental Parliament to debate and define the global future of dentistry, FDI seeks to achieve optimal oral health for all people across borders, uniting the world of oral health to harness the collective expertise and power of its members together with all sectors of society. As the profession’s global and independent advocate, it champions disease prevention and oral health literacy and advances the ethics, art, science and practice of dentistry by stimulating and facilitating the exchange of information throughout the health care community. FDI’s long and distinguished history and accumulated experience in dental education, public health and access to care make it uniquely expert and the only international organization in the field of oral health in official relations with WHO and other agencies of the United Nations. FDI promotes exchange of information among dentists worldwide through the FDI Annual World Dental Congress, held every year in different locations around the world, providing a unique opportunity for professionals and all other sectors related to oral healthcare to meet and learn from one another. The FDI Annual World Dental Congress (FDI AWDC) provides a scientific programme, a trade exhibition and an international forum for the review and discussion of the advancement of oral health, oral health care and all other subjects which will advance the objectives of FDI. It provides an opportunity for the strengthening of relations between the dental organizations, peoples and countries of the world. The structure of the annual World Dental Congress may vary in detail according to local circumstances, but the main elements of the Congress are: FDI World Dental Federation organizes the annual World Oral Health Day since 2013, observed internationally on 20 March.  The day is dedicated to raising global awareness of the issues around oral health and the importance of oral hygiene so that governments, health associations and the general public can work together to achieve healthier mouths and happier lives. In a unique and innovative partnership with Unilever Oral Health, FDI is promoting good oral hygiene and practice in communities around the world through Live.Learn.Laugh, which enables participating FDI member National Dental Associations (NDAs) to implement oral health projects locally and promotes the message of brushing twice-a-day with a fluoride toothpaste. FDI’s Global Caries Initiative (GCI), launched in 2009, is today recognized as one of the leading means to facilitate a paradigm shift to a preventive model of caries management, seeks to unites a broad alliance of key influencers and decision-makers behind a common goal: to effect fundamental change in health systems and individual behaviour to realize the overarching vision to stop caries by 2020. FDI is a member of the World Health Profession Alliance WHPA, which also includes the International Council of Nurses (ICN), the World Medical Association (WMA), the International Pharmaceutical Federation (FIP) and the World Confederation for Physical Therapy (WCPT. 