 Public Health  International development FHI 360 (formerly Family Health International) is a nonprofit human development organization based in North Carolina. FHI 360 serves more than 70 countries and all U.S. states and territories. Established in 1971, the organization has long managed in projects relating to family planning and reproductive health. In 1986 the organization began a worldwide response to HIV/AIDS.    FHI's research and programs also address malaria, tuberculosis, and other infectious and chronic diseases and international agencies, governments, foundations, research institutions, and individual donors.   Other major sponsors of HIV/AIDS programs, as well as other health and development areas, include the United Kingdom's Department for International Development (DFID), the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.   Increasingly, other governments, private foundations, and the private sector are partnering with FHI 360 to overcome the health and development challenges.   In 2010, Family Health International rebranded itself with the new tagline, “The science of improving lives,” highlighting its commitment to empirical science empowering the world’s most vulnerable people. The name was simplified to FHI, reflecting a broadened scope that encompasses health and development as well as service to families, communities, and nations.  In 2011, the teams of experts from Family Health International and Academy for Educational Development came together to create FHI 360. Staff includes experts in health, education, nutrition, environment, economic development, civil society, gender equality, youth, research and technology — creating a unique mix of capabilities to address today's interrelated development challenges. FHI 360 serves more than 70 countries and all U.S. states and territories. FHI 360 contributed to a clinical trial called CAPRISA 004  which provided an important breakthrough in the fight against HIV and genital herpes with a vaginal gel that significantly reduces a woman’s risk of infection.     Family Health International’s President for Public Health Programs, Peter Lamptey, was named a member of the CSIS Commission on Smart Global Health Policy in 2009.   The Commission brings together twenty-six prominent leaders from the private sector, the United States Congress, academia, media, and the security, foreign policy, and global health communities to set goals and priorities for US global health efforts over the next decade and beyond.  The Commission released its final report titled "A Healthier, Safer, and More Prosperous World" in March 2010.  