  The George Institute for Global Health, also called The George, is an independent medical research institute. The George Institute conducts research that targets preventable illnesses and injuries that are the leading causes of death and disability worldwide, including heart and kidney disease, stroke, diabetes, and injury. It is ranked in the leading ten research institutions in the world for research impact by the SCImago Institutions Rankings World Reports.  With its head office located in Australia, the George Institute conducts research in more than fifty countries, with other bases in China, India and the United Kingdom.  With a specific focus on the Asia Pacific regions, the Institute works to identify effective and affordable prevention and treatment strategies, and to strengthen health systems for disease and injury control through large-scale   health research   evidence-based research to treat the leading causes of death and disability; engaging with partners and decision makers to make changes to improve health outcomes, particularly in resource poor areas; and building capacity among health professionals, healthcare providers and education for communities to ensure sustainable health outcomes. Between 1999 and 2017, the George has generated over A$750 million in research grant and fundraising.  With over 600 staff globally, the Institute collaborates with universities, health professionals, hospitals and governments. [self-published source?] The Institute's areas of expertise include chronic diseases, such as heart disease, kidney disease, diabetes and stroke; and injury prevention, including road safety, falls prevention and frailty management in an effort to avoid disability.      Founded by Professors Stephen MacMahon and Robyn Norton, the George is affiliated with the universities of New South Wales,  Peking, and Oxford; [self-published source?] having previously been affiliated with The University of Sydney between 1999 and 2017.  The George Institute is one of only three academic research organisations accredited to run clinical trials, which ensure unbiased rigor and improved ability to disseminate findings, with the other two organisations being the University of Oxford and Duke University (USA). The George Institute is currently chaired by Mike Hawker AM and the Institute’s board members are business and scientific leaders in both Australia and internationally. 