The Health Metrics Network (HMN) was a global health partnership focused on strengthening health information systems in low and middle income countries, launched in May 2005 during the 58th session of the World Health Assembly (WHA) and dissolved on 31 May 2013.  Hosted by the World Health Organization (WHO) in Geneva, Switzerland, the HMN's stated purpose was to make available timely and accurate health information by encouraging joint funding and development of country health information systems,  to improve health and save lives. HMN also promoted research and technical innovation. Specifically, HMN pursued interrelated objectives as below: HMN had an organizational structure composed of an Executive Board and a Secretariat. The HMN Executive Board coordinated the Network and made decisions; membership comprised key health information workers, including health and statistical experts, technical and development partners and funding agencies in developing and other countries. The Secretariat supported HMN partners; it comprised an Executive Secretary, and core technical and administrative staff, based at the World Health Organization in Geneva, Switzerland. HMN worked with and through partners, including countries, donors, development agencies and technical experts. By linking with other networks and partnerships involved in health information, such as RHINO and PARIS21, HMN extended its reach and both draws upon and contributes to such initiatives. By forging alliances with major consumers of health information, in particular global health initiatives such as The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization and the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, HMN worked to ensure that countries and programmes benefit from coherent and consistent technical support.  HMN received an initial grant of US$50 million awarded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in 2004, and additional contributions from donors including: Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), European Commission, Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Paris 21, Rockefeller Foundation, Systems Research Institute of Thailand, United Kingdom Department for International Development (DFID), United States Agency for International Development (USAID), United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and World Bank. [clarification needed Why dissolved?] Subsequent to the preparation of the report by the Secretariat contained in EB132/5Add.1  (“WHO’s arrangement for hosting health partnerships and proposals for harmonizing WHO’s work with hosted partnerships”), the Executive Board of the Health Metrics Network decided on 8 November 2012 to dissolve the Network.  The Network's operations ceased on 31 May 2013. 