The Heart Rhythm Society (HRS) is an international non-profit organization that promotes education and advocacy for cardiac arrhythmia professionals and patients. The Society was founded in 1979 and counted 5,100 members from over 70 countries as of January 2009.  The Official Journal of the Heart Rhythm Society is HeartRhythm, which provides readers basic and clinical scientific developments devoted to arrhythmias, devices, and cardiovascular electrophysiology. The HRS is headquartered in Washington, DC, USA.  The Heart Rhythm Society (HRS), through its efforts during Atrial Fibrillation Awareness (AFib) Month in September and throughout the year, is working to increase public knowledge of AFib, including its symptoms, warning signs, and available treatment options.   Sudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA) Awareness Month represents a critical initiative by the Heart Rhythm Society to raise awareness for SCA and help the public become more familiar with what it is, how it affects people, and what can be done to help save lives. The Society's award-winning "Apples and Oranges" campaign uses a simple analogy to educate people about the difference between a heart attack and SCA. The campaign targets heart attack survivors, who are at the highest risk for SCA, and stresses the importance of maintaining a healthy heart lifestyle and learning critical risk markers, especially their Ejection Fraction (EF).   In October 2012, the Heart Rhythm Society launched a multi-year, national awareness campaign, Arrest the Risk, in an effort to elevate the issue of SCA prevention, early intervention, and appropriate treatment among the African-American and Hispanic populations; increase awareness of disparities at point of care; and positively impact SCA mortality and re-hospitalization rates in the U.S.   The Heart Rhythm Society's government advocacy efforts center on operating as an intermediary between regulatory agencies and its members. The society promotes programs to take action regarding legislation, creates and endorses clinical guidelines, and helps its members find funding opportunities from government agencies such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH).  The Society also provides several educational initiatives including courses held throughout the year, certification and CME programs and an annual conference, called Scientific Sessions.  Presidents of the Heart Rhythm Society from conception are listed below.  Note that the leadership cycle is five years, with service as President being in the fourth year.  This allows the Society to project presidents three years hence.  Anne M. Gillis, whose election to the  Presidency for the 2012-13 term was revealed at the May 2009 meeting of the Society, will become the second non-American to serve in that capacity.  The first was Bernard S. Goldman in 1982.  Both Dr. Gillis, Medical Director of Cardiac Pacing and Electrophysiology at the Libin Cardiovascular Institute of Alberta, and Dr. Goldman are Canadian.   