The International Pharmaceutical Federation or Fédération Internationale Pharmaceutique, abbreviated as FIP, is an international federation of national organisations that represent pharmacists and pharmaceutical scientists. It was founded in 1912 and is based in The Hague in the Netherlands. The International Pharmaceutical Federation (FIP) is the global federation of national associations of pharmacists and pharmaceutical scientists. It gathers 137 member organisations and represents three million practitioners and scientists around the world. It is a nongovernmental organisation (NGO) in official relations with the World Health Organization. The mission of FIP is to "improve global health by advancing pharmacy practice and science to enable better discovery, development, access to and safe use of appropriate, cost-effective, quality medicines worldwide."  The Federation was founded on 25 September 1912 in The Hague, the Netherlands. It was the outcome of the series of international pharmaceutical congresses held in the nineteenth century, more specifically the congress held in Brussels in 1885. Following an initiative of the Royal Dutch Pharmaceutical Society in 1909, the 10th international pharmaceutical congress in 1910 in Brussels resolved to establish an international pharmaceutical federation in The Hague. The first president was Prof. Dr, Léopold of Itallie, professor at Leiden University. The first secretary-general was Dr. J.J. Hofman, pharmacist in The Hague. FIP consists of two boards: the Board of Pharmaceutical Practice and the Board of Pharmaceutical Sciences. The FIP Board of Pharmaceutical Practice, which embodies pharmacists, has eight sections, each focusing on specific areas of pharmacy, developing and enhancing professional practice through shared experience. The Sections represent the following areas of pharmacy practice: The Board of Pharmaceutical Sciences (BPS) is in place within FIP to provide a forum for pharmaceutical scientists to communicate, network, and further develop their expertise and knowledge in their areas of interest. This is accomplished through member participation in special interest groups that focus on specific aspects of pharmaceutical science and research. Targeted specifically to this group is the Pharmaceutical Sciences World Congress, which is held every 4 years in a different location around the world. The most recent was in Melbourne, Australia in 2014. Special interest groups have been formed on the following areas: Role of Board of Pharmaceutical Sciences The role of this Board is to handle all scientific aspects of FIP's activities. To fulfill this task the BPS has developed a Strategic plan with a clear mission, namely to establish and maintain itself as the leading forum for representation of pharmaceutical science throughout the world. The main approaches to accomplish this mission are: The Foundation's objectives are to promote the education of, and research by pharmacists and pharmaceutical scientists within the general fields of design, manufacture, distribution and use of medicines for humans and/or animals. In order to achieve its objectives the Foundation may undertake any of the following activities: Making awards in recognition of excellence;  Making grants to support education or research;  Granting Fellowships to permit a period of research at an approved institution; Awarding Scholarships to permit short periods of international travel in order to study the practice of pharmacy or pharmaceutical science in another country or in other countries;  All other charitable activities which do not conflict with the aforementioned objectives or the general objectives of the International Pharmaceutical Federation/Fédération Internationale Pharmaceutique (FIP). The FIP Foundation for Education and Research was set up in 1993 with a programme of grants and awards. In addition to the Awards in Recognition of Excellence, the FIP Foundation also makes available FIP Development Grants to young pharmacists in training or research, FIP International Travel Scholarships and FIP Fellowships. In 1997 it introduced the Young Poster Presenter's Awards, which are given to a number of people who have submitted abstracts for the FIP Congress, which have been screened and approved by either the scientific or professional secretary. Donations and other forms of sponsorship are an essential ingredient to the success of the Awards programme and to the FIP Foundation and has set up a FIP Foundation Supporter's Club. It has developed a series of benefit, both individual and corporate, which will attract potential donors/sponsors. There are six categories - Ribbon, Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum and Diamond. 