The International Diabetes Federation (IDF) is a worldwide alliance of over 230 national diabetes associations in more than 160 countries, who have come together to enhance the lives of people with diabetes everywhere. The Federation is committed to raising global awareness of diabetes, promoting appropriate diabetes care and prevention, and encouraging activities towards finding a cure for the different types of diabetes. The Federation has been leading the global diabetes community since 1950. It is headquartered in Brussels, Belgium. According to the latest IDF figures,  there are currently 415 million people living with diabetes and the total is expected to rise to 640 million by 2040. Some 75% of people with diabetes live in low- and middle-income countries and almost half of people living with diabetes are undiagnosed. IDF is divided into seven regions,  with the aim of strengthening the work of national diabetes associations and enhancing the collaboration between them. IDF’s national diabetes associations are divided into the following regions: Africa (AFR),Europe (EUR),Middle East and North Africa (MENA), North America and Caribbean (NAC), South and Central America (SACA), South East Asia (SEA) and Western Pacific (WP). IDF’s working bodies bring together the most important stakeholders from the global diabetes community in a collaborative effort to set common goals and co-ordinate activities towards the attainment of these goals. These stakeholders include: people with diabetes and their families; professionals involved in diabetes healthcare and related fields; diabetes representative organizations, and partners from commercial organizations with concerns which align with the mission of the Federation. IDF is associated with the Department of Public Information of the United Nations and is in official relations with the World Health Organization and the Pan American Health Organization.  The federation conducts a number of activities and projects. These include advocacy and lobbying work, education for people with diabetes and their healthcare providers, public awareness and health improvement campaigns, as well as the promotion of the free exchange of diabetes knowledge. A few examples include: IDF publications include:  