The International Federation of Blood Donor Organizations (abbreviated IFBDO in English, and FIODS in French and Spanish), is an international organization whose main stated aim is self-sufficiency of the member states in blood proceeding from voluntary non-remunerated blood donors, as well as harmonization of the security standards for blood donation and inspection processes. IFBDO has the Participatory status with the Council of Europe, and it is Registered at United Nations' Department of Economic and Social Affairs (NGO Branch). IFBDO is a signee of Melbourne Declaration (2009)   and Dublin Consensus (2010)  Statutory goals: The IFBDO was founded in Luxembourg on December 4, 1955.   The Headquarters are established in Monaco. The official languages of the Federation are English, French and Spanish. There are 72 member states. Each country is represented by only one national organization of blood donors. There are four types of membership in IFBDO: Active members, Associate members, Observers and Honorary members. The Federation is governed by General Assembly and Executive Council. The two most prominent positions in the organization are President (currently occupied by Mr. Gianfranco Massaro, Italy) and Secretary General (currently held by Mr. Jean Marie Durant, France). The IFBDO awards the Order for the International Merit of Blood distinctions to personalities who made a special contribution to the success of its objectives by their dedication and their skills. IFBDO instituted a solidarity foundation (IFBDO Solidarity Foundation) aimed to support Federation members with international co-operation programs. Since 1995 IFBDO had been organizing International Blood Donor Day as a particular initiative,  but in 2002 IFBDO started negotiations with the three most important international organizations who promote blood donation: World Health Organization (WHO), the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRCS) and the International Society of Blood Transfusion (ISBT), as a result of which in 2004 all four organizations signed an agreement establishing the World Blood Donor Day.   At the World Health Assembly in 2005, the ministers of health of all WHO member states unanimously adopted a resolution that recognized voluntary non-remunerated blood donors as the cornerstone of a safe, adequate and sustainable blood supply.  Since then “World Blood Donor Day” is celebrated on June 14 every year  and it is sponsored by the founding partners - IFBDO, WHO, IFRCS and ISBT.  ** Membership approved, pending ratification by General Assembly.  