International Medical Corps is a global humanitarian nonprofit organization established by volunteer doctors and nurses. The organization is a global first responder during disaster and humanitarian crisis providing emergency medical relief, delivering health care to underserved regions, building clinics, and training local health care workers with the goal of creating self-reliant, self-sustaining medical services and infrastructure in places where that had previously been lacking. International Medical Corps focuses on health services support including primary and secondary health care, prevention and treatment of infectious diseases, supplemental food for malnourished children, clean water and hygiene education, mental health and psychosocial care, women's & children's health including gender-based violence, and emergency response and preparedness. International Medical Corps is a founding member of the ONE Campaign and a member of the Clinton Global Initiative. The organization was founded in 1984 by Dr. Robert Simon, together with a group of American physicians and nurses. Simon is a professor in the Department of Emergency Medicine at Rush University, John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County in Chicago.  He is the former Bureau Chief of the Cook County Bureau of Health Services. International Medical Corps works in some 30 countries in Africa, Asia, and the Middle East, providing relief to populations facing war, conflict, natural disaster, famine, and poverty while also laying the foundation for sustainable development. Its programs are funded from both public and private sources, including the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the USAID Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance, the European Commission's Humanitarian Aid Department (ECHO), the United Nations, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and AmeriCares. International Medical Corps is based in Los Angeles with other offices in Washington, D.C.; London, England; and Split, Croatia. They currently employ some 7,000 staff in 30 countries. International Medical Corps has provided disaster relief for people impacted by the 2010 Haiti earthquake,  the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami,  the Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa, and the April 2015 Nepal earthquake. 