The International Society of Pediatric Oncology (SIOP) (French: Société internationale d'oncologie pédiatrique) is a medical association for pediatric oncologists that is dedicated to increasing knowledge about childhood cancer. It is an organisation with a strong global presence and over 1000 members around the world. These members include physicians, nurses, researchers, scientists, public health specialists and other health care professionals.  SIOP’s vision is that “No child should die of cancer.”   The society works towards this mission in four parts:  The society invites membership applications   from all health and science professionals who are interested in eh clinical, laboratory, epidemiological and/or other research applications in the field of childhood cancer. Pediatric Blood and Cancer (PBC) is the official journal of SIOP. It provides broad coverage of basic and clinical research advances in the management of children with cancer.  There are also many other educational resources available on the SIOP website.  Advocacy is fundamental to the vision of the International Society of Pediatric Oncology (SIOP).  It has a critical role in contributing towards the global reduction of infant and child mortality due to cancers by: SIOP's major advocacy endeavors are driven by the Advocacy Task Force.  This Task Force consists of an active group of SIOP leaders, who represent the different regions where the society has members and are committed to promoting SIOP’s mission that “no child should die of cancer”. Their work is directly aligned with the United Nations Millennium Development Goal “to reduce by two-thirds, between 1990 and 2015, the under-five mortality rate.”  Previous and current advocacy activities of SIOP include, but are not limited to;  SIOP congresses are high-level meeting involving many disciplines and topics related to pediatric, adolescent and young adult oncology. These include topics in business, education and science. They are held in the fall annually, in rotating worldwide locations.  The locations of the most recent and upcoming congresses are as follows; SIOP has several prizes and awards that are granted to members in relation to the annual congress.  