Dr. Jiban Karki, Executive Director PHASE is a partnership between several international non-governmental organisations (NGOs) registered in Austria, Nepal, the United Kingdom (UK) and the United States of America (USA). The organisations specialise in improving health and education services and livelihood opportunities for disadvantaged populations and most of this work takes place in Nepal. The acronym, PHASE, stands for "Practical Help Achieving Self Empowerment"  and describes the working ethic of the organisations. PHASE was founded in 2005 by a group of friends, united by an interest in working in Nepal. PHASE later established several partnerships and now operates as PHASE Austria,  PHASE Nepal,  NTTI  and PHASE Worldwide.  PHASE Nepal implements community based projects in remote communities in Nepal. The organisation aims to help the most vulnerable in Nepalese villages to make their way out of poverty. PHASE Nepal works with communities and local authorities to build the foundations for a future that does not rely on outside sources of funding. PHASE Nepal has its headquarters in Dadhikot just south of the Araniko Highway between Kathmandu and Bhaktapur, Nepal.   During 2017 they received support from and are working with Medecins du Monde on new health promotion work. PHASE works with remote Himalayan communities aiming to reduce poverty by improving health, education and improving livelihood opportunities. In 2009, PHASE Nepal received a grant from the British Medical Association (BMA) Humanitarian Fund enabling it to publish clinical treatment guidelines for health workers in Nepal.   In 2014 PHASE Nepal had over 40 health workers supporting health posts in 13 communities. In 2016/17, over 100,000 people were seen at PHASE supported health centres.  PHASE Austria raises funds for various aspects of PHASE Nepal’s work, with an initial focus on the field of education, but more recently also in healthcare and livelihoods. Since 2011, PHASE Austria has secured grants for its work from the City of Vienna, NAK Humanitas and the Austrian Ministry of Sports.  Following the devastating 2015 earthquakes, PHASE Austria also contributed important funds for PHASE's efforts in disaster relief and reconstruction. In 2017, PHASE Austria was awarded the Else Kröner-Fresenius Preis für medizinische Entwicklungszusammenarbeit, a prestigious award in medical development cooperation, for the PHASE integrated programme for the improvement of healthcare for mothers and children in Mugu, Western Nepal.  PHASE Worldwide raises funds and provides technical expertise to PHASE Nepal. The headquarters are in Rotherham, UK. A board of trustees oversees the organisation to ensure that its core values and purpose are reflected in the way it operates.  PHASE Worldwide received funding in 2014 from the United Kingdom Department for International Development (DFID) and was still being funded by them in 2017. It is registered with the UK Charity Commission.  PHASE works in partnership with individual volunteers and organisations to improve the delivery of programmes. Partnerships include the Child Welfare Scheme,  volunteering programmes for NHS health professionals, links with the University of Sheffield and St George's, University of London that allow students to experience Nepal as part of their education, partnerships with several hospitals,  general practices in the UK which support work in Nepal, and a partnership with Hewlett-Packard  who provided a team of PHASE health workers with notebook computers for their health posts and a notebook for electronic storage in the Nepal headquarters.   Brian Blessed, a film and stage actor, was born and grew up in Rotherham, where PHASE was established. He is a patron of PHASE Worldwide.  Rosie Swale-Pope is an adventurer, author and marathon runner from Switzerland. In 2003, she ran the 1,7000 kilometres across Nepal   and set a new world record as she completed it within 68 days which raised funds for a PHASE health camp in Humla, Nepal. She is a patron of PHASE Worldwide. Alex Staniforth became an ambassador for PHASE in 2016. Staniforth has twice attempted to conquer Everest but was prevented from doing so by the 2015 Nepal earthquake. In the aftermath of the disaster, Alex worked with PHASE to raise over £15,000 for the disaster relief fund and helped to organise the 'Walk for Nepal' event on the anniversary of the earthquake in 2016. He has raised over £50,000 in total for Nepal. In autumn 2016, Alex attempted to climb Cho Oyu, the world's sixth highest mountain as a PHASE ambassador. 