Founded in 1951, the World Confederation for Physical Therapy (WCPT) is the sole international voice for physical therapy, representing more than 450,000 physical therapists worldwide through its 110 member organisations.  WCPT is committed to furthering the physical therapy profession and improving global health. It believes every individual is entitled to the highest possible standard of culturally appropriate healthcare, delivered in an atmosphere of trust and respect for human dignity, and underpinned by sound clinical reasoning and scientific evidence.  WCPT is a non-profit organisation and is registered as a charity in the UK. It has been in official relations with the World Health Organization (WHO) since 1952,  collaborating on work programmes to improve world health. It works with a wide range of other international bodies and is a member of the World Health Professions Alliance.  WCPT's vision is to move physical therapy forward so the profession is recognised globally for its significant role in improving health and wellbeing. As the international voice of physical therapy WCPT's mission is to: WCPT provides services to its member organisations, campaigns to improve world health, and produces policies and guidelines. It encourages high standards of physical therapy and global health by facilitating the exchange of information and producing resources. All its activities are shaped and informed by research. WCPT’s website is the hub of its information sharing activity.  In 1951 the WCPT had 11 founding member organisations from Australia, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Great Britain, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, West Germany, Sweden and the United States of America.  The first international congress and second General Meeting were held in London in 1953, where the first Executive Committee was elected. WCPT has developed statements, including Education Guidelines, to support the development of the profession. It has developed a structure of five regions, and close relationships with international independent organisations of physical therapists with specific interests – 12 of which are now recognised as WCPT subgroups. WCPT holds a congress every two years, where the world pf physical therapy meets, and it has held 18 world congresses since its establishment. The WCPT Congress is the largest international gathering of physical therapists, bringing together clinicians, educators, researchers, managers and policy makers. The next congress will be in May 2019 in Geneva, Switzerland. 