Arturo ('Jack') Warman Gryj (September 9, 1937–October 21, 2003) was a Mexican anthropologist, member of the cabinets of Carlos Salinas and Ernesto Zedillo, also an author of nine books, two of which have been translated to English. He also wrote multiple articles for the magazine Nexos. He has also taught social epistemology at the Universidad de Chile  Warman's parents, Elena Gryj and Isaac Warman, were Polish immigrants of Jewish origin who immigrated to Mexico through France in 1927. Warman studied elementary school at the Colegio Israelita de México and dropped after starting his secondary-level courses amidst a brief religious conflict with himself. He then enrolled in the Escuela Bancaria y Comercial because he wanted to be a banker, and graduated in 1955. He enrolled in the Mexican Navy and played american football until he experienced a bone fracture in his hand. In 1956 he became interested in music and started recording his own songs, he enrolled in writing courses at the UNAM but dropped out after not being able to apply his knowledge to songwriting. In 1957 he continued his secondary-level studies graduated and enrolled in high school while he enrolled at the Sociedad Folklórica de México (then headed by Vicente T. Mendoza), he dropped off in 1960 and in 1961 he enrolled at the Escuela Nacional de Antropología e Historia graduating with a master's degree in anthropology in 1968. He was the director of the Instituto Nacional Indigenista (INI, National Institute for the Indigenous People), 1988–1991, Procuraduría Agraria (1991–1994) and Secretaría de la Reforma Agraria (SRA, Secretariat of the Agrarian Reform 1994–1999) which was the new name for the Secretaría de Agricultura y Recursos Hidráulicos (SARH, Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources) of the federal government of Mexico. As director of the Procuraduría Agraria during the Carlos Salinas administration, he fought for the preservation of the ejidos while there was a discussion on disappearing them. He was part of a team that discussed and elaborated initiatives of Constitutional Reforms and the Agrarian Law. He also established guidelines for a delegation of the Procuraduría in each state, a residency for every 300 ejidos and rural communities and a representative to each 30 rural nuclear groups. Upon his death in 2003, the Cátedra Interinstitucional Arturo Warman, an agreement in honor of the contribution of Warman to the culture of Mexico. It was signed by the following institutions: The Cátedra will award those who it considers have contributed to the fields Warman dedicated his life to. 