PsychAlive is a nonprofit multimedia website offering psychological information to the general public through articles, blogs, videos, webinars, and workshops.  Founded in 2004 by the Glendon Association, PsychAlive focuses on issues of self, intimacy and parenting, drawing on the contributions, research and theory of contemporary psychology experts.  PsychAlive was created with the goal of providing an online avenue for people to take an active, introspective approach to their psychological well-being, covering topics such as depression, anger, stress, addiction, self-destructive thoughts and behaviors, parenting, intimacy and general self-help.  The site is divided into three sections: Alive to Self, Alive to Intimacy and Alive to Parenting. Each of these sections focuses on the emotional issues that can arise as people strive to lead their lives as successful individuals, partners and parents. The tools available on PsychAlive are intended to help people understand the emotional dynamics that operate within them and the limitations that restrict them in their daily lives.  PsychAlive additionally provides free workshops, which are multimedia experiences involving step-by-step processes that help people to learn and assimilate the psychological information offered on the site. The workshops engage visitors in progressive reading and writing exercises that are modeled after traditional psychotherapy techniques and processes.  The sections of the PsychAlive Workshop address some of the significant areas of life in which people suffer emotionally: within themselves, in their intimate relationships and with their children. PsychAlive offers additional support by providing a secure, private online journal and supplementary information such as text, guidance from experts, personal examples, video, podcasts, book recommendations, movies, and music that relate to one’s specific stage in the workshop process as well as a media library of video, audio, books and reference materials. The website features sections for student and guest bloggers to share personal experiences, as well as free regular webinars, interviews and video clips presented by mental health professionals.  A newer addition to the site is a separate page for continuing education or CE opportunities.  Visitors to the site may post their own CE workshops as well as find links to those offered by PsychAlive. 