Educational research refers to the systematic collection and analysis of data related to the field of education. Research may involve a variety of methods.    Research may involve various aspects of education including student learning, teaching methods, teacher training, and classroom dynamics.  Educational researchers generally agree that research should be rigorous and systematic.   However, there is less agreement about specific standards, criteria and research procedures.    Educational researchers may draw upon a variety of disciplines. These disciplines include psychology, sociology, anthropology, and philosophy.   Methods may be drawn from a range of disciplines.   Conclusions drawn from an individual research study may be limited by the characteristics of the participants who were studied and the conditions under which the study was conducted.  There is no single "correct" way of conducting research in the field of education.  Gary Anderson outlined ten aspects of educational research:  There are different approaches to educational research. One is a basic approach.  This approach is also referred to as an academic research approach.  Another approach is applied research  or a contract research approach.  These approaches have different purposes which influence the nature of the respective research. Basic, or academic research focuses on the search for truth  or the development of educational theory.  Researchers with this background "design studies that can test, refine, modify, or develop theories".  Generally, these researchers are affiliated with an academic institution and are performing this research as part of their graduate or doctoral work. The pursuit of information that can be directly applied to practice is aptly known as applied or contractual research.  Researchers in this field are trying to find solutions to existing educational problems. The approach is much more utilitarian as it strives to find information that will directly influence practice.   Applied researchers are commissioned by a sponsor and are responsible for addressing the needs presented by this employer.  The goal of this research is "to determine the applicability of educational theory and principles by testing hypotheses within specific settings".  The following are several defining characteristics that were written by Gary Anderson to compare basic (academic) and applied (contract) research.  The basis for educational research is the scientific method.  The scientific method uses directed questions and manipulation of variables to systematically find information about the teaching and learning process.  In this scenario questions are answered by the analysis of data that is collected specifically for the purpose of answering these questions.  Hypotheses are written and subsequently proved or disproved by data which leads to the creation of new hypotheses. The two main types of data that are used under this method are qualitative and quantitative.    Qualitative research uses the data which is descriptive in nature. Tools that educational researchers use in collecting qualitative data include: observations, conducting interviews, conducting document analysis, and analyzing participant products such as journals, diaries, images or blogs.  Quantitative research uses data that is numerical and is based on the assumption that the numbers will describe a single reality.  Statistics are often applied to find relationships between variables. There also exists a new school of thought that these derivatives of the scientific method are far too reductionistic in nature.  Since educational research includes other disciplines such as psychology, sociology, anthropology, science, and philosophy   and refers to work done in a wide variety of contexts  it is proposed that researchers should use "multiple research approaches and theoretical constructs."   This could mean using a combination of qualitative and quantitative methods as well as common methodology from the fields mentioned above. In social research this phenomenon is referred to as triangulation (social science).  This idea is well summarized by the work of Barrow in his text An introduction to philosophy of education: Since educational issues are of many different kinds and logical types, it is to be expected that quite different types of research should be brought into play on different occasions. The question therefore is not whether research into teaching should be conducted by means of quantitative measures (on some such grounds as that they are more 'objective') or qualitative measures (on some such grounds as that they are more 'insightful'), but what kind of research can sensibly be utilized to look into this particular aspect of teaching as opposed to that.  