Note-taking (sometimes written as notetaking or note taking) is the practice of recording information captured from another source. By taking notes, the writer records the essence of the information, freeing their mind from having to recall everything.  Notes are commonly drawn from a transient source, such as an oral discussion at a meeting, or a lecture (notes of a meeting are usually called minutes), in which case the notes may be the only record of the event. Note taking is a form of self discipline. Note-taking has been an important part of human history and scientific development. The Ancient Greeks developed hypomnema, personal records on important subjects. In the Renaissance and early modern period, students learned to take notes in schools, academies and universities, oftentimes producing beautiful volumes that served as reference works after they finished their studies.   In predigital times there were many kinds of notebooks used by adults, some of which included accounting waste books, marginalia, and commonplace books.  Philosopher John Locke developed an indexing system  which served as a model for commonplace books; for example, it inspired another book, Bell’s Common-Place Book, Formed generally upon the Principles Recommended and Practised by Mr Locke nearly a century later.  Note-taking is a central aspect of a complex human behavior related to information management involving a range of underlying mental processes and their interactions with other cognitive functions.  The person taking notes must acquire and filter the incoming sources, organize and restructure existing knowledge structures,  comprehend and write down their interpretation of the information, and ultimately store and integrate the freshly processed material. The result is a knowledge representation, and a memory storage.  Studies comparing the performance of students who took handwritten notes to students who typed their notes found that students who took handwritten notes performed better on examinations, hypothetically due to the deeper processing of learned material through selective rephrasing instead of word-for-word transcription which is common when typing notes.  Many different formats are used to structure information and make it easier to find and to understand, later. The format of the initial record may often be informal and/or unstructured. One common format for such notes is shorthand, which can allow large amounts of information to be put on paper very quickly.  Note-taking is an important skill for students, especially at the college level.   In some contexts, such as college lectures, the main purpose of taking notes may be to implant the material in the mind; the written notes themselves being of secondary importance. Historically, note-taking was an analog process, written in notebooks, or other  paper methods like Post-It notes. In the digital age, computers,  tablet PCs and personal digital assistants (PDAs) are common. Note-taking is a race against time. The note taker typically is under severe time pressure, and different note-taking styles and techniques try to make the best use of time. The average rate of speech is 2–3 words per second, but the average handwriting speed as only 0.2–0.3 words per second.  Regardless of the medium (paper, computer), note-taking can be broadly divided into linear and nonlinear methods, which can be combined. People tend to write down the most important information to prevent losing time and be ready to note subsequent information provided. Linear note-taking is the process of writing down information in the order in which you receive it. Paper is itself two-dimensional so linear notes follow the natural succession of time 1,2, and so on, beginning, middle and end. However, the human brain is thought to be multi-dimensional: the more connections one makes to current knowledge, the greater the likelihood of understanding, remembering and applying the information. Outlining   is one of the most common but still one of the best note-taking systems. Notes and thoughts are organised in a structured, logical manner, reducing the time needed to edit and review, allowing a lot of information to be digested in a short period of time. Outlining is less effective for classes that involve many formulas and graphs, like mathematics or chemistry. In these situations, a system such as Cornell notes  may be superior. Outlines tend to proceed down a page, using headings and bullets to structure information. A common system consists of headings that use Roman numerals, letters of the alphabet, and Arabic numerals at different levels.  A typical structure would be: However, this sort of structure has limitations in written form since it is difficult to go back and insert more information. Adaptive systems are used for paper-and-pen insertions, such as using the reverse side of the preceding page in a spiral notebook to make insertions. Or one can simply leave large spaces in between items, to enable more material to be inserted. The above method is effective for most people, but you can be creative in making your own method. (See Category: Outliners for more about application software that supports outlining). However, computerized note-taking, whether with a word processor, an outliner like Workflowy, or a digital notebook program such as OneNote, Evernote or TiddlyWiki, provides the opportunity to revise easily and add more entries or rows to the outline. Non-linear note-taking involves using mind maps and spidergrams that start with notes in the middle of a page, commonly in an oval representing the topic. Non-linear note taking  may require additional sheets of paper extending the notes at the top, bottom or sides, giving an holistic overview of the information. The many types of non-linear note-taking include clustering,  concept mapping,   the Cornell system,  idea mapping,  instant replays,  Ishikawa diagrams,  knowledge maps,  learning maps,   mind mapping,  model maps,  the pyramid principle,  semantic networks,  and SmartWisdom.  This method of note taking is useful for subject matter that can be broken into categories, such as similarities, differences, date, event, impact, etc. Charting works best if students are able to identify categories and draw a table prior to the lecture. This method is also useful as an editing tool. Students may review and rewrite notes using the charting method. The method may work well  for students who like to organize information neatly and who learn by recognizing patterns.   This method are also for people that have a visual mindset when they take notes better on drawing pictures with different shapes and diagrams. Those who feel comfortable using this method tend to use a lot of colors in their diagrams to make them focused and concentrated in what they  are writing.   For instance, many who use this method might feel more focused when their teacher or professor who use a lot of colors in their power point slides since, the person themselves might like to use colors and use different colors to categorize different kinds of information. Mapping is one of the many forms of note-taking that employs geographic organizers and diagrams to assemble information. This specific method encourages students to continually practice and also to create flash cards because mapping method doesn't come naturally to everyone in the beginning, so practice is essential. Here, ideas are written in a tree structure, with lines connecting them together. Mind maps, also referred to as brain-storming are commonly drawn from a central point, purpose or goal in the center of the page and then branching outward to identify all the ideas connected to that goal. Colors, small graphics and symbols are often used to help to visualize the information more easily. This note-taking method is most common among visual learners and is a core practice of many accelerated learning techniques. It is also used for planning and writing essays. Sentence note taking is simply writing down each topic as a short, simple sentence. This method works well for fast paced lesson where a lot of information is being covered. Everyone should record every new thought, fact or topic on a separate line. All information is recorded but is not organized into major and minor topics. Every new thought is written as a new line. Speed is essential, because not much thought about formatting is needed to  create space for more notes. Notes can be numbered or set off with bullets showing where a new thought begins. This strategy is especially helpful when a professor or teacher asks to read the notes. It also saves the time required to formulate and write long, complex sentences. SQ3R is a method of taking notes from written material, though it might be better classed as a method of reading and gaining understanding. Material is skimmed to produce a list of headings, that are then converted into questions. These questions are then considered whilst the text is read to provide motivation for what is being covered. Notes are written under sections headed by the questions as each of the material's sections is read. One then makes a summary from memory, and reviews the notes.  (SQ3R—Survey, Question, Read, Recite, Review.). However, there is another updated version called SQ4R,  which has been used by students since the early 60's. It's probably worth your time to try the steps first, then choose and apply only those that really work effectively. It provides a systematic way of comprehending and studying the content that is being spoken. Now students are able to monitor their own comprehension  through review. Sometimes lecturers may provide handouts of guided notes, which provide a "map" of the lecture content with key points or ideas missing. Students then fill in missing items as the lecture progresses. Guided notes may assist students in following lectures and identifying the most important ideas from a lecture. This format provides students with a framework, yet requires active listening (as opposed to providing copies of power point slides in their entirety), and promotes active engagement during lecture or independent reading, provide full and accurate notes for use as a study guide, helping the student to identify the most important information covered. Research suggests that guided notes improve student recording of critical points in lecture, as well as quiz scores on related content. The growing ubiquity of laptops in universities and colleges has led to a rise in electronic note-taking. Many students write their notes in word processors or prepare digital hand-written notes using a graphics tablet or tablet computer and styli or digital pens, with the aid of note-taking software. Online applications are receiving growing attention from students who can forward notes using email, or otherwise make use of collaborative features in these applications and can also download the texts as a file (txt, rtf...) in a local computer. It has also become common for lecturers to deliver lectures using these and similar technologies, including electronic whiteboards, especially at institutes of technology. Online note-taking has created problems for teachers who must balance educational freedom with copyright and intellectual property concerns regarding course content.  Electronic note-taking has shown ineffectiveness when compared to traditional methods of note-taking. A study done by Pam A. Mueller of Princeton University and Daniel M. Oppenheimer of the University of California have shown that students who take notes digitally against students who take notes on paper retain less information and have difficulties remembering what they've typed down.  Electronic note-taking has created computer-aided distractions in class as multitasking on laptops is very easy to accomplish.  However these researches are only about typing notes on laptops, not writing on tablets. Laptops are usually a controlled device in classrooms and students may or not be able to take notes on their digital devices when required.  The Cornell Method is a systematical structure that help organize your notes, actively involve you in the creation of knowledge, improve your study expertness, and lead to academic success. The Cornell method of taking notes was developed by Dr. Walter Pauk of Cornell University in 1940's. This effective system for taking notes was made prestigious by Pauk's best selling book How To Study In College and it's actually being used by different  colleges' students until now. The Cornell method consists of dividing a single page into three sections: Notes, Cues and a Summary, its own system is characterized by a right hand column for notes, a left hand column for provoking key words or some type of questions that might help remember key aspects of the topic. Cornell Method also help students worldwide combat the effects of forgetting, which can be instantaneous and complete. It is recommended to read the notes at least 3 times in order for the content to sink in. Otherwise, with time it will be forgotten. For more information please refer to the article  Forgetting Curve. Professional notetakers provide access to information for people who cannot take their own notes, in particular the deaf and hearing impaired.  Professional Notetakers most frequently work in colleges and universities, but are also used in workplace meetings, appointments, conferences, and training sessions. They are usually educated to degree level. In the UK they are increasingly expected to have a professional note-taking qualification, such as that offered by the Council for the Advancement of Communication with Deaf People  (CACDP). 