In the first decade of the 21st century, a paragraph alleged to come from a 1956 interview of Ariel Sharon, conducted by an Israel Defense Forces general named Ouze Merham, was quoted in a number of publications. The paragraph advocates burning Palestinian children and raping Palestinian women and Arab girls, as well as Sharon claiming to have killed 750 Palestinian civilians during the Suez Crisis. The interview, the paragraph, and the existence of Ouze Merham himself have been denounced as fabrications. In 1956 Sharon, who later became Prime Minister of Israel, was a major in the IDF. According to the allegations, Sharon was interviewed by a general named Ouze Merham about his service in the 1956 Suez Crisis, and said the following: “I don’t know something called International Principles. I vow that I’ll burn every Palestinian child (that) will be born in this area. The Palestinian woman and child is more dangerous than the man, because the Palestinian child’s existence infers that generations will go on, but the man causes limited danger. I vow that if I was just an Israeli civilian and I met a Palestinian I would burn him and I would make him suffer before killing him. With one hit I’ve killed 750 Palestinians (in Rafah in 1956). I wanted to encourage my soldiers by raping Arabic girls as the Palestinian women is a slave for Jews, and we do whatever we want to her and nobody tells us what we shall do but we tell others what they shall do.”  The disputed quotation was published by a number of media outlets and websites in the Muslim world and elsewhere in conjunction with anti-Israel commentary, including on IslamOnline;  the English language Pakistani newspaper, The Nation;  and the London-based Arabic newspaper, Al-Hayat, which published the quote in a July 11, 2005, opinion article.  As'ad Abdul Rahman, chairman of the Palestinian Encyclopedia, used the quote as his lede for an opinion piece about alleged Jewish control of the world media in the Gulf News of December 4, 2004.  A student columnist used the quote in her December 11, 2003 Daily Illini column,   but later admitted the quote was false and apologized.  The incident was still being discussed as late as 2007.  A columnist for The Hoya, the student newspaper of Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., used the quotation on March 19, 2002, introducing it with "Then again, we shouldn't be surprised about Sharon's feelings toward Palestinians; in 1956 when talking with Israeli General Ouze Merham, he said […]"  The Daily Star English-language newspaper in Bangladesh published the quotation on January 31, 2005 in a commentary article by retired Brigadier General M. Abdul Hafiz, who introduced the quotation with "Back in 1956 in an interview with general Ouze Merham, Sharon, a remorseless butcher of Sabra and Shatilla, said […]"  Tariq A. Al-Maeena, a columnist for the Saudi Gazette, used the quotation on August 23, 2017 (“Netanyahu is calculatedly following the game plan set by his mentor Ariel Sharon, a former Israeli prime minister who once said in a recorded interview: ‘I don’t know something called International Principles. I vow that I’ll burn every Palestinian child (that) will be born in this area.[...]’”).  According to the Committee for Accuracy in Middle East Reporting in America (CAMERA, a pro-Israel media research group), there is no record of any Israeli general named "Ouze Merham" existing, nor any record of Sharon giving such an interview in 1956.  It is also unclear why an Israeli general would interview Sharon (who, at the time, was only a major), and then publish the interview.  CAMERA has also stated that the quote cannot be found in any text book, news article, or published record.  The quotation was reportedly put on the website of MIFTAH, a Palestinian organization founded by Hanan Ashrawi, who is on the executive committee of the group's governing board. MIFTAH has been accused by the pro-Israeli group NGO Monitor of fabricating the quotation.  Based on the reported Ouze Merham interview, the Islamic Human Rights Commission announced Sharon as the winner of the "Most Islamophobic International Politician of the Year" award at the 2003 Annual Islamophobia Awards ceremony.  The host told the recipient, described as a "Palestinian freedom fighter," to personally deliver the award to Sharon.  In a June 9, 2004 interview on Australian Broadcasting Corporation's The Religion Report, interviewer Stephen Crittenden challenged Arzu Merali, the organizer of the Islamophobia awards, on the Sharon presentation. Crittenden pointed out that the IHRC's own website stated that the alleged interview could not be corroborated. Merali replied "Well you know, I can take that further with the people who researched that, but pretty much everything that went out last year was well researched. If you want, I’ll go out and dig up the verification for you. I’m happy to do it."   The IHRC website stated that the veracity of the quote had not been confirmed:  Whilst this quotation can be found on several reputable sites, we could not independently verify its authenticity. If you know the source please do let us know.