Bernard Weish or Bernard Weiss (or Bernhard, or Weis, depending on who cited him) was a fictional linguist invented by unknown(s) in order to back the theories that differentiate between Valencian and the Catalan language, but it might be also possible the reversed possibility: it was created by an opposer of the Language secessionism to ridicule it and the Blaverists did not realise it. At the beginning of the 1980s, a Dr. Bernard Weiss, a philologist from the Romance languages Department of the University of Munich, sent some papers to blaverist meetings and articles to the Valencian media on which he supported the secessionist linguistic theories regarding Valencian and Catalan. That way, the Blaverists had the scientific source they lacked from any other university. Dr. Weiss was the discoverer of manuscripts dating from the 11th century in the Mozarabic language by Valencian troubadours such as Bertran Desdelueg (likewise as Bertrand Ofqours), Luís Llach (freely translated as Miqel Jaqson) and Salvatore Coniglia (something like Johny Rabbity). However, for six years, Dr. Bernard Weiss did not appear publicly or in any picture, he was never interviewed, and he did not reply back to the telephone. A leader of the Levante-EMV Valencian newspaper phoned to the University of Munich and he was reported that nobody under that name worked there  . Anyway, that was no problem for the organizers of the First Congress of the Valencian Language held in May 1985, in Elche, who invited him as the main lecturer. The Valencian newspaper Las Provincias, which supports Blaverism, gave two contradictory pieces of information: Bernard Weiss went and he did not go.     After this public (dis)apparition Bernard Weiss was never more referred to, and none of his papers was published again. Blaverists could no longer fake his existence, or their oppinent laughed at them enough. The supposed manuscripts have never been published or showed publicly. Also, the Academy of Valencian Culture is now Royal. 