Most Likely To Succeed is a feature-length documentary examining the history of education in the United States and revealing the growing shortcomings of conventional education methods in today’s innovative world. The film explores compelling new approaches that aim to transform learning as we know it. [better source needed] Directed by documentarian Greg Whiteley, the film has been an official selection of two dozen of the world’s top film festivals, including Sundance, Tribeca, and AFI DOCS. Since the film's release, more than 3,000 communities worldwide have shared a screening of Most Likely To Succeed. Over a century ago, American education underwent a dramatic transformation as the iconic one-room schoolhouse evolved into an effective system that produced an unmatched workforce tailored for the 20th Century. As the world economy shifts and traditional white-collar jobs begin to disappear, that same system remains intact, producing potentially chronic levels of unemployment among graduates in the 21st Century.  The film follows students into the classrooms of High Tech High, an innovative new school in San Diego. There, over the course of a school year, two groups of ninth graders take on ambitious, project-based challenges that promote critical skills rather than rote memorization.  "Most Likely To Succeed" has received critical praise, Education Week calling the film "among the best edu-documentaries ever produced"  and The Hollywood Reporter remarking the movie is "an engaging look" at 21st-century education.  Following the film's premiere, Executive Producer Ted Dintersmith took Most Likely To Succeed on a 50-state tour, screening the film for learning communities across the country.  Dintersmith is now finishing a book inspired by his experiences of sharing the film in every state. Ross Kasun, 2017 New Jersey Superintendent of the Year, credits "Most Likely To Succeed" for driving change in his district, saying, "It provided a compelling rationale on the new thinking needed for our schools and generated a wave of excitement across the district.”  