Photography Studies College, commonly abbreviated to PSC, is a privately owned independent tertiary college located in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. PSC offers Certificate, Diploma, Advanced Diploma, Bachelor and Masters courses in Photography - both full-time and part-time, and a range of short course, online and workshop programs. PSC has been ranked top in Creative Arts in the Australian Government’s ‘Student Experience Survey’ (Quality Indicators in Learning & Teaching) each year since 2015; and has been awarded ‘College of the Year’ status by the AIPP (Australian Institute of Professional Photography) a number of times. Established in 1973, PSC is located at 65–67 City Road, Southbank, 3006. Photography Studies College is a dual sector provider - Higher Education and VET Programs, and is a Registered Training Organisation. The Managing Director of PSC is Julie Moss, Honorary Fellow of the Australian Institute of Professional Photography (AIPP), Honorary Life Member of the Australian Council for Private Education and Training (ACPET), and Board Member of the Council for Private Higher Education (COPHE).  Academic Director - Dr. Laura Hougaz. Higher Education Courses Director - Daniel Boetker-Smith. VET Programs Director - Neil Stanyer. The College boasts some of the leaders in Australian photography amongst its academic staff and mentors: Daniel Boetker-Smith,  Hoda Afshar, Dr Kristian Haggblom, Dr David Rosetzky, Clare Rae, Katrin Koenning, Sarina Lirosi, Nic Kocher, Julie Wajs, Mark Harper, Bella Capezio, Scott McNaughton, Anat Cossen, Roland Dempster, Michelle Lackenby, Eamon Gallagher, Mia Mala McDonald, Brie Trenerry, Alana Holmberg, Lucia Rossi, Travis de Clifford and Senior Fellow Dr Michael Coyne.  Guest Lecturers at PSC have included Martin Parr, Bryan Schutmaat, Melinda Gibson, Esther Teichmann, Louise Clements, Louis Porter and Jonathan Shaw. The College offers Certificate, Diploma, Advanced Diploma, Bachelor Degree, and Masters courses in Photography - in both full-time and part-time modes. The Advanced Diploma, Bachelor, and Masters courses are exclusive to PSC.  The College has both February intakes and July intakes for most courses. The College also offers short course, online and workshops in photography. Applications for all courses are made directly to the College or through VTAC (Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre). Coordinates: 37°49′20″S 144°57′57″E﻿ / ﻿37.82210°S 144.96576°E﻿ / -37.82210; 144.96576  