Nana Oforiatta Ayim is a Ghanaian writer, art historian and filmmaker. Her first novel will be published by Bloomsbury Publishing in 2019.  She has written widely on cultural narratives, histories, and institutions in Africa,   and gives regular talks on the decolonization of knowledge and museums.       She is the founder of the ANO Institute of Arts & Knowledge, based in Accra;   as she has said: "...like a lot of people involved in creative work in Ghana and other parts of Africa, it feels like it’s not just enough for us to produce, but that we have to provide the context and the paradigms for that production".  She has initiated the pan-African Cultural Encyclopedia, "a large-scale documentation and archive project, dedicated to the re/ordering of knowledge, narratives and representations from and about the African continent"      about which The New York Times has written: "The encyclopedia will consist of an open-source internet platform for documenting past, present and future African arts and culture (starting with Ghana) and eventually will be published in 54 volumes, one for each country. An ambitious undertaking, the Cultural Encyclopedia aims to change perceptions of the continent and help alleviate the frustration of African cultural producers concerned that their rich histories have been lost or forgotten over the decades because they lack good archives".  Exhibitions she has curated include the first exhibition in London of photographs by James Barnor at Black Cultural Archives during the "Ghana at 50" jubilee season in 2007,   and Serge Attukwei Clottey's My Mother’s Wardrobe at Accra's Gallery 1957 in 2016.     She has worked as creative director of various institutions in Accra.    Oforiatta-Ayim has also created a new type of "mobile" museum, using kiosk-sized moveable galleries to showcase artworks and cultural artefacts across the regions of Ghana.     In The Guardian, Charlotte Jansen writes: "Ayim said she started to reflect on the museum model in  Africa while working at the British Museum. Struck by how differently African objects were encountered in display cabinets in the UK with how they were actively used in festivals back home, she began to think about how material culture could be preserved and presented in a way that was more in keeping with local traditions."  She became a film maker after working with economist Thi Minh Ngo and film maker Chris Marker on a new translation of his 1954 film Les Statues Meurent Aussi.   Oforiatta Ayim's films are a cross of fiction, travel essay and documentary,   and have been shown at museums including The New Museum,    the Tate Modern,    the Stavanger Kunsthall, and LACMA.  She is the recipient of the 2015 Art & Technology Award from the Los Angeles County Museum of Art   and of the 2016 AIR Award, which “seeks to honour and celebrate extraordinary African artists who are committed to producing provocative, innovative and socially-engaging work”.   She was named one of Apollo magazine's "40 under 40", as "one of the most talented and inspirational young people who are driving forward the art world today"  a Quartz Africa innovator, for finding new approaches and principles to tackle many of the intractable challenges faced on the continent",  one of 50 African Trailblazers by The Africa Report,  and by Okayafrica as one of 12 African women making history.  She has sat on the juries of the Kuenyehia Prize for Arts and the TURN Award.  She is an inaugural recipient of the Soros Arts Fellowship.  