Nathalie Bondil (February 19, 1967), who holds both Canadian and French citizenship, has been Director General and Chief Curator of the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts since 2007. She has worked at the museum since 1999, and is the first woman to be the museum's director. "I am convinced that in the twenty-first century, culture will be to health what sports were in the twenthieth century: cultural experiences will be seen to contribute to our well-being the same way sports do to our physical conditioning... Art does one good. I am convinced."Nathalie Bondil holds a degree in art history from the École du Louvre. She successfully passed the entry examination for the École nationale du Patrimoine de Paris in 1994, then graduated in 1996, thereby becoming Conservateur du patrimoine d'État. From 1996 to 1998, she worked at the Musée des Monuments Français (which now forms part of the Cité de l'architecture et du patrimoine) as curator in charge of museography for the galeries dedicated to the 17th to 20th centuries, as part of the museum's renovation. In 1999, she was hired as curator for European art from 1800 to 1945, and in 2000, promoted to chief curator, taking charge of the Curatorial Department, Conservation, the Library, Archives, Publishing and Ehxibitions. She has been the Director of the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts and its Chief Curator since 2007. When she took over the helm of the MMFA, she launched a series of exhibitions that have distinguished the Museum on the international scene (exported in 35 cities over the last ten years) and innovative multidisciplinary programming: she invited fashion to the Museum (first retrospectives on Yves Saint Laurent and The Fashion World of Jean Paul Gaultier, presented in 12 cities around the world); opened it up to world cultures (Peru: Kingdoms of the Sun and the Moon); revamped contemporary art programming (1+1=1; Peter Doig); and has introduced music through exhibitions (Warhol Live; Imagine; We Want Miles), an ongoing collaboration with foundation-in-residence Arte Musica and the daring conversion of a heritage church into a 462-seat professional concert hall, Bourgie Hall, which presents around 150 concerts and welcomes around 50,000 spectators each year. In 2011, with the addition of a 4th building, The Claire and Marc Bourgie Quebec and Canadian art Pavilion,  Nathalie Bondil and her team undertook the restoration and reinstallation of some 4,000 works from the collection, from world cultures to Old Masters and Canadian and contemporary art. This "reinvented Museum" includes an impressive Pavilion of Decorative Arts and Design that was recently reinstalled and an expanded sculpture garden. In 2012, she also led the expansion of the new educational facilities for school groups and families – the Studios Art & Education Michel de la Chenelière.  With the major gift of Michal and Renata Hornstein’s collection of 100 Old Masters, the Museum expanded again allowing for the overhaul of over 3,000 additional works: a fifth building, the Michal and Renata Hornstein Pavilion for Peace,  devoted to international art and education, was inaugurated in 2016. It houses the Michel de la Chenelière International Atelier for Education and Art Therapy  which will give unparalleled impulse to the Museum’s educational and social mission. The MMFA comprises the largest educational complex at a North American art museum. Over the past 10 years, Nathalie Bondil has sought to assert the MMFA's social relevance through its culture of innovation, with its bold multidisciplinary approach, a focus on education and respect for the audiences, unifying values and innovative forms of cooperation. She has been striving to make the MMFA empathetic and humanist in its contributions to the education and well-being of citizens and their society; a pioneer in anticipating future needs and a laboratory for innovation. Along with working with 450 community organizations, schools, universities and associations to become an accessible and democratic hub for the arts, the MMFA's Art and Health Advisory Committee chaired by Quebec’s Chief Scientist, Rémi Quirion (a first in a Canadian museum!), was set up to oversee all pilot projects and partnerships with hospitals and the scientific research community (Alzheimer Society, Heart Institute, Douglas Hospital Research Institute, CHU Sainte-Justine.). Under Nathalie Bondil's leadership, the MMFA has also hired a full-time art therapist (a first in a museum), opened two art therapy offices in the new Michal and Renata Hornstein Pavilion for Peace (another first) as well as an art hive (another first in a museum yet again) in partnership with Concordia University to provide a place for artistic expression that is free and open to all. Nathalie Bondil is Vice-Chair of the Canada Council for the Arts; and a member of the boards of the Chambre de commerce du Montréal Métropolitain and the Council for Canadian American Relations, of the Association of Art Museum Directors (AAMD), of the French & American Museum Exchange (FRAME), the Canadian Art Museum Directors Organization (CAMDO), Fonderie Darling, Comité conseil - Chaire de recherche de l'UQÀM sur la gouvernance des musées et le droit de la culture, and Comité consultatif national des HEC (Montréal). She was Vice-Chair and a member of the programming Committee of the Société des célébrations du 375e anniversaire de Montréal. Direction of exhibitions: 2018 2017 2016 2015 