Case modification, commonly referred to as case modding, is the modification of a computer case or a video game console chassis. Modifying a computer case in any non-standard way is considered a case mod.  Modding is done, particularly by hardware enthusiasts, to show off a computer's apparent power by showing off the internal hardware, and also to make it look aesthetically pleasing to the owner. Cases may also be modified to improve a computer's performance; this is usually associated with cooling and involves changes to components as well as the case. When personal computers first became available to the public, the majority were produced in simple, beige-colored cases. This design is sometimes referred to be as a beige box. Although this met the purpose of containing the components of the personal computer, many users considered their computers as "tacky" or "dull", and some began modifying their existing chassis, or building their own from scratch.  One of the original case mods is the "Macquarium", which consists of replacing the CRT screen in a Compact Macintosh case with a fishbowl. A new market for third-party computer cases and accessories began to develop, and today cases are available in a wide variety of colors and styles. Today the business of "modding" computers and their cases is a hugely profitable endeavor, and modding competitions are everywhere.   Many websites and companies feature contests for case modders, awarding prizes and accolades to the winners. Examples include bit-tech's Mod of the Month and Mod of the Year competitions, while some of these contests are sponsored by computer enthusiast magazines, such as CPU magazine or Custom PC Magazine, both of which have monthly modding contests. Other contests are sometimes supported by computer parts manufacturers. Console case modding refers to the modification of the case of a game console. The most common consoles to modify are the Xbox and Xbox 360, because there is much more room inside to customize them with items such as lights and fans. Moreover, the Xbox 360 requires additional cooling over the factory configuration to avoid overheating issues due to the use of the wrong type of lead-free solder, which was not capable of handling the temperature limits standard solder can.   These consoles and their controllers are also relatively easy to take apart. For those who do not wish to scratch-build mods, there are several companies that sell transparent Xbox cases and various cooling/lighting equipment for them. Console case modding started in the late 1980s when the NES and Sega Genesis, were released; many customers simply put pictures or stickers on them until the PlayStation was released. Many case modders started to change hardware, for example by altering them to play copied games (known as 'chipping' the games console). The most common modification for the PlayStation was the 'chipping' process (mentioned above). When the Nintendo 64, Dreamcast and PlayStation 2 were released, many chipped them, styled them, and added additional cooling; some went as far as changing the hardware itself. When the Xbox and Xbox 360 were released, many modders personally customized them further, using neon lights, transparent cases, fans, and PC hard drives (as opposed to Xbox-branded drives). Many modders found that altering the interior of Xbox 360s was difficult due to absence of a power cable (normally in a PC, this cord attaches the hard disk drive to its motherboard). Despite shortcomings, modders also found a way to power neon lighting and other powered equipment by using the DVD-ROM power supply; however, due to insufficient power to the hard disk drive, it often caused freezing during disk access. Another common method for internal case modding uses the power outlet for the internal fan by splitting the cord with a "Y" connector.  However, the most up to date modders will use power points under where the PSU (power supply) plugs in, which doesn't diminish any (or very little) power from the console. 