In programming and hacking culture, a script kiddie or skiddie  is an unskilled individual who uses scripts or programs developed by others to attack computer systems and networks and deface websites. It is generally assumed that most script kiddies are juveniles who lack the ability to write sophisticated programs or exploits on their own and that their objective is to try to impress their friends or gain credit in computer-enthusiast communities.  However, the term does not relate to the actual age of the participant. The term is considered to be somewhat offensive.   In a Carnegie Mellon report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense in 2005, script kiddies  are defined as The more immature but unfortunately often just as dangerous exploiter of security lapses on the Internet. The typical script kiddy uses existing and frequently well known and easy-to-find techniques and programs or scripts to search for and exploit weaknesses in other computers on the Internet—often randomly and with little regard or perhaps even understanding of the potentially harmful consequences. Script kiddies have at their disposal a large number of effective, easily downloadable programs capable of breaching computers and networks.  Such programs have included remote denial-of-service WinNuke,  trojans, Back Orifice, NetBus and Sub7  vulnerability scanner/injector kit Metasploit  and often software intended for legitimate security auditing.  Script kiddies vandalize websites both for the thrill of it and to increase their reputation among their peers.   Some more malicious script kiddies have used virus toolkits to create and propagate the Anna Kournikova and Love Bug viruses.  Script kiddies lack, or are only developing, programming skills sufficient to understand the effects and side effects of their actions. As a result, they leave significant traces which lead to their detection, or directly attack companies which have detection and countermeasures already in place, or in recent cases, leave automatic crash reporting turned on.   