Jehan Georges Vibert or Jean Georges Vibert (30 September 1840 – 28 July 1902) was a French academic painter.  He was born in Paris, the son of engraver and publisher Théodore Vibert, and grandson of the influential rose-breeder Jean-Pierre Vibert. He began his artistic training at a young age under the instruction of his maternal grandfather, engraver Jean-Pierre-Marie Jazet. Vibert was more interested in painting than engraving and entered the studio of Félix-Joseph Barrias and eventually the École des Beaux-Arts when he was sixteen. He remained at the École for six years under the instruction of historic painter François-Edouard Picot. Vibert debuted at the Salon of 1863 with La Sieste (The Siesta) and Repentir (Repentance). During the Franco-Prussian War, Vibert became a sharpshooter and was wounded at the battle of Malmaison in October 1870. He was awarded the Légion d'Honneur and became a Chevalier de la Légion d’Honneur in recognition of his sacrifice. He became an Officier of the Légion d’Honneur in 1882. Vibert submitted work to the Salon until 1899. The popularity of his works spread, notably in America, and fetched high prices including commissions from John Jacob Astor IV and William Vanderbilt. A large collection of works by Vibert was amassed by the heiress May Louise Maytag on behalf of then bishop of Miami Coleman Carroll, who greatly fancied them. This large cache was then donated to the Florida seminary St. John Vianney College in Miami. At this location the impressive collection has had a somewhat checkered conservation history, as well as exhibition history due to the discomfiture of later bishops with the seeming anti-clericalism of the paintings (lighthearted debaucheries, etc.). Preparations for the procession, by Jehan Georges Vibert A Fine Point by Jehan Georges Vibert The Church in Danger by Jehan Georges Vibert The Preening Peacock by Jehan Georges Vibert The Marvelous Sauce, by Jehan Georges Vibert, ca. 1890, Albright-Knox Art Gallery The Diet, painting by Jehan Georges Vibert The Fortune Teller, painting by Jehan Georges Vibert  