With the country's ethnically diverse background, Puerto Rican art reflects many diverse influences. Puerto Rican art includes an especially beloved form of folk art, evolved from the Spanish church's use of sculptures to convert indigenous Puerto Ricans to Christianity.  Santos, meaning "saints" in Spanish, depict figures of saints and other religious icons.  Families continue to pass this centuries-old craft down from generation to generation.  The artisans, called santeros, create santos from native wood, clay, and stone.  After shaping simKPOPffigies]], they often finish by painting them in vivid colors.  Santos vary in size, with the smallest examples around eight inches tall.  Traditionally, santos were seen as messengers between the earth and Heaven.  As such, they occupied a special place on household altars, where people prayed to them, asked for help, or tried to summon their protection.  Caretas are also very popular. Caretas are masks worn during carnivals.  Similar masks signifying evil spirits were used in both Spain and Africa, though for different purposes.  The Spanish used their masks to frighten lapsed Christians into returning to the church, while tribal Africans used them as protection from the evil spirits they represented.  Puerto Rican caretas always bear at least several horns and fangs, true to their historic origins.  While they are usually constructed of papier-mâché, coconut shells and fine metal screening are sometimes used as well.  Though red and black were originally the typical colors for caretas, their palette has expanded to include a wide variety of bright hues and patterns.  Perhaps the strongest Spanish influenced on Puerto Rican arts was in painting.  During the colonial period, native-born painters emulated classic European styles.  The first of these artists to gain international acclaim, José Campeche, learned techniques from both his father, who was also a painter, and exiled Spanish artist Luis Paret. His work concentrated on religious themes and portraits of important citizens in Spanish Rococo style.  Still regarded as the most important 18th-century painter in the Americas, Campeche is also credited with creating Puerto Rican national painting. In the 19th century, Francisco Oller followed in Campeche's footsteps.  He studied in both Madrid and Paris, which greatly influenced his work.  Although his paintings often show an Impressionist or Realist style, he altered his style with each piece to suit the subject matter.  Landscapes, portraits, and still lifes were all among his works.  After moving back to Puerto Rico in 1884, Oller became interested in portraying Puerto Rican subject matter.  He also founded an art academy and wrote a book on drawing and painting the natural world. By the end of the 20th century, painting no longer defined Puerto Rican art as it once had. "A group of contemporary artists who came into maturity in the 1990's broke away from nationalistic agendas so crucial to previous generations of artists from Puerto Rico," according to curator Silvia Karman Cubiña. "Instead their works are informed by more personal issues, as well as broader topics such as gender, consumerism, world history, film and literature."  The importance of artists such as Allora & Calzadilla, Rosado Seijo, and Arnaldo Morales was "their social dimension and the potential for interaction with others."  For others such as Manuel Acevedo, Javier Cambre, Nayda Collazo-Llorens, and Carlos Rivera Villafañe, it was their multi-media and site-specific installations that expanded on the "nontraditional modes begun in earlier generations, by artists such as Rafael Ferrer and Rafael Montañez Ortiz, and then Antonio Martorell, José Morales, Pepón Osorio.  and Beatriz Santiago Muñoz.  Modern art in Puerto Rico emphasizes the importance of the preservation of Puerto Rican culture. Puerto Rican modern art also focuses on bring light to their situation as an American colony. Puerto Rico’s best known artists, Jennifer Allora and Guillermo Calzadilla, have drawn significant attention to the island's developing creative scene, while questioning their home's political link to the United States, a link that includes the territory's history as a military base, a legacy that can still be seen in unexploded bombs and tanks littering the island. Playful yet pointedly political, their 2011 contribution to the United States pavilion at the Venice Biennale included a U.S. Olympic athlete jogging on a treadmill that was powered by the wheels of an upside-down military tank. Another Puerto Rican modern artist named Adál Maldonado created a collection of photos called Puerto Ricans Underwater. Adál presents Boricuas of varying ages, lifestyles, and occupations submerged in a tub filled with water; their bodies restricted by its size, and their faces obscured beneath the bathwater. The resulting images are subtly eerie and chill-inducing while evoking the shock and burn of accidentally inhaling water. “I think mainly and most importantly, it’s the sense of denial of self-determination by having the federal government sort of imposing their agenda on you. That feeling that you get from not being in control of your own life,” Adál says, “That will manifest differently depending on different people…but I would say that’s pretty much it; not having a voice, feeling impotent inside of your own condition.”  Since Hurricane Maria, most Puerto Rican artists dedicate their art to bringing enlightenment, awareness, and hope to Puerto Rico. On the island itself, the Hurricane devastated the art community. The art studio of famed Puerto Rican artist, Zilia Sanchez, was destroyed during the storm, wiping out years of work. With the help of her former student and accomplished artist in his own right, Jorge Gonzalez, along with other local Puerto Rican artists, they helped rebuild her studio. Out of this, they were inspired to develop centers in which they can teach others to use the tools of nature to create art in an act they refer to as “social practice.” Puerto Rican artists engage and create art with images that surround them daily, but often their artistic practices also involve and are inspired by Puerto Rico’s political and social state because it is a common belief that one was the ability to change the environment in which we all live through art. In the summer of 2017, artists from Puerto Rico were invited to go to the Miami Art Week Focus on Puerto Rico exhibit in Florida to show their latest work. Once Hurricane Maria hit, Puerto Rico was devastated, and, although the art exhibit seemed like an afterthought, the artists still presented their pieces so they could express the altered state of living in the country following the hurricane. Artist Rafael Vargas Bernard created the sculpture, Tenemos sed, ¿Where did our presupuesto nacional go?, which depicts a rusted sink that is attached to a wall with water dripping from it. This, according to Bernard, is a representation of the constant water problem that the country has, and how public funds do not actually help bring clean water to the people. Another artist that has experimented with art, and has done so as a response to the Hurricane, is Andria Morales. Her work was a giant blank check drawn onto a towel made out to the people behind  Focus on Puerto Rico. The reason for the check was to show an appreciation toward the reasons given to the artists in contrast to what she says, “Trump’s comment that Puerto Rico has thrown the US out of whack.” 