Venezuelan art has a long and eventful history. Venezuela's museums and galleries are well on the way to forming a new discourse in which the public can experience and interact. Capturing the Venezuelan public view and interact with the installations and collections within a museum setting, re-establishes a new base for understanding the Venezuelan patron. This considered, the museum visitor is better understood and served as it is realized that a modern Venezuela, is represented as a diverse culture, intertwined with the traditional. The proactive cultural center strives to reacquaint itself with its audience, who in fact, are participants and beneficiaries of such cultural and heritage organizations. An effort by the Venezuelan government to connect its people to its cultural organizations, is a response to a cultural diversity and changes within. Venezuelan art is gaining prominence. Initially dominated by religious motifs, it began emphasizing historical and heroic representations in the late nineteenth century, a move led by Martín Tovar y Tovar. Modernism took over in the twentieth century. Notable Venezuelan artists include Arturo Michelena, Cristóbal Rojas, Armando Reverón, Manuel Cabré, the kinetic artists Jesús-Rafael Soto and Carlos Cruz-Diez, the Meta-realism artist Pajaro and Yucef Merhi. Mexico Avenue between stations Bellas Artes and Parque Carabobo. La Candelaria, Caracas.  Its portfolio consists of more than 3000 works of famous artists. Among the most important there is the "Odalisque in red pants" by Henri Matisse "lesson Sky" Joan Miró "Portrait of Dora Maar" Pablo Picasso "Carnival Night" by Marc Chagall, among other Reverón, Jean Arp, Botero, Victor Vasarely, Riverse, Auguste Rodin, Magdalena Abakanowicz, Jacobo Borges and Fernando Botero. The renowned architect Carlos Raúl Villanueva has designed the museum, and it shows once again its ability creative ability to integrate architectural design with painting, sculpture, landscape and man. The museum displays important works from the personal collection of the master Soto, created during the 50s and 60s during his stay in Europe. La Divina Pastora, Juan Lovera, Galeria de Arte Nacional. Estudio para Dante Beatriz. 1889 Cristóbal Rojas, Coleccion the Galería de Arte Nacional, Caracas - Venezuela. Antonio Herrera Toro, Ricaurte in San Mateo. 1898. Galeria de Arte Nacional. Caracas - Venezuela. Antonio Herrera Toro, Self Portrait 1880. La Joven Madre (Young Mother), by Arturo Michelena 1889.  