Life expectancy in Bahrain at birth in 2013 was 76 for men and 78 for women.  Compared to many countries in the region, the prevalence of AIDS and HIV is relatively low.  Malaria and tuberculosis (TB) do not constitute major problems in Bahrain as neither disease is indigenous to the country. As a result, cases of malaria and TB have declined in recent decades with cases of contractions amongst Bahraini nationals becoming rare.  The Ministry of Health sponsors regular vaccination campaigns against TB and other diseases such as hepatitis B.   Bahrain is currently suffering from an obesity epidemic as 28.9% of all males and 38.2% of all females are classified as obese.  Cardiovascular diseases account for 32% of all deaths in Bahrain, being the number one cause of death in the country (the second being cancer).  Sickle cell anaemia and thalassaemia are prevalent in the country, with a study concluding that 18% of Bahrainis are carriers of sickle cell anaemia while 24% are carriers of thalassaemia.  The Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that almost 66% of the adult population of Bahrain is overweight or obese.   In 2000, it was determined that amongst children age 12–17, 29.9% of boys and 42.4% of girls were overweight. The MONICA project, sponsored by the WHO, found that 15.6% of boys and 17.4% of girls in high school were obese. Bahrain also has one of the highest prevalence of diabetes in the world (5th place), with more than 15% of the Bahraini population suffering from the disease, and accounting for 5% of deaths in the country.   Increased consumption of fast food and predominance of sedentary lifestyles have led to this occurrence. These unhealthy eating habits are reinforced in school canteens, where high fat and high carbohydrate foods such as pizza, burgers, sandwiches, and za'atar, are available for lunch. Between meal times, children prefer French fries, chocolate, and soda, which lack micronutrients and dietary fiber.  Bahrain introduced laws  in 2009,banning smoking in all indoor public places, including hotels, shopping malls, on public transport, even ATM booths and even in a private car if there are children present.  