 Physical activity is defined as any bodily movement produced by skeletal muscles that requires energy expenditure .  Physical activity encompasses all activities, at any intensity,  performed during the 24 hour day . It includes exercise and incidental activity integrated into our daily activity. This integrated activity may not be planned, structured, repetitive or purposeful for the improvement of fitness, and may include activities such as walking to the local shop, cleaning, working, active transport etc.  “Exercise” and “physical activity” are frequently are used interchangeably and generally refer to physical activity performed during leisure time with the primary purpose of improving or maintaining physical fitness, physical performance, or health. Physical activity is not exactly the same concept as exercise. Exercise is defined as a subcategory of physical activity that is planned, structured, repetitive, and purposeful in the sense that the improvement or maintenance of one or more components of physical fitness is the objective . Conversely, physical activity includes exercise but may also be unplanned, unstructured, random and non-purposeful carried out for a multitude of reasons.   Physical activity can be at any intensity, from a simple twitch of a muscle, to an all out sprint. For practicality, physical activity can be viewed as a continuum from sedentary behavior to vigorous intensity activity.  Intensities are broadly categorized according to energy expenditure using a standard measure of intensity, metabolic equivalents (METs). The broad categories are sedentary behavior, light activity, moderate activity and vigorous activity.   The example activities presented below are just that, examples. Depending on the individual and the activity involved, activities may overlap intensity categories or change categories completely.  Physical inactivity is the absence of physical activity, which is conceptually different to sedentary behavior (not sedentary lifestyle). Sedentary behavior is defined as any waking behavior characterized by an energy expenditure ≤1.5 metabolic equivalents (METs), while in a sitting, reclining or lying posture. In general this means that any time a person is passively sitting or lying down, they are engaging in sedentary behavior . Aerobic Physical Activity  Anaerobic Physical Activity Muscle-strengthening Activity The World Health Organization recommend the following . 1. Adults aged 18–64 should do at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic physical activity throughout the week or do at least 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity aerobic physical activity throughout the week or an equivalent combination of moderate- and vigorous-intensity activity.  2. Aerobic activity should be performed in bouts of at least 10 minutes duration.  3. For additional health benefits, adults should increase their moderate-intensity aerobic physical activity to 300 minutes per week, or engage in 150 minutes of vigorous-intensity aerobic physical activity per week, or an equivalent combination of moderate- and vigorous-intensity activity.  4. Muscle-strengthening activities should be done involving major muscle groups on 2 or more days a week. 1. Adults aged 65 years and above should do at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic physical activity throughout the week or do at least 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity aerobic physical activity throughout the week or an equivalent combination of moderate- and vigorousintensity activity.  2. Aerobic activity should be performed in bouts of at least 10 minutes duration.  3. For additional health benefits, adults aged 65 years and above should increase their moderateintensity aerobic physical activity to 300 minutes per week, or engage in 150 minutes of vigorousintensity aerobic physical activity per week, or an equivalent combination of moderate-and vigorous-intensity activity.  4. Adults of this age group, with poor mobility, should perform physical activity to enhance balance and prevent falls on 3 or more days per week.  5. Muscle-strengthening activities should be done involving major muscle groups, on 2 or more days a week.  6. When adults of this age group cannot do the recommended amounts of physical activity due to health conditions, they should be as physically active as their abilities and conditions allow. 1. Children and youth aged 5–17 should accumulate at least 60 minutes of moderate- to vigorous intensity physical activity daily.  2. Amounts of physical activity greater than 60 minutes provide additional health benefits.  3. Most of the daily physical activity should be aerobic. Vigorous-intensity activities should be incorporated, including those that strengthen muscle and bone, at least 3 times per week. Early Years (Birth to 5 years) Physical Activity Recommendations For healthy growth and development in: Sedentary Behaviour Recommendations Sleep Children (5-12 years) Physical Activity Sedentary Behaviour Young People (13-17 years) Physical Activity Guidelines Sedentary Behaviour Guidelines Adults (18-64 years) Physical Activity Guidelines Sedentary Behaviour Guidelines Older Adults (65+ years) Physical Activity Recommendations 1. Older people should do some form of physical activity, no matter what their age, weight, health problems or abilities.  2. Older people should be active every day in as many ways as possible, doing a range of physical activities that incorporate fitness, strength, balance and flexibility.  3. Older people should accumulate at least 30 minutes of moderate intensity physical activity on most, preferably all, days.  4. Older people who have stopped physical activity, or who are starting a new physical activity, should start at a level that is easily manageable and gradually build up the recommended amount, type and frequency of activity.  5. Older people who continue to enjoy a lifetime of vigorous physical activity should carry on doing so in a manner suited to their capability into later life, provided recommended safety procedures and guidelines are adhered to. See reference.  See reference. See reference.  