Physical fitness is a state of health and well-being and, more specifically, the ability to perform aspects of sports,  occupations and daily activities. Physical fitness is generally achieved through proper nutrition, moderate-vigorous physical exercise, and sufficient rest. Before the industrial revolution, fitness was defined as the capacity to carry out the day’s activities without undue fatigue. However, with automation and changes in lifestyles physical fitness is now considered a measure of the body's ability to function efficiently and effectively in work and leisure activities, to be healthy, to resist hypokinetic diseases, and to meet emergency situations. Do you have a question about Health and fitness that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. For editor resources and to collaborate with other editors on improving Wikipedia's Health and fitness-related articles, see WikiProject Health and fitness. James Lind conducted in 1747 the first controlled clinical trial in modern times, and in 1753 published Treatise on Scurvy. Colorful fruits and vegetables may be components of a healthy diet. By containing his assistant, Armand Seguin, inside a rubber suit fitted with a tube sealed to his mouth with putty, Antoine Lavoisier first measured basal metabolic rate. Drawing by Madame Lavoisier (seated at right). Donald Henderson as part of the CDC's smallpox eradication team in 1966. Physical fitness is generally achieved through exercise. Photo shows Rich Froning Jr. – four-time winner of "Fittest Man on Earth" title. Percentage of obese population in 2010, Data source: OECD's iLibrary, http://stats.oecd.org Postage stamp, New Zealand, 1933. Public health has been promoted – and depicted – in a wide variety of ways. Running has become a popular form of exercise. Hippocrates lived about 400 BC, and Galen and the understanding of nutrition followed him for centuries. Calcium combined with vitamin D (as calciferol) supplement tablets with fillers. A bottle of B-complex vitamin pills Percentage of overweight or obese population in 2010, Data source: OECD's iLibrary, http://stats.oecd.org Summary of long-term adaptations to regular aerobic and anaerobic exercise. Aerobic exercise can cause several central cardiovascular adaptations, including an increase in stroke volume (SV) and maximal aerobic capacity (VO2 max), as well as a decrease in resting heart rate (RHR). Long-term adaptations to resistance training, the most common form of anaerobic exercise, include muscular hypertrophy, an increase in the physiological cross-sectional area (PCSA) of muscle(s), and an increase in neural drive, both of which lead to increased muscular strength. Neural adaptations begin more quickly and plateau prior to the hypertrophic response. A lady washing her hands c. 1655 Weight training Proteins are chains of amino acids found in most nutritional foods. Carl von Voit has been called the father of modern dietetics. Takaki Kanehiro surmised that beriberi was a nutritional deficiency not an infectious disease. Running in water An astronaut, Daniel Tani, working out with a short bar to increase his upper body strength while in a microgravity environment Jack Drummond’s single paragraph paper in 1920 which provided structure and nomenclature used today for vitamins Followed for a millennium and a half, Galen (1st century) created the first coherent (although mistaken) theory of nutrition. A woman jogging at a beach in the U.S. to maintain/improve her physical fitness Swimmers perform squats prior to entering the pool in a U.S. military base, 2011. Linus Carl Pauling (February 28, 1901 – August 19, 1994) was an American quantum chemist and biochemist, widely regarded as the premier chemist of the twentieth century. Pauling was a pioneer in the application of quantum mechanics to chemistry, and in 1954 was awarded the Nobel Prize in chemistry for his work describing the nature of chemical bonds. He also made important contributions to crystal and protein structure determination, and was one of the founders of molecular biology. Pauling received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1962 for his campaign against above-ground nuclear testing, becoming only one of four people in history to individually receive two Nobel Prizes. Later in life, he became an advocate for regular consumption of massive doses of Vitamin C. Pauling coined the term "orthomolecular" to refer to the practice of varying the concentration of substances normally present in the body to prevent and treat disease, and promote health.  Pauling was first introduced to the concept of high-dose vitamin C by biochemist Irwin Stone in 1966 and began taking several grams every day to prevent colds. Excited by the results, he researched the clinical literature and published "Vitamin C and the Common Cold" in 1970. He began a long clinical collaboration with the British cancer surgeon, Ewan Cameron, MD   in 1971 on the use of intravenous and oral vitamin C as cancer therapy for terminal patients. Cameron and Pauling wrote many technical papers and a popular book, "Cancer and Vitamin C", that discussed their observations. He later collaborated with the Canadian physician, Abram Hoffer, MD, PhD,  on a micronutrient regimen, including high-dose vitamin C, as adjunctive cancer therapy.  The selective toxicity of vitamin C for cancer cells has been demonstrated repeatedly in cell culture studies. The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences   recently published a paper demonstrating vitamin C killing cancer cells. As of 2005, some physicians have called for a more careful reassessment of vitamin C, especially intravenous vitamin C, in cancer treatment. With two colleagues, Pauling founded the Institute of Orthomolecular Medicine in Menlo Park, California, in 1973, which was soon renamed the Linus Pauling Institute of Science and Medicine. Pauling directed research on vitamin C, but also continued his theoretical work in chemistry and physics until his death in 1994. In his last years, he became especially interested in the possible role of vitamin C in preventing atherosclerosis and published three case reports on the use of lysine and vitamin C to relieve angina pectoris. In 1996, the Linus Pauling Institute moved from Palo Alto, California, to Corvallis, Oregon, to become part of Oregon State University, where it continues to conduct research on micronutrients, phytochemicals (chemicals from plants), and other constituents of the diet in preventing and treating disease. Read more... Ongoing health news “Be careful about reading health books. You may die of a misprint.” "The more you sweat in training, the less you bleed in battle." "He who has health has hope, and he who has hope has everything." [Arabian Proverb]  “Human life needs superhuman health.”  "An apple a day keeps the doctor away." "Do not spend health to gain money, and then, do not spend money to regain health" " Honour your Divine Body Temple" "To sit in a comfortable position or posture for everlasting period is called asana" Health is very important for our life [kailash vishwakarma]   General  – Health care • Health care industry • Health disparities • Mental health • Population health • Preventive medicine • Public health • Complementary and alternative medicine Self-care – Body composition • Life extension • Longevity • Physical fitness Health science – Dentistry • Occupational therapy • Optometry • Pharmacy • Physiotherapy • Speech-Language Pathology Health –  Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being. this is a level of functional and (or) metabolic efficiency of a person in mind, body and spirit; being free from illness, injury or pain (as in “good health” or “healthy”). The World Health Organization (WHO) defined health in its broader sense in 1946 as "a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity." Health and fitness  The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database All Portals Overview Glossaries Indices Lists Outlines Categories Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Purge server cache 