Nepal currently only has one physiotherapy program that is available through Kathmandu University as a bachelor's degree that is an equivalent four and a half years full-time. The minimum level of education to start this program is upper secondary.   Titles for practicing therapist is Physiotherapist & भौतिक चिकित्सक (Vautik Chikitshak) (protected by law).  Currently according to the World Confederation of Physical Therapy (WCPT), there are an estimated 2000 practicing physiotherapists as of December 2017.  There are 369 members of the national organization with the percentage of female physical therapists numbering at 42%.  WCPT reports that there a total of 153, 830 members organization for their Asia Western Pacific region of the organization. Support personnel are part of the workforce.  The scope of practice is defined by the Ministry of Health that has a regulated code of conduct. There is currently no legislation to prevent private practice clinics. Patients have direct access meaning they can self-refer to private practice clinics without referral from another heath care professional.  A physical therapist’s scope in Nepal permits:  Registration is required to practice as a licensed physiotherapist in Nepal.   As of the current code of ethics, continuing professional development is not required for re-registration and membership,  however, the amendment of the code of ethics have incorporated a mandatory evidence of continuing professional development, which will soon come in action. In on April 25 and May 12, 2015, two major earthquakes measuring 7.8 and 7.3 on the Richter scale struck Nepal.  Out of the 75 districts of Nepal, 14 were severely affected by the earthquakes with an estimated 8600 deaths, 22 000 injuries and 505 000 homes completely destroyed.  Post-disaster, health care facilities faced shortages in space and resources.  Furthermore, patients facing discharge after acute care faced challenges of accessibility living in remote locations with limited health care services especially those requiring ongoing rehabilitation.  With natural elements such as monsoon season, floods and landslides made access more difficult post-earthquake.  Injuries included traumatic cases due to falling debris and houses collapsing due to poor building construction and high population density in larger cities.  70% of injuries were fractures with a large number of patients suffering from spinal cord injuries (200-300), amputations (40-60) as well as traumatic brain injuries, crush injuries and neuropraxia.  During the time of the earthquake, 393 physiotherapists were registered with the majority of therapists located in Kathmandu.  The role of physical therapist in disaster response was poorly defined with the profession being relatively new.  Many physical therapists at the time worked in facilities treating patients with musculoskeletal conditions followed by neurology and rehabilitation with a small number in intensive care-unit, obstetrics and pediatrics.  In response to the earthquake, physical therapists worked alongside doctors, nurses and other heath providers with triage, screening and acute care management of patients.  This would includes services such as brace fitting, applying plaster cases, temporary backslabs, skin traction for femoral fractures and hip dislocations, dressing wounds, fitting assistive devices.  Physiotherapists also mobilized patients, prescribed exercises, re-positioned patients to prevent secondary complications such as bed sores and chest complications post-surgery or prolonged bed rest.  Physiotherapy in Nepal started more than 40 years ago by army trained physiotherapists in India in 1972.  Nurses and health professionals were trained at Bir Hospital (a government hospital in Kathmandu) where they provided physiotherapy training and care.  Gradually, Nepal received support from international volunteers who provided short-term physiotherapy training in various hospitals.  The first formal certificate level physiotherapy (CPT) course was initiated by Mary Beatrice Martin (Canada) at the institute of Medicine (IOM) from 1983 - 1990 at Institute of Medicine, Tribhuvan University.  This course discontinued in less than a decade. There were no formal education in Nepal for the next decade. Later in 2003, a Certificate level Physiotherapy (CPT) course was started in Dhulikhel Medical Institute (DMI) at Kathmandu University School of Medical Sciences.  This further evolved into a Bachelor of Physiotherapy (BPT) in 2010 to bring education to the recommended guidelines of the World Confederation for Physical Therapy (WCPT).   DMI discontinued the CPT course after the last student intake in 2009. 