Society for Local Integrated Development Nepal (SOLID Nepal), a nongovernmental, apolitical and nonprofit organization, established in 1997 has been working in attaining optimal health of the people of Nepal by addressing different issues like sexual and reproductive health, non-communicable diseases, human resources for health or Health human resources and other health related issues as crosscuts. SOLID Nepal works to generate evidences, and promotes health & healthy behaviour of the people through research study, media & publications, advocacy, awareness & sensitization, trainings and social mobilization in a holistic manner by and with concerned stakeholders.  SOLID Nepal is actively functioning for empowering people to improve their sexual and reproductive health and to prevent them from non-communicable diseases by changing their lifestyles and risk behaviours. SOLID Nepal creates a conducive environment for active aged people for their complete participation in health and development efforts along with unified integration of individuals from all sectors for the collaboration of youth and society for its sustainability. It advocates stakeholders at local and national levels for the effective implementation of policies, plans and programs meant for the development of health and education systems in the country to make the young people competent in their professional walks. Make comprehensive development programmes on health and healthy behaviour available at all levels, especially actively involving those people who need such programmes at utmost heights.  Integrate health and development programmes in different sectors of the societies and empower people to participate in all steps of programme spirals. Build up a consensus among the stakeholders to plan, execute and / or integrate the health related programmes for benefiting the people in need. Create a congenial environment for all to get benefitted from the programs related to their health and healthy behaviour. Organizationally structured with research experts, SOLID Nepal has generated evidences through researches in health and development focused areas.    SOLID Nepal has wide-ranging experiences and capacity in media and publications. Since the beginning, SOLID Nepal has published ‘Youvan’, a bimonthly health magazine and was extended to the online version with the domain ‘www.youvanhealth.com’,  Journalists and medical experts from different backgrounds have been contributing contents and knowledge for the publication. Other publication includes and guiding and teaching manuals on different issues related to Sexual & Reproductive Health, Non-communicable disease, Life skills-based education, Gender based violence and Youth friendly Health Services. Also, SOLID Nepal has published advocacy kits contenting issues related to child marriage for government stakeholders, community population, media personnel and others stakeholders. Apart from this, SOLID Nepal has published a book on Ayurveda ‘Ayurveda Science-2nd Edition’. SOLID Nepal has been empowering individuals of different age groups from national to grassroots levels through intensive trainings to make them competent enough to utilize the learning to contribute for the development of the neighbourhood, community, society and the nation. To achieve this, SOLID Nepal has developed and produced training manuals on Adolescent Sexual & Reproductive Health and Right (ASRHR) for Peer Educators, Life Skill Based education on ASRHR for teachers and conducted trainings and refreshers' trainings in districts across the country to convey good understanding. Also, SOLID Nepal has been provided trainings to research enthusiasts about research methodologies. Since the establishment, SOLID Nepal has conducted national representing workshops and seminars with the records of huge participation from government agencies, international and national aid agencies, like minded organizations, media and civil society organizations. SOLID Nepal has conducted workshops on sensitizing different stakeholders towards the issues such as sexual and reproductive health of young people, armed conflict and women’s SRH and Rights in Nepal, HIV/AIDS, and Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission (PMTCT) of HIV.  SOLID Nepal also has conducted workshop on Research Methodologies, non-formal education. 1. HRH Assessment and Development of HRH Profile for the Public and the Private Health Sectors Workforce 2012, supported by World Health Organization, NHSSP (Nepal Health Sector Support Programme) and implemented by SOLID Nepal. 2. Improving Sexual and Reproductive Health of Young People by Increasing the Age at Marriage in India, Nepal and Bangladesh   3. Gender Transformative Approaches for Improving Sexual and Reproductive Health of Young People In Nepal’  4. Support to Health Workforce Through Civil Society Engagement   