 Chester Brown adapted Gospel of Mark and part of the Gospel of Matthew to comics; installments appeared in his comic books Yummy Fur and Underwater.  Brown ran the first installment of the Gospel of Mark  in Yummy Fur #4 in 1987, and left Matthew unfinished after cancelling Underwater in 1997.  Brown had planned to do all four of the canonical gospels,  but in 2011 stated that it is unlikely he will finish even Matthew.  Brown was brought up in a strictly Christian Baptist  household.  Over his career, he has gone back and forth between belief and non-belief in Christianity.   Brown took on his retelling of the Gospels to try to figure out what he really believed.  Begun in issue #4 of Yummy Fur in 1987, Mark started as a more-or-less straight, abridged illustration  of the Gospel of Mark.  The adaptation became more idiosyncratic as it developed, however.  On pages 55 and 56 Brown wove into the story a passage from the Secret Gospel of Mark, a highly contentious and disputed document said to have been written by Clement of Alexandria that Professor Morton Smith claimed to have discovered in 1958. When asked, Brown wrote in Yummy Fur #15 that he had a large number of sources for his adaptation of Mark.  The most books he referred to most frequently were:  The Gospel of Matthew started in issue #15 of Yummy Fur in 1989 and continued through to the premature end of Underwater in 1997.  As of 2011, it has yet to be finished. Brown's gospels gained a reputation for being "ingeniously blasphemous" mainly from his Matthew retellings.  In contrast to Mark's Jesus, who is "serene and always in control," in Matthew he is a scowling, balding figure, and "there is a more radicalized disbelief and a greater focus on the fleshy and earthly aspects of the story."   Brown's depiction of the Matthew's version of the Saviour is "a Jesus that shouts. He's a Jesus that screams", his face "haggard and worn, his dark hair matted and stringy".  The disciples are depicted as awkward, fearful and full of doubt, who are "barely able to reconcile the greatness of God with the miseries of their existence".  As Brown has pointed out, starting with the full-issue installment of Matthew in Yummy Fur #32, he deliberately changed Jesus' third-person references to himself to first-person references in the dialogue.  Amongst the books Brown cited for his Matthew adaptation are: Matthew has been on hiatus since 1997, with the story left with Jesus about to enter Jerusalem.  Brown had long said he planned on coming back to the story, but in an interview at The Comics Journal in 2011, he said he would not likely finish it, as his heart was no longer in it.  The Gospel adaptations have generally been well-accepted by fans and critics.  John Bell calls them Brown's most important uncollected work.  To Francis Hwang of City Pages, "the paradox of faith is brilliantly, heartbreakingly depicted" in the Gospel of Matthew.  Religious and biblical elements have found their way into almost all of Brown's work: 