A toy is an item that is used in play, especially one designed for such use. Playing with toys can be an enjoyable means of training young children for life in society. Different materials like wood, clay, paper, and plastic are used to make toys. Many items are designed to serve as toys, but goods produced for other purposes can also be used. For instance, a small child may fold an ordinary piece of paper into an airplane shape and "fly it".  Newer forms of toys include interactive digital entertainment. Some toys are produced primarily as collectors' items and are intended for display only. The origin of toys is prehistoric; dolls representing infants, animals, and soldiers, as well as representations of tools used by adults are readily found at archaeological sites. The origin of the word "toy" is unknown, but it is believed that it was first used in the 14th century. Toys are mainly made for children. The oldest known doll toy is thought to be 4,000 years old. Modular Buildings is a series of Lego building toy sets introduced in 2007.  Created in response to feedback and suggestions from the Adult Fans of Lego (AFOL) community, the sets in this series are generally intended for more advanced builders with most sets containing more than 2,000 total pieces and making use of unorthodox building techniques which have not been tried before in official Lego sets.  In contrast to most Lego sets which are aimed at children and adolescents, the suggested age of most sets in the Modular Buildings series is 16 years or older.  The Modular Buildings sets have been received with positive reviews, being considered by Lego designers and fans as "toys for adults". The sets include Market Street, Cafe Corner, Green Grocer, Fire Brigade, Grand Emporium, Pet Shop, and the newest one Town Hall. More... Lincoln Logs is the name of a children's toy consisting of notched miniature logs, used to build miniature forts and buildings. They were invented by John Lloyd Wright, son of the architect Frank Lloyd Wright. Lincoln Logs were inducted into the US National Toy Hall of Fame in 1999. More... Herman Guy Fisher (November 2, 1898 – September 26, 1975), was born in Unionville Pennsylvania. He is best known as the co-founder of the famous toy brand Fisher-Price. He graduated from the Pennsylvania State University in 1921 with a BA in Commerce and Finance. More...   Types:  Construction set • Doll • Vehicle • Puzzle • Teddy bear Industry:  Toy advertising • American International Toy Fair • American Specialty Toy Retailing Association • Birmingham toy industry • Girls' games and toys • International Union of Allied Novelty and Production Workers • Kiddicraft • Play value • Toy Industry Association • Toy safety • Toy store • Toyetic • Wooden toymaking in the Ore Mountains edit ·  history ·  watch ·  purge The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 