  Shopkins are a range of tiny, collectable toys, manufactured  by Moose Toys. Based on grocery store items, each plastic figure has a recognisable face and unique name. They also have special finishes like translucent, glitter, or squishy. The collectable toys (which are designated as common, rare, ultra rare, special edition, limited edition, and exclusive) also have lines of clothing, trading cards, and other merchandise.   The toy line began in July 2014.   Shopkins was designed and developed by Moose Toys in Melbourne. Co-chief Paul Solomon credits his mother Jacqui Tobias, director of girls’ products, for the idea of Shopkins.  Moose Toys had success with their line of Trash Pack and Grossery Gang collectible figurines which were geared towards boys, but overall lacked a market for girls. Shopkins was produced initially as a similar product for girls — however, it appeals to both genders.   Shopkins figurines are roughly 1 inch in height and 1/2 inch in width, roughly the size of a United States Quarter. Each figurine has a face, name, and its own personality. They are distributed in bright coloured packaging with bubble letters.  Shopkins are based on grocery items such as a sweet apple named Apple Blossom, a chocolate bar named Cheeky Chocolate, a lipstick named Lippy Lips, and a chocolate chip cookie named Kooky Cookie.   There are hundreds of Shopkins in the Shopkins World.  Shopkins are organized into  categories such as Sweets or Bakery. Shopkins are collected and valued based on their rarity. Moose toys classifies the Shopkins degrees of rarity as Common, Exclusive, Limited Edition, Rare, Special Edition, and Ultra Rare.  Moose Toys launched a series of children's books about Shopkins including Scholastic's Shopkins: Welcome to Shopville.  Moose Toys released their first trading card set in 2015. An animated film called Shopkins: Chef Club was released on DVD 25 October 2016 by Universal Pictures Home Entertainment to promote the sixth season of Shopkins toys. The movie had mostly positive reviews, although some reviewers had concerns at the overt consumerism.   Two sequels, Shopkins World Vacation and Shopkins Wild, were released on October 11, 2017 and April 17, 2018.  In August 2014, Moose Toys built brand awareness with their Shopkins short cartoon videos on their YouTube channel Shopkins world,  but it was the YouTube videos of consumers unwrapping and playing with the toy that helped bring the line to mainstream prominence.   As of May 2017, CultureFly LLC., a licensee of Shopkins/Moose Toys, began offering a subscription box with exclusive Shopkins accessories and merchandise.  Shopkins Direct is described as a quarterly/seasonal subscription service, featuring accessories, apparel, and other exclusive merchandise featuring Shopkins characters. Additionally, exclusive Shopkins have been distributed via Shopkin pop-up chain stores located in North America. Such contents include but are not limited to: plushies, lip balm, and limited-edition Shopkins. In March 2018, the box was discontinued. Counterfeit Shopkins began to surface around mid-2015, including those with "Funny Sweet" or "Shopkinsins" on the packaging, which can refer to Shopkins in colours which Moose Toys never officially produced, such as Boo Hoo Onion being in light blue and Chee Zee in orange. The arms and other parts might be broken, and the paint chips off easily.   A number of sellers on websites offer counterfeit Shopkins, which can include item pictures which have the "Shopkins" branding, most likely as a way to avoid the listing being taken away under intellectual property policies of the website and/or store. Two factories in Yiwu producing counterfeit Shopkins toys were raided by local police in China in mid-2015,  and Moose Toys stated they will take legal action against anyone selling counterfeit Shopkins,  which included a chain of Thriftway businesses selling counterfeit Shopkins.  Shopkins served as inspiration for a design challenge on season 16 of Project Runway.  