In linguistics, a filler is a sound or word that is spoken in conversation by one participant to signal to others a pause to think without giving the impression of having finished speaking.  These are not to be confused with placeholder names, such as thingamajig, whatchamacallit, whosawhatsa and whats'isface, which refer to objects or people whose names are temporarily forgotten, irrelevant, or unknown. Fillers fall into the category of formulaic language, and different languages have different characteristic filler sounds. The term filler also has a separate use in the syntactic description of wh-movement constructions. In English, the most common filler sounds are ah or uh /ʌ/, er /ɜː/, and um /ʌm/.  Among younger speakers, the fillers "like",  "you know", "I mean", "okay", "so", "actually", "basically", and "right" are among the more prevalent. The use of the Valleyspeak word "like" as a discourse marker or vocalized pause is a particularly prominent example of the "Californianization of American youth-speak,"  and its further recent spread throughout other English dialects via the mass-media. Since the advent of computers, especially streaming video, there has been comparison of filler words to "Buffer words."  Buffering, the pause that is experienced while information is retrieved and/or compiled for presentation as a whole, does closely model the cognitive process that accompanies most filler word usage. Similarly, as the increased frequency or duration of buffering in computers indicates data processing deficiencies in a device,the overuse or dependency upon buffering in speech indicate possible cognitive impairment from lack of information, preparation, regard, or confidence, etc.  However, in many cases, buffer words, particularly "like,' "you know," and their ilk, have become parlance in casual conversation, suggesting an imprecise statement that invites the listener to "fill in the gaps" and either acknowledge, confirm, or amend the statement, thus completing the transaction. Still, sometimes excessive buffering is just a bad habit that has gone uncorrected and, like all bad habits, increases in frequency and scope through repetition. Among language learners, a common pitfall is using fillers from their native tongue. For example, "Quiero una umm.... quesadilla".  While less of a shibboleth, knowing the placeholder names (sometimes called kadigans) of a language (e.g. the equivalent of "thingy") can also be useful to attain fluency, such as the French truc: "Je cherche le truc qu'on utilise pour ouvrir une boîte" ("I'm looking for the thingy that you use to open up a can"). The linguistic term "filler" has another, unrelated use in syntactic terminology. It refers to the pre-posed element that fills in the "gap" in a wh-movement construction. Wh-movement is said to create a long-distance or unbounded "filler-gap dependency". In the following example, there is an object gap associated with the transitive verb saw, and the filler is the wh-phrase how many angels: "I don't care [how many angels] she told you she saw." 10. ^ Roseann Duenas Gonzalez et.al. Fundamentals of Court Interpretation , Theory, Policy and Practice, Carolina Academic Press 1991, p291 "Non-Conservation of Paralinguistic Elements, Hedges, Fillers. 