The Wikiatlas or Wikimedia Atlas of the World (or Commons Atlas)  is a wiki-portal[clarification needed] on the Wikimedia Commons website. It contains thousands of gallery pages and maps about various nations or regions of the world.     As a collection of map image-galleries, the Wikiatlas links various sets of maps, such as: Atlas of Europe Atlas of Africa Atlas of England Atlas of Italy Atlas of Mexico Atlas of Germany Atlas of Japan Atlas of the U.S. Atlas of Texas Atlas of California Atlas of Florida Unlike Wikibooks or Wikisource, the Wikiatlas is not a separate wiki website, but rather, a large subset of the Wikimedia website. There are many thousands of maps in the WikiAtlas.  The Wikiatlas is organized around some simple principles. All maps are grouped, in the manner of a World atlas, into pages named with the title "Atlas of..." for each continent, such as: Similar page titles "Atlas of..." cover each nation or region, such as: Some of the U.S. states also have Wikiatlas pages, such as: Similarly, hundreds of other Wikiatlas pages are named as "Atlas of..." for over 200 nations and over 94 other regions of the World. Many pages in the Wikiatlas are arranged in a distinctive format: with maps displayed down the left-side of the page, and explanatory text presented to the right-hand side. The description for each nation, territory, or region is written, first, in the official language(s) of the area, followed by other languages, including English. Because the Wikiatlas is a wiki effort, developed by the Wikimedia volunteers, the level of detail and coverage varies, from section to section, of the Wikiatlas. Some groups of maps are very extensive, while other maps are rudimentary, depending on the time spent by volunteer writers. The Wikiatlas was designed, during extended discussions on the Wikimedia website, beginning in 2003.  Originally, the concept was to have an "automatic" map-generator, based on giving coordinates.  However, use of maps beyond mere location, led to the current vast collections of maps also showing economic areas, precipitation, average-temperature, political regions, earthquake fault-lines, etc.  To show a location was only one way to use maps. Many thousands of maps were collected, over the years. However, by June 2005, the Wikiatlas subproject still lacked sufficient structure to be considered viable.  In April 2006, the Wikiatlas was mentioned in an archaeology conference as a "nascent" project.  Finally, a coherent page-format was generalized during mid-2007, using page layouts stored in MediaWiki template files.  Hundreds of Wikimedia and Wikipedia editors worked on various aspects of the page descriptions in over 100 languages, including uploading and modifying the thousands of map images. Some of the maps were transferred from Wikipedia image pages. Although readership figures are not specifically available, of the complete grouping of all Wikiatlas pages, the general readership of the Wikimedia website has been based, nearly 50% (in early 2009), within the following: United States 24.5%, Germany 10.7%, India 5.7%, United Kingdom 4.0%, and Italy 3.5%.  The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wikivoyage  Travel guides Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database 