The Poor Old Lady by Lorenzo Jaramillo on the 1901 edition of the book Moral Tales for Formal Children by Rafael Pombo.|The Poor Old Lady by Lorenzo Jaramillo, 1901.]] "The Poor Old Lady is a fairy tale, best known in Latin America.  It was first published in the book Moral Tales for Formal Children in 1854 by the Colombian [[poet[Rafael Pombo]].  Due to the importance and impact of this play in Latin American   children Latin American literature of the nineteenth century, "The Poor Old Lady" became one of the most memorable characters in the Colombian and Latin American childhood.  This paradoxical but amusing story is still reprinted in compilations of children stories and nursery rhymes. "The Poor Old Lady" tells the story of a rich old lady who has everything (clothes, goods, food.).  However, in each verse of the story she is described as someone who complains about having nothing.  At the end, the poor old lady dies from all the alleged complications which she had.  In an ironic way the story ends with a particular phrase: “God grant that we can enjoy the poverty of that poor lady and die from the same ill.” The story revolves around a unique character, the poor old lady, which is based on a commonly known social stereotype. Like all tales and rhymes of Rafael Pombo, "The Poor Old Lady" teaches children about everyday aspects of human beings and society.  Women and their insatiable desire to have many shoes and dresses,  and in a deeper layer this story deals with a main aspect: the human greed and exposes that material things are not the most important stuff in life. The poor old lady explores 2 very basic human ensigns: Negative or positive ensigns? For many she was just a greedy lady that never noticed what she had was more than what many others had. But we could imagine also that an old lady like her probably would have tried along her life all kind of drinks, and meals and shoes and beds and seats, which would have made of her a truly curious and exploratory person, perhaps insatiable. The Poor old Lady  Once upon a time there was an old lady With nothing to eat, But meat, fruit, sweets, Cakes, eggs, bread and fish.  She drank broth, chocolate, Milk, wine, tea and coffee, And the poor woman could not find What to eat or what to drink.  And this old woman did not have Not a little hut in where to live But a large house With its vegetables plot and its garden  No one, nobody cared for her But Andrés and Juan Gil And eight servants and two pages with livery and bow-tie.  She never had anything to sit on But chairs and sofas With benches and cushions And springs on the back.  Not another bed than a big one More golden than an altar, With soft feather mattress A lot of silk and a lot of frills.  And this poor old lady Every year, until her end, She had one more year of age And one year less to live.  And when looking herself in the mirror, It always scared her there Another old lady with glasses, Little hat and a toupee.  And this poor old lady Did not have what to dress, But dresses of thousand styles And of thousand and thousand fabrics.  And if not for his shoes, Flip-flops, boots and booties, Barefoot on the floor was walking this wretch.  Appetite never had When finishing eating, Nor enjoyed complete health, When she was unwell.  She died of wrinkle disease, Already bent like a three, And never complained again Neither of hunger nor of thirst.  And this poor old lady When she died, she left no more, But money, jewels, lands, houses, Eight cats and a turpial bird.  Rest in peace, and God allows That we could enjoy The poverty of that poor woman And die as bad as she did.  La Pobre Viejecita  Érase una viejecita Sin nadita que comer Sino carnes, frutas, dulces, Tortas, huevos, pan y pez  Bebía caldo, chocolate, Leche, vino, té y café, Y la pobre no encontraba Qué comer ni qué beber.  Y esta vieja no tenía Ni un ranchito en que vivir Fuera de una casa grande Con su huerta y su jardín  Nadie, nadie la cuidaba Sino Andrés y Juan Gil Y ocho criados y dos pajes De librea y corbatín  Nunca tuvo en qué sentarse Sino sillas y sofás Con banquitos y cojines Y resorte al espaldar  Ni otra cama que una grande Más dorada que un altar, Con colchón de blanda pluma, Mucha seda y mucho olán.  Y esta pobre viejecita Cada año, hasta su fin, Tuvo un año más de vieja Y uno menos que vivir  Y al mirarse en el espejo La espantaba siempre allí Otra vieja de antiparras, Papalina y peluquín.  Y esta pobre viejecita No tenía que vestir Sino trajes de mil cortes Y de telas mil y mil.  Y a no ser por sus zapatos, Chanclas, botas y escarpín, Descalcita por el suelo Anduviera la infeliz  Apetito nunca tuvo Acabando de comer, Ni gozó salud completa Cuando no se hallaba bien  Se murió del mal de arrugas, Ya encorvada como un tres, Y jamás volvió a quejarse Ni de hambre ni de sed.  Y esta pobre viejecita Al morir no dejó más Que onzas, joyas, tierras, casas, Ocho gatos y un turpial  Duerma en paz, y Dios permita Que logremos disfrutar Las pobrezas de esa pobre Y morir del mismo mal The poor old lady is one of the most recognized characters of the Colombian culture, and is commonly used in elementary school textbooks, nursery rhymes, and child literature compilations. In 1977, Fernando Laverde performed the animated film version of this story, which is considered the first animated film created in Colombia. Representations of the character are used in parades and carnivals.  In recent years, the theme parks Mundo Aventura and Colombian National Coffee Park have used animatronics versions of "The Poor Old Lady".    