Cyanide poisoning is poisoning that results from exposure to a number of forms of cyanide.  Early symptoms include headache, dizziness, fast heart rate, shortness of breath, and vomiting.  This may then be followed by seizures, slow heart rate, low blood pressure, loss of consciousness, and cardiac arrest.  Onset of symptoms is usually within a few minutes.   If a person survives, there may be long-term neurological problems.  Toxic cyanide-containing compounds include hydrogen cyanide gas and a number of cyanide salts.  Poisoning is relatively common following breathing in smoke from a house fire.  Other potential routes of exposure include workplaces involved in metal polishing, certain insecticides, the medication nitroprusside, and certain seeds such as those of apples and apricots.    Liquid forms of cyanide can be absorbed through the skin.  Cyanide ions interfere with cellular respiration, resulting in the body's tissues being unable to use oxygen.  Diagnosis is often difficult.  It may be suspected in a person following a house fire who has a decreased level of consciousness, low blood pressure, or high blood lactate.  Blood levels of cyanide can be measured but take time.  Levels of 0.5–1 mg/L are mild, 1–2 mg/L are moderate, 2–3 mg/L are severe, and greater than 3 mg/L generally result in death.  If exposure is suspected, the person should be removed from the source of exposure and decontaminated.  Treatment involves supportive care and giving the person 100% oxygen.   Hydroxocobalamin (vitamin B12a) appears to be useful as an antidote and is generally first-line.   Sodium thiosulphate may also be given.  Historically cyanide has been used for mass suicide and by the Nazis for genocide.  If cyanide is inhaled it can cause a coma with seizures, apnea, and cardiac arrest, with death following in a matter of seconds.  At lower doses, loss of consciousness may be preceded by general weakness, giddiness, headaches, vertigo, confusion, and perceived difficulty in breathing. At the first stages of unconsciousness, breathing is often sufficient or even rapid, although the state of the person progresses towards a deep coma, sometimes accompanied by pulmonary edema, and finally cardiac arrest. A cherry red skin color that changes to dark may be present as the result of increased venous hemoglobin oxygen saturation. Despite the similar name, cyanide does not directly cause cyanosis. A fatal dose for humans can be as low as 1.5 mg/kg body weight.  Exposure to lower levels of cyanide over a long period (e.g., after use of improperly processed cassava roots as a primary food source in tropical Africa) results in increased blood cyanide levels, which can result in weakness and a variety of symptoms, including permanent paralysis, nervous lesions,    hypothyroidism,  and miscarriages.   Other effects include mild liver and kidney damage.   Acute hydrogen cyanide poisoning can result from inhalation of fumes from burning polymer products that use nitrile in their production, such as polyurethane,  or vinyl.  It can also be caused by breakdown of nitroprusside into nitric oxide and cyanide.  Nitroprusside may be used during treatment of hypertensive crisis.  In addition to its uses as a pesticide and insecticide, cyanide is contained in tobacco smoke and smoke from building fires, and is present in many seeds or kernels such as those of almonds, apricots, apples, oranges, and in foods including cassava (also known as yuca or manioc), and bamboo shoots. Vitamin B12, in the form of hydroxocobalamin (also spelled hydroxycobalamin), may reduce the negative effects of chronic exposure, and a deficiency can lead to negative health effects following exposure.  Cyanide poisoning is a form of histotoxic hypoxia because the cells of an organism are unable to create ATP, primarily through the inhibition of the mitochondrial enzyme cytochrome c oxidase. Cyanide is quickly metabolized to 2-amino-2-thiazoline-4-carboxylic acid and thiocyanate with a half life of 10–30 minutes as a detoxifying mechanism.  Within a few hours of single ingestion, no cyanide can be detected, since all of it is metabolized unless death occurs first. (The detection of cyanide long after supposed ingestion is an indication of a false positive in the diagnostics.)  Thiocyanate has a long half life of >24hrs, and is typically eliminated through the kidneys.  Thiocyanate possesses ~1/100th the toxicity of the cyanide parent molecule. Old methods of detection involve colorimetric assays such as the Prussian Blue test, the pyridine-barbiturate assay, also known as the "Conway diffusion method"  and the taurine fluorescence-HPLC but like all colorimetric assays these can be prone to false positives.  Lipid peroxidation, an artifact of heart attack  produces dialdehydes that cross-react with the pyridine-barbiturate assay.  Meanwhile, the taurine-fluorescence-HPLC assay used for cyanide detection is identical to the assay used to detect glutathione in spinal fluid.  Recently, cyanide and thiocyanate assays have been run with mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS), which are considered specific tests.  Since cyanide has such a short half-life, the main metabolite, thiocyanate is typically measured to determine exposure. Decontamination of people exposed to hydrogen cyanide gas only requires removal of the outer clothing and the washing of their hair.  Those exposed to liquids or powders generally require full decontamination.  The United States standard cyanide antidote kit first uses a small inhaled dose of amyl nitrite, followed by intravenous sodium nitrite, followed by intravenous sodium thiosulfate.  Hydroxocobalamin is newly approved in the US and is available in Cyanokit antidote kits.  Sulfanegen TEA, which could be delivered to the body through an intra-muscular (IM) injection, detoxifies cyanide and converts the cyanide into thiocyanate, a less toxic substance.  Alternative methods of treating cyanide intoxication are used in other countries. Cyanide binds avidly to methemoglobin, forming cyanmethemoglobin, thus releasing cyanide from cytochrome oxidase.  Treatment with nitrites is not innocuous as methemoglobin cannot carry oxygen, and severe methemoglobinemia may need to be treated in turn with methylene blue.[note 1] A different cyanide-metabolizing pathway, 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3-MPST, EC 2.8.1.2), which is more widely distributed in mammalian tissues than rhodanese, is being explored. 3-MPST converts cyanide to thiocyanate, using the cysteine catabolite, 3-mercaptopyruvate (3-MP).  However, 3-MP is extremely unstable chemically. Therefore, a prodrug, sulfanegen sodium (2, 5-dihydroxy-1,4-dithiane-2,5-dicarboxylic acid disodium salt), which hydrolyzes into 2 molecules of 3-MP after being administered orally or parenterally, is being evaluated in animal models.   The International Programme on Chemical Safety issued a survey (IPCS/CEC Evaluation of Antidotes Series) that lists the following antidotal agents and their effects: oxygen, sodium thiosulfate, amyl nitrite, sodium nitrite, 4-dimethylaminophenol, hydroxocobalamin, and dicobalt edetate ('Kelocyanor'), as well as several others.  Other commonly-recommended antidotes are 'solutions A and B' (a solution of ferrous sulfate in aqueous citric acid, and aqueous sodium carbonate, respectively) and amyl nitrite. The UK Health and Safety Executive (HSE) has recommended against the use of solutions A and B because of their limited shelf life, potential to cause iron poisoning, and limited applicability (effective only in cases of cyanide ingestion, whereas the main modes of poisoning are inhalation and skin contact).  The HSE has also questioned the usefulness of amyl nitrite due to storage/availability problems, risk of abuse, and lack of evidence of significant benefits.  It also states that the availability of Kelocyanor at the workplace may mislead doctors into treating a patient for cyanide poisoning when this is an erroneous diagnosis.  The HSE no longer recommends a particular cyanide antidote.  Qualified UK first aiders are now only permitted to apply oxygen therapy using a bag valve mask, providing they have been trained in its usage. Cyanide was stockpiled in chemical weapons arsenals in both the Soviet Union and the United States in the 1950s and 1960s.   However, as a military agent, hydrogen cyanide was not considered very effective, since it is lighter than air and needs a significant dose to incapacitate or kill. Cyanide salts are sometimes used as fast-acting suicide devices. Cyanide reacts at a higher level with high stomach acidity.  