Engels’ Pause refers to the early period of the industrial revolution, when, due to great technological upheaval, the livelihood of a large number of people worsened before society began to prosper in the longer term. The term was coined by an economic historian, Robert C. Allen, who links the idea to a view of the Britain of 1760–1913. During the first half of the nineteenth century in Britain, wage growth stagnated while output per worker nonetheless grew. After the middle of the nineteenth century, real wages began growing in line with productivity.  The Industrial Revolution in the 19th century was an all-encompassing societal transformation, which concerned everything from technology and culture to social structures and the economy. The changes caused by industrialisation meant that the principles of society had to be redesigned. It has been argued that a similar transformation is currently underway in industrialised Western nations, where digitisation and robotisation are transforming society. In the Western world, particularly the United States and the United Kingdom, the 2010s can be seen as the beginning of a similar ”pause”, in which the position of workers and the capacity of current systems to maintain the development of society are at least temporarily weakened.  For example, the think tank Demos Helsinki has written that in addition to the economy, the whole of society is changing its shape at this point in time, just like in the Industrial Revolution. During industrialisation, productivity began to increase as the pillars of society and business were designed in accordance with the new modes of operation. This eventually led to an unprecedented period of prosperity. At the same time, two new social classes were born: the working class, with a major part of 20th century politics revolving around improving their living conditions, and the middle class, whose expansion was one of the most important results of the increase in prosperity triggered by industrialisation and political reforms. Likewise, the birth of the political party landscape and urban planning in their current forms can be placed at the beginning of industrialisation. It is possible that digitisation and robotisation have initiated a decades-long period of transformation comparable to the industrial revolution, during which the basic structures of society will shake, forms of livelihood will change and wealth will be radically redistributed.  At the time of the first Engels’ Pause, there were big changes in, for example, the social security system, the party system, elementary schools, urban planning, public transport and many other areas of society, in order to enable society to respond to the transformation caused by industrialisation.  Allen, the inventor of the term “Engels’ Pause”, has also reflected on the similarities between 19th century industrialisation and the present day. He does not, however, directly use the term “Engels’ Pause” in his deliberations.  Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee have also referred to a similar phenomenon with their concept of ”the Second Machine Age”. The term refers to how people’s incomes do not increase although technology is developing and enables more efficient production. 