The World Summit on Evolution is an evolutionary biology meeting hosted at the Galapagos Islands by Universidad San Francisco de Quito (USFQ), an Ecuadorian private liberal arts university. Its focus is on recent research and new advances in our understanding of evolution and the diversity of life.  The summit hosts more than 150 participants presenting invited and submitted talks, poster sessions and scientific-outreach talks.  It has been called "The Woodstock of Evolution"  bringing together experts and students from widely different areas of evolutionary biology that rarely meet. It has attracted researchers working on evolution from over 15 different countries, including Peter and Rosemary Grant, Niles Eldredge, Antonio Lazcano, Douglas Futuyma, Lynn Margulis, Ada Yonath, William H. Calvin and Daniel Dennett. Objectives:  Through a series of presentations and discussions the participants ask the big questions: What is the evidence for the theory of evolution? How has each field and their respective approaches deepened our understating? And where are the future horizons? Bringing together international experts and students for debate helps to answer these questions and hopefully lead to decisions that will shape the direction of evolutionary science in the foreseeable future.  Subjects:  The World Summit on Evolution takes place at Galapagos Academic Institute for the Arts and Sciences (GAIAS), part of the Universidad San Francisco de Quito. GAIAS was established in 2002 at the capital town of the Galapagos province, Puerto Baquerizo Moreno, on the island of San Cristobal, one of the largest of the Galapagos Islands. Its 4.5 hectare campus is the only one located on the historically significant Galapagos islands. GAIAS was founded on the principle that would become a first-rate institution for international students and researchers. The Galapagos Islands inspired Charles Darwin to define his evolutionary theory, which revolutionized human understanding in relation to the diversity of species, including humans. His ideas were presented in On the Origin of Species. The Galapagos Islands, are important for the scientific studies that have been developed over the centuries after his visit. The Second World Summit on Evolution was launched to celebrate Charles Darwin's 200th birthday.  The 2009 summit included the first meeting of the Sociedad Iberoamericana de Biologia Evolutiva (SIBE). SIBE led to the establishment of academic and intellectual bonds between the Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking specialists in evolutionary biology. The summit adopted the theme ‘Why Does Evolution Matter’. 200-attendees met, to listen to 12 keynote speakers, 20 oral presentations and 31 posters by faculty, postdocs and graduate and undergraduate students. The Summit encompassed five sessions: evolution and society, pre-cellular evolution and the RNA world, behavior and environment, genome, and microbes and diseases. USFQ and GAIAS launched officially the Lynn Margulis Center for Evolutionary Biology and showcased the Galapagos Science Center, developed in partnership with the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.  Coordinates: 0°53′43.7″S 89°36′31.3″W﻿ / ﻿0.895472°S 89.608694°W﻿ / -0.895472; -89.608694 