In family law, effects of marriage is a legal term of art used to describe all of the rights and obligations that individuals may be subject and entitled to if they are in a common-law marriage, an annulled marriage, domestic partnership or a civil union. Thus, even if the underlying marriage is held to be void there may still be rights and obligations that continue and are recognized by court order. An example may be an annulled marriage where the court awards alimony to the weaker, poorer or less well educated spouse to allow them a period of time to go back to school or re-enter the work force. There are a few positive and negative influences of marriage on an individual.  First of all, an individual becomes excited that they will begin to share their life with someone who cares for them, and whom they feel comforted by.  They will feel excited to know that soon they will be starting a family of their own, and that they will become parents of their own children.  Research has shown that those individuals who live a stable marital relationship tend to live longer, have a better physical health, better functional health at old age and better emotional health than those in troubled marriages or who are divorced. On the other hand, there a few negative influences of marriage on an adult.  An adult can become stressed out on the fact that they will need to make compromises and sacrifices, in order to form a good marital relationship.  This can lead to a loss of hobbies, because there are restrictions about what the individuals can do; and these restrictions are for both the men and women in the relationship.  The adult may develop a sense of stress because they have a lot of responsibility ahead of them.  In addition, the individuals in the relationship can become upset by the fact that they have to make sure that their relationship has no betrayals, and it is kept loyal, throughout the couple’s lives. Healthier people in marriages may have a better chance of having a successful marriage.  A healthier person may be more appealing to their partner. Married people are generally happier than unmarried people.    It is said that marriage can affect your health in many ways. For example, having a higher income could improve the health care you receive or lower stress. In certain marriages, a spouse may help in monitoring and encouraging healthy behaviors. As well as discouraging unhealthy habits. Marriage may provide an emotional fulfilling relationship. Which would satisfy the need for a social connection. This could have implications on a person's physical and mental health. Marriage is able to reduce depressive symptoms for both men and women. As marriage is able to reduce them, divorce is able to increase them.  Marriage can also be associated with less healthier behaviors. For example, alcohol consumption, drug use, cigarette smoking, diet, and exercise.  In same sex marriages, marriage has a more positive effect than negative. Single persons in the same sex world happen to be more distressed.   In contrast to same sex marriage, heterosexuals have the lowest psychological distress. Lesbian, gays, and bisexuals who are not in a legalized marriages have the highest psychological distress.  Marriage diminishes mental health issues between people in the same sex community.  Polygamous marriages can have negative effects on women. Many women experience feelings of neglect and jealousy.   Men, often times, are not fair when it comes to equally splitting their time. Although they may desire to be, they are not. It is possible that women rarely see their husbands or rarely have their needs met. This not only applies to women, but also their children.   The severity of the negative effects depend on the tolerance and patience of the wife. In more serious cases, it can range from depression, tantrums, or illness.   In opposition to men, women are more likely to get married and remarried. Women are also more likely to get married younger.   In comparison to Hispanics and Whites, Blacks were less likely to get married and more likely to get divorced.   People who did not complete high school were less likely to get married over people who did complete high school.   As time goes on, many changes have affected divorce and marriage rates. Approximately 43% of people who get married at ages 15-16 get divorced. The rate for college marriages ending up in divorce, is a little less compared to high school. It happens to be 30%. Divorce rates decline as educational attainment increases. It is also said that people who marry later are less inclined to get divorced.     