A puisne judge or puisne justice (/ˈpjuːni/; French: puisné or puîné, "since-born" i.e. "junior") is a dated[n 1] term for an ordinary judge of a particular court. It excludes the court's chief judge(s)/chief justice(s) and any more senior judge, usually a specialist or managerial head, sitting ex officio (by virtue of their office) as a senior or special judge in the court for which they have duties below; and any technically junior judge who may have been co-opted who law reports and transcripts customarily specify as "sitting in" the more senior court or "sitting as" a judge of that court.[n 2] Puisne is a homophone of and is the root of the more common word puny meaning weak or inferior in size and so the term, spoken, bears a negative connotation; it has been of scarce use outside of the judiciary themselves since the middle of the 20th century. The term is used almost exclusively in common law jurisdictions: the jurisdiction of England and Wales within the United Kingdom; Australia, including its states and territories; Canada, including its provinces and territories; India and its constituent states; the British possession of Gibraltar; Kenya; Sri Lanka; and Hong Kong.  In Australia, the most senior judge after a chief justice in superior State courts is referred to as the "senior puisne judge".  Use is rare outside of, usually internal, court (judicial) procedural decisions as to which judge(s) will sit or has sat in hearings or appeals. The term is dated in detailed, academic case law analyses and, to varying degree direct applicability in higher courts.  The term is not used by the United States including its 56 constituent states, territories or federal district — 51 of which are common law jurisdictions, and three of which are quasi-common law jurisdictions.   Instead, the term associate justice is used by the United States Supreme Court,  the DC Court of Appeal, and by most state and territorial high courts.  The term associate judge is also used throughout the United States, but this frequently means something different from puisne or associate justice. This is in keeping with standard American legal practice of utilizing uniquely American legal terminologies within the American transition of its primarily English Common Law-based system, but which includes and respects the U.S. system's Scottish, Spanish and French influences, within the context of, and subsequent to, the American Revolution.  