CentraCare Health is an integrated health care system in Central Minnesota. The nonprofit includes six hospitals, seven senior care facilities, 18 clinics, four pharmacies and numerous inpatient and outpatient specialty care services.  Founded in 1886 by the Sisters of the Order of St. Benedict, St. Cloud Hospital is a Catholic, not-for-profit hospital located in St. Cloud, Minnesota. It offers inpatient and outpatient services, including care for heart disease and cancer, preventive health screenings and behavioral health services. The teaching hospital employs more than 4,900 staff, 450 physicians and 1,000 volunteers.  It serves 690,000 people in the surrounding 12-county area and ranks among the 100 TOP Hospitals  nationwide according to Truven Health Analytics, a national healthcare rating agency. CentraCare Health — Long Prairie serves Todd County, Minnesota and employs more than 250 staff (2014). The Minnesota Department of Health certified CentraCare Clinic — Long Prairie as a designated health care home site through November 2015  and accredited Long Prairie Hospital as an Acute Stroke Ready Hospital.  CentraCare Health — Long Prairie's long-term care facility was also among the 10 percent of Minnesota care centers awarded five stars on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Nursing Home Compare rating system.  This network serves 10,000 residents in and around western Stearns County, Minnesota and employs more than 280 staff.  The Diabetes Self-Management Education (DSME) program at CentraCare Health — Melrose is certified by the American Diabetes Association,  and Melrose Clinic is a health care home-certified site through November 2015, per Minnesota Department of Health guidelines.  CentraCare Health — Monticello has been recognized for its Diabetes Self-Management Education (DSME) program with certification from the American Diabetes Association (ADA),  as well as by Minnesota Bridges to Excellence for its optimal vascular improvement efforts.  In 2014, The American Heart Association recognized CentraCare Health — Monticello and eight other Minnesota hospitals with the Get With The Guidelines - Heart Failure Silver Quality Achievement Award.  Monticello Care Center was also among the 10 percent of Minnesota care centers awarded five stars on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Nursing Home Compare rating system.  CentraCare Health — Sauk Centre serves 10,000 residents in and around western Stearns County, Minnesota and employs more than 230 staff. In 2014, Minnesota Bridges to Excellence recognized Sauk Centre Clinic for its optimal vascular and diabetes improvement efforts,  and the Minnesota Department of Health re-certified the clinic as a designated health care home site through November 2015.  Additionally, Sauk Centre Care Center was among the 10 percent of Minnesota care centers to receive five stars from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Nursing Home Compare rating system, which rates facilities based on health inspections, nursing staff evaluations and performance on quality measures.  In 2014, Koronis Manor Care Center received the Champion of Care Award from Heartland Hospice, a national provider of home health care, hospice care, skilled nursing, memory care and post-acute care.  CentraCare Clinic operates 18 clinics in Central Minnesota and employs about 1,000 staff. CentraCare Clinic includes more than 260 providers who practice 25 medical specialties and offer outreach services in 40 communities. CentraCare eClinic provides an online diagnosis option. Clinic sites include: St. Benedict's Senior Community provides nursing services, including short stay and hospice care, as well as services for those with Alzheimer’s disease or other memory-loss conditions. Senior housing offerings include retirement, assisted living and income-based apartments. St. Benedict's has locations in both St. Cloud and Monticello, Minnesota,  and care center services include therapeutic recreation, nutrition, rehabilitation services, respite, hospice and spiritual care, social services and a beauty/barber salon. In 2014, St. Benedict's Senior Community, St. Cloud received top-tier recognition from the American Health Care Association and National Center for Assisted Living (AHCA/NCAL) Quality Initiative, a national effort focused on reducing hospital readmissions, nursing staff turnover and antipsychotic medications, as well as increasing customer satisfaction.  The St. Cloud facility was also among the 10 percent of Minnesota care centers awarded five stars on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Nursing Home Compare rating system.  CentraCare Health Foundation engages the philanthropic community in partnership to improve health and health care. The Foundation accepts charitable contributions for all CentraCare Health entities. In fiscal year 2014-2015, CentraCare Health Foundation gave more than $5 million in health care grants throughout Central Minnesota.   