The Creighton University School of Medicine is the graduate medical school at Creighton University in Omaha, Nebraska, United States, and grants the Doctor of Medicine (MD) degree. It was founded in 1892. A new satellite campus opened in 2012 at St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center in Phoenix, Arizona, becoming the first Jesuit medical program west of Omaha. All matriculating students complete preclinical coursework in Omaha, and 42 third-year students complete their clinical rotations in Phoenix, with elective options at both campuses during their fourth year. In 2017, the new primary teaching hospital will be Bergan Mercy Medical Center. Both are affiliates of CHI Health, a division of Catholic Health Initiatives. For the class of 2018, Creighton received 6771 applications and interviewed 649 students for its total class sized of 155 matriculants. The average GPA for admitted students was a 3.77, with an average MCAT of 30 (10 VR/10 PS/10 BS). The current class consists of 75 (48.4%) males and 80 (51.6%) females.  "In the Jesuit, Catholic tradition of Creighton University, the mission of the School of Medicine is to improve the human condition with a diverse body of students, faculty, and staff who provide excellence in educating students, physicians and the public, advancing knowledge, and providing comprehensive patient care."  There have been 17 deans of Creighton University School of Medicine since its founding.  ^ denotes term of acting dean The first two years of school, known as the preclinical years, focus on learning the science of medicine.  The first year consists of classes in Anatomy, Molecular and Cell Biology, Ethical and Legal Topics in Clinical Medicine, Interviewing and Physical Exam, Host Defense, Principles of Microbiology, Evidence Based Medicine, Principles of Pharmacology, Behavioral Medicine I, CU Humanities Program, Neuroscience, and Physicians Lifestyle Management.  Healer's Art is an elective course that can be taken at the beginning of the spring semester.  Following spring break, the M1 year ends with the first organ systems course, Neuroscience. The second year of medical school consists of organ systems based classes that last from 2–5 weeks each.  These courses include Infectious Diseases, Hematology/Oncology, Cardiovascular, Behavioral Medicine II, Respiratory, Renal, Endocrine/ Reproduction, Musculoskeletal/ Integument, Gastrointestinal, and Behavioral Medicine II.  There are also two concurrent classes that run throughout the year which include Case Studies in Medicine and Applied Clinical Skills.  The year ends with review and time to study for the USMLE Step 1 which is taken between the end of May and the middle of June. The third and fourth years of medical school consist of clinical rotations throughout hospitals and clinics.  There are eight third year clinical rotations that last 8 weeks each: Ambulatory Primary care, Inpatient Medicine, Psychiatry, Surgery, Pediatrics, and Obstetrics and Gynecology.  Fourth year consists of 1 4-week surgical selective, 1 4-week critical care selective, 1 4-week primary care selective or 2nd critical care selective, and an additional 24 weeks of clinical electives with no more than 8 weeks of non-clinical electives.  A senior Objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) is required prior to completion of USMLE Step 2 CS and graduation. Third year medical students are able to do family medicine rotations in rural Iowa, Nebraska, Wyoming, and Arizona.  Creighton also sends a group of third year students to San Francisco for internal medicine rotations.  Creighton University School of Medicine in Omaha and St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center have created an academic affiliation that will create a Creighton medical school presence in Phoenix. The Creighton campus in Phoenix will be the only Catholic medical school campus located west of Omaha. The affiliation will expand educational opportunities available to Creighton medical students while allowing the University's School of Medicine to recruit more students. The collaboration is also designed to strengthen the medical reputations of both institutions, promote the sharing of faculty and administrative expertise, create collaborative research opportunities, and enhance medical services for Arizona patients. Since 2005, Creighton and St. Joseph's have had an agreement that sends Creighton medical students to Phoenix for one-month rotations. Under the new affiliation, Creighton will establish a fully operational campus at St. Joseph's that will offer two full years of clinical training. Creighton expanded its entering medical class from 126 to 152 students in 2010. All students will train for their first two years in Omaha. Starting in 2012, 42 third-year students will move to Phoenix for their final two years of training, and 110 third-year students will remain in Omaha. The Phoenix campus will graduate its first students in 2014. Creighton emphasizes community service, and even though it is not required, 100% of students participate in some form of service during their time in medical school.  Creighton students operate and staff the Magis Clinic,  which provides free health care to the homeless and poor in Omaha. Between first and second year, many medical students participate in Project CURA.   CURA is a student-run program which sends medical missions to countries including Peru, Ghana, India, and Nicaragua.  CUSOM is also home to the Institute for Latin American Concern (ILAC),  which sends fourth-year medical students, as well as pharmacy and nursing students, to the Dominican Republic. Creighton Phi Chi is a co-ed medical fraternity located near campus.  Fraternity members take turns preparing nightly meals and share a large house near campus.  All residents have their own rooms, with private or shared bathrooms.  Phi Chi is known for its annual Halloween party. Coordinates: 41°15′59″N 95°57′03″W﻿ / ﻿41.26639°N 95.95083°W﻿ / 41.26639; -95.95083 