  St John of God Health Care  is Australia's third largest private hospital operator, with 23 hospitals and facilities comprising more than 3,000 beds. The group operates in Western Australia, New South Wales, Victoria, and New Zealand.  It is Australia's largest Catholic not-for-profit private hospital group . St John of God Health Care Inc is a wholly owned and controlled entity of St John of God Australia Ltd, established in 1989 to sponsor the ministry that until then was run solely by the Sisters of St John of God .  The congregation of the Sisters of St John of God was founded in 1871 in Wexford, Ireland. In 1895, Perth’s Bishop Matthew Gibney sent a request to the Sisters for help to care for people suffering from typhoid during the 1890s Gold Rush.  The first hospital established under this arrangement was at Kalgoorlie in the late 1890s followed shortly by another in the Perth suburb of Subiaco. The Sisters of St John of God went on to establish hospitals, patho logy and social outreach services in Western Australia, Victoria and New South Wales.  In 2007, St John of God Health Care merged with the services previously operated by the Hospitaller Order of St John of God in Victoria, New South Wales and New Zealand.  In 2015, St John of God Health Care expanded into public health care and took ownership of Hawkesbury District Health Service  and opened St John of God Midland Public and Private Hospitals . The symbol used by St John of God Health Care is a cross with a pomegranate.  The cross symbolises the Christian heritage of the organisation; the pomegranate, which is open to allow the seeds to scatter, symbolises self-giving and represents the organisation's values.  The pomegranate symbol was chosen by the Sisters of St John of God to reflect the order’s patron Saint, John of God, who ministered to the sick and poor in the Spanish town of Granada – ‘pomegranate’ in Spanish – in the early 16th century.  St John of God Health Care operates private and public hospitals, as well as disability, home nursing and social outreach services . St John of God operates 13 medical/surgical hospitals, one rehabilitation hospital, three psychiatric hospitals, three day hospitals and one oncology centre across Australia. It also operates home nursing services in Western Australia and Victoria, social outreach services in Western Australia, New South Wales and Victoria and supported residential facilities for people living with a disability in Victoria and New Zealand.   St John of God Health Care operates a number of social outreach and community programs to support disadvantaged and vulnerable communities, including: St John of God Health Choices provides a range of nursing and personal care services in Western Australia and Victoria.  The fundraising arm of St John of God Health Care is the St John of God Foundation, established in 1994 by the Sisters of St John of God. In February 2010, the Foundation was integrated into St John of God Health Care.  The Foundation works to raise funds for research, infrastructure and social outreach services  in response to the needs of people and communities that are not met by traditional means or government funding.  