Trinity Health is a national, not-for-profit Catholic health system operating 93 hospitals in 22 states, including 120 continuing care locations — including home care, hospice, PACE and senior living facilities. Based in Livonia, Michigan,  Trinity Health employs more than 120,000 people including 5,300 physicians.  Trinity Health operates facilities in the U.S. states of Alabama, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania and South Dakota. Trinity Health is sponsored by Catholic Health Ministries,  an entity established by the Roman Catholic Church to oversee the healing ministry and Catholic identity of Trinity Health. In May 2000, Trinity Health was formed through a merger between Holy Cross Health System in South Bend, Indiana, and Mercy Health Services in Farmington Hills, Michigan. The new organization initially comprised 25 health ministries across seven states—California, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Maryland, Michigan and Ohio—with 45,000 employees and 7,000 physicians. Trinity Health’s headquarters were established first in Farmington Hills, Michigan, and later in Novi, Michigan. At the time, Trinity Health was the 10th largest health system in the nation and the fourth largest Catholic health care system in the country, by total number of hospitals and total bed count, respectively. It operated 47 acute-care hospitals, 432 outpatient facilities, 32 long-term care facilities, and numerous home health offices and hospice programs in 10 states. In 2015, Trinity divested three of their financially struggling facilities to for-profit Prime Healthcare Services, including: St. Joseph Mercy Port Huron Hospital, Port Huron, Michigan- sold September 2015 in a $37.5 million transaction.  Mercy Suburban Hospital, East Norriton, Pennsylvania- sold in March 2015 in a $35 million transaction;  Saint Michael's Medical Center, Newark, New Jersey- sold to Prime Healthcare ina $62 million bankruptcy sale.  As a Catholic health care provider, Trinity Health hospitals embrace and follow the Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health Care Services, issued by the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops. The directives guide health care facilities in making decisions about care and services in a way that is consistent with Catholic faith beliefs. 