The European Confederation of Conservator-Restorers' Organisations (ECCO or E.C.C.O.) is a European non-governmental professional organisation aimed at safeguarding cultural heritage through the use of conservation-restoration techniques.   E.C.C.O. was established in 1991 by 14 European conservator-restorers' organisations. As of 2018 it represents close to 6,000 professionals within 22 European countries and 25 members organisations,  including one international body (International Association of Book and Papers Conservators – IADA ). E.C.C.O. represents the field of preservation of cultural heritage, both movable and immovable, with the mission:  E.C.C.O. was founded on 14 October 1991 as European federation of restorers’ associations, with the aim of working together to develop a common European project for professional recognition of the conservator-restorers’ profession.  New associations have joined as the European Union has expanded. E.C.C.O. has established principles and encouraged regulation to control access to the profession of the Conservator-Restorer, by working on professional standards and publishing guidelines for education and practice.  Projects  in which E.C.C.O. has participated include APEL (1998–2001),  CON.B.E.FOR (1999–2001),  and FULCO (1998), resulting in the Document of Vienna.  E.C.C.O. was also involved in the production of the Document of Pavia (1997),  the Namur Declaration (2015),  and the Declaration of Berlin (2016).   E.C.C.O. has produced various professional guidelines: Since the end of 2014, E.C.C.O. has followed a new strategic plan   and its proposed implementation.  Since April 2015, E.C.C.O. has been granted observer status to the plenary sessions of the Council of Europe Steering Committee on Landscape, Heritage and Culture (CDCPP).  Several projects are running concerning the legal situation of Cultural Heritage and Conservator-Restorers throughout Europe, working towards mutual recognition of the members of E.C.C.O.’s member organizations in Europe. The international network in the field of cultural heritage and conservation-restoration is being extended and intensified working with ICCROM, ENCoRE, ICOMOS, Europa Nostra, IIC, ICOM-CC,  and other organisations. As a member, E.C.C.O. is also involved in the activities of the network in the European Heritage Alliance 3.3.  Since 2017, E.C.C.O. has participated in the European Commission project Voices of Culture – Skills, Training and Knowledge Transfer: Traditional and Emerging Heritage – Structured Dialogue.  In November 2016, the E.C.C.O. 20th Anniversary Barcelona book was published.   The following have been presidents of E.C.C.O.:  