Save Our Heritage Organisation (SOHO) is a non-profit organization devoted to the preservation of the historic architecture and landmarks around the San Diego, California area. Founded in 1969, Save Our Heritage Organisation maintains several historic buildings including the Whaley House and the George W. Marston House. They are directly partnered with the National Trust for Historic Preservation. The organization's mission statement is: "Through education, advocacy, and stewardship SOHO's mission is to preserve, promote and support preservation of the architectural, cultural and historical links and landmarks that contribute to the community identity, depth and character of our region."  The organization was founded in 1969 in San Diego, California by Robert Miles Parker. He and thirty-five other members the organization wrote its constitution in April of the founding year. The constitution states that, "The general purpose for which this corporation is formed is to purchase, own, move, improve, maintain, repair, display, lease and/or operate, as museums or otherwise, various homes, stores, buildings, and other structures exemplifying different types of architectural styles found in the San Diego area for the education and benefit of the public."   The first project the organization undertook was the restoration and relocation of the Sherman-Gilbert house, a Stick-Eastlake Victorian that was set to be demolished. The house was eventually relocated to the Old Town San Diego State Historic Park area. In 1970, Save Our Heritage Organisation's Preservation Council was created. This council was instated to notify the organisation of any demolitions or sales of historic buildings going on in the San Diego area. Around the same time, Save Our Heritage Organisation worked with the Historical Site Board, the A.I.A (American Institution of Architects) and the San Diego Historical Society to purchase and restore the Villa Montezuma.  In 2009, Save Our Heritage Organisation celebrated its 40th anniversary. This milestone was marked by an award winning hour-long documentary titled Four Decades of Historic Preservation in San Diego County, by San Diego film maker and photographer Dan Soderberg. The film received a California Governor's Award for Historic Preservation. Also in 2009, they added the Marston House, a 1905 Arts & Crafts movement home, to their list of museums.  Save Our Heritage Organisation maintains multiple museums and historic buildings including: The group, for purposes of public education, has frequently created or sponsored historic home tours, lectures, and workshops. SOHO operates gift/book stores in two locations. The organization assembles an annual Most Endangered List, a local take on the National Trust's Eleven Most Endangered List. The group publishes a quarterly magazine and has recently started a book publishing wing "Our Heritage Press". SOHO regularly acts as an adviser to smaller neighborhood advocacy groups. 