Arts South Australia (previously Arts SA) Arts South Australia is responsible for managing the Government’s funding for the arts and cultural heritage. It does this by developing and administering policies and programs to build the arts and cultural heritage sector in South Australia, supporting the State’s Makers, Presenters and Collectors of arts organisations and administering grant programs and project funds for established and emerging independent artists. Arts South Australia operates with an annual budget of $140 million, less than one percent of the state budget, and employs 30 staff.  It is a division of the Department of State Development, and is overseen by the Minister for the Arts. Ministers for The Arts have included: Since 2015, Arts South Australia was headed by Peter Louca, former chief of staff to Minister Jack Snelling and one-time Labour Party candidate for the Federal Seat of Mayo.   Peter Louca instigated the re-branding Arts SA to Arts South Australia in 2016.  He was later dismissed two weeks before the first budget of the Marshall Ministry, and his position of executive director abolished entirely. Previous chief executives include Alexandra Reid and Greg Mackie. Since 2010, Arts South Australia has managed Australia's oldest intact mainland theatre, The Queens Theatre.  Following significant federal funding cuts experienced by several South Australian small to medium arts organisations in 2016,  Arts South Australia has been criticised by Arts Industry Council for South Australia for not providing enough financial support to the independent arts sector.    In 2016 Arts South Australia established the campaign "Made In Adelaide" to export and promote South Australian artists at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival.  After the Liberal Party came into government in 2018, the role of Arts South Australia was focused on provision of policy advice, with other administrative functions being incorporated into the Department of Premier and Cabinet, and significant aspects of the Arts South Australia portfolio being redirected to the Minister for Education and the Minister for Training and Further Education . These changes have been seen as a "dismantling" of Arts South Australia .  Statutory Authorities reporting to the Arts South Australia include: As of August 2018, the following organisations were moved from Arts South Australia to the Department of Education : As of August 2018, the following organisations were moved from Arts South Australia to the Department of Industry and Skills : 