The Ministry of Culture of Ukraine (Ukrainian: Міністерство культури України) or MinCult is the main state authority in the system of central government of Ukraine responsible for country's cultural development and history preservation. It is fully based on the former Ministry of Culture and Tourism (that was dissolved in 2010). The origin of the Ukrainian ministry could be traced to the earliest creation of the General Secretariat of Ukraine where a department of culture was created in 1917 within the Secretariat of People's Education headed by Ivan Steshenko. It was created on same principles that existed during the Russian Empire where cultural life in Ukraine was administrated by the Russian Ministry of Enlightenment (see Ministry of National Education (Russian Empire)). In May of 1918 there was established Ministry of People's Education and Arts headed by Mykola Vasylenko. Later there was Ministry of Art headed by Dmytro Antonovych (December 1918 - February 1919) that was disbanded soon after the Soviet invasion of Ukraine.  There also existed Ministry of Confessions that was first created during the government of Skoropadsky on April 30, 1918 and was at first headed by Mykola Vasylenko. After the fall of Skoropadsky government Ministry of Confessions (April 30, 1918 - December 14, 1918) was transformed into Administration of Cults at first and later into Ministry of Denomination (February 13, 1919) both headed by Ivan Lypa. One of the most noticeable ministers however was Ivan Ohiyenko. With advancing Bolsheviks in Ukraine, there also was established the People's Commissariat of People's Education that took over most of culture life in Ukraine.  On 25 February 1919 by its decree, the Council of People's Commissariats of UkrSSR (CPC of UkrSSR) established Cinema Committee within its People's Commissariat of People's Education  and registering all electro-theatres in Ukraine. On 19 February 1921 the CPC of UkrSSR issued statement obligating its People's Commissariat of People's Education to use all of artwork for purpose of communist agitation (propaganda). Previously by decree of 14 December 1920, the CPC of UkrSSR established Main Political and Educational Committee within its People's Commissariat of People's Education.  Another decree of CPC of UkrSSR of 11 March 1921 "About purchase for state museums museum valuables from private individuals" initiated creation of state museums which were previously "nationalised" by Bolsheviks "in the name of the Revolution" in form of simple expropriation. Along with that there was established All-Ukrainian Committee in Conservation of artworks, artifacts, and natural landmarks. On 19 April 1921 CPC of UkrSSR issued decree "About peasants homes" (Ukrainian: селянські будинки, selyanski budynky) establishing centers of political education (propaganda) in rural areas. On 22 November 1922, on efforts of people's commissar Hrynko, the Central Executive Committee of Ukraine adopted its statement "About enacting Code of Laws about People's Education" (Ukrainian: Про введення в дію Кодексу законів про народну освіту) which defined the network of cultural and art institutions, their framework of functioning, and mechanisms of administration. The ministry consists of the central body of ministry headed by its leadership composed of a minister, his/hers first deputy, and other deputies in assistance to the minister. Part of ministry compose several state administrations that are specialized in certain field and coordinate operations of government companies. The ministry also administers a network of museums, libraries, cultural centers, regional centers of folklore, national cultural heritage sites, various artistic education in schools and universities, has own research centers and institutions, promotes circus, musical and theatric arts in regions. The ministry also maintains the registry of fixed landmarks of cultural heritage (national and local). On 11 December 2012 there were 4,719 such landmarks, 891 of national significance and the other 3,828 of local significance.  Note: while most of the educational state institutions are administered by the Ministry of Education, most arts educational state institutions are administered by the Ministry of Culture. Bohutskyi, Yu. Ukrainian society in aspect of its organization and self-organization (УКРАЇНСЬКЕ СУСПІЛЬСТВО В АСПЕКТІ ОРГАНІЗАЦІЇ ТА САМООРГАНІЗАЦІЇ). Theory and History of Culture (ТЕОРІЯ ТА ІСТОРІЯ КУЛЬТУРИ). 