 The South Street Headhouse District  (also referred to as South Street, even though it also includes Pine Street and only spans the streets east of Broad Street ) in Philadelphia is an area with more than 300 stores  which includes a diverse urban mix of shops, bars and eateries.  The neighborhood is generally bounded between Front Street and Seventh Street and includes Pine Street and is known for its "bohemian", "punk", and generally "alternative" atmosphere.  It is one of Philadelphia's largest tourist attractions.    In 2014, the area's population was 27,805.  The average age for the neighborhood is 34.9, with 57.44% of the population between the ages of 18 to 44 and 62.3% of the population are renters with the average income of $71,856.  According to City Data, the area has 1,248 males and 1,196 females.  The district spans the following areas:  The neighborhood significantly overlaps with Queen Village, Washington Square West, Bella Vista, and Society Hill. Originally the southern border of William Penn's 1682 city plan and officially named Cedar Street until 1854 , eastern South Street has been the center of local Swedish, Dutch, Jewish, Irish, and Italian immigrant culture as well as a vibrant African-American neighborhood beginning in the early 1800s.  Because Quaker doctrine opposed live performances within the city limits, the first permanent theater in America was built on the south side of the street at Leithgow Street , giving birth to a tradition of Philadelphians seeking out entertainment on South Street that continues today. In 1854, the same year that South Street officially became South Street, the city boundaries were redrawn to expand the area of Philadelphia to 130 square miles . Despite no longer being a literal border, South Street remained a liminal space where cultures collided. The African-American theater district of western South Street, the Jewish shops, nearby Italian businesses, and visitors from other parts of the city combined to create a place described by William Gardner Smith in his 1954 book South Street as a lively zone of contact between many different ethnicities. From the early 1960s to the 1970s, South Street was filled with clubs and bars that fostered a growing nightlife. During this time, the neighborhood also served as an artists' haven and a hub of Beat subculture and, later, 1960s counterculture, bohemianism, and the hippie movement in Philadelphia, establishing a lasting association of South Street with avant-garde and alternative subcultures.       It was not uncommon for South Philadelphians to "bar-hop" across the clubs, listening to live bands along the way. This community of fans helped attract recording contracts for many artists, including Kenn Kweder, the "bard of South Street"; George Thorogood; and Robert Hazard. From the mid to late 1970s into the 1980s, South Street's reputation as a musical, artistic, and countercultural hub was further solidified as it became the center of Philadelphia's punk scene and punk and alternative rock music communities, with venues such as JC Dobbs and stores such as Zipperhead catering to the burgeoning scene.     In 1976, Jim's Steaks of West Philadelphia  expanded to 400 South Street, becoming the notable restaurant's first franchise.  In the late 1980s, South Street became one of the city's main tourist attractions anchored by the Theatre of Living Arts (TLA) which began as an arthouse theater and then was reborn as a live music venue. Tourists flocked to the South Street's nightlife and the "neighborhood" community aspect was gradually lost. South Street remains a popular hangout area for teens, college students, and twentysomethings with its assortment of bars, take-out eateries, sex shops, gift shops, and retailers catering to hip hop fashion, punk fashion, and/or urban culture.  A few restaurants and independent boutiques targeting a slightly more mature clientele are interspersed with these businesses, such as Accent on Animals, a pet supply store, and South Street Souvlaki, a Greek restaurant. Starting in the late 1990s, the street saw the establishment of various chain stores, including Johnny Rockets, two Starbucks locations, Häagen-Dazs, Rita's Italian Ice, Super Fresh, Whole Foods, CVS, and Fine Wine & Good Spirits.  South Street is adjacent to Headhouse Square, a notable plaza with various shops and restaurants. Artist Isaiah Zagar has made South Street his home since the late 1960s and his mosaic work can be seen in multiple places along South Street including his large installation Philadelphia's Magic Gardens between 10th Street and 11th Street. The Orlons, a music group from Philadelphia, released a 1963 song based on (and entitled) South Street, which begins with the line "Where do all the hippies meet?"  Another Philadelphia-area band, The Dovells also mentioned South Street in their 1963 hit "You Can't Sit Down". Philadelphia band Need New Body has a song called "So St RX" which is about South Street. Fear's 1982 song "I Don't Care About You", which name-checks the neighborhoods associated with the punk movement in the United States in the early 1980s, begins with the line, "I'm from South Street Philadelphia" (also relevant to writer/vocalist Lee Ving who was born in the city). The Dead Milkmen's 1988 song "Punk Rock Girl" makes references to Zipperhead (a punk rock/alternative clothing and accessories store) and The Philadelphia Pizza Company., Ltd, both of which were located on South Street. Portions of the video for this song were filmed on South Street. Zipperhead has since relocated to South 4th St. and been renamed to Crash Bang Boom. A few years after Zipperhead founder and building landlord Rick Millan sold the business to local musician Rob Windfelder of the rock band Live Not On Evil and his business partner Stefanie Jollis, the store was relocated and renamed. Green Day made their Philadelphia debut on January 23, 1993 at J.C. Dobbs on the 300 block of South Street. The band had not yet signed with Reprise and the club oversold the 125-capacity venue. Late arrivals paid to enter the second floor and watch the live video feed. During the third song of the set, a young woman had a seizure, the show was halted, and police ended the concert and cleared the venue.  Boyz II Men's debut song and video "Motownphilly" was partially filmed on South Street and the location is referenced in the song. Singer songwriter Jake Laufer's 2009 rockabilly song, "Center City," about a guy from Tennessee coming north to meet up with his Philly-based girlfriend, features several South Street landmarks, including Lorenzo's Pizza and Famous 4th Street Deli. The HBO comedy special The Diceman Cometh, starring comedian Andrew Dice Clay, was recorded at South Street's Theater of the Living Arts (and was mentioned in the special by Clay). The block of South Street between 5th and 6th Street is shown in the opening credits of the FX Network show "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia". Philadelphia native Will Smith makes mention in his song "Getting Jiggy with it" in the lyric "livin' that life some consider a myth, rock from south street to one two fifth". South Street is served by the William M. Meredith School. 