Edtechtalk is an award-winning  community of educators interested in discussing and learning about the uses of educational technology.  Part of the Worldbridges network of homegrown webcasting, several live shows are webcast each week. During shows, listeners can use any common media player (i.e. Windows Media Player, RealPlayer, or iTunes) to listen to the discussion and use the chat room to make comments and ask questions. It is also possible to join in the discussion using Skype or (sometimes) a U.S. based teleconference. Edtechtalk is a community of people interested in the use of technology to improve teaching and learning at all levels of education throughout the world. As a Worldbridges community, it embraces the values of collaboration and inclusiveness. The community fosters the development of networks of educators who come together to collaborate, debate policies and practices, and support one another in their professional and personal use of educational technology.  Edtechtalk "collate the work of a variety of professionals to create snapshots of the knowledge of a particular field as it is seen at a given time"   Edtech Weekly The 'main' show, hosted by Dave Cormier, John Schinker,  Jeff Lebow, and Jennifer Maddrell features the latest news from the world of edtech and the edublogosphere. 21st Century Learning Webcast Independent School educators, Alex Ragone, Arvind Grover, and Vinnie Vrotney explore the intersection of education and technology on this weekly show.  . Women of Web 2.0 Women of Web 2.0 began webcasting weekly internet radio shows in October 2006. Its intended audience is for educators who are interested in using web technologies in innovative ways. The webcasts are live events held on Tuesday evenings at 9 PM EST and are archived on the Edtechtalk.com site as podcasts. The show's hosts are Jennifer Wagner, Sharon Peters and friends, who are educators at all levels of education. Teachers Teaching Teachers Teachers Paul Allison and Susan Ettenheim are mainly responsible for this blog, podcast, and webcast.  Every Wednesday evening at 9:00 EST (Americas) we get together and talk about our teaching. These conversations are archived as a podcast on this blog. Objectives include searching for the most effective practices in technology, studying research, and improving knowledge of new media by using it. There are two purposes: developing teacher knowledge and leadership in schools and districts and putting this knowledge and leadership to work to improve student online reading and writing through the use of blogs, wikis, podcasts and webcasts. EdTech Brainstorms Hosted by Doug Symington. Free-form discussions where educators Skype in (or call in) to discuss what they're working on and thinking about. The Edtech cyber faculty lounge. Conversations This weekly show, hosted by Lisa Parisi and Maria Knee, focuses on an educational topic each week. Each Sunday morning at 11:30 AM EST (Americas), Parisi and Knee are joined by a variety of educators around the world to discuss such issues as improving the education system, homework, and parents in the classroom. Teachers are Talking Lisa Parisi, Susan van Gelder, and Cheryl Lykowski host this monthly show.  For each show, they are joined by a guest who discusses his or her specialty in the educational field. Parents as Partners This bi-weekly show is focused on how to connect parents and teachers in ways that benefit students and build effective working relationships. The show is hosted by Lorna Costantini, Matt Montagne, Cindy Seibel and Cindy Zautcke. On the 1st and 3rd Monday of each month parents and teachers share their experiences on how to use web 2.0 tools and other good practices to connect parents and teachers. Winner of 2008 Edublog award for best use of audio in education.  