The Hasbro Comic Book Universe (HCBU) is an American comic book franchise and shared universe created and published by IDW Publishing, based on various properties of the toy company Hasbro. Following the bankruptcy of Dreamwave Productions in 2005, IDW picked up the Transformers comic book license and hired veteran writer Simon Furman to craft a rebooted continuity based on the Generation 1 toy line, similar to what Marvel Comics did through Ultimate Marvel.  On May 2008, IDW obtained the G.I. Joe comic book license from Devil's Due Publishing.  On 2016, IDW gained the rights of Rom, Micronauts, Action Man and M.A.S.K. That same year, IDW announced the Hasbro Reconstruction campaign, in order to converge those brands in the same continuity, starting with the crossover event Revolution.  On 2017, IDW gained the rights of Visionaries, with most of its characters debuting after the crossover event First Strike.  In April 2018, IDW announced the Hasbro Comic Book Universe would conclude with the limited series Transformers: Unicron on October 2018.  On August 2018, IDW President Greg Goldstein announced a new reboot for various Hasbro-based comics for an unspecified date on 2019.  IDW has never established a shared continuity between its own Transformers and G.I. Joe comics, even during the crossover event Infestation, where they both exist in separate universes, alongside other licensed franchises. While The Transformers has only participated in Infestation, the miniseries The Transformers: Hearts of Steel, also set in its own alternate timeline, has participated in Infestation 2. On the other side, G.I. Joe participated in both events. Other brands also exist in Hasbro Comic Book Universe, e.g. Jem and the Holograms, Clue and Army Ants, but they didn't crossover during Revolution and First Strike due to reasons of tone. IDW's versions of My Little Pony, Dungeons & Dragons, Magic: The Gathering and Stretch Armstrong exist "outside" this universe altogether. Marvel and IDW's miniseries New Avengers/Transformers guest starred the New Avengers, but the story was set in this continuity instead of the Marvel Universe. 