 Alone yet Not Alone is a 2013 American historical adventure drama film directed by Ray Bengston and co-directed by George D. Escobar (Advent Film Group), starring Kelly Greyson, Jenn Gotzon, and Clay Walker. The film gets its title from the German hymn "Allein, und doch nicht ganz allein" which the Leininger family frequently sang together,  and is based on Tracy Leininger Craven's novel of the same name and the true story of Barbara and Regina Leininger, who were forcibly taken from their Pennsylvanian German immigrant family's home by the Delaware Indians in the 1755 Penn's Creek Massacre during the French and Indian War.  The film is frequently labeled as a Christian movie.  It was awarded the 5 Dove seal of approval from The Dove Foundation.  Alone yet Not Alone also received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Original Song in 2013 for its title song, "Alone yet Not Alone", though the nomination was rescinded two weeks later.  The film was given a limited release on September 27, 2013, in nine markets and grossed $125,775 in its opening weekend.  By the end of its three-week run on October 11, Alone yet Not Alone had grossed $133,546 in the domestic box office,  with a respectable per screen average (combining theater ticket sales with Seatzy ticket sales) of $13,396. The film received a wider release on June 13, 2014. The title song was performed by well-known evangelical Christian author Joni Eareckson Tada  and written by Bruce Broughton and Dennis Spiegel. It was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song at the 86th Academy Awards,   but the nomination was rescinded on January 29, 2014, after the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences found that Broughton, a former governor and current executive committee member of the music branch of the Academy, had improperly contacted other branch members.   "No matter how well-intentioned the communication, using one's position as a former governor and current executive committee member to personally promote one's own Oscar submission creates the appearance of an unfair advantage", said Cheryl Boone Isaacs, Academy President.  While not the first time in the history of the awards a nomination has been revoked, it is the first time the Academy has cited ethical grounds for doing so, and the first time it has done so to a scripted American-produced feature film.   Broughton responded that there was a double standard in the industry, alleging that his actions of sending out "70 or so emails" was no different from Academy Awards president Cheryl Boone Isaacs' involvement in films such as The Artist and The King's Speech as an Academy governor.  Not everyone agreed with the Academy's actions.    