 Alpha Dog  is a 2006 American crime drama film written and directed by Nick Cassavetes, first screened at the Sundance Film Festival on January 27, 2006, with a wide release the following year on January 12, 2007. Starring Emile Hirsch, Justin Timberlake, Ben Foster, Shawn Hatosy, Anton Yelchin, Olivia Wilde, Amanda Seyfried with Harry Dean Stanton, Sharon Stone, and Bruce Willis, the film is based on the true story of the kidnapping and murder of Nicholas Markowitz in 2000.  Johnny Truelove is a young drug dealer living in Southern California in late 1999. His father, Sonny, supplies him with marijuana, which Johnny distributes to his gang of drug-dealing friends, which include Frankie Ballenbacher, Johnny’s right-hand man; Tiko Martinez, the muscle of the group; Elvis Schmidt, a ridiculed member of the group who is indebted to Johnny; and Jake Mazursky, a short-tempered drug-dealer who is also in debt with Johnny. Jake makes a failed attempt at borrowing money from his father Butch and step-mother Olivia, who themselves are dealing with their other rebellious son: Zack Mazursky, Jake’s younger half-brother who looks up to him. That night, a fight breaks out between Jake and Johnny when the former tries to pay Johnny only part of his debt. After back and forth escalating retaliation, Johnny brings Frankie and Tiko to go and confront Jake in person, but when they arrive at his apartment he is nowhere to be found. As they leave, they find Zack, who had just run away from home, walking on the side of the road. Johnny impulsively orders the gang to kidnap him with the intent of holding on to him until Jake pays his debt. Wanting a break from his home life, Zack makes no effort to escape. Johnny leaves Frankie to watch Zack and he offers Zack a chance to leave, but Zack declines, not wanting to cause any problems for his brother. Zack stays with Frankie at his father's house and the two develop a friendship over drinking and doing chores around Frankie’s house. The next day, Zack ingratiates himself with Frankie's friends Keith, Julie, and Susan, although the latter is the only one who seems concerned. Frankie meets with Johnny and grows nervous when Johnny tells him that they could get in serious trouble for the kidnapping. Frankie suggests they pay Zack to keep quiet about the kidnapping upon going home; Johnny agrees. However, the next day after a threatening phone call from Jake, and a phone conversation from his lawyer who tells him he could face life in prison for the kidnapping, he decides the risk of ending up dead or in jail is too great to let Zack go. Johnny calls Elvis and offers to erase his debt if he kills Zack, giving him a submachine gun. Frankie and his friends still believe Zack will be returning home that night and throw a raucous going away party that night at a hotel. Zack has a good time at the party, and later goes skinny dipping with Julie and her friend Alma, which leads to a threesome. After the party Julie gives Zack her number, and Alma gives him a goodbye kiss on the cheek. Elvis arrives at the hotel where Zack is waiting to be picked up, and he and Frankie begin to argue when he reveals Johnny sent him there to kill Zack. While Frankie runs off, Elvis goes inside and introduces himself to Zack. Elvis then takes Keith out to help him dig a grave in a secluded part of the nearby mountains. Frankie returns to the hotel and offers Zack a final opportunity to escape, but believing that he will be returning home soon, Zack prefers to wait for Elvis. When Elvis and Keith return to the hotel, Elvis and Frankie go outside to talk. Frankie, reluctant because of the friendship he has formed with Zack, finally relents when Elvis tells him they could face life in prison, in addition to problems with Jake and Johnny, if Zack tells someone what happened. Meanwhile, Sonny, Cosmo (Johnny's godfather), and their lawyer confront Johnny, who stubbornly refuses to call off the hit, even when given the offer to spend a minimal amount of jail time with a plea deal. Zack and the others arrive at the grave site. Zack is not aware of what's going on but grows suspicious when a saddened Keith tells Frankie he can't go through with it. When Zack sees the grave, he begins to break down, and begs them to let him go. Frankie tells Elvis one last time that they shouldn’t do it, but Elvis insists on following through. Frankie calms Zack down and proceeds to tie Zack up with duct tape. Elvis then knocks Zack into the grave with the shovel and shoots him to death. Despite the seclusion of the spot, Zack’s body is eventually found days later. Certain parts of the film are intercut with scenes from interviews, conducted by detective Tom Finnegan, of people connected to Johnny and his group. The film also makes note of the multiple witnesses—ranging from onlookers, partygoers, friends, and family members—that saw Zack in between his initial kidnapping and eventual murder, which total up to 32. The epilogue shows the aftermath of the crime. Olivia, now suffering from obesity and depression, talks candidly to Finnegan about her failed suicide attempts and the loss she has experienced from her son's death. Susan angrily confronts Frankie over Zack's death and goes to the authorities. Elvis is caught while trying to secure a ride out of town. Johnny flees the city as far as Albuquerque and arrives at the house of an old classmate, who drives him back to Cosmo's house, where he enters and is not seen again. Tiko, Keith, and Frankie are all arrested and serve their respective sentences—Tiko is convicted of kidnapping and sentenced to nine years in prison; Keith is convicted of second degree murder for digging Zack's grave and remains at the California Youth Authority until the age of 25; Frankie is convicted of aggravated kidnapping of special circumstances and receives a life sentence with the possibility of parole after 7 years; Elvis is convicted of kidnapping and first degree murder, currently on Death Row in San Quentin State Prison. Finnegan interviews Sonny and Cosmo, asking Sonny how his son was able to escape authorities for four years without help, but Sonny assures him he doesn't know where his son is. On screen text reveals that in 2005, after over five years of being on America's most wanted list, Johnny is finally found and arrested in Paraguay. Johnny is in California awaiting trial, and, if proven guilty, faces the death penalty. During filming, Santa Barbara County Deputy District Attorney Ronald J. Zonen provided copies of many documents on the case and served as an unpaid consultant to the film, citing his desire to have Hollywood captured. Zonen prosecuted Hollywood’s co-defendants and was poised to prosecute Hollywood. After Hollywood was captured in Saquarema, Brazil, and subsequently returned to the United States, his defense lawyer claimed Zonen had a conflict of interest; the California Court of Appeal for the Second District ruled on October 5, 2006, that Zonen should be recused from further involvement in prosecuting Hollywood because of his disclosure of the files and work on the film.   The California Supreme Court subsequently reversed that holding,   but Zonen was replaced as lead prosecution attorney by Deputy District Attorney Joshua Lynn.  Hollywood's attorney James Blatt tried to block the release of the film.  After the delay, Hollywood's trial started May 15, 2009, with the defense's opening statements saying Hollywood was not involved with the murder.  In his opening statement, Lynn described Hollywood as "a ruthless coward."  On July 8, 2009, Hollywood was convicted of simple kidnapping and first-degree murder with special circumstances and was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole.  During its opening weekend, Alpha Dog grossed $6,412,775 and was #7 at the box office.  The film closed on February 22, 2007 after grossing $15,309,602 domestically, and totaled $32,145,115 worldwide over its six-week release.  The film received mixed reviews; out of 143 critics, 55% of them were positive  with the consensus being, "a glossy yet unflinching portrait of violent, hedonistic teenagers. Bruce Willis and Sharon Stone chew the scenery, while Justin Timberlake gives a noteworthy performance." Yelchin was praised as "able to bring all of the conflicting emotions of Zack," and conveying all of it beautifully.  Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "B-" on an A+ to F scale.  Susan Markowitz attempted suicide three times.  Jeff Markowitz elaborated, "She is so tortured by what happened that she has tried to take her own life. The last thing that either of us want is to see this picture. How would any loving parent feel about a Hollywood movie that glamorizes their son's death and allows celebrities to cash in on a brutal, evil murder?"  Nonetheless, both Susan and Jeff Markowitz attended the film's premiere, and Susan stated she was moved by Anton Yelchin's portrayal of Zack (Nick). After the screening, she embraced Sharon Stone, who played Olivia (Susan).  BSFC Award Ben Foster  For 3:10 to Yuma MTV Movie Award Justin Timberlake  Teen Choice Award Justin Timberlake  For Black Snake Moan Young Hollywood Award Ben Foster  Alpha Dog was released on DVD on May 1, 2007. It includes a DVD/HD DVD combo package where both forms are included in one box. DVD sales gathered $12,324,535 in revenue from 743,036 units sold.  It was released on the Blu-ray format on July 13, 2010. A soundtrack was released by Milan Records on January 9, 2007.   