  Aramm ( pronunciation (help·info)) (English: Good deed) is a 2017 Tamil-language drama film written and directed by  Gopi Nainar. It features Nayanthara in the lead role as a district collector, with Ramachandran Durairaj and Sunu Lakshmi in supporting roles. Featuring music composed by Ghibran and cinematography by Om Prakash, the film began production in mid-2016 and had a theatrical release on 10 November 2017. Post-release, the film won appreciation from film critics and performed well commercially.  In July 2016, it was reported that actress Nayanthara had quietly started and almost finished filming for a project where she would portray as district collector directed by newcomer Minjur Gopi. Gopi had earlier garnered media attention during the release AR Murugadoss's Kaththi (2014), where he claimed that the pair had stolen his stories to make their films. Gopi had narrated the story of Aramm, an episode from the life of a District Collector to many producers but they were reluctant to come forward and make the film. Gopi zeroed in on the Collector's part because he knew the film would be critical of the government machinery, but stated he did not assign a gender to the Collector until Nayanthara accepted to work on the film.  Gopi had managed to get access to Nayanthara, after being recommended to her by director Sarkunam.  The film was predominantly shot in Chennai and around Appanur near Paramakudi, with Ramesh and Vignesh of Kaaka Muttai, Ramachandran Durairaj and Sunu Lakshmi also portraying pivotal roles, while Om Prakash was assigned as the film's cinematographer.   Filming work for the project was finished in early October 2016, with the film still being untitled.  The title and first look poster of the film was revealed on 18 November 2016, coinciding with Nayanthara's birthday.  The team actively chose to promote the actress as the main selling point of the film, rather than the other members of the cast.   Nayanthara, who usually does not take part in promotions for her film, agreed to promote the film because she felt the film had a relevant social message.   Gopi also revealed that the actress was heavily involved during the making of the film and operated like an assistant director.  She also prevented Gopi from making any changes to the script to cater to her fan following.  During the post-production phase of the film, Ghibran worked with the City of Prague Philharmonic Orchestra to record the background score.  The film's music was composed by Ghibran, while the audio rights of the film was acquired by Think Music. The album released on 28 July 2017 and featured three tracks. Aramm was released on 10 November 2017 across Tamil Nadu and won positive reviews from film critics.  Sify's critic wrote Aramm is a "brilliant film that inspires you to wake up and react", adding it was "compelling, moving and quite unlike anything else, you’re likely to watch this year".  Reviewer Manoj Kumar of The Indian Express called the film "hard-hitting", adding "while Nayanthara remains in forefront of the action fast developing, the narration does not deviate from its straight path to meet the approval of her star status".  Similarly, a critic from The New Indian Express, called it "a powerful film that doesn’t flinch from asking tough questions", while the Times of India called it "effective".   Film reviewer Sreedhar Pillai of Firstpost wrote Aramm is "a triumph of honest writing", and added "Nayanthara shows why she's called Kollywood's 'Lady Superstar'".  The commercial success of the film prompted Gopi Nainar to announce a sequel which would begin in 2018 with Nayanthara reprising the lead role.  