  Aravindhan (Tamil: அரவிந்தன்) is a 1997 Indian Tamil film written and directed by newcomer T. Nagarajan, starring Sarath Kumar, Parthiban, Nagma, Oorvasi, Prakash Raj and Visu in lead and pivotal roles. The film marks the debut of noted music composer Yuvan Shankar Raja, legendary musician Ilaiyaraaja's youngest son, and the debut of cinematographer R. Rathnavelu. The film flopped miserably at the box-office.  The film is based on the 1968 Kilvenmani massacre, in which 44 people were burnt alive.   sharat kumar is police high post by exam clearing. But after he see his friend partipan, shown as naxalite, die by police shooting, sharat kumar start fight against police and the corrupt politicians. Sharat kumar gets supported by the people for his strict fight against corruption. Nagma loves sharat kumar but the father of nagma don't accept the relation. The police want to put sharat kumar in jail for the politicians. So sharat kumar go in hiding. On the way sharat hides in urvashi home. The police tries to catch sharat but same time thinks urvashi tried to give shelter to sharat so urvashi father dies. Now sharat understand that he has to save urvashi so takes her with him to a factory area to stay. Sharat works in the factory and life goes smooth for sharat as he marries urvashi and get a child. Once in factory the manager don't give fair price to the workers which sharat protest and beats the manager very poorly. The factory people now identifies sharat true identity as naxalite. The police come in search of sharat. Sharat finally surrenders in court. In the jail sharat writes lot of anticorruption articles. This gives sharat wide public support to get elected as a minister. The corrupt politicians wants to avoid this uprising and hires a gunman to shoot sharat. During a stage speaking with lots of people around, the gunman shoots and kills sharat. Thus ending the good person from becoming minister. The film score and the soundtrack were composed by film composer Ilaiyaraaja's youngest son, Yuvan Shankar Raja, who made his debut in this film. T. Siva, the producer of the film, after hearing some of Yuvan Shankar Raja's tunes, asked him to compose a trailer music and after being impressed of it, gave Yuvan Shankar the assignment to compose the entire film score including a soundtrack for that film.  Yuvan Shankar Raja was 18 at the time of the release and one of the youngest composers ever in the industry.  The soundtrack, released in late 1996, features 7 tracks.  