  Arunagirinaathar (தமிழ்: அருணகிரிநாதர், Aruna-giri-naadhar) is a 1964 Tamil biographical film directed by T. R. Ramanna and produced by B. S. Moorthy. The film's script was written by Sakthi T. K. Krishnasamy.  Soundtrack was composed by G. Ramanathan and T. R. Papa. The film stars T. M. Soundararajan in the titular role with M. R. Radha, B. S. Saroja , Sharadha, C. Lakshmi Rajyam and Master Raghunath portraying supporting roles.  Arunagiri (T. M. Soundararajan) was born in the town of Thiruvannamalai in Tami Nadu. Arunagiri was attracted to the pleasures of the flesh and spent his youth in pursuing a life of debauchery. He frequently visited the  devadasi Maragatham (C. Lakshmi Rajyam). His sister Aadhi Lakshmi (B. S. Saroja) tries to reform her brother, Arunagiri, so she arranged his marriage with Gnana Valli (Sharadha). And Arunagiri was feeling unhappy in his married life. He neglects his wife and continues in his bad ways. He persuades his sister  to sell all their property and their house to get money for his dissipation. He reduces himself, his wife and sister to dire poverty. His sister gave him what ever money she earned herself, to make her brother happy. It was said that since he was used to enjoying his life in debauchery, he started to suffer from  leprosy and people were avoiding him. There came a time when his sister had no money to meet his demands for his dissipated life. Arunagiri said he was going to end his life because of this. To prevent Arunagiri from killing himself, his sister says that he should sell her in order to have money for prostitutes. Since he had leprosy,  prostitutes could avoid him and  if that were the case, Arunagiri's sister says she will offer herself to him, to stop Arunagiri from committing suicide. Hearing this shocks him to the core and changes his outlook. Till that time, he was uncaring about the consequences to his family because of his depraved lifestyle. Arunagiri feels guilty and attempts suicide by jumping off a temple tower when Lord Murugan himself, disguised as a pious young man saves him, cures his leprosy, shows him a path of religious devotion and initiates him to compose the Thiruppugazh, an anthology of songs dedicated to Lord Murugan.  The familiar tale of Arunagirinathar had been made into a film twice in 1937 and was produced for the third time in 1964, after a few decades by the noted director T. R. Ramanna for Baba Art Productions. Sharadha, the multilingual actress played his wife and M. R. Radha and R. S. Manohar played two egoistic persons who face defeat at the hands of the saint. C. Lakshmi Rajyam, a dancer played  the role of the vamp. The brilliant music, particularly for the hymn Mutthai Tharu  was much acclaimed. Music was composed by G. Ramanathan and T. R. Papa. Lyrics were written by T. K. Krishnasamy.  Randor Guy stated in The Hindu, "The first offering begins with Mutthai Tharu.This hymn with tongue-twisting lyrics in Tamil is difficult to even read at leisure and T. M. Soundararajan created history by recording it in a single take!". It is composed in raaga Shanmugapriya. T. M. Soundararajan recalls that the tune was composed by T. R. Papa and before the recording he called on the religious preacher Kirupanandha Variyar who explained every word of the song and T. M. Soundararajan had rehearsals for an entire day before he recorded it. An amazing performance indeed, not surprisingly the song is one of the immortal melodies of Tamil cinema.  