 Attahasa is a 2013 Kannada biopic film directed by A. M. R. Ramesh, based on the notorious forest brigand Veerappan. It was co-released in Tamil as Vana Yuddham (English: Forest war).  Kishore plays the role of Veerappan in the film, whilst featuring Arjun Sarja and Vijayalakshmi and Lakshmi Rai in the lead roles. After much delay in the theatrical release, the film was opened to screens on 14 February 2013 all across Southern states of India,  to positive reviews.     In March 2011, A. M. R. Ramesh confirmed that his next directorial would be based on Veerappan and that he had completed the scriptment,  while adding that Kishore had already agreed to play the lead role of Veerappan. Ramesh had been researching on Veerappan for 10 years and had spoken with several key people who were associated with him or involved in various incidents.  Ramesh clarified that he would just present the real happenings, without taking any sides.  Arjun won the role of the chief Special Task Force officer Vijayakumar.  Initial reports claimed that Bollywood actress Rani Mukherji was considered for the role of Veerappan's wife, Muthulakshmi.  Sources in July 2011 reported that Priyamani and Jayachitra were signed on to portray Muthulakshmi and the role of Chief Minister Jayalalitha, respectively.  Priyamani denied being part of the project, adding that she was not offered the role.  Subsequently, Vijayalakshmi was finalized for the role.  Although Ramesh wanted Akkineni Nageswara Rao to play Kannada actor Rajkumar,  who was kidnapped by Veerappan, Suresh Oberoi was eventually roped in,  while Sulakshana would play his wife Parvathamma.  Ramya was initially supposed to enact the role of a journalist,  however the actress too dismissed the reports,  following which Nikita Thukral was approached for the role.  Lakshmi Rai then confirmed that she was offered the role.  Bhavana Rao, known under her stage name Shikha in Tamil cinema, revealed that she was playing a character called Chandhini, who was considered as "Veerappan's right-hand".  Nagappa Maradagi, who also was abducted by Veerappan, and Shivakumar Mugilan, who was part of Veerappan's gang, were involved in the making of the film.  Vijay Milton and Anthony were confirmed as the cinematographer and editor, respectively,  while Sandeep Chowta was signed on to compose the film's score, although initial reports suggested that Yuvan Shankar Raja would be the music director.  The satellite rights of the film were secured by Sun TV. The film was given a "U" certificate by the Indian Censor Board. Srikanth Srinivasa of Rediff gave the film a rating of three out of five stars and praised the performance of Kishore as Veerappan in the film. Also, the role of the cinematographer was praised. Srinivasa concluded saying, "A M R Ramesh has made another visually captivating film, notwithstanding the flaws. The movie makes for quite an engaging watch with timelines and specific instances. Veerappan’s final encounter is interesting, making it an edge-of-the-seat thriller."  IBN too praised the performance of all the departments in the film and call the film, a technically brilliant biopic of Veerappan.  Mysore based writer T. Gururaj, who wrote a book on the late forest brigand Veerappan, titled  Rudhra Narthana, has filed a complaint against filmmaker A.M.R. Ramesh, for using his content in the film without his permission.  Veerapan's wife Muthulakshmi had filed a case against to ban the film as she feel that her husband has been portrayed in bad light.  The Supreme court of India asked the producers to pay Rs. 2.5 million to the widow. The film was then released during the course of the day.  