  Bobbili Yuddham (English: Battle of Bobbili) is a 1964 Telugu historical film, based on the Battle of Bobbili, produced and directed by C. Seetaram. It stars N. T. Rama Rao and Bhanumathi Ramakrishna in the lead roles, with music composed by Saluri Rajeswara Rao.   The film begins with the birthday celebrations of Prince Chinna Venkatrayudu, son of Raja Rangarayudu (N. T. Rama Rao), King of Bobbili, for which Raja Vijayaramaraju (Rajanala), King of Vijayanagaram was invited. On this occasion, sports competitions were conducted in which Bobbili wins, which makes Vijayaramaraju feel insulted and he decides to take revenge against Bobbili. At the same time, French foreign invaders enter into the country and send a memorandum to Vijayaramaraju, according to the orders of General Bussi. Taking this as an advantage, Vijayaramaraju mixes up hands with Bussi (Mukkamala), takes the authority over Bobbili and commands them to pay taxes. But they refuse as they are freedom lovers. Vijayaramaraju goes into the shelter of Bussi and plans an attack on Bobbili. Vengallarayudu (C. Seetaram) is the brother of Rangarayudu, who loves and marries Subhadra (Jamuna) sister of Tandra Paparayudu (S. V. Ranga Rao). Soon after the marriage, a spy who came from Vijayanagaram was caught by Tandra Paparayudu and he reveals the conspiracy of Vijayaramaraju and misleads them by a misinformation that they are coming from Rajaam. To attack them, Tandra Paparayudu moves to Rajaam fort. Knowing this, Bussi plans to use the forest route as the shortest and surrounds the Bobbili fort during the night. Rangarayudu sends Dharmarayudu (M. Balaiah) for a compromise, but he comes back with injuries and blood sodden clothes. Then a letter was sent to Tandra Paparayadu to come back, but it was intercepted. The Bobbili warriors decide to face the French army and the war begins. The French army tries to enter the fort by all means without success as they open up firing and break open the main walls. In the war, many people die one after the other Vengallarayudu was backstabbed and Subhadra also dies. Finally, Raja Rangarayudu moves to the war where his wife Queen Mallamma Devi (Bhanumathi Ramakrishna) realizes that now the Bobbili dynasty is comng to an end, to keep up the heritage she sends her son Chinna Venkatrayudu in disguise to Samarlakota. The French army cannot withstand before Rangarayudu's valor, so Bussi orders blasting of the fort and they do so. All men die in the blast and every woman inside the fort commits suicide including Mallamma Devi. Meanwhile, Tandra Paparayudu suspects foul play of enemies and rushes to Bobbili. Simultaneously, Queen Chandrayamma (Jayanthi) wife of Vijayaramaraju also goes to Bobbili to stop the war at least in the last moment. On the way she meets Chinna Venkatrayudu and takes him with her. Reaching Bobbili, Tandra Paparayudu sees the dead bodies of Rangarayudu and Mallamma and takes a pledge that he will definitely take revenge for their deaths. At midnight, he enters into the tent of Vijayaramaraju and stamps him out. Bussi tries to arrest him, then he commits suicide. Chandrayamma also dies seeing her husband’s dead body uniting the hands of the Bobbili and Vijayanagaram prince. Music composed by Saluri Rajeswara Rao. Music released on Audio Company.  