  Chennaiyil Oru Naal (English: A day in Chennai) is a 2013 Indian Tamil language thriller film written by brothers Bobby and Sanjay and directed by Shaheed Kader. The film features an ensemble cast led by R. Sarathkumar, Prakash Raj, Cheran, Prasanna, Raadhika, Parvathy and Iniya. The film, a remake of the 2011 Malayalam film Traffic, has its narrative in a hyperlink format. A multi-narrative thriller that intertwines multiple stories around one particular incident, the film is inspired from an actual event in Chennai.  It was titled Naangu Vazhi Saalai earlier.  The film opened on 29 March 2013  to positive reviews.  The film was a blockbuster at the box office. A sequel titled Chennaiyil Oru Nall 2 was released on 2017 On 16 September, superstar Gautham Krishna (Prakash Raj) gets ready for the release of his new film. On the same day, Traffic Constable Satyamoorthy (Cheran) returns to duty after his suspension for taking bribes. The day is special for Dr. Robin (Prasanna) who is celebrating his first wedding anniversary. Karthik Vishwanathan (Sachin), an aspiring television journalist, starts his first job with an interview with Gautham Krishna. On the same day, at a crowded traffic junction, Karthik, who was set to interview Gautham Krishna, and Ajmal (Mitun), traveling on a bike is hit by a speeding car and is rushed to Global Hospital. Also at the junction, in another car, was Dr. Robin. Karthik goes into a coma and is declared brain dead although he is kept alive on a ventilator. Meanwhile, Gautham's ailing daughter Ria's (Gabriella Charlton) heart condition worsens and urgently needs a heart transplant. At first Karthik's parents do not agree to donate their son's heart, but Ajmal and Karthik's girlfriend (Parvathy) persuade them. Now that the heart is available, the problem is how to transport it to Vellore. No chartered flights or helicopters were available and so the heart must be taken by road. Someone had to drive the 150 kilometers in under two hours during rush hour. City Police Commissioner Sundara Pandian (R. Sarathkumar) is asked to carry out the mission. He initially refuses, considering the complexity and risk involved, but finally succumbs to the persuasion of Dr. Arumainayagam (Vijayakumar).  Satyamoorthy. Accompanying him on the mission are Dr. Robin and Ajmal. At some point, they lose connection and the vehicle mysteriously disappears. Under pressure and stress, Satyamoorthy trusts his own instincts and takes his own route. Sundara Pandian loses patience and loses hope that he'll be able to transport the heart in time, resulting in cancelling the mission. Just in time, Satyamoorthy manages to get connection, which motivates everyone to deliver  the heart safely in time. As the mission proceeds, it is discovered that before Dr. Robin committed to accompany Satyamoorthy on this mission, he had attempted to kill his wife, due to her affair with his best friend. To escape from the police, Robin tries to sabotage the mission, but Gautham's wife (Raadhika) convinces him to save her daughter's life. They reach the hospital in time to save the girl's life just as Karthik's father (Jayaprakash) and mother (Lakshmy Ramakrishnan) prepare to cremate their son. At the hundredth day celebrations of the 2011 Malayalam film Traffic, Kamal Haasan, who was the chief guest at the ceremony announced that he would remake the  film into Tamil with Rajesh Pillai as the film's director.  However, due to his extended involvement in his directorial venture, Haasan opted out of the film by November 2011 and R. Sarathkumar was subsequently chosen to replace him. The director postponed the film, mentioning that it would restart after the Hindi version was complete.  Soon the actor's wife, Raadhika, joined the film and agreed to produce the venture alongside Listin Stephen. Remya Nambeesan was signed on to reprise her role from the original.  In March 2012, Rajesh Pillai left the remake citing scheduling issues and was replaced by his assistant Shaheed Khader.  The film was officially launched on 21 June 2012. She confirmed that Parvathy would make a comeback to Tamil cinema with her role in the venture.  The satellite rights of the film were sold to Sun TV.  Mejo Joseph who composed the original film had composed the songs thus marking his debut in Tamil. Behindwoods wrote:"On the whole, we have a movie which offers excitement and also educates us about a vital concept which can prove to be a life-changer to any of us in need".  