Gagarin: First in Space aka. First man In Space (Russian: Гагарин. Первый в космосе or поехали!) is a 2013 Russian  docudrama biopic about the first man in space, Yuri Gagarin, and the mission of Vostok 1. It was released by Central Partnership theatrically in Russia on June 6, 2013, and in the United Kingdom on DVD on June 23, 2014 by Entertainment One.  The film's running time of 108 minutes approximates the time it took Gagarin to go around the Earth before returning. It stars Yaroslav Zhalnin as Soviet fighter pilot and cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin. The film received mixed reviews, with some critics praising the film's acting, direction and storytelling with others touching on the film's "cheap-looking" visual effects. The film received criticism for its state funding and ignoring the aftermath of the flight. On April 12, 1961, Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin blasted off in a Vostok rocket, becoming the first human in space and orbiting Earth for 108 minutes. He was one of the first group of cosmonauts who were selected from over three thousand fighter pilots throughout the Soviet Union. The legendary top twenty who were selected were the ace of aces and none of the pilots knew which amongst them would make history on the first manned flight. Once chosen Gagarin is fast-tracked to train for the unknown and the trip of a lifetime. Whilst strapped into his rocket, Gagarin reflects on his life, which is intercut with the determination of the Russian space team and their untiring efforts to conquer space. The film was released on DVD and Digital Download on June 23, 2014 by Entertainment One. Despite being filmed in HD the film has currently not been released on Blu-ray, however it is in HD on Amazon Video. A Russian release date has not been confirmed though expected soon. The film ignored the rest of Gagarin's life, Daily Telegraph reviewer Martin Chilton said, and his death, for which there are many conspiracy theories.   He noted other criticisms of the film as "sanitized",  reporting that Gagarin's family supported the film, after having taken legal action against two previous depictions of Gagarin, in a musical and a fictional drama.  The film tells the same story as the British documentary film First Orbit, which re-uses footage of the original flight. First Orbit has received acclaim for its historical accuracy. Critics have noted similarities to the 2013 British - American sci-fi epic Gravity. It was mentioned that Gagarin might be trying to use the popularity of Gravity as a marketing ploy. This is particularly noticeable in the UK DVD release, which uses the same font and colours as the release of Gravity. 