 Gautamiputra Satakarni (English: Son of Gautami, Satakarni) is a 2017 Telugu epic historical action film produced by Y. Rajeev Reddy, Jagarlamudi Saibabu on First Frame Entertainment banner  and directed by Krish.  The film stars Nandamuri Balakrishna and Shriya Saran with Hema Malini in a supporting role. The film's music was composed by Chirantan Bhatt. Gautamiputra Satakarni is based on the life of 2nd century AD Satavahana ruler Gautamiputra Satakarni.   The film is Nandamuri Balakrishna's 100th film.  The film was dubbed in Hindi by same name. Gautamiputra Satakarni (Nandamuri Balakrishna) is 2nd century AD Satavahana ruler of Amaravati who has a dream from his childhood that to unite all the 32 kingdoms in the country under one roof, to stop internal collisions between the rulers to establish peace. He takes oath on his mother Gautami Balashri (Hema Malini) and starts his mission at the age of 18 and he gives only two options to the kings on his way either peace by surrendering their sword to him or war. It takes 18 long years to achieve his goal and takes entire South India under his control. Time being Satakarni marries Vashishthi Devi (Shriya Saran) and they have a son Pulumavi (Master Snehit Chowdary). Nahapana (Kabir Bedi) important ruler of the Western Kshatrapas, who is very powerful & crooked king, who forcibly puts all the princes of his feudatory kingdoms as royal prisoners and keeps a condition that they all should obey his orders and protect his kingdom from 4 sides. So it is a very difficult and final task to Satakarni to reach Nahapana for that he uses a strategy and decides to take his son Pulumavi along with him to the war field but his wife Vashishthi does not agree to it even then he ruthlessly takes his son. On the other hand, Demetrius (David Manucharov) the Greek Emperor is waiting at the border to conquer India, he is just waiting for the result of the battle between Satakarni & Nahapana. Meanwhile, Satakarni starts moving towards Nahapana’s dynasty along with his son and promises all the feudatory kings on the way that he will safeguard & secure their children and definitely brings them back. Finally, he reaches Nahapana’s fort destroys him, protects the princes and brings the entire country under one flag. After that Satakarni returns to Amaravathi along with 32 swords of the entire rulers of India, his mother Gautami Balashri orders to make a powerful sword by melting all these 32 swords. Everybody welcomes him with great enlightenment & joy, but his wife Vashishthi is fed-up his dictatorial mentality and decides to leave him along with the children. But now he has to perform Rajasuya Yaaga, a grand ritual made by the ruler who defeated all other kings in the earth and eligible to rule the whole world, which is impossible without a wife. So, on her mother-in-law’s request, Vashishthi agrees to stay until the completion of ritual. During the time of ritual the Emperor has to give Agra Pooja special honor to the top most person in the kingdom, Satakarni gives it to his mother by spreading the greatness of women and on that day he keeps his name Gautamiputra Satakarni and he also name’s his son as Vasishthiputra Pulumavi where his wife Vasishthi also realizes her mistake and understands greatness of her husband. From that day Satakarni starts a new era calling Salivahana Sakha and the day starting as Ugadi. On that night Kanjira (Milind Gunaji) one of the feudatory kings mixes hands with Demetrius and helps his men to enter into the fort to kill Satakarni but his mother protects him by breaking up their tactics. Now Satakarni comes to know that Demetrius has arrived into to the borders of Sindhu Kingdom to conquer India whose army is 10 times more than his. Even then he decides to get ready for the final battle at that time his wife Vashishthi gets some bad signs that someone has given poison to her husband. So she requests him not to go to the battle where Satakarni explains her regarding his childhood dream of uniting the entire country which he had done so, now he has to protect it from invaders by exorcising them. So he doesn’t have any other choice except to go to the battle. Gauthami Balasri consults a Bhikkhu explains him regarding these bad signs and he answers that may come true, so he gives anti-dote to the poison. At last Satakarni reaches the Sindhu Kingdom along with his feudatory kings, during the first day of the war Satakrani destroys almost half of Greek army. Now Demetrius understands it is difficult to conquer India until Satakarni is alive. So plays a dirty trick by sending a women Athena (Farah Karima) as a messenger for peace who gives poison to Satakrani. Next day morning Satakarni is under treatment all other Kings are under dichotomy whether to go to war or go back, but they understands the real aim of Satakarni is not only to win the country but he also wants to develop unity among the kingdoms, so they all decide either to win or die in the battle. Meanwhile, Satakarni wakes up from the deathbed, reaches the battlefield, defeats Demetrius and leaves him alive by finally saying a word that no one can destroy the unity of India Music composed by Chirantan Bhatt. Music released on Lahari Music Company. The Audio launch was held at Sri Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Municipal High School Grounds, Tirupati on 26 December 2016. Central Minister Venkaiah Naidu, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Nara Chandrababu Naidu attended the function as chief guests, along with hundreds of industry stalwarts.   The film was officially announced on 8 April 2016, on eve of Ugadi at Andhra Pradesh's proposed capital city Amaravati.  The movie opening was held at Hyderabad on 22 April 2016, with eminent personalities like K. Chandrasekhar Rao, T. Harish Rao, Chiranjeevi, Venkatesh, K. Raghavendra Rao, Dasari Narayana Rao, Singeetam Srinivasa Rao, Boyapati Srinu, Sai Korrapati, Sriwass, and Akkineni Ramesh Prasad in attendance.   The search for the female lead had been going on for long, as actresses like Anushka Shetty and Nayanthara were on the verge of signing. Finally, actress Shriya Saran was signed on as the lead heroine, after being successful in Telugu with various projects.  Bollywood veteran actress Hema Malini is playing Balakrishna's character's mother, Gautami Balashri.  Actually Devi Sri Prasad was primarily selected as music director but has quit project because he couldn’t adjust the dates,  after he left the project top most music directors like Ilaiyaraaja, M. M. Keeravani are taken into consideration but finally Chirantan Bhatt is the music director.  Neeta Lulla is designing costumes and jewellery for the film.  Nandamuri Balakrishna honoured Hema Malini with a saree as a surprise gift on the sets of the film on 4 September 2016, which is currently underway in Rajasthan.  The film first look teaser released on 11 October 2016 at 10:15 a.m on the occasion of Vijayadashami  and trailer launched on 16 December 2016 at Tirumala theatre in Karimnagar, Telangana.  Srivathsan Nadadhur of The Hindu gives it a 4/5 rating saying "The film talks of Telugu identity, re-emphasises Amaravati’s cultural significance, talks of a borderless society, gives Shriya a role of a lifetime and yet remains a Balakrishna film, an achievement for Krish in only his seventh outing."  Murali Krishna of Telangana Today says "Gautamiputra Satakarni  perfectly blends with the persona of Balakrishna. It is an achievement to bring the lesser-known details of an unsung hero to spotlight and Krish has succeeded in crafting a gripping narrative right from the word go".   10TV editor Kathi Mahesh gives it 4/5 rating saying "You will know about the telugus history and how they contributed to the nation."    IdleBrain Jeevi gives it 3.25/5 rating and says "a film like Gautamiputra Satakarni should be encouraged by watching in theaters because it introduces us our own Telugu hero who ruled the unified nation."   HMTV Film bureau chief prabhu was in all praise for the movie saying "Krish (director) gave a movie which would make the telugus proud and Balakrishna acted in it" and gives it a rating 4/5 but adds that instead of numbers this is a movie to be visited/reviewed in a different way.   Suresh Kavirayani of Deccan Chronicle gives it a 3.5/5 rating saying "Gautamiputra Satakarni is an original story and everyone, especially the Telugu population, should know about it. Krish should be appreciated for coming up with a script like this and narrating it in interestingly. The film is also memorable for its content and the excellent performance by Balayya. Kannada superstar Shiva Rajkumar appears in a cameo and stuns in it.".  H Kumar of Firstpost says "Gautamiputra Satakarni is part inspirational, part patriotic that implores Telugu-speaking populace across the world to be proud of their roots. And in doing so, Krish has once again proved himself to be a fascinating storyteller who isn't afraid to walk a less travelled path."  