Gosnell: The Trial of America's Biggest Serial Killer is an upcoming American film about Kermit Gosnell, an abortion doctor who killed hundreds of infants born alive during abortion procedures, and was convicted of three counts of murder.  The film was announced in 2014. Funds for its production were raised via crowdfunding, in which $2.3 million was raised for the creation of the film.    The film is being made by Irish filmmakers Ann McElhinney and Phelim McAleer and directed by Nick Searcy. Andrew Klavan has been hired as the screenwriter.  It stars Earl Billings and Dean Cain. The producers announced on June 26, 2018 that they signed a distribution deal for the movie and will be opening in about 750 theatres in October 2018.  The film was announced in 2014, less than a year after Gosnell was tried and sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole. The filmmakers sought to raise funds for the production of the film through crowdfunding, but encountered resistance from Kickstarter, which the filmmakers said censored the project from their website.   According to email exchanges released by McAleer, Kickstarter requested that the phrases "'1000s of babies stabbed to death" and '1000s of babies murdered'...be removed or modified to comply with the spirit of our Community Guidelines."  Kickstarter's CEO denied that they censored the project and said the filmmakers blew an editorial exchange out of proportion.  The filmmakers switched to Indiegogo and launched their crowdfunding effort on March 28, 2014, with a goal of $2.1 million, which was reached less than two weeks later on April 9, 2014.  It quickly became the highest-funded film on Indiegogo, and is currently one of the highest-funded crowdfunding projects of all time.  The film was originally intended to be a made for TV movie, but the filmmakers later decided to make it into a feature film.  John Sullivan was announced as the executive producer of the film in December 2014.  Nick Searcy was announced as the director of the film in March 2015.  Searcy said in a statement, "I am both excited and humbled by the opportunity to have a part in bringing this important American story to the screen. It is a story that many in Hollywood were unwilling to tell, and I am grateful to Ann, Phelim and Magdalena for having the courage to tell it."  He also said, "There are three aspects to this story that are fascinating. What happened; why it was allowed to happen; and why no one wanted to talk about it after it happened."  Earl Billings was cast to play Kermit Gosnell, and Dean Cain was cast as Detective James Wood, one of the detectives who investigated Gosnell. Filming began in December 2015.  Despite the large amount of funding and support for the movie, it had trouble finding a distributor. The movie's producer Phelim McAleer, has said that everyone from studios, streaming sites, and distributors have refused to distribute the movie. In an interview, McAleer said that if necessary, the film will be done independently and that “The book and movie will ensure that the coverup is ended and the truth will be known."  