I Am Elizabeth Smart is a 2017 TV movie that aired on Lifetime that detailed  the Kidnapping of Elizabeth Smart. The film features Elizabeth Smart as the on-screen narrator and stars Alana Boden, Skeet Ulrich, and Deirdre Lovejoy.  Smart's wraparound narration in the film was used to interrupt the events she endured, preventing the viewers from distancing themselves from the actions.   On January 14, 2018, a "Special Edition" of the TV movie was released that features interviews with Elizabeth Smart, Skeet Ulrich, and Deirdre Lovejoy. Smart watched the film once, and found the finished product so accurate that she did not want to watch it again.  Elizabeth Smart recaps the days in which she was kidnapped and tells her perspective of it.  It starts on June 5, 2002 where a younger Elizabeth Smart (Alana Boden) is kidnapped in the middle of the night by a religious fanatic named Brian David Mitchell (Skeet Ulrich). In his hilly encampment where he brought her, Brian David Mitchell and his wife Wanda Ilene Barzee (Deirdre Lovejoy) had her subjected to bizarre religious rituals where Brian David Mitchell even raped, starved, and drugged her. She was treated as his "second wife" while captive with the couple. While Brian has forbidden Elizabeth into talking about her family, he did allow her to talk about her cousin Olivia. Brian heads out to claim Olivia as Elizabeth's narration had her stating that she prayed that Olivia would be safe. Brian returned having been unable to obtain Olivia due to a "vision from God." After some days of being absent, Brian returns where Wanda wants in on the parties he went to. To avoid having Elizabeth being detected, Brian had her and Wanda dressed up in full-length robes Two months after Smart's kidnapping, Brian devised a plan to leave Salt Lake City with Wanda and Elizabeth, possibly to Boston or New York City. To research potential places to relocate, Brian and Wanda visited the Salt Lake City Public Library with Smart. There, they were noticed by a library patron for their unusual dress, each wearing full-length robes with veils concealing most of their faces. A police detective arrived at the library and confronted Brian, Wanda, and Elizabeth. However, he was deterred by Brian, who claimed that Elizabeth was his daughter, and that they were unable to remove their veils or garb on the grounds of religious reasons. Brian even prevented Wanda and Elizabeth from speaking stated their religion prohibited women from speaking in public. The three of them relocated to San Diego County, California. During one instance in Lakeside, California when Brian was absent, Elizabeth and Wanda were left in the desert without water for a week by Mitchell, before a freak rain storm occurred. Afterwards, Brian returned stating that he had got arrested for breaking into a church which explained his absence and has brought them food. Brian decides that they need to relocate again. Elizabeth states that they can return to Utah where he can do odd jobs to pay for their next location. Wanda states that if Elizabeth goes out in public again, they will need another head covering for her. This causes Brian to put Elizabeth in a gray wig and sunglasses. Arriving in Sandy, Utah following some hitchhiking with different drivers, Brian reminds Elizabeth on the no talking to other people rule. Elizabeth's narration states that this will be the last time Brian rapes her. While in a store getting some items, Elizabeth notices some missing people posters on the bulletin board as Brian and Wanda are paying for the items. When they meet up with Elizabeth, Brian tells her that she is not on the board. The moment they exit the store, the police converge on them as Elizabeth is separated from Brian and Wanda as the former claims that he is a traveling minister. After some brief hesitation in front of a police officer who questions her on her identity, Elizabeth finally confesses her identity. As Elizabeth is taken to the police station, the other police officers arrest Brian and Wanda. While in a waiting room, Elizabeth removes her sunglasses and wig as her father Ed arrives. While in a doctor's office, Elizabeth is able to remove her clothes in the presence of her mother (Anne Openshaw) as the doctor needs them for evidence. Elizabeth is reunited with the rest of her family. Later that night, Lois tells Elizabeth that the rest of the family are having a slumber party in their room. Elizabeth declines and states that she'll sleep in her room stating that she'll be here in the morning as she goes to sleep. Elizabeth's final narration has her stating how she survived what she has endured and concludes that she is not broken, she is Elizabeth Smart. A postscript revealed that Brian David Mitchell was sentenced to life in prison. Wanda Ilene Barzee was sentenced to 15 years in prison. While currently married with children of her own, Elizabeth Smart and her father have started the Elizabeth Smart Foundation. Smart was heavily involved in the production and filming of the film, she also helped review the script to make sure the story was factual.  She described as being almost dreamlike at times, as some on-site locations were used to provide authenticity. In one case, Smart mentioned a time where she first saw Skeet Ulrich in costume for Mitchell, stating she was a bit taken aback by how much he resembled her abuser.   There was a need to find balance in accurately depicting what happened to her in the film without alienating the audience, as Mitchell raped her daily, and Smart felt a need to tell the story without sugar-coating the kidnapping.     Variety called it a startling and bold film, that while similar to the film Room, stands on its own. It does not diminish Smart's ordeal or add to it with manufactured drama, as Smart's experiences are horrible enough for the viewer.   Others compared the film with the previous film The Elizabeth Smart Story, with many praising the new film for telling the complete story, and truly portraying what Smart endured. The film is described as feeling as a documentary, with reenactment scenes for the viewers.  On IMDb, the film holds a 6.3/10 out of 316 reviews  it was also featured on the Rolling Stone's 2017 list of 10 True Crime Shows to Watch this Fall.   