The Crucible (Hangul: 도가니; RR: Dogani; MR: Togani; also known as Silenced) is a 2011 South Korean drama film  based on the novel of the same name by Gong Ji-young,  starring Gong Yoo and Jung Yu-mi. It is based on actual events that took place at Gwangju Inhwa School for the hearing-impaired, where young deaf students were the victims of repeated sexual assaults by faculty members over a period of five years in the early 2000s.   Depicting both the crimes and the court proceedings that let the teachers off with minimal punishment, the film sparked public outrage upon its September 2011 release, which eventually resulted in a reopening of the investigations into the incidents. With over 4 million people in Korea having watched the film, the demand for legislative reform eventually reached its way to the National Assembly of South Korea, where a revised bill, dubbed the Dogani Bill, was passed in late October 2011 to abolish the statute of limitations for sex crimes against minors and the disabled.  Kang In-ho is the newly appointed art teacher at Benevolence Academy, a school for hearing-impaired children in the fictional city of Mujin, North Jeolla Province. He has a dark past - his wife committed suicide a year ago, and his sick daughter is under the care of his mother. He is excited to teach his new students, yet the children are aloof and distant, trying to avoid running into him as much as possible. In-ho does not give up trying to show the kids that he cares. When the children finally open up, In-ho faces the shocking and ugly truth about the school and what the students have been enduring in secret: the children are being physically and sexually abused by their teachers. When he decides to fight for the children’s rights and expose the crimes being committed at the school, In-ho teams up with human rights activist Seo Yoo-jin, but he and Yoo-jin soon realize the school’s principal and teachers, and even the police, prosecutors and churches in the community are actually trying to cover up the truth.     In addition to using "privileges of former post" (Jeon-gwan ye-u) the accused do not hesitate to lie and bribe their way to get very light sentences. Using their last night of freedom to go out partying, the Lee brothers are last seen laughing that the judge was so easy to pay off for a light sentence. As Park leaves the party and walks home, he bumps into Min-su along the way. Attempting to force the boy to come to his home to be raped once more , Park is shocked when Min-su stabs him in the side with a knife, having fallen into despair at his grandmother giving away his chance to put Park away for good. Park, brushing off the stabbing, smacks Min-su to the ground, where he begins viciously beating and kicking the boy, proclaiming that before he goes to prison, he's going to beat Min-su to death. As he prepares to finish Min-su off, Park is overpowered by the boy, who flings the boy off them onto a nearby railroad track. As a coming train barrels toward them, Park begins screaming at Min-su, but, using Park's knife wound, keeps Park held down. Ultimately, the train runs over both the screaming Park and Min-su, the latter refusing to let the rapist get away with his acts, and they are both killed by the train. The film sparked public outcry over lenient court rulings, prompting police to reopen the case and lawmakers to introduce bills for the human rights of the vulnerable.  Four out of the six teachers at the Gwangju Inhwa School for whom serious punishment was recommended by the education authority were reinstated after they escaped punishment under the statute of limitations.  Only two of them were convicted of repeated rapes of eight young students and received jail terms of less than a year.  71-year-old ex teacher Kim Yeong-il recently claimed that two children had died when the incident took place in 1964, after which he was beaten and forced to resign his job by the vice principal.   Two months after the film's release and resulting controversy, Gwangju City officially shut down the school in November 2011.  In July 2012, the Gwangju District Court sentenced the 63-year-old former administrator of Gwangju Inhwa School to 12 years in prison for sexually assaulting an 18-year-old student in April 2005. He was also charged with physically abusing another 17-year-old student who had witnessed the crime (the victim reportedly attempted to commit suicide afterward). The administrator, only identified by his surname Kim, was also ordered to wear an electronic anklet for 10 years following his release.   In Korea the film ranked #1 for three consecutive weeks and grossed ₩7.8 billion in its first week of release   and grossed a total of ₩35 billion after ten weeks of screening.   After the film's release, the bestselling book of the same name by author Gong Ji-young, which first recounted the crimes and provided the bulk of the film’s content, topped national bestseller lists for the first time in two years.  Ruling conservative political party Grand National Party (GNP) then called for an investigation into Gong Ji-young for engaging in "political activities", a move that was met with public derision.  It received the Audience Award at the 2012 Udine Far East Film Festival in Italy.  Conversations about the film and its impact re-emerged when the Samsung Economic Research Institute (SERI) released its annual survey of the year’s top ten consumer favorites on December 7, 2011. Based on a poll of market analysts and nearly 8,000 consumers, SERI’s "Korea’s Top Ten Hits of 2011" ranked The Crucible among the year’s top events.  The film's international title is Silenced. On November 4, 2011, the film was released in select theaters in Los Angeles, San Jose, Huntington Beach, New Jersey, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Dallas, Chicago, Seattle, Portland, Las Vegas, Toronto and Vancouver. It has been reviewed by The Wall Street Journal,  The Economist  and The New York Times.  