Devil Lady, originally known as Devilman Lady (Japanese: デビルマンレディー, Hepburn: Debiruman Redī), is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Go Nagai. It was originally serialized between January 1997 and July 2000 in the manga magazine Weekly Morning. Seventeen bound volumes were published by Kodansha for release in Japan. The story focuses on Jun Fudo, a teacher who is attacked by demons while accompanying a group of students on a school trip. In the midst of the assault, Jun transforms into the Devil Lady and defends the survivors of the initial attack, killing the demons with her new-found strength. Jun, now the Devil Lady, fights for the sake of humanity to protect them from the devil beasts and their creations. The manga series was adapted into a twenty-six episode anime series; the anime aired in Japan on Mainichi Broadcasting System between October 1998 and May 1999. ADV Films licensed the anime series, and released six DVD volumes between January and August 2003, as well as a complete boxed set in 2004. Jun Fudo was a teacher who raised her younger brother, Hikaru, while their father was away in the United States. One day, as she and a group of students go on an outdoor trip Jun begins to experience unusual nightmares. Far worse things were about to happen to them, however, when a group of demons, martial artists in human form, in a nearby chalet attempt to rape Jun and the female students in their demon forms. As she was being violated, Jun felt her soul being ripped apart, and, because of this, a terrifying transformation occurs turning her into the Devil Lady. She protects the girls who have survived the demon attacks and kills the demons with her newfound strength. Suddenly, a woman named Lan Asuka appears and says that she was the one who had awakened the sleeping beast within Jun. Confused by her transformation, Lan Asuka, and her father's sudden appearance and experience, things became too complicated for Jun to understand. Through Professor Fudo's knowledge, he tells a tale of a strange phenomenon that occurred in shantytowns years ago. It was known as the "Devil Beast Syndrome" in which its inhabitants would transform into demons and rape women before eating them with no memories or intelligence of their previous lives and additionally giving them enhanced strength with other abilities. Professor Fudo does not believe that their "Devil Beast Syndrome" transformation was supernatural, but was actually the next stage of human evolution, calling it "Nature's way of dealing with mankind's overpopulation". He also says that few people were genetically engineered to retain their conscience should the "Devil Beast Syndrome" occur in them, Jun being one of them. With Jun now becoming the Devilman Lady, she will fight for the sake of humanity to protect them from the devil beasts and their creations. While Jun investigas the Grumech Embassy she is put through a demonic ritual that opens the Gates of Hell and Jun falls to Hell. Here she meets a mysterious man who introduces himself as Akira Fudo. At this point the series becomes a fully fledged sequel to Devilman. Jun recognizes Akira to be the man who she saw before in her visions. As Akira explains he is from a past that no longer exist anymore (as God wiped the Earth out after Akira and Satan's battle at the end of Devilman). He offers to acts as guide on Jun's journey through Hell - a clear reference to Dante's Inferno - during which the two fall in love and have sex. Through their descent through Hell they also face other characters from the Devilman universe, including Silene/Sirene and Kaim.  Once they reach the lowest point of Hell, they realize that the demon king is there frozen is ice, but Satan is nowhere to be found. On their way back Akira tells June about his past with Satan. However, when they reach the surface, Akira cannot follow Jun to the world. She promises to never forget him and leaves. After Jun returns to world several things change, parts of the past is altered. Events that led her falling to Hell are missing. She keeps communicating with Akira through the Devilman Ghost custome she made, but she slowly forgets his name. The only person she really feels close to Asuka who revealed to be her half-sibling. She starts really opening up to her without knowing that she actually killed their mother with her supernatural powers. In later chapters after the leader of the mysterious Cult of Dante, Ryo Utsugi awakens the great demon lord Zennon by fusing with him and releases Hell's inhabitants into the world including demons, Devilman, and humans held in Hell, chaos and carnage breaks loose on Earth once again and the great battle between God's army and demonic forces is drawing closer and closer. Things really start to speed up from here.  Asuka seduces and impregnates Jun while possessing a male form. Later revealed that he was born a male, but chose to hide himself in a female form from the eyes of God. After Jun is forced to give birth in her giant devilman form to a full grown Akira Fudo, Asuka finally reveals the truth to Jun with the help of Psycho Jenny restoring her sealed memories. The half-siblings are actually two halves of Satan who split himself in order to escape the time loop God throw him into and to be able to bring back Akira from Hell. After learning this, Jun fuses together with Asuka becoming Satan once again. Akira arrives this exact minute to witness the transformation and to greets his old friend/enemy. This time however, Akira joins Satan in his fight against God's army approaching Earth. As Satan puts it, the Akira who was reborn to Hell is different than Akira who was born to Earth, and he now understand Satan's quest against God.  We also get to see Archangel Michael before the final battle, and learn that he was the one who set up Human Alliance as a facade to destroy the Devil Beasts and to keep Satan from overthrowing God. Michael is basically the Satan's twin. When Akira notices this, Satan describes themselves to him as the right and the left hand of God. Same powers, but different functions. We don't get see who wins the battle between the two forces at the end. The manga end with Satan telling Akira that true hope lies on the other side of the battle as they are launching their attack. We are left with a final shot of Earth with humanity once again exterminated and the age of "myth" drawing upon earth once again. Jun Fudo is a beautiful supermodel who is idolized by many. She also has a dark secret that not even she knows about at first, for within her lie the genes that hold the next step in the evolution of mankind, the same blood as the beast-like superhumans that terrorize the city. Unlike the rest of them, however, Jun has managed to hold a tenuous grip onto her humanity, and she is recruited by the mysterious Lan Asuka, member of a secret organization within the government, aimed at controlling, if not eliminating, these berserk destroyers of mankind. Jun, as Devil Lady, must now exterminate her own kind, but it is unclear how much longer can she keep her sanity in a situation she never chose to begin with. The story of the anime differs significantly from the manga, despite having similar beginnings - devils are not mystical beings but the next step of humanity's evolution, in a way this makes them similar to mutants from Marvel's X-Men. Unlike in the manga, Devilman himself does not appear in the anime, nor does the story connect to his later. Also referred to as demons and beast creatures, the devil beasts are highly evolved carnivorous predators that have evolved from humans. Devil beasts can morph into humans when not actively hunting and can become stronger by consuming them. Some devil beasts can become much larger in size, this being referred to as the giga effect in the series and is caused by chemical reactions via electrical pulses in sensory organs.  Classifications as per the anime's official trading cards are next to the names in parentheses.  Four bird-like devil beasts commanded by Satoru in the last third of the series with each possessing the ability to control a specific element. In episode 23 all four of them fuse with Satoru to become Giga Satoru. The Devilman Lady manga was written and illustrated by Go Nagai, it was serialized between January 1997 and July 2000 in the manga magazine Weekly Morning. Seventeen bound volumes were published by Kodansha for released in Japan.  The manga was published in Italy by d/visual.  The manga storyline is a much more violent and sexually oriented than the anime. The manga shows a depiction of many of the characters being tortured and raped, as well as scenes of graphic dismemberment and heavy use of blood and gore. The manga starts with Jun Fudo, a highschool teacher, taking a trip with a group of students. While there, a group of martial artists staying nearby take a strange interest in the girls. These men are actually demons and after changing into their true form break into the cabin to rape the girls. One gets Jun and violates her. She feels her soul being torn apart and transforms into Devilman Lady. With newfound powers and strength she kills all the demons and protects the girls from any further harm. A twenty-six episode anime series adaptation was produced by the animation studio TMS Entertainment and directed by Toshiki Hirano. The anime aired in Japan from October 10, 1998  to September 29, 1999. ADV Films announced it had licensed the series in July 2002,  with the first volume being released on January 7, 2003.  The Devil Lady anime's storyline is almost completely different from the manga, featuring only two characters from the original manga, Jun Fudo and Lan Asuka. When creating the Devil Lady anime, many concepts and characters were changed from the original manga, which was much more violent and sexually oriented. Jun, as a character is much tougher and braver then in the original manga - she stands up for herself and does not often need others to save her, while in the manga; she is often a damsel in distress. She is also a teacher by profession.  The character Kazumi also never appeared in the original manga, her looks are based upon the character Miki Makimura, Akira Fudo's female friend in the Devilman series. Jun's two forms are also a tribute to both versions of Devilman. While her regular sized form is similar to Devilman (including satyr-like hairy legs) as he appears in the original manga, her Giga Effect form is a tribute to the 1972 anime version. In giga mode, she is a giant as tall as classic giant robots or monsters of the 70s, sports turquoise skin and yellow eyes, and does not have any body hair, which are all elements taken from the television version of Devilman. This "disease" is a strange affliction that plagues the Devil Lady universe. While it may stay dormant within a user for years without a symptom, once they begin to become apparent there is no cure. An individual with D.B.S. will usually transform into a monstrous creature with awesome powers and little to no control over themselves. The transformations always seem to have something to do with the users inner feelings or strengths (cat lovers may become cat-like, swimmers may become fish-like etc.), those that retain their greater human faculties have the ability to control when and how they transform. It takes a great deal of damage to kill someone with D.B.S. Lastly, is the giga effect. Presumably any devil beast with enough control is able to "Go Giga" or to mutate into its most powerful form, which always seems to include a dramatic size increase (sometimes the size of a skyscraper). Later as the syndrome becomes more wide spread, it is learned that the syndrome is not passed as a virus but as sensory data. Simply being around a devil beast and experiencing it with any of the five senses is enough to become one. Additionally, being around a particular devil beast for a long amount of time will make a person become a devil beast of similar design (for example, Kazumi grew wings almost exactly like Jun's). It also becomes apparent that simply becoming a devil beast is not enough to make one act monstrous, and that the ones Jun was forced to dispatch were merely more volatile individuals incapable of accepting their change. By the end of the series, it is revealed that the devil beasts are merely the next stage in human evolution, which is completely inevitable. The idea that this change would be negative and disastrous is proven false and ends on an optimistic note with Jun walking past two little girls who are playing and both have tails. On June 12, 2015, the Chinese Ministry of Culture listed Devilman Lady among 38 anime and manga titles banned in China.  