Gorosaurus (Japanese: ゴロザウルス, Hepburn: Gorozaurusu) is a kaiju film monster which first appeared in Toho's 1967 film King Kong Escapes. It was an opponent of King Kong in the film, and it later had a prominent role in 1968's Destroy All Monsters. Gorosaurus is a typical giant dinosaur, having no special powers like beams or energy weapons, relying on its strength and athleticism to fight. Gorosaurus' most identifiable fighting move is a leaping kick similar to that of a kangaroo. Gorosaurus is an allosaurid, an abrupt descendant of Allosaurus itself.  In King Kong Escapes, Gorosaurus is an inhabitant of Mondo Island, the film's primary setting. It attacks and attempts to devour the leading female character, Susan Watson. King Kong arrives to save her and fights Gorosaurus. King Kong eventually breaks Gorosaurus' jaws. In the film All Monsters Attack, Gorosaurus makes a brief appearance in a young boy's dreams. In the film Godzilla vs. Gigan, Gorosaurus is briefly seen living on Monster Island. In Destroy All Monsters, Gorosaurus appears on the Ogasawara Islands, in Monsterland. It is an artificially created environment for the monsters of Earth. It lives with other monsters including Godzilla, Mothra, Rodan, Anguirus, Kumonga, Manda, Minilla, Baragon and Varan. A race of aliens called the Kilaaks invades Earth, capturing and establishing mind-control over the monsters. They then release them in cities throughout the world, with Gorosaurus being released in Paris, France (in both the Japanese original and the English dubbed version, Gorosaurus is misidentified as Baragon in the Paris attack).   However, the humans retaliate and find a way to break the mind control. The Kilaaks then unleash the space dragon King Ghidorah to kill the Earth monsters. Gorosaurus plays a pivotal role in the battle, as it twice brings down Ghidorah (the only monster who is able to do so), the first by pulling on its necks until it falls, heralding the turn of the tide of battle to the Earth monsters' side, and the second when it used its kangaroo kick to knock him over again, as Godzilla, Minilla and Anguirus attack all three of its heads, leaving Ghidorah vulnerable. After killing Ghidorah, Gorosaurus and the other Earth monsters return to Monsterland to live in peace. 