This page lists the known monsters in Marvel Comics. In the earlier parts of Marvel Comics, issues such as Journey into Mystery, Strange Tales, Tales of Suspense, and Tales to Astonish would detail stories of its different monsters. They consist of giant aliens, kaiju, Deviant Mutates, and experiments that went horribly wrong. In later Marvel Comics stories, some of the Monsters would later be seen inhabiting Monster Isle. During the "Monsters Unleashed" storyline, the monsters in this category would be classified as Goliathons where they were summoned by the Inhuman Kei Kawade in order to help the superheroes fight the Leviathon Tide.  The following are the known Monsters in Marvel Comics: The Abominable Snowman is a large cryptid often found in the Himalayas. The first Abominable Snowman (Carl Hanson) was created by Jack Kirby and Steve Ditko and first appeared in Tales to Astonish #13 (November 1960). Carl Hanson was a greedy explorer who had heard of the infamous Abominable Snowman. In order to capture the creature and make money off it, Hanson steals a cursed photograph. In the Himalayas, he was unable to get help in finding it as people constantly warned him to get rid of the cursed photograph before the curse overtakes him. As he progresses up the mountain, Carl's hair grows longer, his mind becomes addled, and he drops the picture as he becomes the Abominable Snowman.  Over time, the Abominable Snowman became an inhabitant on Monster Isle and supposedly grew bigger. He was among the monsters that witnessed the arrival of the X-Men members Shadowcat and Magik when they arrived to pick up a mutant girl named Bo. When Shadowcat and Magik found Bo, the Abominable Snowman and the other monsters attacked them until Magik teleported herself, Shadowcat, and Bo back to the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning.  During the "Monsters Unleashed" storyline, the Abominable Snowman was also one of the many monsters summoned by Kid Kaiju and helped defeat the Leviathon and its creatures.  The second Abominable Snowman was created by Keith Giffen and Eduardo Francisco and first appeared in Nick Fury's Howling Commandos #2 (January 2006). He is depicted as a member of the Howling Commandos and is capable of speech, albeit broken. He teamed up with the Sasquatch to track down Groot. He insulted Gorilla-Man by calling him less than a monkey on a bicycle at a zoo.  Anuxa is a giant monster who was first seen in Tales to Astonish #7 and was created by Stan Lee and Don Heck. Anuxa was part of a monstrous alien race that sent him to Earth as a scout. When the dominant species of Earth has died out, Anuxa is to claim the Earth for his kind. 1,000,000 years later, Anuxa got impatient that humanity would survive the many disasters. Upon hearing of the atomic bomb, Anuxa went back into the iceberg that he was using as a hiding place and continued to bide his time for the day when the atomic bombs would wipe out humanity.  Batragon is a giant bat/dragon monster that was first seen in Godzilla #4 and was created by Doug Moench and Tom Sutto. Batragon was once an ordinary bat that was transformed into a bat/dragon monster by a Lifestone that was wielded by Doctor Demonicus who then dispatched it to steal an oil tanker in order to use its oil to power his equipment.  This attracted the attention of Godzilla who then fought Batragon at Doctor Demonicus' volcano lair and destroyed him.  Behemoth is an Atlantean beast that first appeared in Tales to Astonish #77 and was created by Stan Lee, Adam Austin, and Bill Everett. The Behemoth was an Altantean beast that was created by the best Atlantean scientists in order to protect Atlantis from future threats.  Beta-Beast is a giant alien monster that first appeared in Godzilla #12 and was created by Doug Moench and Herb Trimpe. The Beta-Beast is a giant alien monster that was captured and augmented by the Warlords of the planet Beta. As the Beta-Beast was not strong enough to deal with the Mega-Monsters used by the Megan warlords, the Betans moved their base to Earth's moon where they had it challenge Godzilla to see if it is worthy enough to fight the Mega-Monsters. The Beta-Beast was killed by Godzilla proving a point to the Betan Warlords that he might be a good challenge for the Mega-Monsters.  Blip is an electrical alien monster that first appeared in Tales to Astonish #15 and was created by Stan Lee, Jack Kirby, and Dick Ayers. The Blip is a giant alien monster composed of electrical energies.  Bombu is an alien monster that first appeared in Journey into Mystery #60 and was created by Stan Lee, Jack Kirby, and Dick Ayers. Bombu is a giant alien conqueror from the planet Oobagon VIII who had conquered 275 worlds. The high commander of Oobagon VIII sent Bombu to Earth as part of a scouting mission for the Oobagonians. While subjugating the natives while operating as a witch doctor, Bombu's plan didn't go well when he was struck by lightning. The natives then pelted Bombu who then fled Earth.  Some years later, Bombu is sent back to Earth by his high commander in order to get Earth ready for an Oobagonian invasion. While manifesting in an unnamed American city, Bombu was confronted by the police who managed to taser him. Bombu was then arrested and incarcerated in a county jail. Though he did use his one telephone call to inform the high commander of his failure.  Bruttu (also called the Brute That Walks) is a giant monster that first appeared in Tales of Suspense #22 and was created by Stan Lee, Jack Kirby, and Dick Ayers. Howard Lindley was a short scientist who had been picked on for his size. When an atomic machine tapped into Howard's imagination, it transformed him into the comic book creature Bruttu. When he burst through the wall, he was unable to speak due to his now-monstrous vocal cords only producing monster sounds. While evading the military and learning that Anne Benson secretly loved him, Bruttu made his way back to the lab and thought of himself when he reactivated the machine. It was enough to turn Bruttu back into Howard Lindley. Afterwards, Howard destroyed the machines and professed his love to Anne Benson.  The Crawling Creature is a reptilian monster that first appeared in Tales to Astonish #22 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. The Crawling Creature is a reptilian monster that lived in the underground parts of the Grand Canyon where it menaced a lost tribe of cave people. While fleeing the Crawling Creature during a mining expedition, Walter Carter was saved by a passing helicopter.  The Creature from the Black Bog is a giant alien monster that first appeared in Tales of Suspense #23 and was created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko. The Creature from the Black Bog is a peaceful alien explorer who landed on Earth to fix its engines and got stuck in the bog where he was unable to reach the vines. Sometime later, an elderly couple named John and Martha later found the Creature from the Black Bog and helped it escape from its murky prison. Before leaving Earth upon fixing his ship, the Creature from the Black Bog rewarded John and Martha by taking their memories and sprinkling it into the Fountain of Youth which restored them to their physical age.  Devil Dinosaur is a red Tyrannosaurus that came from Dinosaur World. Dragoom first appeared in Strange Tales #76 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Dragoom is a giant fiery denizen of the Vulcan race who escaped prison from his home world and came to Earth with the intent of conquering the planet. However, Dragoom fled when he was deceived by the filmmaker Victor Cartwright into believing that there were other Vulcans on the planet.  Elektro is a super-computer that later downloaded itself into a giant robot body. Experiment 247 first appeared in Tales to Astonish #1 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Experiment 247 is a common snapping turtle that was given hormone regulator serum by Dr. Parker. It was trapped behind a wall until it was freed by the natives.  Fin Fang Foom is a Makulan dragon from the planet Kakaranthara. Gargantus is a giant blue aquatic humanoid monster that appeared in Strange Tales #80 and #85. There were two different Gigantos: Gigantus is a giant monster from the underwater city of Mu who first appeared in Tales to Astonish #63 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Gigantus was sent by his king to invade the surface world. It retreated when a prop builder named Mr. Baxter built Ulvar to scare it back to Mu.  Glop is a giant monster that first appeared in Tales to Astonish #21 and was created by Steve Ditko. It was originally called "Hulk" before the Marvel Comics character of the same name came into view. Glop is a giant monster that emerged from a movie screen that was playing the movie it was in.  Marvel Comics had its rendition of Godzilla. Gog is a Tsiln. Googam is a giant alien monster who is the son of Goom.  Goom is a giant alien monster from Planet X and the father of Googam. Gorgilla is a giant ape/human monster. Gorgolla is an alien gargoyle monster that first appeared in Strange Tales #74 and was created by Jack Kirby and Dick Ayers. Gorgolla is a Stonian and the son of Granitor where he and his kind hid out on Earth posing as gargoyles.  Green Thing is a monstrous weed monster that first appeared in Tales of Suspense #19 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. A botanist that developed a plant intelligence serum tested it on a weed which transformed into a giant weed monster with a human-shaped head where it planned to take over the world only for the botanist to use the same serum on the Ignatus Rex that destroyed the Green Thing.  Grogg is a fictional monster character from the Marvel Universe who first appeared in Strange Tales #83 (April 1961). Grogg is a giant who possesses super-strength, can fly and also breathe flames. He lived below the surface of the former Soviet Union but was revived and freed by atomic bomb testing under Colonel Vorcutsky. Grogg pursued all those involved with testing and fought off communists. He then relocated to Earth's moon but later returned to Earth. Miklos Kozlov, a scientist/political prisoner sabotaged the Soviet's plan to build a military base on Mars by tricking Grogg into entering their ship, Kozlov escaped using a smoke screen, leaving Grogg captured and trapped where he was allegedly sent to Mars. Through unknown means he returned to Earth and was captured by S.H.I.E.L.D. where he was placed in that organization's Paranormal Containment Unit. Groot is a Floral Colossal. The original Groot is an alien conqueror that later appeared as a member of Nick Fury's Howling Commandos. The second Groot is a member of the Guardians of the Galaxy. Gruto is a green alien gorilla-like monster that first appeared in Journey into Mystery #67 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Gruto is a giant alien from the planet Pacion Rex that resembled a green scaly gorilla.  The Insect Man is a giant insect monster that first appeared in Tales of Suspense #24 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. The Insect Man and his kind reside in an unknown part of Subterranea where they once had an encounter with Sergeant Mason of the U.S. Army.  It the Living Colossus is a 100-ft. statue that was brought to life by the Kigor. Klagg is a giant monstrous alien with a tall head that first appeared in Tales of Suspense #21 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Klagg is a peaceful alien who arrived on Earth where he planned to destroy it for its constant wars.  Kraa the Unhuman is a giant monster that first appeared in Tales of Suspense #18 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Kraa was once a human of the Wabuzi tribe until he was mutated into a giant monster by the explosion of an atomic bomb caused by the Soviet Union soldiers.  Megataur is a giant Deviant Mutate that first appeared in Fantastic Four Unlimited #4 and was created by Roy Thomas, Herb Trimpe, and Steve Montano. Megataur is a bull-headed Deviant Mutate that was a servant of the Mole Man where he fought Atalanta, Hulk, Human Torch, Invisible Woman, and Thing.  Metallo is a gigantic high-tech armor that first appeared in Tales of Suspense #16 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Metallo was a giant high-tech armor that was built to withstand radiation. The scientists that created it unknowingly allowed an escaped convict named Mike Fallon to test the armor.  Mechano is a giant robot that first appeared in Strange Tales #86 and was created by Jack Kirby and Dick Ayes. Mechano is a 30 ft. robot that was built by Mr. Hopkins and his young assistant Tommy Briggs that was brought to life by a malfunctioning transformer.  Miclas is a monster that first appeared in Fantastic Four #347 and was created by Walt Simonson, Arthur Adams, and Eiji Tsuburaya. Miclas is a giant monster that was among the monsters of Monster Isle that were captured by the Skrull.  The Molten Man-Thing is a giant lava monster created by Stan Lee, Jack Kirby (pencils), and Steve Ditko (inker). He first appeared in Tales of Suspense #7 (1960). The Molten Man-Thing escaped from an erupting volcano on a South Pacific Island. The creature stumbled into a nearby village where he encountered Frank Harper, a vacationing pilot. Harper blasted him with cool air in a wind tunnel at a nearby airport. The Molten Man-Thing fell back into the volcano.  In Marvel Universe #4, Frank Harper was retconned into Makkari, one of the Eternals. It was also suggested there that the Molten Man-Thing was one of the Deviant mutates.  An enchanted paint duplicate of Molten Man-Thing later attacked New York.  The Monster from Mars is a creature from the film of the same name who first appeared in Fantastic Four #3 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Miracle Man brought the giant display of the creature to life through hypnosis so that he can steal an atomic tank from the U.S. military and fight the Fantastic Four. The Monster from Mars display was destroyed by Human Torch.  Monsteroso is the name of two giant monsters: Monstro the Gorilla is a giant white gorilla who resided on a small island somewhere off the coast of Africa and was trapped in a cave by the natives. Nobody knew it yet, but Monstro was blind because of it being trapped in a cave for a long time.  Monstro the Octopus is a gigantic octopus that first appeared in Tales of Suspense #8 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Not much is known about Monstro the Octopus other than the fact that it was suspected of being an octopus that was mutated through atomic weaponry. Following Monstro the Octopus' attack on a Soviet coastal town, Professor Mark Faraday was called in by the Soviet Diplomats to investigate Monstro the Octopus. Upon guessing the theory of its origins, Professor Mark Faraday was able to get it shrunken back down to its normal height in 24 hours.  Monstrom is a giant one-eyed alien that first appeared in Tales to Astonish #11 and was created by Jack Kirby and Dick Ayers. Monstrom is a 20-ft, one-eyed alien whose spaceship crashed in the bayou 1,000 years ago. Unable to fix the spaceship himself, Monstrom placed himself in suspended animation. 1,000 years later, some humans exploring the bayou where a boy unknowingly awoken Monstrom who tried to speak to them. As Monstrom can only speak in monster sounds, the humans were unable to understand him. One person tried to shoot it with a rifle to no avail. When Monstrom later followed the people back to town, the townspeople discovered its fear of fire and drove him back to the bayou. Deeming the humans too barbaric to help him, Monstrom retreated back to his spaceship where he re-entered suspended animation until the day the humans would be advanced to help him.  Moomba is a giant alien monster that first appeared in Tales to Astonish #23 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Moomba is a 20 ft. alien monster from an unknown race that planned to conquer Earth and seeded themselves into wooden statues all over the world.  Oog is a giant alien monster that first appeared in Tales of Suspense #27 and was created by Jack Kirby. Oog is a 25 ft. alien who was on his way from returning to his homeworld when his spaceship's engines failed and he crashed into Earth somewhere in the Arctic Circle. Before becoming frozen in ice, Oog etched a galactic distress signal. Some centuries later, Oog was found frozen in a block of ice by a scientific expedition who transported his frozen form back to the United States where he thaws. Oog accidentally broke the wall to the laboratory where some people mistook him for being on rampage enough to call in the army. Oog defended himself by hypnotizing the army. Displeased with how the humans reacted to him, Oog commented to the humans that they should be quarantined from the rest of outer space. As Oog signals his kind to come pick him up, they don't know the existence of the humans around their spaceship causing the humans to think that there are worst things in outer space.  Orrgo is a 25 ft. Mentelleronite. Rommbu is a giant alien monster that first appeared in Tales to Astonish #19 and was created by Jack Kirby and Dick Ayers. Rommbu is a giant alien who was dispatched by his kind to get Earth to surrender.  Rorgg is a giant alien spider monster that first appeared in Journey into Mystery #64 and was created by Stan Lee, Jack Kirby, and Dick Ayers. Rorgg is the ruler of a race of giant alien spider monsters that sought to conquer Earth. Rorgg's kind had a weakness against DDT.  The Sandman is an alien monster made of sand that first appeared in Journey into Mystery #70 and was created by Jack Kirby. This monster is not to be confused with the supervillain of the same name. The alien Sandman crash-landed on Earth where he ended up in Mexico. The local tribespeople thought it was an evil spirit. They took him while he was still weak from his crash and sealed him in a cave with no air and light where he remained in a state of suspended animation. By the early 1960s, a vacationing Marine named Steve Bronson and his family accidentally unleashed the alien Sandman on the world. The alien Sandman regained its consciousness and recounted its past to the Bronson family and planned to conquer the Earth. Steve Bronson tried to oppose the alien Sandman, but it proved invulnerable to physical assault. The alien Sandman ordered the Bronsons to transport him to North America, so he could observe the most powerful nation on the planet before putting his plan into action. Steve Bronson was able to alert the military to the alien Sandman's presence, but they also proved ineffective in dealing with the extraterrestrial threat. Bullets went right through him, gas was ineffectual because he does not breathe and while bombs would scatter his pieces, he proved capable of reforming himself afterwards. The alien Sandman planned to increase its size by absorbing every sand on the beaches until nothing can stop him. Steve Bronson's son Bobby heard about the plan and headed to the beach with a plan of his own. Bobby threw a pile of water over the sand which made the alien Sandman soggy to the point where he couldn't move. The military quickly transported the alien Sandman's body to a top-secret underground facility where he has remained ever since.  Skreel is a moth monster that first appeared in Fantastic Four #374 and was created by Walt Simonson. Skreel is a giant moth monster that resides on Monster Isle and is named after the sounds it makes.  Sporr is a giant amoeba monster that first appeared in Tales of Suspense #11 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Sporr is a giant amoeba monster created by a scientist that moved into Victor Frankenstein's castle where he used a growth ray on the amoeba.  The Thing that Crawled by Night is a giant plant monster that first appeared in Tales of Suspense #26 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. The Thing that Crawled by Night was a giant plant monster that was created by a farmer.  Tim Boo Ba first appeared in Amazing Adult Fantasy #9 (February 1962). His story was later republished with entirely new illustrations in Silver Surfer #4 (February 1968). Tim Boo Ba is a reptilian humanoid from the microscopic planet Devoktos, and together with an army of mercenaries he decides to conquer the entire Microverse. Despite initial success, Tim Boo Ba and his forces are apparently wiped out by a flood, which is revealed to be nothing more than a drop of water from the considerably larger Earth-616, the mainstream Marvel Earth.  Tim Boo Ba apparently survives and years later tricks fellow monster Googam into using the scientific equipment of Mister Fantastic to enlarge him. Tim Boo Ba uses the equipment to grow to giant proportions, but is eventually stopped by Googam and fellow monsters Elektro, Gorgilla and Fin Fang Foom.  Torg the Abominable Snow-King is a giant sea-dwelling ape-like monster who first appeared in Sub-Mariner #55 and was created by Bill Everett. Torg's origins are unknown as he claims that nobody knows his beginning and nobody knows his end. He caused trouble in the waters near Antarctica which attracted the attention of Namor who managed to defeat him with a block of ice.  Tricephalous is a three-headed giant Deviant Mutate. Trull the Unhuman is a non-corporal alien who first appeared in Tales to Astonish #21 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. When Trull's ship had crashed, his physical body was destroyed. His essence survived and had possessed a construction crew's steam shovel that was designed by a man named Phil. Trull went on a rampage upon holding Phil, his ex-girlfriend, her new boyfriend, and the construction foreman hostage. This lasted until an elephant that Phil freed earlier defeated it by cracking its body. Trull's essence escaped into the jungle.  During the Civil War II storyline, Trull the Unhuman resurfaced in a new steam shovel body where he vandalized Damage Control's equipment until he got busted by Damage Control worker Monstro. Upon Monstro empathizing him, Trull was convinced to give up on his goals. Trull the Unhuman joined up with Damage Control and became their spokesperson.  The Two-Headed Thing is a giant monster with two heads that first appeared in Strange Tales #95 and was created by Stan Lee, Jack Kirby, and Dick Ayers. The Two-Headed Thing is an orange two-headed rock monster with super-strength and shapeshifting abilities.  Ulvar is a giant alien that first appeared in Journey into Mystery #63. Ulvar was a giant alien from Centaurus II that challenged Gigantus's supremacy. After Gigantus retreated, it turned out that Ulvar was a prop built by Mr. Baxter and Charlie to fool Gigantus.  Vandoom's Monster is a wax monster that first appeared in Tales to Astonish #17 and was created by Stan Lee, Jack Kirby, and Dick Ayers. Ludwig Vandoom created a wax sculpture of a giant monster in order to improve his failing wax museum. The wax sculpture came to life upon being struck by lightning from a freak thunderstorm.  Warlord Kaa is a giant shadow monster who first appeared in Strange Tales #79 and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Warlord Kaa is the leader of the Shadow Realm. He led his fellow shadow monsters into invading Earth until a mystery writer named Phillip Lawrence found out and alerted the United Nations of their invasion. The shadow monsters were captured, by Warlord Kaa escaped leaving a message in the sky vowing to return and succeed next time.  Xemnu the Titan, also known as Xemnu the Hulk, is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Xemnu is an alien who has attempted to conquer the Earth several times. The character first appeared in the story "I Was a Slave of the Living Hulk!" in Journey into Mystery #62, and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Xemnu first appeared when his starship crash-landed on Earth after running out of fuel.  When revived by the human Joe Harper, Xemnu reveals that he was a criminal who had been exiled into space for crimes against the rest of the universe, and had escaped a prison planet and fled to Earth.  Xemnu then used telepathy to dominate Harper's mind and then the minds of every other human on Earth.  He forced them to build him a new starship so that he could return home.  As he departs, he releases Harper from his telepathic domination. Harper sabotages the ship's electrical systems, shocking Xemnu into a coma-like state. As the alien flew off, his mind control faded, and his former servants forgot that he had ever existed. Xemnu used telekinesis to direct an asteroid to strike his ship so that it would be knocked onto a course back to Earth. After crashing down on Earth a second time, the weakened Xemnu was taken into a circus sideshow. As he took control of the town where the circus was located, Joe Harper followed Xemnu's trail and confronts the alien. Xemnu attempts to disintegrate Harper, but Harper used a mirror to reflect the alien's psychic power back at it, and Xemnu's body was destroyed.  Xemnu then traveled through space in a non-corporeal form, and over the years learned that his home planet had been wiped out by a plague. He returned to Earth, possessing the body of an astronaut Richmond Wagner to gain a physical form. When the space shuttle arrived on Earth, Xemnu used his human host's popularity and his own telepathy to become the host of a children's television series. He used his mental power to place Earth's children under his thrall, planning to abduct them to repopulate his home world, only to be detected by Doctor Strange. Strange and his ally Namor the Sub-Mariner were defeated by the alien, but Xemnu was in turn beaten by the Hulk.  Xemnu then took possession of Amos Moses, mayor of small-town Plucketville in an attempt to kidnap the townspeople of Plucketville to repopulate his home planet. The newly formed Defenders (Doctor Strange, the Hulk, the Sub-Mariner and the Valkyrie) fought him, thus preventing him from using the townspeople to construct another starship.  Xemnu continued his vendetta against the Hulk via a series of clones created from samples of other "classic Marvel" alien monsters,  sent to attack the Hulk, and battled the Hulk himself; however, he was defeated when the dam burst.  Xemnu later used Amos Moses' body in an attempt to once again take control of the Earth via television-transmitted hypnosis. Xemnu took mental control of the Los Angeles-based hero Wonder Man using him to attack his ally, the Thing. The heroes eventually defeated Xemnu, and he fled in a starship.  Later, deep in space, Xemnu infiltrates the spacecraft-haulage craft owned by Ulysses Solomon Archer. He takes over the enclosed area of the Star Stop Diner and confronts a pregnant woman known as Mary McGrill. He plans to genetically alter her child to make it one of his own race. He is opposed by Razorback, Archer, She-Hulk and everyone else at the Diner but they are easily knocked out by his psychic powers.  She-Hulk awakens ahead of the others and finds that Xemnu is attempting to turn her into "She-Xemnu." Ultimately, Xemnu is defeated and given over to a powerful humanoid alien named Big Enilwen. This childlike being believes that Xemnu is simply a teddy bear to play with.  Xemnu convinces Enilwen to free his teddy bear population to 'the wild'. He returns to confront She-Hulk again, this time to sell her into slavery. This time he is defeated by a large monkey wrench to the head, wielded by She-Hulk's friend Louise Mason.[volume & issue needed] Xemnu reappeared as one of Space Phantom's kidnapped bodies in Beyond!.[volume & issue needed] He appeared in Annihilation Conquest as one of the Phalanx select.[volume & issue needed] Xemnu later returned to Earth and fought Red Hulk after Woodgod's defeat. During that time, Impossible Man uses his magic to combine Hulk and Red Hulk into the Compound Hulk which fights Xemnu's minion Kluh (a smart version of the Gray Hulk) and overpowers it.   Xemnu later appeared on Monster Isle when Shadowcat and Magik appeared to look for a mutant girl named Bo. Xemnu was among the monsters that attacked the three until Magik teleported herself, Shadowcat, and Bo to the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning.  Xemnu later appears alongside Rocket Raccoon.  During the "Monsters Unleashed" storyline, Xemnu is among the monsters seen falling from the sky near San Diego.  Thanks to his alien genetic structure, Xemnu possesses great superhuman strength, almost comparable to the She-Hulk's even at his present smaller size. Xemnu also possesses superhuman stamina and durability, and he has a gifted intellect with advanced knowledge of genetics. His main resource lies in his enormous, extraordinary psionic abilities, including telepathy, hypnosis, possession, and levitation. These abilities enable him to effortlessly control millions or even billions of minds at a time, immediately induce unconsciousness in crowds of people, or even put mental blocks in the mind of Doctor Strange, the "Sorcerer Supreme" of the Marvel Universe, although the Hulk has proved immune to Xemnu's psionic possession. He can also project psionic concussive blasts of tremendous power, sufficient to stagger even the Hulk, animate unliving objects, including asteroids, and he can create personal "atmo-spheres", a protective sphere of psionic energy, which he can use to fly with himself in it. If destroyed he can inhabit another living being and transform it into a smaller (11 ft) copy of his original body. He is highly adept in his native technology, and has been capable of engineering genetic monstrosities capable of challenging even Hulk's might, or using a machine that turns humans into members of his species, including transforming She-Hulk into a "She-Xemnu". Xemnu appears in the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. episode, "The Strongest One There Is", voiced by Fred Tatasciore.  This variation is much taller and stronger than the Hulk. He is interested in challenging local fighters and delivers a challenge, via hologram, to fight the Hulks - all except Rick. Seeing it as pointless, Hulk moves to reject but Rick accepts on behalf of the entire team. His colleagues lose. Feeling guilty, Rick tries one more time and manages to defeat Xemnu. Xemnu declares his journey for a skilled fight over and bonds with Rick over video games and doughnuts. Yetrigar is a Sasquatch-like being created by writer Doug Moench and artist Herb Trimpe as an adversary for Godzilla in Marvel Comics. He first appeared in Godzilla #10, where he had grown to gargantuan proportions due to being exposed to radiation. His name comes from the legendary shaggy men that some believe live in the Japanese mountains. Yetrigar battles Godzilla in the Grand Canyon. In his encounter with Godzilla, Yetrigar proves more than a match for the legendary 'King of the Monsters' and could have perhaps even killed Godzilla had Red Ronin not interceded.  Initially, Robert tries to prevent both entities from harming each other but ultimately buries Yetrigar beneath a rockslide. Ashamed of this action, Takiguchi temporarily fled in the Red Ronin robot.  Attempting to get revenge on Phantom Rider, Mockingbird led the West Coast Avengers to the Grand Canyon where Hamilton Slade was working on an archaeological project. To distract her teammates while she looked for Hamilton Slade, Mockingbird set up explosives which freed Yetrigar. The Avengers' attacks on the beast proved very futile until Hank Pym placed an object in Yetrigar's ear and used the Pym Particles to enlarge the device enough to knock him unconscious.  After his defeat at the hands of the Avengers, Yetrigar was remanded to the Vault. In a prologue to Acts of Vengeance, Yetrigar was seen trying to break out of his energy cell during a mass-prison break. This was thwarted by Hawkeye and Iron Man who managed to trap the other villains (namely Angar the Screamer, Cactus, Electro, Griffin, Hydro-Man, Klaw, Mister Hyde, Orka, Scarecrow, Titania, and Whirlwind) that were trying to escape.  After the Vault was shut down, Yetrigar was taken someplace else. It is most likely that he was placed on Monster Isle.  Zetora is a giant monstrous Martian that first appeared in Journey into Mystery #57 and was created by Jack Kirby and Dick Ayers. Zetora was a giant Martian criminal who fled to Earth after committing a crime on Mars.  Zzutak is a giant monster that first appeared in Strange Tales #88 and was created by Stan Lee, Jack Kirby, and Steve Ditko. Zzutak is an orange monster that was painted to life on an Aztec canvas by comic book illustrator Frank Johnson upon being manipulated by an Aztec tribe.  