The Machine Empire Baranoia (マシン帝国バラノイア, Mashin Teikoku Baranoia) is a fictional group of antagonists in the Super Sentai Series Chōriki Sentai Ohranger. Founded by Bacchushund, they are cruel race of machines who conquered an entire chain of galaxies before reaching Earth in 1997. After two years of planning, Baranoia begins its attack on Earth by targeting every major city on the planet while sending their demands for Earth's governments to submit and provide them their entire food supply and half of the human population to take as slaves. However, deciding to take the planet by force when their demands are not met, Baranoia's first wave of attack was thwarted by the Ohrangers. As a result, Baranoia declares to focus their invasion force on Japan before taking over the rest of Earth. Emperor Bacchus Wrath (皇帝バッカスフンド, Kōtei Bakkasuhundo, 1-34, 39 & 40) is the ruler of Baranoia, built 600 million years ago by an ancient race. He turned to evil and was banished into the depths of space by King Ranger. Seeing himself as a god, Bacchus Wrath believes he has all right to conquer the world and make humans into his slaves. Very violent, tending to malfunction when he goes berserk, Bacchus Wrath does not tolerate failure nor sentimentality in his minions' programming. In episode 33, it is later revealed Bacchus Wrath had secretly been rebuilding some of his Machine Beasts and managed to harness the infinite energy from the Earth's magma. When his rebuilt Machine Beasts passed through the magma shower they became Super Machine Beasts. Thanks to the Ohrangers' "Trojan Horse" plan with the Blocker Robos, this facility was destroyed preventing any more Super Machine Beasts from being created. In episode 34, he grows in size and power thanks to the power of a space metal dark sword which, according to him, was the only one of its kind in the universe, which he intended to use on the Ohrangers. He is finally destroyed by Oh Blocker. But Bacchus Wrath's head survives and gives the last of his energy to Buldont before shutting down for good. Bacchus Wrath is voiced by Tōru Ōhira (大平 透, Ōhira Tōru). Empress Hysteria (皇妃ヒステリア, Kōhi Hisuteria, 1-41) is the wife of Bacchushund, usually remaining in the palace devising plans with her husband, though she does go down to Earth by herself at times. She usually carries a metal fan with her and also a gun. She initially despised humans for their feelings, but began to value life after Bomber the Great assumes command. Her body color changed from gold to silver when she gave all her power to her niece Multiwa, and as a result, she aged into Dowager Empress Hysteria (41, 47 & 48), now using what is left of her late husband's staff as a cane. She eventually self-destructs in order to protect her grandchild, sacrficing herself after the Ohrangers promised they would not harm the child. Hysteria is voiced by Minori Matsushima (松島みのり,, Matsushima Minori). The son of Bacchushund, Prince Buldont (皇子ブルドント, Ōji Burudonto, 1-40) is basically a robot child. Mischievous and spoiled, he thought of humans as simple toys. He once attempted to direct his own movie, "Century of the Machine Empire", by using humans with no notion that they die from the realism. He can fire lasers from his eyes. After his father's death, Buldont challenges Bomber the Great to a duel for the throne of Baranoia and loses with his body taken away by the exiled Hysteria. However, finding his father's head and receiving his remaining energy, Buldont reconfigured into the adult form of Kaiser Buldont (カイザーブルドント, Kaizā Burudonto, 40-48). After returning to Baranoia and destroying Bomber the Great, Buldont regains the leadership of Baranoia. He and Multiwa make themselves grow without Acha and Kocha's help, but is eventually destroyed in the series finale at the hands of King Pyramidder Battle Formation. Buldont is voiced by Tomokazu Seki (関 智一, Seki Tomokazu). Empress Multiwa (マルチーワ皇妃, Maruchīwa Kohi, 40-48) is Hysteria's niece and Buldont's cousin, skilled with a bow that can become a sword. While Bacchus Wrath revives Buldont, Hysteria decides to do the same and sends all her 600 million year worth energy to Multiwa, still a princess, who was sleeping on another planet waiting for the day to become the Machine Empress. Receiving the energy from her aunt and a message of help she came to Earth interrupting the battle between Bomber the Great and the Ohrangers. She aids Buldont in disfiguring Bomber the Great and reprogramming him into their slave before sending him to his death. The two marry after Buldont becomes the new ruler of Baranoia. She and Buldont make themselves grow without Acha and Kocha's help. She eventually dies by her husband's side at the hands of King Pyramider Battle Formation'sSuper Legend Beam, but not before she bears him a son. Multiwa is voiced by Miho Yamada (山田 美穂, Yamada Miho). Buldont Jr. (ブルドントＪｒ．, Burudonto Junia, 47 & 48) is Kaiser Buldont and Princess Multiwa's child. After his birth, his parents are destroyed by King Pyramider and his grandmother Empress Hysteria sacrifices herself after the Ohrangers promise her not to harm the child. The Ohrangers hand Buldont Jr. over to Gunmajin just before he departs to his own planet. Called the "Lone wolf of the Universe" (宇宙の爆弾野郎, Uchū no Bakudan Yarō), Bomber the Great (ボンバー・ザ・グレート, Bonbā za Gurēto, 35-41) was just another one of Baranoia's Machine Beasts, yet was able to turn his entire body into a missile. He was exiled after a failed attempt to take over the Baranoia Empire, only to return upon hearing of the death of Bacchus Wrath to try to retake over. This time he set his sights on trying to take over the empty throne. After revising the Baranoia Constitution, Article 2, Bomber the Great challenged Buldont to a duel for the Empire which he won and banished Buldont, proclaiming himself "Bomber the Great the 1st," the new Emperor of Baranoia. At first, being new to the throne, Bomber the Great did his best at leading the Empire, trying to win Hysteria's affections and to kill the Ohrangers in the process, but consistently met with failure in both prospects, exiling Hysteria as a result. Kaiser Buldont returned to take back his birthright and Multiwa took control of Bomber the Great by reprogramming him after they took out his arms, replacing them with a sword and a bunker. Bomber the Great was soon sent on a suicide mission to kill the Ohrangers, but was destroyed by King Pyramider Battle Formation (OhBlocker) before he could accomplish this. Suddenly, a smaller missile called the Great Missile appeared shortly afterward, to destroy the sun, only to be flung towards the other side of space by Gunmajin to be destroyed for good. Bomber the Great is voiced by Nobuyuki Hiyama (檜山 修之, Hiyama Nobuyuki). Butler Acha (執事アチャ, Shitsuji Acha) is Baranoia's Imperial Family Butler who follows whoever is in command at the time, reading their War Declaration and other proclamations. Took care of young Buldont when in the field, even serving as the producer of his movie. But for all his work, Acha never gets any respect from the imperial family who abuse him at times. When Bomber the Great took over, he simply forgot about Hysteria and served him. When Buldont returned, the same happened, Acha couldn't care less about Bomber. At the end of the series, he turned good and went with Kocha, and Buldont Jr., and Gunmajin back to Gunmajin's planet. Acha is voiced by Kaneta Kimotsuki (肝付 兼太, Kimotsuki Kaneta). Butler Kocha (執事コチャ, Shitsuji Kocha) is a miniature robot who served the family along Acha, always on her partner's shoulder like a pirate captain's parrot. Though not much of a figure due to her size, Kocha can fire beams from her chest. In episode 8, Kocha was outfitted with the Giant System, enabling her to become a hammer for Acha to fling at a Machine Beast, transmitting an enlarging beam into it. At the series finale, Kocha was taken by Gunmajin back to Gunmajin's home planet. Kocha is voiced by Shinobu Adachi (安達　忍, Adachi Shinobu). Machine Beast Tamer Keris (マシン獣使いケリス, Mashinjū Tsukai Kerisu, 26-28) is an Officer placed in charge of taming feral Machine Beasts, having her personal dome. When Bacchus Wrath learns of Riki's return, he frantically requests her aid by having her go after Dorin with Yuji, Juri, and Momo attempting to protect her. But after King Ranger arrives and destroys Bara Goblin, Keris assumes her true buxom form as she enlarges and captures King Ranger before taking into her domain. She then uses Bara King to capture little girls in order to make them her new pets after splicing them with animal DNA, with Dorin as the crown jewel in her collection. However, an eagle hinders Keris from capturing Dorin at the cost of its life as the Ohrangers arrive to the girl's aid. Enlarging into her true form, Keris traps Ohranger Robo in an electrified cage until King Pyramider frees it, with OhRed saving the girls before calling in Red Puncher. Keris is then destroyed by King Pyramider Battle Formation. Keris is played by Akiko Amamatsuri (天祭 揚子, Amamatsuri Akiko), who previously played Rui Senda/Dr. Mazenda Choujuu Sentai Liveman and Gara in Gosei Sentai Dairanger. Camera Trick (カメラトリック, Kamera Torikku, Movie, 26, 27 & 39) is a small bird-resembling video camera monster, serving as a recon for Baranoia's forces. Camera Trick is voiced by Kazunori Arai (新井 一典, Arai Kazunori). Built on the dark side of the Moon by Baranoia, the Machine Beasts (マシン獣, Mashinjū) are the main weapons used for Earth's invasion. There would be different types of Machine Beasts, from mindless weapons of destruction to robots with intelligence or feelings superior to that of humans. 