Mechani-Kong (Japanese: メカニコング, Hepburn: Mekanikongu) is a remote-controlled robot double of King Kong introduced in the 1966 animated television series The King Kong Show and featured again in the 1967 film King Kong Escapes. The robot was created by Dr. Who (not to be confused with the British television series or its main character) to try to replicate the giant ape King Kong. In the Toho movie King Kong Escapes, Mechani-Kong was built by Dr. Who to dig for Element X, a large core containing a natural abundance of nuclear power. However Mechani-Kong was not resistant enough to dig out the element, as the robot's circuits were destroyed by magnetic waves. Dr. Who then kidnaps the real Kong to dig for the element, placing him in a hypnotic trance. Kong eventually breaks out of his trance and swims to Tokyo, where he and Mechani-Kong fight atop the Tokyo Tower. After a long battle, in which both of them nearly fall off the tower, Dr. Who's associate Madame X rips out the robot's control cords, causing Mechani-Kong to malfunction. The robot falls to its destruction from the top of the tower, mirroring Kong's demise in the original film. Mechani-Kong first appeared in the ninth episode of The King Kong Show (the segment titled "Mechanikong") as one of several monsters in the series used by Dr. Who to fight Kong. King Kong defeated the robot by knocking it into the ocean, which caused it to short circuit. Mechani-Kong was 20 meters (65 feet) tall and weighed 15,000 metric tons (16,534 short tons). In the movie, aside from its great strength, Mechani-Kong has high-intensity lights in its eyes which can be used to blind opponents. Although not as agile as the real Kong, Mechani-Kong possesses greater endurance. It is later modified with attachments on its waist which it uses to carry multiple grenade-like explosives and still later with a dome on the top of its head which features a flashing light that can hypnotize its foes. After abandoning a remake of King Kong vs. Godzilla in 1991, Toho attempted to produce a film called Godzilla vs. Mechani-Kong. However, though Toho had created the live-action Mechani-Kong, Turner demanded payment for using King Kong's image. The film was dropped in favor of Godzilla vs. King Ghidorah. 