The Ogre Tribe Org (鬼族オルグ, Onizoku Orugu) is a fictional race of Oni born from the sadness and madness of humans from the Japanese Super Sentai series Hyakujuu Sentai Gaoranger. They often take the forms of idols deep within an underground cavern known as the Matrix (鬼洞窟（マトリックス）, Matorikkusu). There are two types of Orgs: the basic multi-horned variety and the one-horned Orgs that possess greater power. Within the Matrix is the Org Master (オルグマスター, Orugu Masutā, 1-49), a stone face worshipped by the Orgs due to its power to create new Orgs. It was soon revealed in the finale that the Org Master was a figurehead, only a symbol of the true power of its creators who are the true Org leaders, the Highness Duke Orgs. In the end, Futaro managed to seal the Org Master so no more Orgs can be created and that the Highness Dukes' power is decreased as a result. The powerless Org Master was later destroyed when the Matrix caved in. The Highness Duke Orgs (ハイネスデュークオルグ, Hainesu Dūku Orugu) are the real rulers of the Orgs, using the Org Master which gives life as a figurehead. One by one, a Highness Duke awakens only to be killed by the Gaorangers. Ultimate Org Hyakkimaru (究極オルグ百鬼丸, Kyūkyoku Orugu Hyakkimaru, 23, 33 & 37): Seen in flashbacks, Hyakkimaru is the Org that was responsible for destroying Gao God one thousand years earlier before he himself was killed by Gao Hunter, which was powered by Rouki's evil energy. As by its name, Hyakkimaru was created by many Highness Duke Orgs joining together into a single form. His shadowy silhouette resembles Rakushaasa. Ultimate Org Senki (究極オルグセンキ, Kyūkyoku Orugu Senki, 49-51) is the source of the Orgs' power after the Org Master was sealed. Senki was created when the Org Heart merges the remnants of the three Highness Dukes, fulfilling the prophecy of the "Last Org Advent". Stronger than Hyakkimaru was, Senki overpowers the Gaorangers, destroying all the Power Animals and bringing the Animarium down. He then attacked the city, but the Power Animals are all revived and countless others arrive to help. All the Power Animals are able to destroy Senki's physical body, while the Gaorangers contributed their energy to Hyakujuuken and used it to destroy Senki's heart so he could not revive himself. The Highness Dukes' combined weapon, which is also Senki's default weapon, is the All-Carnage Ogre Blade (修羅百鬼剣, Shura Hyakkiken). This weapon is the Highness Dukes' own version of the Gaoranger's Hyakujuuken, which is a combination of Shuten's axe, Ura's fan, and Rasetsu's fork and knife. Senki is voiced by Daisuke Gōri (郷里 大輔, Gōri Daisuke). Highness Duke Org Shuten (ハイネスデュークオルグ シュテン, Hainesu Dūku Orugu Shuten, 2-14 & 47-49) is the first of the Highness Dukes to be awakened, this cyclops-like (he had one main eye) multi-eyed Org wants to take over the world. Short-tempered, he wields the Highness Axe (ハイネスアックス, Hainesu Akkusu) and can stretch his arms. He once attempted to obtain Gao Elephant's Gao  Jewel while it was dormant, but is forced to leave both it and the scroll behind when the orb left painful scars on his palms. He attempts to have the Dukes find ideal Orgs with his detached eye, only to anger the Org Master with his repeated failure. Seeking to redeem himself, Shuten attempts to destroy the Gaorangers by blocking the Gao Soul, knocking them around in human form while the Dukes take their Gao  Jewels. But at the last second, Pyochan restores the Gao Souls, with Gao Red defeating Shuten with Gao  Mane Buster. Refusing to accept defeat, Shuten takes TsueTsue's staff to perform the Highness Duke secret technique to enlarge at full power. But Shuten was not much for the SoulBird-powered Gao Muscle and Gao King. Though he survives the Super Animal Heart, Shuten is killed by the newly awakened Highness Duke Org Ura, who drains and absorbs all his power. Shuten is later resurrected, fighting Gao Red and Gao Yellow in a vain attempt to protect the red idol on the mountain that powers the barrier protecting the Matrix. Though he was killed, TsueTsue uses the Org Heart to fuse him with the others to create Senki. Shuten is voiced by Tetsu Inada (稲田 徹, Inada Tetsu). Highness Duke Org Ura (ハイネスデュークオルグ ウラ, Hainesu Dūku Orugu Ura, 14-24, 26-30 & 47-49) is the second Highness Duke to be awakened, in response to Shuten's failure, he was effeminate with a nose-like face and ear-like projections on his back. Obsessed with collecting beautiful items, he is the one who awakens Rouki. He uses a magic mirror to see things at a distance and carries a fan as his weapon. Through Rouki, Ura gains the four Power Animal orbs that Rouki had stolen and uses them to create Chimera Org. However, the Org is beaten by the newly transformed Gao Silver, who also kills Ura. But Ura's crown survived and, after TsueTsue used it to briefly become Onihime, Ura regenerates himself from it. From there, Ura cultivates the displaced Thousand-Year Evil, making it stronger with each host he creates for it. Soon enough, Ura captures Gao Silver to have him reabsorb the evil power. However, after Gao Silver rejects it, Ura is able to absorb it to evolve into a more powerful form, Ultimate Form Ura (ウラ究極体, Ura Kyūkyokutai, 30 & 31), which was his actual plan from the beginning. With his new power, Ura kills the Gaorangers with only Kakeru and Shirogane the sole survivors of the first attack. The two Gaorangers try to fight Ura on their own until the others provide Gao Red with the Falcon Summoner and Gao Falcon as Gao God revives them to aid in forming Gao Icarus, engaging in a dogfight before purging his body of the Thousand-Year Evil with Icarus Dynamite. Restored to normal, Ura is wounded by Gao Silver who destroys his crown so Ura would be killed for good by the Gaorangers' Hyakuujuuken. Ura was later resurrected, fighting Gao Silver and Gao White in a vain attempt to protect the green idol in the forest that powers the barrier protecting the Matrix. Though he was killed, TsueTsue uses the Org Heart to fuse him with the others to create Senki. Ura is voiced by Tamotsu Nishiwaki (西脇 保, Nishiwaki Tamotsu). Highness Duke Org Rasetsu (ハイネスデュークオルグ ラセツ, Hainesu Dūku Orugu Rasetsu, 32-44 & 47-49) is the final Highness Duke to be awakened, a hermaphrodite with a mass of mouths with both male and female voices who referred himself as the "Prince of Despair". He is ravenous with an appetite for anything within reach, using a knife and fork as his weapons. He treats the Duke Orgs like dirt, painfully transferring their powers to certain Orgs. His very plan from the beginning was severing the ties between the Gaorangers and the Power Animals, using Kurushimemas Org to obtain Kakeru's G-Phone to implant a bug-extension of him into it to pinpoint Gao 's Rock. But he had an alternate motive in getting Tetomu, whose cooking he obsessed for. He almost got Tetomu as his chef, sacrificing TsueTsue in the process while removing the Gaorangers from the picture, if the Power Animals hadn't drove him away. Refusing to accept defeat, Rasets decides to complete his plan on Christmas, with his bug destroying the G-Phones prior to the fight while he smashes the G-Brace Phone. Rasets then ingests his creation to assume giant size to destroy Gao 's Rock. But before Rasets can eat the gang, the Power Animals arrive, with Gao Deers restoring the Gaorangers' transformation devices. Gao Muscle and Gao Hunter managed to wound the Highness Duke Org enough for Gao Kentarus to land the deathblow. Rasets is later resurrected as the leader of the other Highness Duke Orgs, fighting Gao Black and Gao Blue in a vain attempt to protect the blue idol within the lake that powers the barrier protecting the Matrix. Though he was killed, TsueTsue uses the Org Heart to fuse him with the others to create Senki. Rasets is voiced by Hiromi Nishikawa (西川 宏美, Nishikawa Hiromi) and Hidekatsu Shibata (柴田 秀勝, Shibata Hidekatsu). Lost Highness Rakushaasa (はぐれハイネスラクシャーサ, Hagure Hainesu Rakushāsa, Gaoranger vs. Super Sentai): A hairy Org that wielded a trident-like weapon who happened to be most powerful of the Highness Duke Orgs, but his immense power caused his horn to be damaged and sent him into a coma. Once awaken, he starts to gather the fighting spirit of strong-willed warriors to fully heal his horn, using the fighting spirit the male Gaoranger core members. He manages to make Yabaiba and TsueTsue stronger and upgrades the Orgettes, giving them all golden horns. He was able to make himself grow. It takes the combined force of all previous Sentai heroes to destroy him. His hairy tendrils emerge from his remains and he takes back the power he gave to Yabaiba and TsueTsue to revive himself one more time. He is defeated by the Hyakujuuken and then again by the mecha of all of the Red warriors with Gao King, and finally killed by the Gaoranger Storm. He is the only Highness Duke not to be revived in the series' finale. He bears some resemblance to Hyakkimaru. The Duke Orgs (デュークオルグ, Dūku Orugu) serve under the Highness Duke Orgs. They are identified by their single horn. Duke Org Yabaiba (デュークオルグ ヤバイバ, Dūku Orugu Yabaiba, 1-26 & 31-Hurricanger vs. Gaoranger): A crazed pierrot-like master of knives who claimed himself to Gao Yellow's greatest rival (Though the feeling wasn't mutual). He commonly blurts out "That's yabai-bad" (これはヤバイバ, Kore wa yabai-ba!) whenever things got wrong for him and the other Orgs. While affected by residual energy from the Thousand-Year Evil, Yabaiba became Armored Yabaiba (装甲ヤバイバ, Sōkō Yabaiba, 26-31), which lasted until Ura was killed for good. While attempting to impress Rasetsu, Yabaiba enlisted the aid of his brother Juggling Org, forming Team Circus to kill the Gaorangers. When his brother was overwhelmed by Gao King, Yabaiba eats the Org Seeds to grow large and fight alongside Juggling Org, until he died while the seeds' effect wore off and restored Yabaiba to normal size. Though he failed to impress Rasetsu, Yabaiba earned TsueTsue's respect and fell in love with TsueTsue over the course of the series, devastated by her death. After Yabaiba managed to conceal the Matrix's whereabouts with massive landscaping, he receives a message from beyond the grave, provided the means to revive TsueTsue: Using a fishing rod and her horn energized with the power that killed her. Using Steam Engine Org as a sacrificial lamb, Yabaiba succeeds in reeling TsueTsue out of hell, only to find the Highnesses were revived as a result. Though he began to question the intention of their masters', he followed TsueTsue out of love. After surviving the cave-in of their base, Yabaiba followed TsueTsue as they teamed up with the Jakanja in Hurricaneger vs. Gaoranger. He was finally killed by the two teams' Victory Gadget/Hyakujuuken combo along with TsueTsue. Yabaiba is voiced by Kōichi Sakaguchi (坂口 候一, Sakaguchi Kōichi), who also portrayed a citizen in the final episode. Duchess Org TsueTsue (デュークオルグ ツエツエ, Dūku Orugu Tsuetsue, (1-26, 31-42, 47-Hurricanger vs. Gaoranger & Boukenger vs. Super Sentai)): An arrogant Org priestess whose magic is great. She developed an instant hatred of Gao White for calling her "Grandma". She is in charge of reviving and enlarging the minor Orgs by using special soybeans called Org Seeds (オルグシード, Orugu Shīdo) fired from her staff and chanting "Org Seeds, please allow the fallen to regain their enormous wicked power! Ogres Come in! Blessings go out!" (オルグシードよ、消えゆかんとする邪悪に再び巨大なる力を！鬼は内！福は外！, Orugu Shīdo yo, kiyukan to suru jaaku ni futatabi kyodai naru chikara o! Oni wa uchi! Fuku wa soto!). When Ura was seemingly dead, she temporarily used his crown to become the Highness Duchess Org Onihime (ハイネスデュークオルグ オニヒメ, Hainesu Dūku Orugu Onihime, 25). While affected by residual energy from the Thousand-Year Evil, TsueTsue became Armored TsueTsue (装甲ツエツエ, Sōkō Tsuetsue, 26-31). Her obsession for praise from the Highness Dukes led to her being tricked by Dorodoro into cutting off her horn in order to capture Tetomu without being affected by the sacred spring, even saying that it would grow back. Though she was near-death, TsueTsue couldn't see that she was only a pawn as she then was used by Rasetsu as a shield from the Hyakujuuken. But she was soon revived when Yabaiba energized TsueTsue's severed horn with the Hyakujuuken's power, and used it as a fishing lure to bring her back from hell. As she was reeled out of hell, she carried the three Highness Dukes with her, rewarded her loyalty with the title of Org Shaman TsueTsue (オルグの巫女 ツエツエ, Orugu no Miko Tsuetsue, 47-51) and a new staff. Afterwards, she was even more insane and driven even more for one purpose, serving the Highness Dukes to the point of creating the Org Heart that fused the Highness Dukes into Senki. After surviving the cave-in of their base, TsueTsue teamed up with the Jakenja in Hurricaneger vs. Gaoranger to get her revenge on the Gaorangers. Though she was killed by the two teams' Victory Gadget/Hyakujuuken combo, TsueTsue was resurrected a second time in GoGo Sentai Boukenger vs. Super Sentai by a combination of a Gōdom Engine and Chronos' magic (strangely, though she was destroyed on the battlefield, Chronos revived her in the Matrix) and assisted Chronos, Gajah, and Meemy, only to be used in the end as an ingredient to create a new Precious, the Staff of the Three Philosophers (３賢者の杖, Sankenja no Tsue), that powered Chronos up. After Chronos was destroyed by Burning Legend DaiVoyager, so too was the staff, and TsueTsue along with it. Tsuetsue is played by Rei Saito (斉藤 レイ, Saitō Rei). Duke Org Rouki (デュークオルグ 狼鬼, Dūku Orugu Rōki, 15-23, 26 & 30): An Org born from the mass of evil energy contained inside the Dark Mask, the Thousand-Year Evil (千年邪鬼, Sennen Jaki), called himself the most powerful warrior of the Orgs. Rouki wields the Crescent Moon Blade (三日月剣, Mikazukiken) which can perform the Crescent Wave (クレセントウェーブ, Kuresento Wēbu) and Moonlight Sonic (ムーンライトソニック, Mūnraito Sonikku) attacks, and like TsueTsue, he has his own Wolf Seeds (ウルフシード, Urufu Shīdo) that can enlarge Orgs by the command "Wolf Seeds, allow the fallen to regain their enormous wicked power!". Long ago, Shirogane used the mask to evoke his three Power Animals' combination at the cost of becoming Rouki himself. Vainly attempting to control himself, Shirogane had his allies seal him away into a stone coffin. But once released by Ura, Rouki is bent on exacting his 1,000 year grudge on the Gaorangers with no memory of his human life. In the process, while taking the Gao Jewels of Gao Elephant, Gao Giraffe, Gao Bear, and Gao Polar, Rouki begins to recover his memory as Shirogane. When the time of the full moon came, when his power is at its zenith, Ura implants a special grasshopper to modify Rouki's memory and willingly give the Gao Jewels to the Highness Duke. By then, the Gaorangers learned the truth and Shirogane was finally freed from the evil energy when the Gaorangers used Gao King Striker to force Gao Hunter apart and break the curse. However, Rouki was then released from his imprisonment and he attempted to kill Silver for using him and his power. Rouki was eventually defeated when Gao Silver joined forces with the other Gaorangers and Rouki was finally killed by Gao Hunter Justice with the Dark Wolf Mask destroyed. But the Thousand-Year Evil Rouki was made of escaped and scattered, with Ura cultivating it in various Orgs. Each time an Org is killed, the evil energy become even stronger. When Gao Deers sealed the energy, Ura had the Dukes capture Shirogane, who forced him to reabsorb the stronger evil energy, and become Rouki again but he was able to reject the power, unaware that it was all part of Ura's plan. But thanks to Gao Icarus, the Thousand-Year Evil was finally destroyed for good. Rouki is voiced by Eiji Takemoto (竹本 英史, Takemoto Eiji), who also portrayed a citizen in the final episode. The Three Org Brothers (オルグ三兄弟, Orugu Sankyōdai, Movie) showed up on a peaceful island a year before the Gaorangers were transported there. They captured a group of the natives and forced them to dig for a ruby Demon's Castle. Zeus Org (ゼウスオルグ, Zeusu Orugu) is the oldest brother with power over thunder (while in the actual myths Zeus was the youngest brother). He wielded a sword shaped like a thunderbolt and his special attack was called Devil's Thunder. He was the leader of the Orgs on an island in another dimension and forced the natives to mine for a special ruby that contained GaoKong's power. Zeus was successful in slaying Kaito who was attempting to protect the Princess and then fought GaoSilver, who fended him off until the rest of the Gaorangers arrived and defeated him, causing his flaming body to fall into the ocean below. Zeus resurrected as a giant and revived his brothers just in time for the eclipse to summon GaoKong occurred. Destroyed by GaoKnight. Poseidon Org (ポセイドンオルグ, Poseidon Orugu) is the middle brother with power over water. He wielded a trident. When the Orgettes kidnapped Tetomu, Poseidon wanted her as a companion and invited her to a drinking game at dinner with his brothers. Having won the contest, Tetomu was awarded half of the ruby by Poseidon. When GaoRed and Kaito attempted to rescue Tetomu, Poseidon attempted to fend them off and despite being drunk, was an effective fighter. It wasn't until GaoYellow joined them that he was bested. He later joined his brothers in fighting the Gaorangers and the islanders and was destroyed, along with his brother Hades, by the Gaorangers before being resurrected as a giant by Zeus. He was the first to attempt to attack GaoKnight but was destroyed by a quick stroke by GaoKnight's sword. Hades Org (ハデスオルグ, Hadesu Orugu) is the youngest brother with power over wind. He wielded a scythe. Killed by Gao God. Duke Org Kyurara & Propela (デュークオルグ キュララ＆プロプラ, Dūku Orugu Kyurara to Puropura, 32 & 33): A tank-based Org and a helicopter-based Org respectively, both are Rasetsu's two personal Duke Orgs. On Rasetsu's order, Kyurara and Propla start systematically destroying Tokyo to soothe their master's ravenous urges to "eat human dreams". The Gaorangers managed to pinpoint their next attack to be at Shinweiya. Though defeated, Rasetsu transfers some of TsueTsue and Yabaiba's energy into the Duke Orgs to boost his power, turning them into berserkers. Gao Red managed to destroy Propela with the Falcon Summoner, and then he and the other Gaorangers managed to destroy Kyurara with Hyakujuuken. But, Kyurara and Propela were quickly revived and overpowered Gao King and Gao Hunter Justice, though they were both destroyed by Gao Icarus. Duke Org DoroDoro (デュークオルグ ドロドロ, Dūku Orugu Dorodoro, 42 & 43): A ninja Duke Org who appeared seemingly out of nowhere to aid Rasets, bent on achieving his master's goal no matter the cost. A master of Org Ninpo, he created illusions of Shrine Bell Org, Tire Org, Clock Org, Magic Flute Org, and Animal-Tamer Org to distract the Gaorangers while he had TsueTsue capture Tetomu for him. Later, DoroDoro then uses his Shadow Clone Ninpo to create the Kage Rangers (影レンジャー, Kagerenjā), shadow-clones of the Gaorangers, whom they could not destroy without killing themselves in the process. But it was by dumb luck while following Rasets' order to punish Yabaiba that his Ninpo backfired on him, creating "Kage DoroDoro" that the Rangers destroyed with the Falcon Summoner, the Kage Rangers died along with him. Yabaiba made one final attempt to please Rasets order by revive Dorodoro. On Rasets' order, DoroDoro takes the Rangers in another dimension where the spirits of dead Orgs reside. However, with Tetomu's help, Gao Lion evoked the formation of Gao Kentaurus who destroys DoroDoro to bring the gang back to the real world. Orgettes (オルゲット, Orugetto, 2-51) are minions created from a pink liquid. Considered the lowest class of Orgs because of their small, undeveloped horns. Armed with clubs that also function as flamethrowers. A different class of red-skinned colored Orgettes were responsible for Muraki losing her voice, because she saved Shirogane from their attack thousands of years ago. They were all destroyed when the 100 Power Animals gathered to battle Senki. An Org Spirit can acquire a physical form by fusing into an inanimate object, transforming into a creature based on the object and can assume its original form for disguise. The Orgs of modern-day that are multi-horned desire to become Duke Orgs themselves, usually accepting the offer a Duke Org gives them in return for their own desires coming true. Whenever an Org is killed, TsueTsue would wield her staff at the oozy remnants, chanting as the Org Seeds spit out of the staff and onto the puddle, recreating the Org as a giant. 