The Space Pirates Balban (宇宙海賊バルバン, Uchū Kaizoku Baruban) are a group of fictional space pirates and the primary antagonists in the Super Sentai series, Seijuu Sentai Gingaman who have destroyed many planets along the Milky Way. Their base of operations are the Rowdy Invincible Castle (荒くれ無敵城, Arakure Mutekijō), which is mounted on the back of Daitanix. They once tried to invade Earth but the first generation of Gingaman and the Starbeasts sealed them in the bottom of the sea. Three thousand years later, an earthquake broke the seal and Balban was released, with plans of awakening Daitanix in the modern time. Its four great armies plot various strategies to achieve it. Captain Zahab (ゼイハブ船長, Zeihabu-senchō, [Note 1]) is the leader of the Balban. Cruel and violent but at the same time a great strategist and expert warrior who became immortal thanks to a Star Soul Jewel created by Daitanix, using the monster to gather a crew by offering them long life. Zahab's left hand is missing, as a result of the battle sustained with the first generation Ginga Red three thousand years earlier. He has replaced it with a cannon integrated hook. As a result, Zahab has a grudge against those who take the mantle of Ginga Red, including Ryouma. Hearing the death of an underling does not seem to affect him, but deep inside he suffers in private. Eventually, having known of Shelinda's death, Zahab can not take it anymore and falls apart in grief. In the final battle he uses the castle to take control of the Earth Demon Beast, but Zahab is forced to flee from his castle when it is destroyed by Bull Taurus. After losing the Earth Beast, Zahab fights and beats the tar out of the Gingamen, until Ginga Red and Black Knight use their fire ability to destroy his Star Soul Jewel. He is then killed by the Black Knight's Black Chop, the Gingamens' Galaxy War Radiance, and finally by Super Armor Shine Ginga Red's Beast Fire Flash attack as the final blow. He is later resurrected by Gregory, only to be killed once again by the Gingamen in the Galaxy Lights armor in Seijuu Sentai Gingaman vs. Megaranger. Zahab is voiced by Hidekatsu Shibata (柴田 秀勝, Shibata Hidekatsu), who previously voiced Daimaoh in Ninja Sentai Kakuranger. Captain Gregory (グレゴリ艦長, Guregori-kanchō, Gingaman vs. Megaranger) [Note 2] is an old friend of Zahab's who came to Earth to revive the Balban, with the aid of Hizumina, Dr. Hinelar's second "daughter". He had his own personal Majin, Ghelmadix, which was originally a second Daitanix. According to Moku, Gregory was sealed by the Starbeasts long before the Balban, feared as much as they were, all on his own. He could make himself grow without the aid of an enchanted liquid. Eventually revived every Balban member along with almost every Majin. He was killed by Galaxy Mega & Super Armor Shine Gingaioh. Gregory is voiced by Seizō Katō (加藤 精三, Katō Seizō), who previously voiced Dai Satan in Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger. Steerwoman Shelinda (操舵士シェリンダ, Sōdashi Sherinda, 1-49 & Gingaman vs. Megaranger[Note 3]) is the cruel and selfish second in command and the navigator of the Balban. A warrior with a sword and shell-themed armor, Shelinda had romantic feelings for Budoh though never forgave him for saving her life sometime in the past. During the Sutoiji incident, Shelinda destroys Hayate's flute before later attempting to stop him from making a new one. After finding him as Sutoiji is defeated, Shelinda duels Ginga Green with it ending with her forearm scarred as she vows a vendetta on him to the point of not allowing her own comrades to deny her killing Hayate. The most anxious to see Daitanix revived as her position of Steerwoman was pointless without Daitanix to steer often going to the aid of a Majin in order to speed along the revival. Shelinda is eventually killed in a final duel with Hayate in episode 49, where only her sword remained, to which the Yartots deliver it to Zahab to inform him of Shelinda's death. The sword itself was later destroyed along with Zahab's castle. Shelinda is later revived by Gregory, and is killed once again by the Gingaman in the Galaxy Lights armor in Seijuu Sentai Gingaman vs. Megaranger. Shelinda is portrayed by Kei Mizutani (水谷 ケイ, Mizutani Kei). Barreled Scholar Bucrates (樽学者ブクラテス, Tarugakusha Bukuratesu, 1-35[Note 4]) is a stout little being with a barrel-shaped body, Bucrates lacks battle skills, though he makes up for it with his extensive knowledge. He is called "Mentor" (Sensei) by Zahab and is the one who gave Zahab an immortal body. Prior to Sambash named acting general, Bucrates supported his niece Iliess in taking on the position from the start. While Budoh was acting general, Bucrates felt humiliated by the general after his numerous attempts to upstage Budoh. He proceeds to conspire with Iliess to frame Budou so she can become acting general. Though it seemed they got away with it, it turned out Zahab knew of the plot yet allowed Bucrates to remain until Iliess' death. Attempting to resurrect Iliess in secret, Bucrates is mortally wounded by Zahab and wrapped in chains as he is sent to a watery grave. However, his newfound hatred for Zahab allowed Bucrates to survive the ocean pressure while changing into a new form called Barreled Scholar of Revenge Bucrates (復讐の樽学者ブクラテス, Fukushū no Tarugakusha Bukuratesu, 37-49). Escaping his binds, Bucrates vows revenge on the Balban, capturing the wounded Gou Taurus in a small barrel to get Hyuuga's assistance. Bucrates later let Gou Taurus out temporarily to have Hyuuga aid the Gingamen against Daitanix in episode 42, before drawing them both back when the battle was over. However, Bucrates is mortally wounded in episode 48, by Shelinda for his betrayal, before he can see his revenge fulfilled and subsequently commits suicide in episode 49 with a bomb to give Hyuuga a chance to escape with Gou Taurus after giving the barrel back to Hyuuga. Bucrates is portrayed by Chafurin (茶風林, Chafūrin). Four of the strongest Majins, they each lead one of Zahab's four armies. Due to quarrels in the past that caused them to be sealed away, Zahab has only one General-in-command form a plan at a time. Gun Boss Sambash (銃頭サンバッシュ, Jūtō Sanbasshu, 1-12, 18 (flashback), 19 (flashback), & Gingaman vs. Megaranger[Note 5]) is a hot-headed gunman who carries a pistol and rides a motorcycle with cannons. His Majin are based on insects. 3,000 years ago, Bull Black had come to Earth to hide the Galaxy Lights and Sambash cornered him in order to learn where they were hidden. Bull Black gave him the key of an empty chest and a fake location in Cape Kagerou, with Sambash keeping this information from Zahab. Being the first general chosen to revive it, Sambash attempts to find ways of providing energy for Daitanix to revive. After continuous failures to revive Daitanix and defeat the Gingamen, Sambash decided to go after the Galaxy Lights by first having Neikaa open up the cave at Cape Kagerou where the box containing the lights was hidden. Unable to open the entrance without an Earth user, Sambash has Gurinjii assume Hyuga's form to trick Ryouma into fetching it for him. As Gurinjii is destroyed by Gingaioh, heavily wounded from his fight with Ginga Red, Sambash opens the box to use the Lights of Ginga on himself to even the odds. However, finding it empty and with nothing to lose, a crazed Sambash climbs onto his bike to run over Ginga Red. In the process, after being hit by Ginga Red's attack, Sambash drives off a cliff as his motorcycle explodes, destroying both itself and him. He is later resurrected by Gregory, only to be killed once again by the Gingamen in the Galaxy Lights armor in Seijuu Sentai Gingaman vs. Megaranger. Sambash is voiced by Nobuyuki Hiyama (檜山 修之, Hiyama Nobuyuki), who previously voiced Boss Kamikaze in Gosei Sentai Dairanger and Bomber the Great in Chouriki Sentai Ohranger. Sword General Budoh (剣将ブドー, Kenshō Budō, 1-3, 12-24 & Gingaman vs. Megaranger[Note 6]) is a calm swordsman who became the second Balban General-in-command chosen. Budoh has a mostly white and blue outfit with manta ray-like wings as a partial cape bearing his army's emblem. He possesses the Girasame sword, with which he can perform his "Girasame Cruel Sword" attack. Budoh has a strong sense of honor and loyalty that even Zahab recognized despite being unpredictable. His Majin are traditional Japanese Samurai culture and sea creature based. Budoh was always well-mannered and thanked his fallen Majin, who called him "My Grand General". He takes over the search for the Galaxy Light to revive Daitanix after Sambash dies, using a scroll of potential hosts that might contain the Light. With only one entry left, with his life endanged, Budoh sends his most powerful servant, Dotoumusha, to retrieve the Galaxy Light with success. However, Budoh is set up by Bucrates and Iliess to be made as a treasonous cur wanting the Light for himself. Placed in the brig, unable to perform Seppuku for an act he never even did, Budoh escapes to clear his name and kill the Gingamen to reclaim the Galaxy Light. But once learning the truth of Iliess framing him, seeing that nothing would ever clear his name, Budoh kills Medoumedou before arriving to his ninjas' aid to fight Juusoukou GingaRed to the death. After being mortally wounded by Juusoukou GingaRed's Juukasen, attempting to resist his injuries, Budoh meets his end and dies in a blaze of glory with Girasame landing near the riverbed. In Seijuu Sentai Gingaman vs. Megaranger, he is revived and killed once again by the Gingaman in the Galaxy Lights armor. Budoh is voiced by Kazuo Hayashi (林 一夫, Hayashi Kazuo), who previously voiced Bio Hunter Silva in Choudenshi Bioman. Spectral Empress Iliess (妖帝イリエス, Yōtei Iriesu, 1-3, 13, 19 (flashback), 20, 22-34 & Gingaman vs. Megaranger[Note 7]) is an Egyptian-themed, spiteful, and ambitious sorceress, motivated by her greed and demanding monetary compensation upon a successful plan. Her majin are based around entities from different cultural mythologies. Iliess is also immortal as she can resurrect herself no matter the number of times she is killed as long as her Soul Gem is unharmed. Having become impatient with waiting, Iliess conspired with her uncle Bucrates to depose Budoh so she can become the new active general. Having succeeded, Iliess intended to revive Daitanix through various forms of sorcery and mass sacrifices so she can obtain the riches Zahab offered for the monster's resurrection. However, after losing the Koseijuu, Iliess is given additional incentive to revive Daitanix when Zahab decides to reduce her earnings for each day she fails her objective. After the death of her younger brother Desphias, Iliess is forced to take matters into her own hands. Erecting a tower in the city's plaza, Iliess conjures lizards to suck the blood of 9,999 people to revive Daitanix. When the Gingamen arrive, Iiless absorbs the souls of her fallen Majin to assume a powerful chimera-like fighting form called Evil Empress Iliess (邪帝イリエス, Jatei Iriesu, 34). As the other Gingamen and Hyuga fight copies of Morgumorgu, Hielahiela, Garagara, Wangawanga, and Burakiburaki, Ryouma battles Iliess and destroys the tower. Defeated by the Supershine Gingamen and Black Knight, Iliess refuses to stand down and uses her magic to enlarge herself. Iliess then overpowers Super Armor Shine Gingaioh and Bull Taurus before the Kouseiju's interference leads to her death by the Seijuu. Though Bucrates attempts to revive her, Iliess' soul gem is shattered by Batobas and used to resurrect Daitanix. Iliess is voiced by Gara Takashima (高島 雅羅, Takashima Gara). Destruction King Battobas (破王バットバス, Haō Battobasu, 1-3, 13, 19 (flashback), 24, 29, 30, 33-49 & Gingaman vs. Megaranger[Note 8]) is the strongest among the four generals and a weapons specialist as well. He is considered by Zahab to be "his right arm" which suggests a longer relationship between them than the rest of the generals. His Majin are based on weapons and machines. Revealing Daitanix's condition and using Iliess' soul to delay the rotting, Battobas is last general chosen to fight the Gingaman with the mission to gain enough energy to fully revive Daitanix, sometimes having Biznella plot the plan while he would provide the Majin and Yartots. Battobas succeeded, but upon Daitanix's destruction, he is later sent to find the Earth Beast to mature and/or empower it fully with a Extreme Growth Extract. He succeeds, but ends up being eaten alive by the monster in episode 49. He is revived and killed once again by the Gingaman in the Galaxy Lights armor in Seijuu Sentai Gingaman vs. Megaranger. Battobas is voiced by Takeshi Watabe (渡部 猛, Watabe Takeshi), who previously voiced Emperor Aton in Kagaku Sentai Dynaman and Bookback in Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger. Dark Merchant Biznella (闇商人ビズネラ, Yamishōnin Bizunera, 29, 30 & 33-47) [Note 9] is an evil Black Marketeer. He captured three Starbeasts and turned them into cyborgs, before selling them to the Balban for a payment of five boxes of gold coins. After his merchandise fails, Biznella is recruited into Balban, as a consultant of sorts under the service of Battobas, who he had been acquainted with previously. During one of their attempts to find the Demon Earth Beast, Biznella is thrown into the Extreme Growth Extract by accident and mutates into Majin Biznella (魔人ビズネラ, Majin Bizunera, 47) who overpowers the Gingamen until they defeated him with their upgraded Beast Attack Rods. He is then betrayed and enlarged by Battobas and is killed by Giga Rhinos, Giga Phoenix and Super Armor Shine Gingaioh in episode 47. Biznella is voiced by Kaneto Shiozawa (塩沢 兼人, Shiozawa Kaneto). The Pirate Soldier Yartots (賊兵ヤートット, Zokuhei Yātotto[Note 10]) are Balban's foot soldiers, orange with striped shorts and wielding sabers. When fighting, they would only say "Yartot!!" but can speak when talking to their superiors. The Majin (魔人, Majin, Demon Men) are criminals and mercenaries who, drawn by the evil energy of Daitanix, are recruited by Balban. They are divided in four armies depending on their home galaxy and the strongest member of each is appointed General. These four armies tend to fight with each other, being this one of the reasons of their defeat against Gingaman 3,000 years earlier. Knowing this, Zahab decides that this time the plans would be executed by one army at the time, avoiding inner conflicts. When defeated, the majin will draw a bottle (its design depends on the army the majin belongs to) containing Balban Extract (バルバエキス, Baruba Ekisu), a potion that enlarges them, but that also shortens their life, making the Balban Extract a last resort in battle. Many of them are revived and killed by the Megarangers & the Gingaman in Seijuu Sentai Gingaman vs. Megaranger. The Sambash Majin Gang (サンバッシュ魔人団, Sanbasshu Majin Dan) are bug-based Majin that dress in leather, like biker punks. They're the first army to fight. Their primary objective is find a way to revive Daitanix. Their Baruba-X container is a liquor bottle, and their symbol is a wing pin. The Budoh Majin Mob (ブドー魔人衆, Budō Majin Shū) are marine creature-based Majin in feudal Japanese attire and masters of the Majin Arts. They begin activities after Sambash reveals the existence of the Galaxy Lights and their mission is to find them. After having been defeated by the Gingamen, the Budoh majin draw the Baruba-X and "pay their last service". Their Baruba-X container is a hyoutan, a gourd-like container and their symbol is a diamond-shaped image of a sunrise. The Iliess Majin Tribe (イリエス魔人族, Iriesu Majin Zoku) are the phantom beast Majin based on different entities from various mythologies. They enter in action after Iliess sets up Budoh as a tratior, utilizing ways of reviving Daitanix through sorcery involving mass sacrifices. Their Balban Extract container was a boot-like vial and their symbol is an Egyptian-looking eye. The Battobas Majin Corps (バットバス魔人部隊, Battobasu Majin Butai) are machine/weapon/medieval knight-based Majin, the last series of Majin to appear. The members of Battobas Army seek to fully awaken Daitanix after their leader succeeded in resurrecting it. Their Baruba-X container is an ale barrel and their symbol is a stylized anchor, proclaiming a Strategy Change upon drinking it. Whenever a member of the Battobas Majin Corps appears, he has the Yarottots introduce themselves while praising their strength. Demon Beast Daitanix (魔獣ダイタニクス, Majū Daitanikusu, 1-42[Note 11]) was born in a contaminated star (which also happened to be Zahab's home planet) and his only instinct/purpose is to destroy planets by absorbing their life force to condense into jewels, which Zahab would add to his collection to maintain his immortality and to expand the lives of his followers. In battle, Daitanix possesses powerful jaws, his tail is extremely muscular, and he can fire powerful blasts of energy from his mouth. By attaching his castle to Daitanix's back, Zahab was able to control him, destroying and absorbing stars throughout the Milky Way. The goal of the Balban is the resurrection of Daitanix which was still in a state of lifelessness after the seal was broken in the earthquake. The plan finally succeeds when Iliess' lifeforce is absorbed by him. It results in the monster's heart beating and Battobas eventually gathered enough energy to fully revive him by having Degius act as a conduct for a massive amount of energy from a passing Asteroid. When finally revived, he easily defeated Super Armor Shine Gingaioh even with Giga Rhinos and Giga Phoenix, but his body decays during the fight as his back where the Balban castle stood had gotten too far rotten, so the Balban leave the monster to die. After the Gingamen and Black Knight damage his back in the following battle he is overpowered by Bull Taurus armed with the Knight Axe, double-teaming Giga Phoenix and Giga Rhinos, and then finally killed by Super Armor Shine Gingaioh. The Earth Demon Beast (地球魔獣, Chikyū Majū, 44-50) was the result of a piece of Daitanix's flesh ending up within the Earth itself upon being destroyed, feeding on the life of the planet. The Balban then decides to make him the new host of their castle. However, having just been born, the Earth Demon Beast was still in an immature state, so Battobas attempts to give him the Extreme Growth Extract eventually succeeding with the monster now fully grown but at the cost of his life. At full size, he possessed immense brute strength, could breathe fire, and was able to fire deadly bursts of energy from his claws. During the battle, Ryouma focuses on using his Earth element of fire so they could destroy the Earth Demon Beast without the risk of creating a new Demon Beast. Having attached the castle to him, Zahab confronts Gingaman, increasing the Earth Demon Beast's fighting abilities. The Earth Demon Beast puts up an excellent fight, to which Hyuuga uses up most of Bull Taurus' power to destroy Zahab's castle and fight Zahab elsewhere to give the others a fighting chance. After a hard battle, the beast is killed by a sustained burst of fire from Super Armor Shine Gingaioh after gaining a power boost from Giga Rhinos and Giga Phoenix, which incinerates his body in the process. Demon Beast Fortress Ghelmadix (魔獣要塞ゲルマディック, Majū Yōsai Gerumadikusu, Gingaman vs. Megaranger[Note 12]) is the second red-colored Daitanix that belongs to Gregory. Originally, it was called Daitanix 2. Giga Rhinos and Giga Phoenix use all their power to try to destroy it, which cause themselves to be destroyed in the process. Unfortunately, Daitanix 2 was only injured, and used the Earth's energy to heal itself, becoming a blue-colored version of itself, now named Ghelmadix. It is killed by Bull Taurus & Super Armor Shine Gingaioh. 