The Space Empire Zangyack (宇宙帝国ザンギャック, Uchū Teikoku Zangyakku, [Note 1]) are the fictional antagonists of the thirty-fifth Super Sentai Series Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger, that battle the Gokaigers in order to invade and conquer the Earth. Zangyack's forces are a race of aliens who have conquered and destroyed untold numbers of planets across the galaxy and plan to invade Earth for their emperor Akudos Gill. The first invasion failed due to the interference of 34 Super Sentai teams in the Legend War (レジェンド大戦, Rejendo Taisen). The second, current, invasion is being overseen by the emperor's son Warz Gill from his chariot-like flagship Gigant Horse (ギガントホース, Giganto Hōsu), stationed between Earth and its moon, with an armada at his command. After the Gokaigers killed off Warz, the Zangyack made the capture and execution of the Gokaigers their top priority to the point of giving Captain Marvelous an "Unlimited Reward" bounty. They were perceived a threat great enough for the emperor himself to come and oversee the invasion personally. A month after Akudos Gill's death as well as the destruction of the majority of their military forces, which were mobilized to Earth, the Zangyack Empire begins to dissolve with its universal reign coming to an end. During the events of Kamen Rider × Super Sentai: Super Hero Taisen, Captain Marvelous abandons the Gokaigers and takes over Zangyack as he assumes the title as their emperor and renames it "Dai-Zangyack" (大ザンギャック, Dai Zangyakku), formed from the remnants of the dissolved Zangyack Empire and the conglomeration of all Super Sentai villains, in order to take down the Kamen Riders to obtain their Great Powers, and the Dai-Shocker group led by Tsukasa Kadoya. However, Dai-Zangyack turns on Captain Marvelous and joins forces with Dai-Shocker to destroy Super Sentai and the Kamen Riders. However, little they knew that both Marvelous and Tsukasa had seen their plan all along and were actually pretending to be enemies until both organizations expose themselves, when they join the other Sentai and Riders to take down both. The currency of the Zangyack Empire, and all planets that fall under its control, is the Zagin (ザギン, Z=). The exchange rate from the Zagin to the yen is Z=1 to ¥360. The Imperial family who rules the Zangyack. Emperor Akudos Gill (皇帝アクドス・ギル, Kōtei Akudosu Giru, 37, 41-51) is the Kraken-themed leader of the Zangyack Empire and the father of Warz Gill. Though an emperor, Akudos carries the AkudoSword (アクドソード, Akudosōdo) with him nonetheless. After his first Earth invasion was destroyed by first thirty-four Super Sentai teams, Akudos sends Warz with a second invasion force. However, though the Super Sentai teams were no longer a threat by then, Akudos sent Damarasu to oversee Warz's actions out of a lack of confidence in his son's abilities. Eventually, he sends two of his Dogomin to deliver the Great Warz for the Gigant Horse crew to use so that the invasion gets back on track. However, when news of Warz's death reaches him, Akudos arrives to the Gigant Horse with his personal fleet to assume full command of the invasion while making examples out of both the Gokaigers for their crimes while giving Damarasu a chance of redeeming himself for failing to protect Warz. But after seeing the Gokaigers destroy Damarasu, he decides to halt the invasion and refocus his full attention on the pirates by calling all Zangyack forces to Earth. Once his forces are gathered, using Insarn to weaken the Gokaigers, Akudos proceeds to send the entire fleet down to Earth with the intent of killing the pirates and executing planetary genocide. But when Gokai Red and Gokai Silver manage to ram into and take control of the Gigant Horse with the Free Joker, and proceed to wipe out the entire invasion fleet surrounding it before sinking it, Akudos battles the Gokaigers, putting up a tough fight and withstanding most of their attacks. However, Akudos is finally destroyed by the Gokaigers using Gokai Galleon Buster's Rough Wave at contact shot range. With his only heir and the majority of his military force all dead, the remaining branches of the Zangyack Empire across the universe begin to splinter and dissolve. However, he was revived, along with his son Warz, in Super Hero Taisen as one of Marvelous's top commanders. Once his true colors are revealed, Akudos is enlarged by the Gigant Horse and fights Go-Buster Oh with his son before being destroyed by the forming Big Machine.  Akudos Gill is voiced by Shinji Ogawa (小川 真司, Ogawa Shinji). Commander Warz Gill (司令官ワルズ・ギル, Shireikan Waruzu Giru, 1-38) is the young commander of the Zangyack invasion forces who is Emperor Akudos Gill's son, thus attempting to earn his father's respect while showing himself as one of elite status and not the idiotic brat that he and the royal court see him to be. This intent to prove himself gave Warz a paranoid attitude, making him frequently hysterical when his missions are failures and reacting to them by covering his tracks and lashing out at the Gormin. Warz also expresses anger towards Damarasu, knowing he was deployed by his father to make sure he succeeds. Warz Gill is also known to be petty, knowing if a stack of cash is lacking any notes just by weighing with his hands, so precise to the point where he would know even if just one note is lacking. Eventually, Warz learns of the Greatest Treasure the Gokaigers are looking for and believes it to be of little consequence, to the point of ignoring it to Damarasu's dismay. However, after an invasion he personally oversees is called off by his followers after a stray shot from Gokai Red wounds his left arm, a furious Warz vows to kill the Gokaigers with extreme prejudice for his injury. Eventually, when the Zangyack's strongest war machine Great Warz is given to his crew, Warz decides to make his move to prove himself capable of conquering Earth and easily defeats Goujyu Gokaioh. Confident after his victory, Warz sends Barizorg out to defeat the other Gokaigers. Enraged at the discovery of Barizorg's death, Warz redeploys back to Earth in the Great Warz over Damarasu's objections. However, the Great Warz is destroyed by Kanzen Gokaioh, killing Warz as a result. Warz is revived during the events of Super Hero Taisen, serving as one of Marvelous's top commanders. he praises Marvelous as the leader of Dai Zangyack but Marvelous insults him by saying Warz Gill could have defeated the Gokaiger if he wasn't such an idiot, which dismays Warz Gill. However, once his true colors are revealed, Warz is enlarged by the Gigant Horse and fights Go-Buster Oh with his father before he is grabbed by the forming Big Machine and crushed to death.   Warz Gill is voiced by Hirofumi Nojima (野島 裕史, Nojima Hirofumi). Bacchus Gill (バッカス・ギル, Bakkasu Giru) is the provisional commander of the Zangyack Empire and the main antagonist of Tokumei Sentai Go-Busters vs. Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger: The Movie, usually seen drinking sake most of the time. As the last living relative of his uncle Akudos Gill, Bacchus is bent on restoring the Zangyack Empire to its former glory, enlisting the aid of the Vaglass in search of phantom Ranger Keys and gain the Grandest Power in the Universe. Ultimately, after drinking his sake to enlarge himself, Bacchus ends up being destroyed by Go-Buster Lioh and Gokaioh as Gao Icarus and DaiBouken. Bacchus Gill is voiced by Takaya Hashi (土師 孝也, Hashi Takaya). Gokudos Gill (ゴクドス・ギル, Gokudosu Giru), resembling a recolored Akudos Gill, is a giant embodiment created from the deceased members of the Gill Family that defeated the Gokaigers when they invaded the Zangyack home world prior to the events of Tokumei Sentai Go-Busters vs. Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger: The Movie. In Zyuohger, a construct of Gokudos is created by Bangray from Gai's memories to attack them and the Zyuohgers before he is destroyed by Wild Tousai King, using the combined energy of the Zyuohgers and the Ranger Keys of all their predecessors. Chief of Staff Damarasu (参謀長ダマラス, Sanbōchō Damarasu, 1-43) is known among Zangyack as both the empire's "Strongest High Ranked Soldier" (最強格の戦士, Saikyōkaku no Senshi) and as "the Strongest Man in the Universe" (宇宙最強の男, Uchū Saikyō no Otoko) due to his skills a general, strategist and warrior. He carries the DamaraSword (ダマラソード, Damarasōdo) whose blade he energizes to execute powerful attacks and has concealed the DamaLaunchers (ダマランチャー, Damaranchā), machinegun arms, under his cape. He is ordered to accompany Warz Gill by Akudos Gill and assist him as his second in command, questioning his decisions if he feels that he needs to. Unlike the others, Damarasu expresses curiosity on why the Gokaigers are even on Earth and uses the Sneak Brothers to learn the pirates' intentions on Earth and also hires Basco Ta Jolokia to take out the Gokaigers. However, though he believes crippling the Gokaigers' chances of unlocking their Ranger Keys should be a priority, his suggestion is ignored. Despite his attempts to convince Warz not to pilot the Great Warz before Kanzen Gokaioh destroys it, Damarasu ends up recovering the prince's corpse from the wreckage. Soon being relieved of his position and sent to the brig by Akudos Gill for failing to protect Warz as commanded, Damarasu is given a chance to redeem himself by personally executing Captain Marvelous. To that end, Damarasu forces Basco into helping him carry out the task. Though Damarasu overpowers the remaining Gokaigers and captures Captain Marvelous, a combination of Doc's rescue attempt and Basco's treachery leaves Damarasu wounded as he battles the Gokaigers. In the end, Damarasu is destroyed by Kanzen Gokaioh's Gokai Kanzen Super Burst.   Damarasu is voiced by Kōji Ishii (石井 康嗣, Ishii Kōji). Development Technical Officer Insarn (開発技官インサーン, Kaihatsu Gikan Insān, 1-49) is an alien who is Zangyack's evil scientist. Her desire to make a name for herself as the greatest scientific mind in the universe. She supplies the Action Commanders under Warz with powerful weapons and modifications and able to fight with an energy whip from her Operation Magnum (オペレーションマグナム, Operēshon Magunamu) tool and poisoned missiles build in her Shoulder Catapult (ショルダーカタパルト, Shorudā Kataparuto) armors. Using a special gun-shaped controller, she normally fires the Gigant Horseʼs enlargement cannons to resurrect defeated Action Commanders and make them grow giant. She rarely appears on Earth save when she falls in love with Kyousuke Jinnai and causes a series of bizarre events that end with her love redirected to Action Commander Jerashid until his defeat by Shinken Gokaioh and asked for him to be jettisoned. Her disdain toward Jerashid grew after finding him living with humans to the point of utter disgust. She seems to be popular with the male Action Commanders as even Action Commander Satorakura Jr. asked her to marry him when his mission was complete to which she bluntly refused. Later, after finding that she has no place in the Zangyack, Insarn decides to go after the Gokaigers in the Great Insarn to prove her worth to Akudos. Forced to eject when her robot is destroyed, Insarn battles the Gokaigers before being hit by the Gokai Galleon Buster's Rising Strike. Insarn is livid of her fate before she explodes.   Insarn is voiced by Kikuko Inoue (井上 喜久子, Inoue Kikuko). Special Duty Officer Barizorg (特務士官バリゾーグ, Tokumu Shikan Barizōgu, 1-38) is a cyborg whose whole body is mechanized and completely loyal to Warz Gill. He speaks very little other than saying, "Yes, boss," to Warz Gill's orders, unless questioned by others or when the situation deems necessary for him to speak. He was originally Sid Bamick (シド・バミック, Shido Bamikku), a senior officer and Joe's comrade while he was with the Zangyack. However, when he committed treason against the Zangyack by freeing the imprisoned Joe and covering his escape, Sid was converted by the Zangyack scientist Zaien into his current form with his pre-cyborg memories and personality erased save for his swordsmanship. Though he learns the truth about himself, Barizorg's programming makes him consider the new information to be of no importance. After Goujyu Gokaioh is defeated by the Great Warz, Barizorg hunts down Joe and battles him again. However, despite his superior skills, Barizorg is ultimately killed. After Barizorg's death, Sid appears to Joe in spirit, acknowledging and commending Joe for his efforts in both saving his (Sid's) soul and chasing after his own dream, which finally gives Joe closure.   Barizorg is voiced by Gaku Shindo (進藤 学, Shindō Gaku), who previously portrayed the Eagle Sazer Ad in Chousei Kantai Sazer-X. Shindo also portrays Sid Bamick. In the Kodansha Special DVD Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger: Let's Do This Goldenly! Roughly! The 36th Decree Gokai Change!!, Insarn creates a drone replica of Barizorg named Karizorg (カリゾーグ, Karizōgu, "Kari" meaning "Temporary") in an attempt to fuse Gai into the empty shell to create a Zangyack soldier with Super Sentai knowledge. But Insarn ended up fusing Captain Marvelous and Gai together with Karizorg damaged from the fusion. After repairing Karizorg and testing her fusion on him and a cat, managing to appease the Nyarizorg (ニャリゾーグ, Nyarizōgu) fusion's feline nature before reversing the process, Insarn fuses Karizorg with a Zugormin to form Zugozorg (スゴゾーグ, Sugozōgu) to overpower the Gokai Red-Silver fusion, only her creation to be destroyed by Gokai Red Gold Mode before taking her gun to return to normal. Karizorg is voiced by Tomokazu Seki (関 智一, Seki Tomokazu). Dairando (ダイランドー, Dairandō, 41-51) is a stonefish-themed monster and a member of the Imperial Guards, accompanying Akudos Gill to the Gigant Horse and becoming the invasion force's new second in command. A cocky and arrogant figure in personality, Dairando loves to have fun and treats his fights like a game. He often spurts out English words in his dialogue and uses the catchphrase, "Choi!" (ちょい) in his sentences. Dairando also carries the Giant Hammer (ジャイアントハンマー, Jaianto Hanmā) that he enlarges to execute his hammer attack. Once Insarn is killed of by the Gokaigers, Dairando proceeds to lead the entire Zangyack armada on the Gokaigers. Though having the upper hand at first, Dairando is mortally wounded by the Gokaigers when distracted by seeing the armada being wiped out before being destroyed by the Gokai Galleon Buster's Rising Strike.  Dairando is voiced by Masashi Ebara (江原 正士, Ebara Masashi). The Gormin Sailors (兵隊ゴーミン, Heitai Gōmin) are footsoldiers of Zangyack armed with weapons provided by Insarn. They are dropped from Zangyack ships through chandelier-like devices that magnetically hold them by their flat, metallic heads.  In Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger vs. Space Sheriff Gavan: The Movie, the Gormins can disguise themselves as the soldiers of Galactic Union Patrol, under the command of Makuu Prison Chief Ashurada, who is disguised as Weeval. The Zugormin Non-Commissioned Officers (下士官スゴーミン, Kashikan Sugōmin) are the officers armed with beam cannons who lead the Gormin to battle and support the Action Commanders. They can transform into jet fighter configurations that link up into a hovercraft for an Action Commander to ride on, and can reconfigure their lower bodies into motorcycle forms.  The Zugormin are voiced by Yoshimitsu Shimoyama (下山 吉光, Shimoyama Yoshimitsu, 1), Kenichiro Matsuda (松田 健一郎, Matsuda Ken'ichirō, 10), Yasuaki Takumi (内匠 靖明, Takumi Yasuaki, 10), Kensuke Tamura (田村 健亮, Tamura Kensuke, 12), and Ibuki (勇吹輝, 34).  The Dogomin Bodyguards (親衛隊ドゴーミン, Shin'eitai Dogōmin) are Akudos Gill's red-armored bodyguards, armed with spears and fireball cannons and are much stronger than the Zugormin. They are always seen in pairs, and can perform a quick-slashing attack. When both of them cross their spears, they can fire a very powerful attack with a Zangyack logo. Although the Gokaigers were utterly overpowered by them when first encountered, they managed to defeat them, and were able to defeat them easily in subsequent encounters. The Dogomin are voiced by Kōzō Dōzaka (堂坂 晃三, Dōzaka Kōzō, 37, 38), Norihisa Mori (森 訓久, Mori Norihisa, 37, 38), and Ibuki (43).  The Action Commanders (行動隊長, Kōdō Taichō) are alien monsters who serve under Zangyack.  Some Action Commanders are related to villains from the previous antagonist groups that the past 34 Sentai groups fought, while some of them are successors to the defeated villains.  Most of the Action Commanders were ordinary aliens who possessed special talents that were further enhanced by Insarn's modifications. The members of the Imperial Guard (皇帝親衛隊, Kōtei Shin'eitai) are the Zangyack elite soldiers who serve Akudos Gill, the Emperor of the Zangyack. 