The Wicked Lifeforms Evolien (邪命体エヴォリアン, Jameitai Evorian) are the foes of the Abarangers in the Super Sentai series Bakuryū Sentai Abaranger. They are the Wicked Life Clan, that came from Dino Earth. They dwelled within a castle-like structure, the Invasion Garden (侵略の園, Shinryaku no Sono). Wicked Life God Dezumozorlya (邪命神デズモゾーリャ, Jameishin Dezumozōrya) is the Evolien god, a parasitic entity that was held in the meteorite that crashed to Earth. When Earth was split, Dezumozorlya's essence was divided between the two earths, and took one being of each world as its host and transmigrated itself through the host's descendants. It is said that because of its very presence that war and famine broke out and some of its hosts have wreaked havoc throughout the course of human history. In the time of Abaranger, Mikoto held the essence of the inactive Earth-counterpart, and the Dezumozorlya of Dino Earth was originally the Tree of Life until it found a mobile host in Lije through Mahoro. But once Lije became Lijewel, Dezumozorlya entered a dormant state until it came in contact with its other half during the Killer Giganoid event. Dezumozorlya's goal is to assimilate all life, to that end it must obtain a new body and rejoin its other half in Mikoto even if it means killing both Mikoto and Lijewel in the process. When it was purged from Lijewel, Dezumozorlya sought stronger inhuman hosts, merging Mikela and Voffa as a temporary vessel to obtain BakurenOh as a new body and absorb Mikoto. But both attempts failed with the death of the other half and Dezumovorla's demise. To that end, Dezumozorlya re-entered the Tree of Life, using it as a medium to transfer its primal urges throughout the entire Garden Palace and remake it as its final body. From there, Dezumogevirus (デズモゲヴァルス, Dezumogevarusu, 49 & 50) intended to invoke another 200 Days of Darkness on Another Earth. When Asuka rescued Mahoro, they were attacked by Dezumogevirus, who was formed in the image of what both Mahoro and Asuka feared: the Darkness Armor. Dezumogevirus was fatally injured by the Bakuryū combining their powers to kill it, but it attempted to take them down it. AbarenOh and MaxOhja seemingly sacrificed themselves to stop this, but were later revealed to have survived by burrowing underground. Dezumozorlya and his incarnations are voiced by Masaharu Satō (佐藤 正治, Satō Masaharu). The Dark Sect are the servants of Dezumozorlya. Disciple of Dawn Lije (夜明けの教え子リジェ, Yoake no Oshiego Rije, 1-37 & 47) is Dezumozorlya's childlike metatron, responsible for linking the two worlds and sending the Evoliens to Earth with a kiss. She was created when the Dino Earth Dezumozorlya entered Mahoro's body, using her child (who was also Asuka's) to serve as its host. But half of Lije's soul took a life of its own and became another side to her. Lije would eventually meet up with Mikoto, having feelings for him. She was later force-grown into an adult, Messenger of Dawn Lijewel (黎明の使徒リジュエル, Reimei no Shito Rijueru, 37-47), forcing her and her good side to physically separate. In her new form, Lijewel's powers increased with attacks like "Lijewel Bombardment Kiss" and "Lijewel Cross Illusion", and likes to say "Exquisite". After Dezumoryla was awakened, Lijewel was dormant until she refused to kill Mikoto. After forcing her back, Dezumorlya reconstructed her body into DezumoLijewel (デズモリジュエル, Dezumorijueru, 47) to fight the Abarangers itself. Through the combined power of all five Abarangers, she was rejoined with her good side and 'overpowered' Dezumozorlya, forcing it out. With Dezumozorlya removed, Lijewel regressed to her infant form. Asuka and Mahoro chose to rename her Mikoto in honour of Mikoto Nakadai, though she still possessed Lije's ability to travel between the two worlds which allowed for Asuka to travel back to Another Earth whenever he was needed. Lije is portrayed by Kasumi Suzuki (鈴木 かすみ, Suzuki Kasumi), while Lijewel is portrayed by Maki Ogawa (小川 摩起, Ogawa Maki). The Messengers (使徒, Shito, 2-48) are 2nd ranked servants of Dezumozorlya, they are master artists who create the Wicked Lifeform monsters using the Tree of Life's berries as the source of their power. Both of them were originally one amoebic entity that split into two and slowly evolved into their current state within the meteor that crashed into the earth that caused it to split into "Another Earth" and "Dino Earth". Thus, the two are most loyal to Dezumozorlya, putting its resurrection above everything else and sometimes compete to receive its favor. After losing Lijewel as a host, Dezumozorlya was intent on getting a stronger host: Bakurenoh. But until then, he remerged the Messengers into a new puppet host, DezumoVoorla (デズモヴォーラ, Dezumovōra, 47 & 48). Both Mikela and Voffa were honored and proud to hold Dezumozorlya's essence in them. DezumoVoorla served to use the evil of humans to revive BakurenOh to serve as Dezumozoryla's new body while absorbing the Earth-Dezumozorlya from Abare Killer's body. But Mikoto managed to kill the Dezumozoryla within him, getting out for BakurenOh to be destroyed by the Bakuryū. An enraged DezumoVoorla enlarged, only to be killed by KillerOh while Dezumozorlya abandoned his joined-hosts to their death. Creative Messenger Mikela (創造の使徒ミケラ, Sōzō no Shito Mikera): His full-name is Mikela Von Engakin Metta Kutta Demosgorlya (ミケラ・フォン・エンガキン・メッタ・クッタ・デーモスゴーリャ, Mikera Fon Engakin Metta Kutta Dēmosugōrya), he creates the Trinoids from paintings using his three-colored paints. He is a painter and hates to make a creation when uninspired by his muse. He despises humans because he found their art and culture inferior. Long ago, prior to the invasion of Earth, when he created Saunaginnan he sealed the Trionoid away in a red orb out of fear of his creation's immense powers. With Voffa, Mikela eventually arrived on Earth for inspiration. He found a lot of muses at the zoo while using his Mikela Dictionary to suck in various electronics along with the Blueless Abarangers, Abare Killer, and Yatsudenwani. In the end, Mikela was remerged with Voffa to become a temporary host for Dezumozorlya after they had set the preparations to revive BakurenOh as Dezumoryla's ideal body. Mikela is voiced by Bunkō Ogata (緒方 文興, Ogata Bunkō). Visionary Messenger Voffa (無限の使徒ヴォッファ, Mugen no Shito Voffa): He is a composer who creates the giant Giganoids from musical compositions using his piano. He is an amoeba that grew and evolved to take on a more humanoid shape. He likes to refer himself as a Maestro of Destiny itself and doesn't like his compositions to be heard until they are complete. He did start to like Earth pop music a bit during his visit to Another Earth. He and Mikela ended up being merged back into one to serve as a host for Dezumozorlya after they had set the preparations to revive BakurenOh as Dezumozorlya's ideal body. Voffa is voiced by Hidenari Ugaki (宇垣 秀成, Ugaki Hidenari). Armor of Darkness (暗黒の鎧, Ankoku no Yoroi): A suit of armor from Dino Earth that turns its owner into a monster bent on destroying everything in sight, passing to the one who defeat its wielder. It was because of Asuka that the armor came to Evolien hands by Geildon who defeated him, maintaining his freewill. Jeanne succeeded Geilton in wielding the armor before Asuka took it back to save Mahoro. To free him from it, Mahoro reassumed being Jeanne and teamed with Mikoto to take it. However, as Mahoro planned, as Asuka was defeated by two people rather than a sole individual, the armor dissolved once it bounded to Mikoto. By the finale, Dezumozorlya used Asuka and Mahoro's fear of the armor to recreate it as Armored Wicked Life Soldier (鎧の邪命戦士, Yoroi no Jameisenshi, 49 & 50), which was soon destroyed by Abare Yellow and Black. Darkness Messenger Geilton (闇の使徒ガイルトン, Yami no Shito Gairuton, 1 & 2): The first of the Evoliens to attack Earth, he was originally Mahoro's older brother Mizuho (ミズホ). Like Mahoro, believing Asuka had betrayed them and must be punished, discarded his old name. He managed to defeat Asuka in battle and take possession of the Armor of Darkness. Once on Another Earth, Geilton led the attack with the Bakuryū and the Anomalogaris. But after his defeat, mortally wounded, he had Jeanne kill him so she can use the Armor of Darkness to fulfill their revenge on Asuka. Mizuho is portrayed by Masashi Kagami (加々美 正史, Kagami Masashi). Destruction Messenger Jeanne (破壊の使徒ジャンヌ, Hakai no Shito Jannu, 2-32): When Mahoro (マホロ) and Mizuho entered the Garden Palace to end the fighting, she was tricked by Dezumozorlya into believing Asuka had abandoned her, and she became fixated on killing Asuka for betraying her. After killing Geilton, she used the Armor of Darkness whenever she needed to, though she became haunted by the past thanks to the Mysterious girl. After the explosion of the Anomalogaris II, Jeanne changed back into Mahoro. Mahoro is portrayed by Eri Sakurai (桜井 映里, Sakurai Eri). The Renaissance Trinoid Jamei Sentai Evoranger (邪命戦隊エヴォンジャー, Jamei Sentai Evorenjaa, 30) are really revived Trinoids 3, 10 & 11 resurrected as "Renaisse Trinoid" used to test Abare Killer in Abare Mode's powers. They wore colored scarfs and also use weapons much like the Abarangers, and can combine them into the "Evo Bomber." After introducing themselves, they say "Savage EvoGuts! Jamei Sentai Evoranger!" They even sang a parody of the Abaranger theme song about themselves until Abare Killer stopped them. They were destroyed by Abare Killer. The Barmia Soldiers (バーミア兵, Baamia-hei) are the Evolien foot soldiers and are evolved humanoid amoebas. At one time the Evoliens attempted to turn humans into Barmias with Wicked Life cells. Black Barmias are called Gelru, whilst the white Barmias are called Zolru. The Legendary Feared Bakuryū CarnoRyutus & ChasmoShieldon were evil Bakuryū that intended to turn Dino Earth into an icy wasteland. However, Freezia's sacrifice sealed them into icy prison. But the Evoliens originally intended to control them, sending them to Another Earth, but Galvidi stole part of the BakuLaser from them. Once he obtained the other half, the Feared Bakuryū arrived to Tokyo in the movie. The other Bakuryū fought off the two in vain as Galvidi had them combine to form BakurenOh (バクレンオー, Bakuren'ō, Blast Union King, Movie, 48) by the command "Combine! CarnoRyutus! ChasmoShieldon!" (Gattai! Karnoryūtusu! Kasmosearudon!) BakurenOh could use its sword to slice off AbarenOh's drill-arm and use it as its own to form BakurenOh Twin Drill before the other Bakuryū forced it to give it back. BakurenOh was soon defeated by Killer AbarenOh, sinking into the bottom of Tokyo Bay until it was reawakened by DezumoVoorla, using the evil of humanity, to make it an ideal body for Dezumorlya. Soon it was defeated once again by AbarenOh and MaxOhja and sinks the bottom of Tokyo Bay then sealed. The Wicked Lifeforms (邪命体, Jameitai) created as the result of using a Life Berry from the Tree of Life. The Trinoids (トリノイド, Torinoido) are human-sized Wicked Lifeforms, each is a fusion of an animal, plant, and object. They are designed and painted to life by Mikela via a life berry (it acts a heart) and when destroyed the berry lifts up into the air and they are resurrected as a giant. They didn't speak at all. Of the 23 Trinoids created, only number 12 (Yatsudenwani) survived. Most Trinoids have their number somewhere on their bodies. The Giganoids (ギガノイド, Giganoido) are giant sized Wicked Lifeforms, monsters that are giant from the beginning. They are "composed" by Voffa and are named after classical music pieces. 