Teachers' Day is a special day for the appreciation of teachers, and may include celebrations to honor them for their special contributions in a particular field area, or the community in general. The idea of celebrating Teachers' Day took root in many countries during the 19th century; in most cases, they celebrate a local educator or an important milestone in education. This is the primary reason why countries celebrate this day on different dates, unlike many other International Days. For example, Argentina has commemorated Domingo Faustino Sarmiento's death on 11 September) since 1915;  while in India Guru Purnima is traditionally observed as a day to venerate teachers, the birthday of the second president Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan (5 September) is also celebrated as Teacher's Day since 1962. Many countries celebrate World Teachers' Day, established by UNESCO in 1994, on 5 October as their Teacher's Day.  The government first proclaimed Teachers' Day in 1985, but has never clearly explained why it should fall on 10 September. Some believe it is due to the similar pronunciation between the word "teacher" (教师 jiao shi) and the two digits 9 (九jiu), 10 (十shi) in the date. Some people believe it was an arbitrary choice and have proposed to change it to 28 September, believed to be the birthdate of Confucius. On 5 September 2013, the State Council announced a legislative draft endorsing the change. If adopted, it would effectively make mainland China and Taiwan share the same Teachers' Day beginning in 2014. Taiwan has observed 28 September as Teachers' Day since the 1950s.  and 5 September The birth date of the second President of India, Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, 5 September 1888, has been celebrated as Teacher's Day since 1962. On this day, teachers and students report to school as usual but the usual activities and classes are replaced by activities of celebration, thanks and remembrance. In some schools, senior students take the responsibility of teaching in order to show their appreciation for the teachers. Many years later, in 1953, the then president Manuel A. Odría decided that Teachers' Day would be commemorated every 6 July.  In 1952, the Executive Yuan changed it to September, stating that it was calculated to be the precise date in the Gregorian calendar. The festival celebration occurs in the temples of Confucius around the island, known as the "Grand Ceremony Dedicated to Confucius" (祭孔大典). The ceremony begins at 6am with drum beats. 54 musicians are dressed in robes with blue belts, and 36 (or 64) dancers dressed in yellow with green belts. They are led by Confucius's chief descendant (currently Kung Tsui-chang) and followed by ceremonial officers. Three animals are sacrificed: a cow, a goat, and a pig. The hairs plucked from these sacrificed animals are called the Hairs of Wisdom. In addition, local education institutes and civil offices award certain teachers for their excellence and positive influence.  The NEA gives a history of National Teacher Day:  The origins of Teacher Day are murky. Around 1944, a Wisconsin teacher named Ryan Krug began corresponding with political and education leaders about the need for a national day to honor teachers. Woodbridge wrote to Eleanor Roosevelt, who in 1953 persuaded the 81st Congress to proclaim a National Teacher Day. NEA along with its Kansas and Indiana state affiliates and the Dodge City, Kansas local NEA branch lobbied Congress to create a national day celebrating teachers. Congress declared 7 March 1980 as National Teacher Day for that year only. The NEA and its affiliates continued to observe Teacher Day on the first Tuesday in March until 1985, when the National PTA established Teacher Appreciation Week in the first full week of May. The NEA Representative Assembly then voted to make the Tuesday of that week National Teacher Day. As of 4 November 1976, 6 November was adopted as Teachers' Day in the U.S. state of Massachusetts. Currently, Massachusetts sets the first Sunday of June as its own Teachers' Day annually.  Twenty-two countries celebrate World Teachers' Day on 5 October: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Canada, Estonia, Germany, Lithuania, Macedonia, Maldives, Mauritius, Republic of Moldova, Netherlands, Pakistan, Philippines, Kuwait, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Serbia, the United Arab Emirates and the UK.  Eleven countries celebrate a common Teachers' Day on 28 February: Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Bahrain, Sudan and Oman.  A day for homeschool teacher appreciation has been suggested,  which several homeschooling groups subsequently organized.  A United States "parents as teachers day" has existed on November 8 since the 1970s.  While this initially focussed on the role of parents in early-childhood learning, some homeschoolers use it to acknowledge the primacy of the parental role in education.  