QIAGEN is a provider of sample and assay technologies for molecular diagnostics, applied testing, academic and pharmaceutical research. Consolidated under the Dutch holding QIAGEN N.V., the company operates more than 35 offices in over 25 countries.  QIAGEN’s shares are listed at the NYSE (using ticker QGEN) and at the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in the Prime Standard (using ticker QIA). Peer M. Schatz is the company’s chief executive officer. The main operative headquarters are located in Hilden, Germany.  In 1984,  QIAGEN was established on November 29 by a team of scientists at the Heinrich Heine University Düsseldorf, Germany. Two years later, QIAGEN launched its first product, a kit for purification of plasmids – small ring-shaped DNA molecules in bacterial cells – cutting the preparation time for plasmids from between two and three days down to two hours.  1996 saw the initial public offering of QIAGEN on the technology-oriented Nasdaq stock exchange, becoming the first German company to do so.  1997 saw the initial public offering on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in Germany.  In 2004, QIAGEN acquired key assets of Molecular Staging, Inc. Two years later, QIAGEN established its Asia regional headquarters in Shanghai. In 2007 sales reached US$649.8 million and the number of employees surpassed 2,600. Qiagen acquired Digene for US$1.6 billion, furthering QIAGEN in  molecular diagnostics by revenue and diagnostics for disease prevention.  In 2009, QIAGEN began building its Personalized Healthcare business through the acquisition of DxS Ltd, in a deal valued at US$95 million  and it acquired SABiosciences Corp. in a deal valued at US$9 million.   At the end of 2009 QIAGEN surpassed the US$1 billion revenue mark and had over 3,500 employees. QIAGEN became one of the first companies to release a clinically verified diagnostic test for the detection of H1N1, more commonly known as Swine Flu.  In 2010 QIAGEN acquired ESE GmbH,  giving the company access to point of need testing devices for the application of molecular diagnostic tests without laboratory infrastructure. QIAGEN launched the QIAsymphony AS and QIAsymphony RGQ platforms, adding to the company’s portfolio for laboratory workflow automation and molecular test full-process automation respectively.  In 2011 QIAGEN acquired Ipsogen S.A. for US$101 million,   adding to the company’s product and IP portfolio in the blood cancer space and developing its position in molecular diagnostics for oncology. QIAGEN also acquired Cellestis Limited for US$374 million,  giving the company access to QuantiFERON technology for disease detection and prevention. The company added two new offices in the Asia Pacific region in New Delhi, India and Taipei, Taiwan. The company announced a comprehensive restructuring program to focus on high-growth areas such as personalized medicine and business in emerging markets. The program includes workforce reduction and internal restructuring affecting approximately 10% of the company’s 3,900 positions.  In 2013, QIAGEN acquired Ingenuity Systems.  QIAGEN also acquired CLC bio, which offers bioinformatics analysis software.  In 2015, QIAGEN acquired AdnaGen’s circulating tumor cell enrichment technology.  Qiagen also acquired Enzymatics enzyme solutions.  On March 2015, amanagement buyout of QIAGEN Marseille led to the creation of HalioDx.  In late 2015 the GeneReader NGS System was launched.  In 2016 QIAGEN acquired the Danish molecular diagnostics company Exiqon.  In 2018 QIAGEN transferred listing to New York Stock Exchange.  In April 2018, QIAGEN acquired the Spanish firm STAT-Dx and launched the QIAstat-Dx molecular diagnostics platform, developed by STAT-Dx for analysis of complex disease syndromes, at the European Congress of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases.  QIAGEN is a worldwide provider of molecular sample and assay technologies. Sample technologies are used to collect samples of tissue, fluids, etc. and stabilize, extract and purify various molecules of interest such as DNA, RNA or proteins from other cellular components. Assay technologies are then used to amplify (multiply) and enrich this small amount of isolated material to make it visible, readable and ready for interpretation. The separation and purification of genetic information is a basic precondition for further application or analysis.  QIAGEN provides molecular technologies offered as kits with open or specific target analytes. According to QIAGEN, the company’s current portfolio covers more than 500 products and more than 2,000 patents and licenses.  In 2014, QIAGEN entered into a supply agreement with Trinean for the manufacture of a QIAGEN-branded "micro-volume" spectrophotometer, to be sold under the name "QIAxpert".  Until the mid-2000s, QIAGEN was mainly a provider of sample technologies for the academic research market. QIAGEN's current product portfolio includes sample and assay technologies, specific automation solutions, and a bioinformatics analysis portfolio in 4 markets.  Molecular diagnostics detect the nucleic acids (DNA and RNA) of target diseases or pathogens in samples such as  blood or tissue. These procedures can help to detect viruses and bacteria more rapidly and with greater sensitivity and specificity than other methods such as bacterial culture or immunodiagnostics.  Molecular diagnostics are also used to analyze individual patient's genomic information to further classify certain diseases and to determine the most appropriate treatment. QIAGEN’s portfolio in molecular diagnostics covers various applications which the company divides into three main segments:  • Oncology: The company’s portfolio in oncology includes tests for a broad range of clinically relevant biomarkers, particularly in cancer, encompassing companion diagnostics that are marketed in combination with certain drugs, helping to guide treatment decisions. In addition, QIAGEN markets a range of gene panels for research applications in next-generation sequencing, covering dozens of genes associated with various cancers. Furthermore, the company offers technologies for the extraction and enrichment of molecular biomarkers from body fluids, supporting the development of liquid biopsies. Minimally invasive liquid biopsies hold promise to transform the diagnosis and treatment of cancer.  • Modulation of Immune Response: The QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube Test (QFT) is regarded worldwide as the modern standard for detection of latent tuberculosis infection. According to WHO estimates, this condition affects about one-third of the world’s population. As up to 10% of people with latent TB infection will develop the active disease in the course of their lives, the identification and treatment of at-risk groups with latent TB is important for sustainable control of this potentially life-threatening infectious disease.  • Infectious Diseases: QIAGEN offers several comprehensive test panels for detection of bacterial and viral pathogens. The portfolio encompasses assays for the detection of individual pathogens such as Influenza, HIV, Hepatitis, and healthcare-associated infections. The company also has a global leadership position in screening for high-risk types of human papillomavirus (HPV), the primary cause of cervical cancer.  Applied Testing is the use of molecular biology/diagnostics in practical, non-clinical applications such as veterinary medicine, forensics, food-quality monitoring and protection against biological hazards. QIAGEN's portfolio includes:  • Food safety: tests for pathogens (such as salmonella, legionella and listeria), allergens, genetically modified organisms as well as food origin and quality. • Veterinary medicine: tests for pathogens (such as bird flu, for which Qiagen was the first company to offer an approved test) as well as pandemic prevention and monitoring. • Forensics: tests used to identify victims, prosecute criminals and determine paternity or lineage. The life science research market encompasses all disciplines focusing on living organisms such as humans, animals, plants or bacteria (e.g., biochemistry, biomedicine or genetic engineering). Much of the research is done on a molecular level targeting DNA, RNA and proteins and helps scientists to comprehend basic processes in cells and organisms.  QIAGEN introduced the first kit for purification of plasmids – small ring-shaped DNA molecules in bacterial cells – in 1986, cutting the preparation time for plasmids from between two and three days down to two hours. The company has a global market share exceeding 70% for certain sample preparation technologies.  Multinational pharmaceutical companies use molecular sample and assay technologies in all phases of the drug development process, from the fundamental pharmaceutical research stage, through preclinical and clinical studies, to the commercialization and application of new products.  QIAGEN technologies can be used to identify genes that participate in the emergence of diseases, carry out studies on the functions and interactions between genes (or proteins) in entire biological pathways, identify and validate potential biomarkers and identify and evaluate therapeutic target molecules and suitable active agent candidates. QIAGEN's products can also be used in the execution of the clinical studies.  As of February 2018, the company's Executive Committee consisted of the following members:  QIAGEN has a holding structure. The holding (QIAGEN N.V.) is located in Venlo, The Netherlands. The operative and European headquarters are located in Hilden, Germany. Further regional headquarters are located in Maryland for North America and Shanghai for Asia.  