The Department of Musicology is an institute of Palacký University Faculty of Philosophy, which conducts research and provides education in the fields of musicology and fine art. While the Faculty of Philosophy dates back to 1576 and has provided education for a number of art theorists, the separate Department of Musicology was established in 1946. It is sited in the building of University Art Centre (former Jesuit College), together with other two art departments of Faculty of Philosophy and two art departments of Faculty of Education. Established in 1573, the Palacký University of Olomouc has a long history of musical scholarship. Olomouc prominently excels in the sphere of classical music (J. H. Gallus, W. A. Mozart, A. Dvořák, G. Mahler, J. Kubelík, E. Destinová, who all spent some part of their lives in Olomouc). Among the Olomouc University graduates are both art theorists (Karel Slavíček, Raphael Georg Kiesewetter, Rudolf Eitelberger, etc.) as well as composers (Pavel Vranický, Pavel Křížkovský, Eduard Schön, Emil Viklický, etc.). The modern tradition of musicological research and education goes back to 1946 when the Institute of Music Education and Science was established at the Faculty of Philosophy by Robert Smetana (1904–1988). 1960’s & 70’s saw a strong growth of the department (since 1972 led by Vladimír Hudec; however, the institute was  transformed into the Department of Music Education and transferred to the Faculty of Education in 1980 by the decision of the Ministry of Education. Soon after the fall of the communist régime in 1989, the musicology returned to the ground of Philosophical Faculty, this time as part of the Department of Combined Art Studies. Independent Department of Musicology was renewed in 1992 and through the enthusiasm of excellent professionals grew into a modern academic institution. Since 2002 it is sited in the University Art Centre, former Jesuit College building, together with another two art departments of the Faculty of Philosophy and two art departments of the Faculty of Education. Research has a fundamental role for the Department. The Department hosts the annual International Musicological Conference (usually late November) and regular public workshops and seminars which are enriched by occasional activities such as conference on Zdeněk Fibich - the 19th Century Middle European Composer held in spring 2010. The Department’s activities embrace a wide variety of modes of research (Regional and Historical Studies, Organology, Critical Edition of Musical Sources, Jazz, Art Rock, Film Music, and so on). Department’s research is  supported by a major funds from the European Union and Czech Government (principal among these are the Correspondence of Vítězslav Novák between 1890-1905, Correspondence of Vítězslav Novák between 1906-1949, Zdeněk Fibich’s 19th century Operas, Moravia and the World ...). Department participated on Music Media Training Programme For the Czech Republic (1995 - 1998) and Musical Life in Europe (1997 - 2001). Since 1997 the Department is linked to Saint Cloud State University through the Art and Music in the Czech Republic Programme. The Department also benefits from a number of collaborative research and educational partnerships, including those with During last decades the Department provided a forum for a number of academics and visiting lecturers (i.e. Charles Ansbacher, Michael Beckerman, Greg Hurworth, Thomas Christensen, Jobst Fricke, Kenton Frohrip, David Benjamin Levy, Graham Melville-Mason, Scott L. Miller, Christopher Shultis and others). As part of the University's Faculty of Philosophy, the Department of Musicology offers Bachelor's, Master's and Doctoral degrees in the fields of Musicology and Arts integration. The Department holds regular concerts and musical festival as well (i.e. festival of contemporary music MusicOlomouc). During its history department possessed a rather unusual roster of musicologists whose interest covered a great variety of scientific issues (namely Robert Smetana, Vladimír Hudec, Vladimír Gregor, František Kratochvíl, Libor Melkus, Gustav Pivoňka, Josef Schreiber (musicologist), Luděk Zenkl, Pavel Čotek, Ivan Poledňák, Mikuláš Bek, Miroslav K. Černý, Jiří Fukač, Jaroslav Jiránek, Václav Kučera, Stanislav Tesař, Vladimír Tichý, Jiří Sehnal, Miloš Štědroň, Vlastislav Matoušek). Many graduates have become leading scholars and prominent musicians (Leo Jehne, Michal Chrobák, Jan Kapusta, Pavel Klapil, Jiří Pavlica, Stanislav Pecháček). Since 2002 the Department of Musicology PhF PU Ol is located in renovated former Jesuits’ Convict, which houses Computer Lab, two large and one small Lecture Halls, three Noise-proof Studios, Chapel, Library and Archive and number of offices, designed to accommodate all its needs in the matter of educational and research activities 