Shaivism/Tantra/Nath New movements Kashmir Shaivism Kashmir Shaivism Neo-Vedanta Inchegeri Sampradaya Modern Advaita Vedanta Shaivism/Tantra/Nath Neo-Advaita Other Hinduism Buddhism Modern Advaita Vedanta Neo-Vedanta Arvind Sharma is the Birks Professor of Comparative Religion at McGill University. Sharma's works focus on comparative religion, Hinduism, philosophy of religion and the role of women in religion[disambiguation needed]. Some of his more widely read works include Our Religions and Women in World Religions, which were edited by him. Feminism in World Religions was selected as a Choice Outstanding Academic Book (1999).  Arvind Sharma was born on the 13th of January 1940 in Varanasi, India . Raised in a family that traditionally worked in the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), he followed suit and joined the IAS in 1962 after a distinguished academic career.  He served in the State of Gujarat until 1968, when he moved to the United States to pursue higher studies in economics at the University of Syracuse, obtaining a Masters in economics in 1970.  While pursuing the role of non-economic factors in economic development he became interested in religion and joined Harvard Divinity School in 1972.  After obtaining a Masters in Theological Studies, concentrating on comparative religion, he earned his PhD from the Department of Sanskrit and Indian Studies in 1978.  His doctorate work involved the first ever translation in English of Abhinavagupta's commentary on the Bhagavad Gita. While at Harvard he was recruited in 1976 by the newly founded Department of Studies in Religion at the University of Queensland in Brisbane, Australia. In 1980 he moved to the University of Sydney, from where he was hired by McGill University in Canada in 1987.  In 1994 he was appointed the Birks Professor of Comparative Religion at McGill University, where he continues to teach as of 2018.     The archives fonds of Arvind Sharma is held at McGill University Archives (MUA) Arvind Sharma Archived May 27, 2015, at the Wayback Machine., Faculty of Religious Studies, McGill University, retrieved 2015-04-10.</ref> A more complete bibliography, consisting of more than 860 titles, is in the possession of the McGill University Archives (MUA) and can be provided upon request. 