IFIS is an academic publishing company and not-for-profit organisation operating in the sciences of food and health.  Based in Reading, IFIS produces an online bibliographic database, FSTA, a resource which the company has offered since 1969. IFIS also produces, in association with Wiley Blackwell, the Dictionary of Food Science & Technology, now in its second edition.  As a not-for-profit charitable organisation, IFIS offers access to researchers in developing countries through the Research4Life programmes, HINARI and AGORA.  In March 2016 IFIS announced the upcoming launch of a new food regulations and compliance database, Escalex, in collaboration with Molecular Connections,  which is for sale as of April 2017.  Originally known as the International Food Information Service, IFIS was established in 1968 by the collaboration of four organisations:  The company was originally based at Lane End House in Shinfield, though has recently moved to The Granary on Bridge Farm in Arborfield. FSTA is a bibliographic abstracting and indexing (A&I) database for scientific and technological information relating to food, beverages, and nutrition. It contains over 1.3 million indexed records, with full-text links where available, covering over 5,475 active and historical journals, books, trade publications, reviews, conference proceedings, reports, patents, and standards. The database is updated weekly with all records indexed against IFIS' thesaurus, containing over 12,346 food science keywords, curated and structured into hierarchies. The resource is used by researchers, industry practitioners, and students,  and it contains information sources in 29 languages, sourced from publishers in over 60 countries. Coverage includes all major commodities in the food and beverage industry, related applied and pure sciences, pet foods, food psychology, food economics, food safety, and more.  FSTA can be accessed through EBSCOhost,  Ovid,  Proquest Dialog,  STN  and Web of Science.  Developed jointly with Molecular Connections, Escalex is a database for food regulations and compliance information. It enables users to efficiently find precise results, with smart searching and filter options for easy navigation. For use in industry, government and academia, Escalex is a tool for regulatory and scientific affairs, product development, labelling and more. With IFIS’ expertise in managing complex scientific food and beverage information, and Molecular Connections' innovative information discovery capabilities, combining our talents has enabled us to develop an efficient solution to these essential information needs. 