INASP is an international development charity working with a global network of partners to improve access, production and use of research information and knowledge, so that countries are equipped to solve their development challenges. Based in Oxford and governed by an international Board of Trustees, INASP is run with a small number of full-time staff working with, and through, partners and networks in over one hundred countries. INASP's work is funded by its partner countries, governmental and non-governmental development agencies, and philanthropic foundations. INASP was established by the International Council for Science (ICSU) in 1992 to "improve access to information and knowledge through a commitment to capacity building in emerging and developing countries."  It was registered as a charity in 2004. All the work of INASP aims to improve access to, and production and use of, research information and knowledge for sustainable development. The charity focuses on the following key aspects of the research communication cycle: The AuthorAID project has two key goals: to increase the success rate of developing country researchers in achieving publication; and to increase the visibility and influence of research in the developing world. AuthorAID achieves these objectives through networking, resources, training and mentoring. INASP's Journals Online project aims to improve the accessibility and visibility of developing country research. By providing a cost-effective and secure platform for online journals, along with advice, resource guides and links to suitable technologies and hosting organisations, the Journals Online enable easy discoverability of the wide range of journals and research being produced. In addition to the platform, through the Journals Online, those wishing to publish their journals online have access to advice, resource guides and links to suitable technologies and hosting organisations. Public Knowledge Project (PKP) based in Canada was used to develop these platforms or websites for online journal hosting and originally began with African Journals Online (AJOL). At present, it also includes Bangladesh Journals OnLine (BanglaJOL), Latin America Journals Online (LAMJOL),  Nepal Journals Online (NepJOL), Sri Lanka Journals Online (SLJOL), Philippines Journals Online (PhilJOL), and Vietnam Journals Online (VJOL). Although, the JOLs are initially hosted by PKP in Canada but, it is planned that they will be hosted in their country of origin. PhilJOL and VJOL are now being managed in-country and BanglaJOL began the transition to country-ownership in 2012.  Publishers for Development is a forum for information and discussion around the importance of access to information for development. Through a range of activities, it explores some of the unique challenges developing country libraries, researchers and publishers experience. It also provides an opportunity for publishers to keep up-to-date and feed their input into the work all parties are undertaking to lessen the digital divide. The VakaYiko Consortium is a three-year project involving five organisations working primarily in three countries. Vaka is Shona (Southern Africa) for ‘build’ and Yiko is Dagbani (Ghana) for capacity which illustrates the main African regions where the consortium works. 