Plan S is the name given to an open access plan launched by Science Europe on 4 September 2018.  It is an initiative of "cOAlition S",  a consortium launched by the European Research Council and major national research agencies and funders from eleven European countries. The plan requires scientists and researchers who benefit from state-funded research organisations and institutions to publish their work in open access journals which are available to all by 2020.  The plan is structured around ten principles.  The key principle states that by 2020, research funded by public grants must be published in open access journals or platforms. The ten principles are: The coalition behind plan S includes:  The plan was met with opposition from a number of publishers of non-open access journals. Springer Nature "urge[d] research funding agencies to align rather than act in small groups in ways that are incompatible with each other, and for policymakers to also take this global view into account", adding that removing publishing options from researchers "fails to take this into account and potentially undermines the whole research publishing system".  The AAAS, publisher of the journal Science, argued that Plan S "will not support high-quality peer-review, research publication and dissemination", and that its implementation would "would disrupt scholarly communications, be a disservice to researchers, and impinge academic freedom" and "would also be unsustainable for the Science family of journals".   According to Elsevier, "if you think information shouldn't cost anything, go to Wikipedia".  Structural biologist and open access advocate at the Imperial College London, Stephen Curry, called the policy a "significant shift" and "a very powerful declaration".  Ralf Schimmer, head of the Scientific Information Provision at the Max Planck Digital Library told The Scientist that "This will put increased pressure on publishers and on the consciousness of individual researchers that an ecosystem change is possible ... There has been enough nice language and waiting and hoping and saying please. Research communities just aren't willing to tolerate procrastination anymore."  Political activist George Monbiot – while acknowledging that the plan was "not perfect" – wrote in The Guardian that the publishers' responses to Plan S was "ballistic", and argued that Elsevier's response regarding Wikipedia "inadvertently remind[ed] us of what happened to the commercial encyclopedias".  He went on to argue that, until Plan S in implemented, "The ethical choice is to read the stolen material published by Sci-Hub."  