Wilmington College is a private career-oriented liberal arts institution established by Quakers in 1870 in Wilmington, Ohio, United States.  The college is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission.  Wilmington College is known for its Agriculture program (one of only two in Ohio), its Athletic Training program, and its Education program.  As of fall 2015, there were 990 students attending Wilmington's main campus, and 213 students at Wilmington's two Cincinnati branches at Blue Ash and Cincinnati State. Wilmington College offers undergraduate major programs  in a number of academic and career areas including art, English literature, biology, chemistry, history, mathematics, philosophy, psychology, Spanish language and literature, and religion, as well as in such areas as education, business, communications, agriculture, equine studies, athletic training, social work, and more.  The college also offers a master's degree program in education, with specialties in special education and reading and undergraduate courses at several sites in Cincinnati.  The college welcomes transfer students and has a significant number of commuting students.  More than half of the students participate in intercollegiate athletics.  Wilmington College students enjoy robust on-site and online library resources.  The college's Watson Library  is a member of the OPAL (Ohio Private Academic Libraries)  consortium and the OhioLINK  consortium that provides an integrated catalog, e-resources, and more than 100 research databases. The Wilmington College Peace Resource Center, established in 1975, plays a major role in furthering the peacemaking and reconciliation elements in the mission statement of the college, in large part through providing peace education materials, both locally and throughout the country.  The PRC is known, in particular, for its Hiroshima/Nagasaki Memorial Collection founded on the archives of Barbara Leonard Reynolds, which the college believes is "the world's largest collection (outside of Japan) of reference materials related to the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki." Reynolds' archives are also housed in part at the Earle and Akie Reynolds Archive at the University of California, Santa Cruz.  The Peace Resource Center is also known for its ProjectTRUST camp (leadership and anti-bullying focus) for middle schoolers and Positive Discipline training for educators. The Center has been active in the Wilmington Community in establishing peer mediation in the local schools. In August 2010, the Peace Resource Center of Wilmington College hosted the National Peace Academy's 2010 Peacebuilding Peacelearning Intensive program on the theme of "Capacitating Community Peacebuilding."  The only private institution of higher learning in Ohio to offer a degree in Agriculture, Wilmington College operates more than 1,000 acres (4.0 km2) of farmland dedicated to research, applied education and financial support to the college.  The Wilmington College agricultural student body, through the leadership of collegiate 4H and the Wilmington College Aggies club, has sponsored a livestock judging  contests for over 50 years and most recently an Ohio Farm Bureau Collegiate Chapter. Also the program has expanded to include the following programs Agricultural Business, Agronomy, Animal Science, Agriculture Communications, Equine Business Management, and minor programs of sustainability and equine studies. Wilmington College recognizes thirteen Greek Letter Organizations: three national fraternities, three local fraternities, two national sororities and three local sororities, and two auxiliaries. This group of thirteen Greek organizations constitutes the membership of the Greek Council. Additionally, Wilmington College boasts several honor societies, some international in scope.  Wilmington College athletic teams are known as the "Fightin' Quakers". Their colors are Dark Green and Lime Green. The Quakers compete in the NCAA Division III, and have been a member of the Ohio Athletic Conference since 2000. Wilmington College offers nine men's teams and nine women's teams, including Men's sports   Women's sports   Intramural sports   Before becoming a member of the NCAA, Wilmington's teams competed in the NAIA.  Wilmington was previously a member of the Association of Mideast Colleges from 1990 to 1996 and served as an independent until  1998.  WC was in the Heartland Collegiate Athletic Conference from 1998 to 1999, before joining the OAC in 2000. Wilmington's conference opponents include: Baldwin Wallace University, Capital University, Heidelberg University, John Carroll University, Marietta College, University of Mount Union, Muskingum University, Ohio Northern University, and Otterbein University. Wilmington has had 6 individual National Champions, as well as one team National Championship.  