Henk ten Have (1951), whose full name is Henk Antonius Maria Johannes, is  Director of the Center for Healthcare Ethics at Duquesne University in Pittsburgh, U.S.A.  Previously, he served in UNESCO as Director of the Division of Ethics of Science and Technology (2003-2010).  His recent works are; Global Bioethics-An Introduction (2016), Vulnerability (2016), and Encyclopedia of Global Bioethics (2016). Henk ten Have was born in Voorschoten, the Netherlands in June 1951.    After completing his secondary school (Gymnasium alfa) in May 1969 he started studying medicine at the University of Leiden and was awarded the Medical Degree in April 1976.  In 1978 and 1979 ten Have worked as a physician in the municipal health services (GG&GD) in the city of Rotterdam.  In June 1982, Henk ten Have was appointed as  part-time Instructor at the State University of Limburg in Maastricht, the Netherlands.  In January 1983 he was awarded the PhD degree in philosophy at the University of Leiden.  In July 1985 he was appointed  professor in philosophy at the State University of Limburg.   In September 1991 Henk ten Have moved to the Catholic University of Nijmegen (now Radboud University Nijmegen) where he has been appointed as full professor of medical ethics in the School of Medical Sciences.   He became involved in many public debates as well as expert committees in the area of healthcare ethics and healthcare policies.  He was also appointed as member of the newly founded Central Committee on Research involving Human Subjects (CCMO) in the Netherlands (1999-2003), and  served in the Ethical Issues Review Panel of WADA (World Anti-Doping Agency) (2006-2008).  In September 2003, ten Have moved to UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) in Paris as Director of the Division of Ethics of Science and Technology.  Shortly after he had arrived, the member states invited the Director-General to explore the possibility of developing a universal declaration of global bioethical principles. Under his guidance, the International Bioethics Committee drafted the text and carried out consultations in many countries and with various stakeholders.  The Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights was unanimously adopted by all member states of UNESCO on 19 October 2005.  Since then, ten Have has set up several UNESCO programs to implement the Declaration, such as the Ethics Education program, the Global Ethics Observatory, and the National Bioethics Committees program.  In March 2008 he received an honorary degree of the Medical University of Pleven in Bulgaria.  Retiring from UNESCO in 2010, Henk ten Have was appointed in July 2010 as Director of the Center for Healthcare Ethics at Duquesne University in Pittsburgh, U.S.A.  As Executive Secretary of the European Society for Philosophy of Medicine and Healthcare (ESPMH) Henk ten Have assisted in the organization of annual conferences. The third conference took place in 1989 in Czestochowa, Poland.  The theme of the conference was “European traditions in philosophy of medicine.” Czestochowa was chosen because it was the place of much activity in the previous century notably by its citizen and medical doctor Władysław Bieganski. As appreciation for his efforts, Henk ten Have received in October 1989 the Medal of Honor from the City of Czestochowa, as well as the Bieganski Medal from Towarzystwo Lekarskie Czestochowskie (Medical Association of Czestochowa, Poland). In April 1995, ten Have was elected as Miembro Correspondiente en el Extranjero, Real Academia Nacional de Medicine, Madrid, Spain.  He was also elected as Correspondent Member, Koninklijke Nederlandse Academie van Wetenschappen (KNAW-Royal Dutch Academy of Sciences) in April 2005. Henk ten Have was awarded a visiting Professorship at the University of Central Lancashire, Preston, United Kingdom (March 1996 – 1999). He was Senior Visiting Fellow, Center for Health Policy and Ethics, Creighton University, Omaha, Nebraska, U.S.A. (March – June 2001). He was appointed as an Honorary Research Professor in the School of Philosophy, University of Tasmania, Australia (March 2007 – 2010). Ten Have received the Oscar M. Ruebhausen Visiting Professorship, Department of Bioethics, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, U.S.A. (September 2008). In 2011 he was appointed as Adjunct Professor, King Saud bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences (Department of Bioethics, King Abdullah International Medical Research Center), Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.  In March 2008 Henk ten Have was awarded the title of Doctor Honoris Causa of the Medical University of Pleven in Bulgaria.  The same year he received the Ethos Prize for Bioethics, sponsored by the Calouste Culbenkian Foundation in Lisbon, Portugal.  He was elected as Fellow of the Hastings Center (New York, United States) in October 2004. In January 2015 Henk ten Have was appointed as ‘Lifetime Honorary Member’ of the Bangladesh Bioethics Society.  In July 2017 Henk ten Have was appointed as corresponding member of the Pontifical Academy for Life.  Henk ten Have is one of the founders and the Secretary and Treasurer of the International Association for Education in Ethics, established in April 2011.,   The International Association for Education in Ethics will provide an international platform to: (a) exchange and analyze experiences with the teaching of ethics in various educational settings; (b) promote the development of knowledge and methods of ethics education; (c) function as a global center of contacts for experts in the field, and promote contacts between the members from countries around the world, and (d) enhance and expand the teaching of ethics at national, regional and international levels. IAEE has legally been established in Pennsylvania. The secretariat and treasury of the association are housed in the Center for Healthcare Ethics at Duquesne University in Pittsburgh, US.  The association has organized International Conferences in 2012 (Pittsburgh, USA), 2014 (Ankara, Turkey), 2015 (Curitiba, Brazil), 2016 (Logrono, Spain). Forthcoming conferences are scheduled in Mangalore (India 2017), Stellenbosch (South Africa, 2018) and Oporto (Portugal, 2019). The official journal of the International Association for Education in Ethics, the International Journal of Ethics Education has started to be published in 2016 with two annual issues. Henk ten Have is Editor-in-Chief.  This is the official journal of the European Society for Philosophy of Medicine and Healthcare (ESPMH). The ESPMH was established in August 1987 by a group of European scholars, interested in cooperation in the field of philosophy and ethics of medicine and healthcare.  Henk ten Have was elected as Executive-Secretary of the new organization. The first annual conference took place in 1987 in Maastricht, the Netherlands with the theme ‘The growth of medical knowledge.’ Henk ten Have, as executive secretary, started a bi-annual newsletter in 1987 that developed into a more expanded bulletin. Because more and more ESPMH members were interested in publishing, the initiative was taken to create a new and real journal, entitled Medicine, Health Care and Philosophy. The journal started in 1998. Henk ten Have was the first Editor-in-Chief until 2003. He again became Editor-in-Chief (with Bert Gordijn) in 2010.  Henk ten Have took the initiative (together with Bert Gordijn) to create a new book series in the field of global bioethics. Advancing Global Bioethics provides a forum for normative analysis of a vast range of important new issues in bioethics from a truly global perspective and with a cross-cultural approach. The series started in 2014 with 3 volumes. Henk ten Have and Bert Gordijn are editors of the series.  