Mark Siegler (born June 20, 1941) is an American physician who specializes in internal medicine. He is the Lindy Bergman Distinguished Service Professor of Medicine and Surgery at the University of Chicago. One of the nation's leading medical ethicists,  he is the Founding Director of the University of Chicago's MacLean Center for Clinical Medical Ethics. Siegler has practiced and taught internal medicine at the University of Chicago for more than 50 years. In 2011, the Matthew and Carolyn Bucksbaum Family Foundation presented an endowment of $42 million to the University of Chicago to create the Bucksbaum Institute for Clinical Excellence. Siegler was appointed the Executive Director of the Institute. The mission of the Bucksbaum Institute is to improve patient care, to strengthen the doctor-patient relationship, and to enhance communication and decision-making between patients and physicians through research and education programs for medical students, faculty and master clinicians. Siegler has published more than 215 journal articles, 65 book chapters and five books. His textbook, co-authored with Al Jonsen and William Winslade, Clinical Ethics: A Practical Approach to Ethical Decisions in Clinical Medicine, 8th Edition (2015),  has been translated into eight languages and is widely used by physicians and health professionals around the world. His most recent book, co-edited with Laura Roberts, MD, is titled Clinical Medical Ethics: Landmark Works of Mark Siegler, MD. Clinical medical ethics is a practical, applied field that aims to improve patient care and outcomes. It focuses on issues that arise daily in the routine care of patients, including issues such as truth-telling, informed consent, shared decision-making, confidentiality, and end-of-life care. In the early 1970s at the University of Chicago, Mark Siegler named and helped to launch the field of Clinical Medical Ethics. Clinical ethics helps patients, families, and professionals reach good clinical decisions based on medical facts, patient preferences, and ethical considerations. The MacLean Center for Clinical Medical Ethics at the University of Chicago has played a major role in creating, establishing, and expanding the field of clinical medical ethics. In 1983, the MacLean Center was established after receiving a naming gift from Dorothy Jean MacLean and the MacLean family. Inspired by the clinical models of William Osler and Alvan Feinstein, the MacLean Center has helped to change and expand American medical ethics by helping to bring ethics to the bedside.  Regarding the MacLean Center, the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics stated: "the training program established by you, including more than 450 fellows across almost 35 years, has had a greater impact than any other clinical ethics training program in the world. Through generations of scholars, you have populated the field of clinical ethics in perpetuity." During the past 40 years, clinical ethics has emerged as one of the core components of the American bioethics movement. Today, virtually every major hospital has an ethics committee or ethics consultation service available to help resolve most ethical problems; scholarly clinical ethics papers are published widely in both bioethics and medical journals; medical organizations now have ethics committees and codes of ethics; newspapers cover important clinical ethics issues; and most importantly, principles of clinical ethics have become the legal and professional standard of care, and are now an integral part of physicians' routine care for their patients. 1996 - Chirone Prize, Accademia Nazionale di Medicina and the University of Bologna 1997 - Appointed Lindy Bergman Professor at the University of Chicago 2000 - Named Lindy Bergman Distinguished Service Professor at the University of Chicago 2006 - 2010 Served on the Board of Trustees at Princeton University 2007 - Distinguished Service Award, Medical and Biological Sciences Alumni Association, University of Chicago 2010 - Received Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Society of Bioethics and Humanities (ASBH) 2011 - Named Executive Director of the Bucksbaum Institute for Clinical Excellence at the University of Chicago 2013 - The MacLean Center received the Cornerstone Award from the American Society of Bioethics and Humanities 2014 - Chosen to present the 25th Annual Coggeshall Lecture on medical ethics, Biological Science Division, University of Chicago 2015 - The John Conley Foundation Award for Outstanding Contributions to Clinical Ethics. 2015 - Elected a Master of the American College of Physicians (MACP)  2016 - Johns Hopkins Berman Institute Harvey M. Meyerhoff Leadership in Bioethics Award 