Chinchasuyu was the northwestern provincial region of the Tawantin Suyu, or Inca Empire. The most populous suyu (or Quarter, the largest division of the Inca Empire), Chinchaysuyu encompassed the former lands of the Chimú Empire and much of the northern Andes. At its largest extent, the suyu extended through much of modern Ecuador and just into modern Colombia.  Along with Antisuyu, it was part of the Hanan Suyukuna or "Upper Quarters" of the empire.   The name is due to the Chincha culture, which was a trader kingdom in what is now the Ica Region. Chinchay in Quechua means ocelot and also means the cardinal point North. Before the Inca Civil War began, Atahualpa, the son of the deceased Inca Emperor Huayna Capac, inherited and  ruled the majority of the Chinchasuyu from his capital city in Quito, supported by Huayna Capac's veteran Inca Generals and soldiers. The 12th Inca, Huayna Capac. knowing that he was about to die, gave orders to place his heart and organs in a Urn and have it buried in Quito, the city he loved. Moreover, Huayna Capac gave instructions that his mummified body should be transported to Cuzco for burial beside the mummified bodies of his royal ancestors. The Inca Emperor Huascar, who was the eldest son of Huayna Capac, ruled the rest of the Inca Empire from Cuzco, and was displeased that Atahaulpa was crown King in Quito. Spanish chroniclers refer to Atahaulpas' Kingdom as the Kingdom of Quito. The Inca Huascar was not able to do anything since the best soldiers in the Inca Empire swore allegiance to Atahualpa. After 4 or 5 years of peace, the nobles as well as the mother of the Inca Huascar, Rava Ocllo. encouraged him to reconquer the Kingdom of Atahualpa which spanned most of the Chinchasuyu. Huascar sent an ultimatum to Atahualpa asking for submission, Atahualpa refused, and a young General Atoc was sent to invade and reconquer the Kingdom of Quito from Atahualpa.  Each suyu was divided into wamani, or provinces. Chinchaysuyu included the wamani of:  