God of the Sullied is a historical fiction novel written by Gaurav Sharma. The book would have a sequel, Long Live the Sullied. The first edition of  God of the Sullied was published in September 2018 by Think Tank Books. God of the Sullied is a story about an underachiever, innocent and supposedly cursed child, who in the end, conquers the world and demolishes the evil. The story revolves around ninth century India, just after the sudden demise of Adi Shankaracharya - a time when a unique and exotic Ikshavaku tribe lives somewhere in Rudraputra. Their scion, Eklavya, as per the predictions of a high priest, will take birth with a purpose of demolishing the evil from the earth. The child is declared mystic. However, he would later be clutched in the hands of Kali, the darkness. A storm hits this part of the world a day before the birth of Eklavya, claiming many lives. Soon after Eklavya’s birth, his mother dies, and a series of unfortunate events follows. The village deemed the child as sullied and cursed. Eklavya’s father loses his sanity after all this, and his grandmother dies mysteriously. Eklavya is forced to leave the village. He tries to end his life by taking a plunge into the mighty Ganges, but a stranger saves his life by asking his way to the cemetery. Eklavya and that stranger become friends. The stranger offers Eklavya a job in the cemetery. Upon reaching there, Eklavya finds an old man who, as per the stranger, is his father. The stranger disappears in the morning. The old man reveals that he never had any child. Eklavya is baffled and wonders about the stranger. As days pass by, Eklavya starts sharing a bond with the old man and helping him maintain the cemetery. Everything was going fine until one day Eklavya finds his father dead and brought over to the cemetery for cremation. Weak and thrashed from inside, Eklayva decides to go back to his village, where he was outcast from, after being deemed as sullied. Before he could go there, the high priest came to meet him in the cemetery. It is during a heated conversation that the high priest revealed that he had some hidden motives against Eklavya and his father, and that he was the reason behind Eklavya’s mother’s and grandmother’s death. Seeing the high priest repent his deeds, Eklavya let him go alive. Eklavya, after few days, leaves the cemetery and the old man, and goes out to find the truth of life. Soon, he attains higher consciousness. During his adulthood, Eklavya trains an entire village to fight against bandits, finds a girl who earlier had saved him from being killed by a tribe, witnessed the death of the old man and eventually, the girl killed by the bandits. It is then revealed that the high priest had become the Chief Minister of the state of Rudraputra and to pay back the cost of his spared life, he helps Eklavya become the King of Rudraputra. Eklavya in his kingship improves the socio-economic condition of his country. And hence, the prophecies of him conquering the world and ending Kaliyuga made before his birth became true. 