 Central bank digital currency (CBDC, also called "Digital Fiat Currency"  or "digital base money" ) is the digital form of fiat money which is a currency established as money by government regulation or law.   Central bank digital currency is different from "digital currency" (or virtual currency and cryptocurrency), which are not issued by the state and lack the legal tender status declared by the government. As such, public digital currencies could compete with commercial bank deposits and challenge the status quo of the current fractional reserve banking system.   The Bank of England was one of the first   to initiate a global discussion on the prospects for the introduction of a CBDC. The central bank of Sweden is however the closest to consider its implementation.   In November 2017, the central bank of Uruguay announced to begin a test to issue digital Uruguayan pesos.   One technology to issue CBDC as part of central bank issued base money (or monetary base) has been conceived and created by eCurrency Mint Limited (eCurrency™), a company headquartered in Dublin, Ireland.  CBDC is a high security digital instrument, like paper bank notes, is a means of payment, a unit of account and a store of value.  And like paper currency, each unit is uniquely identifiable to prevent counterfeit.   Digital fiat currency is part of the base money supply , together with other forms of the currency. As such, DFC is a liability of the central bank just as physical currency is.   It's a digital bearer instrument that can be stored, transferred and transmitted by all kinds of digital payment systems and services. The validity of the digital fiat currency is independent of the digital payment systems storing and transferring the digital fiat currency.  Proposals for CBDC implementation usually involve the provision of universal bank accounts at the central banks for all citizens.   Digital fiat currency is currently being studied and tested by governments and central banks in order to realize the many positive implications it contributes to financial inclusion, economic growth, technology innovation and increased transaction efficiencies.   Here is a list of potential advantages: A general concern is that the introduction of a CBDC would precipitate potential bank runs   and thus make banks' funding position weaker.  