Coin cleaning refers to the process of removing undesirable substances from a coin's surface in order to make it more attractive to potential buyers. The subject is controversial as there is no consensus among the numismatic community if cleaning should be done or not, or if so how the proper way should be. It was once common practice to clean coins which was recommended by experts in the field. Solutions from pencil erasers to wire brushes and potassium cyanide were all used as cleaning agents with the goal to make the coin look brilliant again. When certified grading came into use in the mid 1980s though the practice of cleaning coins diminished over time. Most coin experts have since come out against cleaning coins, advising that if a valuable coin must be cleaned then it should only be done by a professional. Coin cleaning has no definitive start date as when any object looks dirty people are inclined to clean it. The cleaning of coins though can be traced as far back as the mid 1800s in the United States when it came to Half cents and large cents. These coins soon became popular with collectors after they were discontinued in 1857 due to the rising costs of copper. Cleansers were used on the cents to try and make the coins mint red again.  Another example is with the U.S. Mint's Philadelphia coin cabinet (now located in the Smithsonian). In 1903 many coins in the collection that had once been in proof condition were now partly covered in a white coating. The cabinet had been displayed since 1838, and it was found that at some point an attendant had purchased some metal polish to "clean" the tarnished coins.  By the 1930s the motto "brilliant is best" was adopted by those in the coin collecting community. Coins that were toned were considered tarnished which caused collectors to brighten up their coins with things like abrasives.  Penny boards were even made with instructions on how collectors should properly clean their coins by using a pencil eraser with a little bit of vinegar. The widespread practice of "improving" coins continued into the 1960s with advertisements on lotions and potions with the aim of making coins brilliant again.  According to Q. David Bowers, collectors and coin dealers cleaned and dipped their coins then re-dipped them when the toning re-appeared as a result of these messages.  Bowers estimated in 1960 that 90 to 95% of the Lincoln cents sold in the marketplace dated 1910 through the late 1920s were brilliant as a result of dipping.  The widespread practice of coin cleaning lasted through the 1970s, into the early 1980s until the invention of certified and encapsulated grading. When viewed under things such as a microscope or the trained naked eye, the effects of treating coins were soon revealed to be less than ideal.   Numismatist William H. Sheldon wrote an opinion on cleaning old pennies: "Many a cent has been ruined in an attempt to improve it. Amateurs, and some who are not so amateur, are forever trying to improve the condition or appearance of an old cent." Another numismatist, John J. Ford Jr. also wrote that expert cleaning makes the coin look untouched but that attractively colored coins should be left alone.  Scott A. Travers, author of the book The Insider's Guide to Coins Values stated that a coin should never be cleaned as "many" collectors find them to be "repugnant". Travers also said that the idea of enhancing a coin's value through cleaning is a misconception.  Kenneth Bressett and A. Kosoff also wrote opinions on the matter saying that once a coin has been "stripped" of its original surface and luster, it can "never be fully restored or made Uncirculated again".  Listed below are some examples of how coins are cleaned, however the cleaning of potentially valuable coins should only be done by an expert. Improper cleaning can result in a coin's surface being damaged beyond repair.   Coins with untouched original surfaces are generally more desirable than those that have been cleaned, although lightly cleaned coins with no damage done may still receive a normal coin grade. If a coin is shown to be damaged by cleaning then it will be marked as "Improperly Cleaned" or have a problem description by grading services.   