 Eugene Daub (born November 13, 1942) is an American contemporary figure sculptor, best known for his portraits and figurative monument sculpture created in the classic heroic style. His sculptures reside in three of the nation's state capitals and in the National Statuary Hall in the United States Capitol. His work appears in public monuments and permanent collections in the United States and Europe. Eugene Daub was born in Pottstown, Pennsylvania. His education includes: Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, Philadelphia; The Johnson Atelier Technical Institute of Sculpture, New Jersey; Rutgers University, New Jersey; and the Academy of Art College, San Francisco. Eugene Daub is married to artist Anne Olsen Daub.  Eugene Daub began his career as an art director for an advertising firm. His first job in sculpture was for The Franklin Mint where he developed skills in relief sculpture. He taught at the Academy of Art University in San Francisco, Ca from 1993 to 2002. He has been an instructor at the Scottsdale Artists’ School from 1991 to present and is the designer of the first Philadelphia Liberty Medal,  which that city awards every year to a champion of world peace. Daub has exhibited extensively and has works in numerous public collections, including the Helsinki Art Museum, the British Museum; the Smithsonian Institution; The National Statuary Hall Collection in the United States Capitol and the United States National Park Service.  Daub has created over 40 major monuments in the U.S. in the last 30 years.  He is also one of the pioneer members of the American Medallic Sculpture Association, which pushed American contemporary medallic art into the international contemporary movement.  He won both of the nation's highest awards for excellence in medallic art: The Saltus Award from the American Numismatic Society, and the Gold medal, from the American Numismatic Association.  Daub is a Fellow of the National Sculpture Society. In 2004, Daub joined sculptor Rob Firmin to form Daub & Firmin Sculpture Studios, LLC, where Daub serves as master artist and principal sculptor, and Firmin serves as designer, sculptor, historian, and proposal creator. In December 2009, the firm of Daub and Firmin won the design competition to create a Rosa Parks statue for the U.S. Capitol.  Eugene Daub was the principal sculptor of the Rosa Parks statue. Daub collaborated with partner Rob Firmin on the concept and pedestal for the statue. The statue of Rosa Parks is historically significant as being the first full-length statue of an African American person in the U.S. Capitol. It is also the first statue commissioned by the Congress since 1873. Eugene Daub is Vice President and Past President of the American Medallic Sculpture Association.  He is one of the early pioneers of the AMSA that pushed American medallic art into the contemporary world. Daub is the first sculptor since Daniel Chester French, in 1919, to have sculpted more than one medal for the American Numismatic Society.  Notable medals Partial Portfolio The following works below are commissions by Daub & Firmin LLC. Eugene Daub and Rob Firmin collaborate on the concept, design and sculpting. Eugene Daub was the principal sculptor of the maquette and the final sculptures. 