In 1999 a private organisation, the Chatham Islands Note Corporation, issued banknotes to celebrate the Chatham Islands being the first human inhabited land to enter the third millennium.[n 1]  Banknotes such as these cannot be declared legal tender, there is no obligation for anyone to accept the notes issued by the Chatham Island Note Corporation in any transaction. These notes were reported to have been accepted by merchants on the Chatham Islands, some of whom served as directors of the issuer. The Chatham Islands Note Corporation was initially based in Christchurch. The agent for providing the notes to the numismatic trade was Leon Morel, Fellow of the Royal Numismatic Society of New Zealand of Melbourne, Victoria. The corporation later shifted their base of operations to Waitangi. The face value of the notes was pegged at the same rate as the New Zealand dollar, They are unusual in that the ist series included $3 and $15 dollar notes, while the second series includes an $8 note. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand clarified that these notes are not legal tender.  The Reserve Bank Deputy Governor Murray Sherwin mentioned that " Whilst these Chatham Island dollars are a bit of fun,... if people want to use them to undertake transactions, that's fine too." Series I notes, consist of $2, $3, $10 and $15 denominations, and with a very strong influence from American currency designs. There were printed in late 1999, still in time for their release on January 1, 2000. They were printed on polymer Tyvek paper with the artwork by Timely Marketing & Promotions Limited, Christchurch and Dunedin, New Zealand. Tyvek is a plastic-type material, and the notes are dual-denominated—in cents as well as in dollars. The same-numbered sets which came out in cardboard folders, also bear a completely different hologram, as compared to the currency issue.[n 2] There are three printings of this series[n 3] Full sets of this series are now scarce. Series II notes, consisting of $3, $5, $8, $10 and $15 denominations, were printed some time during the year 2000 for release in 2001. They are printed on cotton-fibre paper by Chan Wanich Security Printing Company Limited, Thailand. The front of these notes is very similar to the Series I notes, apart from the dates and other details. Again, these notes are dual-denominated in cents and dollars. There are also three printings of this series with same-serial numbered sets produced, but not in cardboard folders, having a different hologram than the first currency issue. This hologram is unique in that it incorporates an albatross bird that flies when viewed through a special security device. In 2001, a $5 coin was put into circulation at the same time as the Series II notes. A 5,000 piece issue was then planned, however, informed of the intention to issue a coin, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand banned the issue, despite the fact that there is no $5 coin in circulation in New Zealand. An estimated 200 pieces ended up in the numismatic trade.[n 4] The balance, other than a remaining 100 held by CINC, were never minted. To assist collectors and dealers, a catalogue numbering system has been provided. Below, 'Work' numbers (indicated by the letter 'W') to the items, have been assigned for clarity.  The date '2000' is in the 4 corners. The notes have the map of the Chatham Islands at left of the under-print and Chatham Islands taiko at right. Green frame on the backs of the notes. Printer's name at the bottom on the backs of the notes. A hologram depicts a globe showing the Asia-Pacific region with '1st' superimposed, an inner circle with the words 'WORLD FIRST' and 'AUTHENTIC' (which can be seen depending on the direction in which a note is tilted), and an outer circle, which has a rainbow pattern going around like a flywheel. The notes of the same-serial numbered folder issue has '1st' printed in white on top of the hologram, which has an interlocking pattern consisting of the year 2000. W1a. Two dollars (200 cents). W1b. Same-serial numbered folder issue. W2a. Three dollars (300 cents). W2b. Same-serial numbered folder issue. W3a. Ten dollars (1,000 cents). W3b. Same-serial numbered folder issue. W4a. Fifteen dollars (1,500 cents). W4b. Same-serial numbered folder issue. They are made of cotton fibre paper. The date 2001 is in three corners. The notes have an albatross replacing the map of the Chatham Islands at left of the under-print. Chatham Islands Taiko at right. Olive-green-black frames on the backs of the notes. The currency notes and the ones in the same-numbered sets have computer style numbering in the serial numbers whereas the replacement notes have block numbers in the serial numbers. The hologram of the notes depicts a compass with a wavy pattern in the outer silver area. The map of the Chatham Islands and the Chatham Islands Note Corporation is seen when a note is tilted in one direction and a rock lobster can be seen when the note is tilted in the other direction. The printer name is at the bottom on the backs of the notes. W5a. Three dollars (300 cents). W5b. Same-serial numbered issue. W5p. As above currency issue, but has the serial number 'A000000'. (Printer's Specimen). W5r. As above currency issue, but the serial number has a star at the end of it. (Replacement note). W6a. Five dollars (500 cents). W6b. Same-serial numbered issue. W6p. As above currency issue, but has the serial number 'A000000'. (Printer's Specimen). W6r. As above currency issue, but the serial number has a star at the end of it. (Replacement note). W7a. Eight dollars (800 cents). W7b. Same-serial numbered issue. W7p. As above currency issue, but has the serial number 'A000000'. (Printer's Specimen). W7r. As above, but the serial number has a star at the end of it. (Replacement note). W8a. Ten dollars (1,000 cents). W8b. Same-serial numbered issue. W8p. As above currency issue, but has the serial number 'A000000'. (Printer's Specimen). W8r. As above currency issue, but the serial number has a star at the end of it. (Replacement note). W9a. Fifteen dollars (1,500 cents). W9b. Same-serial numbered issue. W9p. As above currency issue, but has the serial number 'A000000'. (Printer's Specimen). W9r. As above currency issue, but the serial number has a star at the end of it. (Replacement note). These were only issued for Series II (W5 - W9). These have a four digit serial number range from S0001 to S1000. Error notes are not listed, even though these do exist, nor have the Postal Notes and Postal Orders that were issued in the Chatham Islands.  Limited number (less than 300 are known to exist) - Now scarce Scarce The Reserve Bank of New Zealand banned the issue of the coin in 2001.  There are not more than 25 pieces of the $50 coin known to exist.  Verified - Chatham Islands Note Corporation Limited 