 A debate exists within the United States government, and American society at large, over whether the one-cent coin, commonly called the penny, should be eliminated as a unit of currency in the United States. Several bills introduced in the U.S. Congress would have ceased production of pennies, but none has been approved. Such bills would leave the nickel, at five cents, as the lowest-value coin in the United States. In 1990, United States Representative Jim Kolbe [R-AZ] introduced the Price Rounding Act of 1989, H.R. 3761 to eliminate the penny in cash transactions, rounding to the nearest nickel.  In 2001, Kolbe introduced the Legal Tender Modernization Act of 2001, H.R. 5818,  and in 2006, he introduced the Currency Overhaul for an Industrious Nation (C.O.I.N.) Act, H.R. 5818.  While the bills received much popular support from the public, the bills were not made into law.  Nonetheless, there is public pressure on many Representatives to reintroduce these bills to Congress.  In 2017, U.S. Senators John McCain [R-AZ] and Mike Enzi [D-WY] introduced S. 759, the Currency, Optimization and National Savings (C.O.I.N.S.) Act of 2017, that would stop minting of the penny for ten years and would study the question of whether production could cease thereafter. S. 759 is currently in the Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs committee. As of 2017, nickels cost 5.94 cents to produce,  providing an argument for elimination similar to the penny's production at a loss. The face value of a nickel is also well below that of the lowest-denomination coin (the penny) at the time of the half-cent's elimination in 1857.  Unlike the penny, the nickel is mostly redundant (when exchanging d dollars and c cents, if c is not 5–9 or 15–19, the amount can be given without nickels and still weigh less, with at most one additional coin, than if a nickel is included) and less commonly used; the nickel is nonetheless accepted by most vending machines while the penny is not. No bills have yet been proposed to remove the nickel from circulation; however, if the composition of the nickel were to be changed from the present 75/25 copper-nickel alloy to stainless steel, which has been successfully used in many countries, the nickel would cost far less than five cents to produce. The US Mint has studied other alternative metal mixtures and a 80/20 copper-nickel alloy would lower the cost of the nickel (albeit it still would likely be minted at a loss) while desirably allowing coin sorting machines to function without modification. Economist François R. Velde has suggested an alternative plan in which the government would make the penny worth five cents. This change would cause an inflation of nearly six billion dollars.  Congress passed the Coin Modernization, Oversight, and Continuity Act of 2010, which requires the Treasury to report on possible new metallic coin materials.  Many countries outside the United States have chosen to remove low-value coins from circulation: However, many nations still use coins of similar or smaller value to the United States cent. In some cases, while the nominal value of the coin may be smaller than that of a US cent, the purchasing power may be higher: On April 17, 2007, a Department of the Treasury regulation went into effect prohibiting the treatment, melting, or mass export of pennies and nickels. Exceptions were allowed for numismatists, jewelry makers, and normal tourism demands.  The reason given was that the price of copper was rising to the point where these coins could be melted for their metal content.  In 1969, a similar law regarding silver coinage was repealed. Because their silver content frequently exceeds collector value, silver coins are often sold by multiplying their "face value" times a benchmark price that floats relative to the spot silver price per ounce.  According to American law, US citizens are allowed to melt foreign coinage (e.g., Canadian pennies) for personal or commercial use.  