Numismatics is the study or collection of currency,  including coins, tokens, paper money, and related objects. While numismatists are often characterized as students or collectors of coins, the discipline also includes the broader study of money and other payment media used to resolve debts and the exchange of goods. Early money used by people is referred to as "Odd and Curious", but the use of other goods in barter exchange is excluded, even where used as a circulating currency (e.g., cigarettes in prison). The Kyrgyz people used horses as the principal currency unit and gave small change in lambskins; the lambskins may be suitable for numismatic study, but the horses are not. Many objects have been used for centuries, such as cowry shells, precious metals, cocoa beans, large stones, and gems. Today, most transactions take place by a form of payment with either inherent, standardized, or credit value. Numismatic value is the value in excess of the monetary value conferred by law, which is known as the collector value. The Virtuti Militari is Poland's highest military decoration for valor in the face of the enemy.  Foreign decorations equivalent to the Virtuti Militari include Britain's Victoria Cross and the U.S. Medal of Honor. It is awarded either for personal heroism or sometimes to commanders representing their units. Awarded in five classes, the order was created in 1792 by Poland's King Stanisław August Poniatowski.  It has been reintroduced, renamed and banned several times, with its fate closely reflecting the vicissitudes of the Polish people. Throughout the decoration's existence, thousands of soldiers and officers, Polish and foreign, several cities and one ship have been awarded the Virtuti Militari for valor or outstanding leadership in war.  There have been no new awards since 1989. Credit: Richardfabi and Sniff The Canadian Silver Maple Leaf is a series of silver bullion coins issued by Canada. It has a static design every year and comes mostly in 1 troy oz of silver. Variations for this coin includes proof, privy marks, colored maple leaf and holographic enhancement. The face value of the 1 oz coin is 5 Canadian Dollar, the highest among other silver bullions. The purity of the coin is 99.99% silver, also the highest among other bullions which have a 99.90% standard. The program started in the 1988 and is still going strong today. The coin is struck by the Royal Canadian Mint. Banknotes Bullion coins Coins Commemorative coins Currency images Exonumia Mints (currency) Currency unions Numismatists Numismatics journals Postal orders Central banks Currencies Circulating currencies Historical currencies US community currencies Canadian community currencies Mints Motifs on banknotes January 1, 2008 Venezuela launched a new currency with the new year, lopping off three zeros from denominations in a bid to simplify finances and boost confidence in a money that has been losing value due to high inflation. The new currency is called bolívar fuerte or "strong bolívar". Officials also say it is part of a broader effort to contain rising prices and strengthen the economy. More... January 1, 2008 Today at midnight, the Cyprus and the Malta adopted the euro as their official currency; less than four years after their accession to the European Union. The single currency has replaced the Cypriot pound and the Maltese lira at a rate of one euro to 0.585274 Cypriot pound and 0.4293 to the Maltese lira. In both countries the euro was welcomed with outdoor celebrations, including a fireworks display in Malta's capital Valletta. More... September 26, 2007 Designs for three of four themes proposed for the reverse of 2009 Lincoln cents to honor Abraham Lincoln's life were endorsed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.  More...   Money - Coins  - Banknotes - Electronic money - Exchange rate - Legal tender - Clubs - Terminology Ancient currency: Asia - Byzantium - Greece - Primitive Money - Roman - Indian coinage Modern currency: Africa - The Americas - Asia and the Pacific - Europe - Bullion coins - Challenge coin - Commemorative coins - Token coins Economics: Banking - Bonds - Cheques - Credit Cards - Fiat currency - Gold standard - Mints - Monetary union - Reserve currency - Stocks Production: Coining (machining) - Designers - Die making - Mint (coin) • Coinage Metals: Aluminum - Bronze - Copper - Gold - Platinum - Silver - Tin  Exonumia - Notaphily - Scripophily   The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database  