Larry Johnson (born December 17, 1950, in Corpus Christi, Texas) is an American  futurist, author, and educator.  Currently, Johnson serves as the Founder and CEO of EdFutures.org,  an international think tank, and as a Senior Fellow of the Center for Digital Education.   From 2001-2016, he served as Chief Executive Officer of the New Media Consortium an international consortium of hundreds of universities, colleges,  museums, research centers, and technology companies.  The annual Horizon Report is the most visible component of the Horizon Project, which Johnson founded and led from its inception in 2002 until 2016.  The report has since become one of the leading tools used by senior executives in universities and museums to set priorities for technology planning in more than 160 countries.  He served for nearly 15 years as Chief Executive Officer of the NMC   and provided leadership in the areas of strategic planning; program development; fundraising; partnerships with business and industry; the development and management of fiscal and human resources; and policy.  Under Johnson's tenure, the New Media Consortium (NMC) grew to be an international not-for-profit consortium of learning-focused organizations dedicated to the exploration and use of new media and new technologies. Its hundreds of member institutions still constitute an elite list of the most highly regarded colleges and universities in the world, as well as leading museums, key research centers, and some of the world's most forward-thinking companies.  Under his leadership, the consortium and its members dedicated themselves to exploring and developing potential applications of emerging technologies for learning, research, and creative inquiry.  The consortium's Horizon Reports, which Johnson founded and directed for more than a decade, are still regarded worldwide as the most timely and authoritative sources of information on new and emerging technologies available to education anywhere. Johnson has organized summits and large-scale projects around topics such as Visual literacy,  learning objects,  educational gaming,   the future of scholarship,  and the 3D web.  In April 2008, Johnson presented testimony to the House Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet on the nature and state of virtual worlds.   In 2009, Johnson helped the NMC and the Edward and Betty Marcus Foundation formalize their longstanding collaboration in support of the visual arts in Texas with the launch of the Edward and Betty Marcus Institute for Digital Education in the Arts  (MIDEA), and served as its founding director.  An outgrowth of the earlier Digital Education Project for Texas Art Museums, MIDEA built on that four-year systemic effort to increase the capacity of museums across Texas and beyond to use new media to tell compelling stories about art and their collections. The project provides a hub for Texas museum professionals to learn about and discuss all forms of digital media, as well as ongoing training and support for digital arts education. (The project continues its unique work with Texas art museums that has become known as the Texas Testbed.) The learnings from this project inform the national and international efforts of many museums and museum-based organizations all over the world. An author of several books, numerous chapters, dozens of articles, and principal investigator for several important national and international studies, he has been recognized for his research by the American Association of Community Colleges  and the American Association of University Administrators.  In 2016, Johnson marked 35 years of service in higher education, and currently serves as the Founder and CEO of EdFutures.org,  an international think tank, and as a Senior Fellow of the Center for Digital Education. From 2001-2016, he served as CEO of the New Media Consortium.  He served previously as president and CEO of Fox Valley Technical College, a community college serving more than 20,000 FTE in Appleton, Wisconsin.  His experiential base includes service at both very large and very small institutions and positions at every level and across all the major areas of college and university work. Between 1993 and 1996, he served as vice president for the League for Innovation in the Community College,  working at the national level to take the story of community colleges to governmental, foundation, and corporate leaders across the country.  As director of the League's Information Technology Initiative, he coordinated what was at the time the world’s largest higher education technology conference, the international Conference of Information Technology.  He has served on a number of boards, including his current role on the governing board of the Institute for Learning Innovation  and the Leadership Advisory Board of the Center for Learning Innovation and Custimized Knowledge Solutions  in Dubai.  Previously he served on the NMC Board of Directors,  the Adobe Systems Higher Education Advisory Board, the Advanced Defense Learning Initiative National Advisory Board,  the virtual International Spaceflight Museum,  and the Academic Commons Board of Directors.  