Richard Lang is the Chairman & CEO of Democrasoft, Inc. He is also co-founder of the 20-year-old public company, Burst.com, Inc. that in 2010 transformed itself into Democrasoft. Richard is also the President of the Virtual Country Foundation, a 501c3 not-for-profit organization dedicated to increasing non-partisan civic engagement by citizens, via online and other resources. Richard is a pioneer in the technology industry, having been the co-inventor of the world’s first, patented, dual-deck VCR in 1983 and co-founder of his first public company, Go-Video, Inc. In 1987, Richard invented (and later patented) a revolutionary solution for efficiently delivering video and audio programs over electronic networks, in “burst” mode, which created a foundation for today’s video-on-demand and audio-on-demand systems. He co-founded Explore Technology in 1990, which later became Burst.com, to develop and license this technology. Beginning in 2005, Burst licensed “burst” mode media delivery and network optimization technology to Microsoft, Apple and other preeminent companies in the industry. It eventually sold most of the remaining legacy patents in late 2010 and early 2011. Richard is also the author of a family of new intellectual property which address online collaboration methods and designs. This IP is currently assigned to Democrasoft, Inc. Richard is the author of "Virtual Country - Strategy for 21st Century Democracy". Richard resides in the San Francisco North Bay Area with his family and, in his spare time, is a prolific composer and musician. Richard’s passion for using technology to empower people is foremost in Democrasoft’s mission and supports Richard’s long-time vision for the evolution of democracy and the empowerment of individuals. Collaborize Classroom, a free online learning platform is Democrasoft's flagship product. The web-based educational technology allows teachers to extend their classroom discussions to a structured and private online community, on a topic-by-topic basis. Students can collaborate with their classmates online while expanding on classroom discussions. The topic-based online lessons allow for deeper student engagement and participation inside and outside the classroom.  www.MyWeJIT.com is a free online utility for the creation and distribution of topic-based voting and collaboration "modules." WeJITs gather community around individual topics or issues. They can be made public or private, depending on who is invited. They can also be embedded in other websites and e-publications (such as ebooks and e-magazines), and shared via email and/or social media. Applications exist in education, e-publishing, productivity and civic engagement. Richard Lang's Linkedin Profile Richard Lang on MSNBC’s Dylan Ratigan Show Richard Lang - Harnessing the Wisdom of the Crowd Richard Lang - New Community Metrics  