Cantharidin is an odorless, colorless fatty substance of the terpenoid class, which is secreted by many species of blister beetles.  It is a burn agent or a poison in large doses, but preparations containing it were historically used as aphrodisiacs. In its natural form, cantharidin is secreted by the male blister beetle and given to the female as a copulatory gift during mating. Afterwards, the female beetle covers her eggs with it as a defense against predators. Poisoning from cantharidin is a significant veterinary concern, especially in horses, but it can also be poisonous to humans if taken internally (where the source is usually experimental self-exposure). Externally, cantharidin is a potent vesicant (blistering agent), exposure to which can cause severe chemical burns. Properly dosed and applied, the same properties have also been used therapeutically, for instance for treatment of skin conditions such as molluscum contagiosum infection of the skin. Cantharidin is classified as an extremely hazardous substance in the United States and is subject to strict reporting requirements by facilities that produce, store, or use it in significant quantities.  Cantharidin, from the Greek kantharis, for beetle,  is an odorless, colorless natural product with solubility in various organic solvents,[specify] but only slight solubility in water.  It is a monoterpene, and so contains in its framework two isoprene units derived by biosynthesis from two equivalents of isopentenyl pyrophosphate.   The complete mechanism of the biosynthesis of cantharidin is unknown.  Its skeleton is tricyclic, formally, a tricyclo-[5.2.1.02,6]decane skeleton. Its functionalities include an carboxylic acid anhydride (−CO−O−CO−) substructure in one of its rings, as well as a cyclic ether in its bicyclic ring system. The level of cantharidin in blister beetles can be quite variable. Among blister beetles of the genus Epicauta in Colorado, E. pennsylvanica contains about 0.2 mg, E. maculata contains 0.7 mg, and E. immaculata contains 4.8 mg per beetle; males also contain higher levels than females.  Males of Berberomeloe majalis have higher level of cantharidin per beetle: 64.22 ± 51.28 mg/g (dry weight) and 9.10 ± 12.64 mg/g (d. w.). Cantharidin content in haemolymph is also higher in males (80.9 ± 106.5 µg/g) than in females (20.0 ± 41.5 µg/g).  Preparations made from blistering beetles have been used since ancient times as an aphrodisiac, possibly because their physical effects were perceived to mimic those of sexual arousal,  and because they can cause prolonged erection or priapism in men.  These preparations were known as cantharides, from the Greek word for "beetle". Examples of such use found in historical sources include: Cantharidin was first isolated as a chemically pure substance in 1810 by Pierre Robiquet,  a French chemist then living in Paris. Robiquet isolated cantharidin as the active ingredient in pharmacological preparations of Lytta vesicatoria, a.k.a. "spanish fly", a species of blister beetle. This was one of the first historical instances of the identification and extraction of a simple active principle from a complex medicine. Robiquet found cantharidin to be an odorless and colorless solid at room temperature. He demonstrated that it was the active principle responsible for the aggressively blistering properties of the coating of the eggs of the blister beetle, and established as well that cantharidin had toxic properties comparable in degree to those of the most virulent poisons known in the 19th century, such as strychnine.  Poisoning from catharidin is a significant veterinary concern, especially in horses by Epicauta species; species infesting feedstocks depend on region—e.g., Epicauta pennsylvanica (black blisterbeetle) in the U.S. midwest and E. occidentalis, temexia, and vittata species (striped blister beetles) in the U.S. southwest—where the concentrations of the agent in each can vary substantially.  Beetles feed on weeds and occasionally move into crop fields used to produce livestock feeds (e.g., alfalfa), where they are found to cluster and find their way into baled hay, e.g., a single flake (4-5 in. section ) may have several hundred insects, or none at all.  Horses are very sensitive to the cantharidin produced by beetle infestations: the LD50 for horses is roughly 1 mg/kg of the horse's body weight. Horses may be accidentally poisoned when fed bales of fodder with blister beetles in them.  Great bustards, a strongly polygynous bird species,  are not immune to the toxicity of cantharidin; they become intoxicated after ingesting blister beetles; however, cantharidin has activity also against parasites that infect them.   Great bustards may eat toxic blister beetles of the genus Meloe to increase the sexual arousal of males.  As a blister agent, cantharidin has the potential to cause adverse effects when used medically; for this reason, it has been included in a list of "problem drugs" used by dermatologists  and emergency personnel.  Despite being widely used, cantharidin has never been and is not currently FDA approved.   It is currently in Phase 3 clinical trials for the treatment of molluscum.  However, when compounded properly and applied in the clinic topically by a medical provider familiar with its effects and uses, cantharidin can be safely and effectively used to treat some benign skin lesions like warts and molluscum.  When ingested by humans, the LD50 is around 0.5 mg/kg, with a dose of as little as 10 mg being potentially fatal. Ingesting cantharidin can initially cause severe damage to the lining of the gastrointestinal and urinary tracts, and may also cause permanent renal damage. Symptoms of cantharidin poisoning include blood in the urine, abdominal pain, and rarely prolonged erections.  The extreme toxicity of cantharidin makes any use as an aphrodisiac highly dangerous.    As a result, it is illegal to sell (or use) cantharidin or preparations containing it without a prescription in many countries.  Cantharidin is absorbed by the lipid membranes of epidermal cells, causing the release of serine proteases, enzymes that break the peptide bonds in proteins. This causes the disintegration of desmosomal plaques, cellular structures involved in cell-to-cell adhesion, leading to detachment of the tonofilaments that hold cells together. The process leads to the loss of cellular connections (acantholysis) and ultimately blistering of the skin. Lesions heal without scarring.   Cantharidin appears to have some effect in the topical treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis in animal models.  In addition to topical medical applications, cantharidin and its analogues may have activity against cancer cells.    Laboratory studies with cultured tumor cells suggest that this activity may be the result of PP2A inhibition.   Natural products preparations containing cantharidin appear frequently in popular media. Examples include: 