Government of the Republic of Liberia, the Liberians United for Reconciliation and Democracy (LURD) and the Movement for Democracy in Liberia (MODEL). The Accra Comprehensive Peace Agreement or Accra Peace Agreement was the final peace agreement in the Second Liberian Civil War. It was signed on the August 18, 2003, in Accra, Ghana. It was created following the signing of a ceasefire agreement on June 17, 2003, and "intensive back-door negotiations" beginning on June 4 in Akosombo, Ghana.  The Agreement called for the establishment of a post-war two-year transitional government (National Transitional Government of Liberia) which would consist of 76 members: 12 each from the three warring parties; 18 from political parties; seven from civil society and special interest groups; and one from each of Liberia's 15 counties.   The warring parties, the opposition parties and civil society groups agreed to share ministerial portfolios and employment opportunities in the cabinet and parliament and elections were to be held no later than 2005.  The peace agreement covered a broad range of intended reforms; committing to a human rights inquiry through a truth commission, and vetting of the security forces on human rights grounds. Former Nigerian Head of State General Abdulsalami Abubakar  facilitated the negotiations that led to the agreement.  However, civil society played a strong role in the talks as well. Individuals representing inter-religious, human rights, pro-democracy, women’s rights, and legal organisations were included as official delegates, and many others attended unofficially as observers. Women were especially vocal in these peace discussions. Everyday between 150-200 refugee women activists arrived at the hotel where the talks were taking place to advocate to stop the shelling of Monrovia and the violence in their country.  These women were organized by the 'Women of Liberia Mass Action for Peace'. Some fighting still continued following the signing of the Peace Agreement. In October. 2003 the UN Security Council authorized a Chapter VII mandate (allowing for intervention) and established a UN Mission in Liberia (UNMIL), which included the deployment of 15,000 peacekeepers.  On October 14, 2003, an interim government under Gyude Bryant was sworn into power  and ruled until the 2005 national elections. The Liberian general election of 2005 took place on October 11, 2005 and a runoff election was held on November 8, 2005 which resulted in Ellen Johnson Sirleaf winning the presidency. 