Human Shadow Etched in Stone (Japanese: 人影の石)  is an exhibition at Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum. It is thought to be the outline of a person, who was sitting at the entrance of Hiroshima Branch of Sumitomo Bank that remained, when the atomic bomb was dropped over Hiroshima. It is also known as Human Shadow of Death.  According to the museum, it is thought that the person had been sitting on the stone step waiting for the bank to open, when the heat from the bomb burned the surrounding stone white and left their shadow.   A black deposit was also found on the shadow.  A piece of stone containing the artifact was cut from the original location, and had a horizontal surface area of about 3.3m2 and a height of about 2m, and was moved to the museum.  In January 1971, the museum garnered the stone, whose human shadow had become indistinct due to weathering. In April 1975, the museum started research on how to preserve the shadow.  In 1991, the museum reported that earnest investigation of preservation methods had commenced.  At present, the stone is exhibited surrounded by glass.   It is thought that the person depicted in the stone, died immediately with the flash of the atomic bomb, or died after falling down after the explosion.   Some people stated that they saw the person sitting at the entrance just before the bombing.  A former soldier testified that he had recovered the persons body. However, the person's identity is still unknown.  As of 2016, the exhibition of the museum states that, "Several people have suggest that the person could be a member of their family". In the past, the museum exhibition contained a statement that the person had been a 42-year-old woman named Mitsuno Koshitomo (越智ミツノ).  As a result of these previous statements, some conclusions in the literature state that she was the person depicted in the stone. According to museum staff, many visitors to the museum believe that the shadow is the outline of a human vaporized immediately after the bombing.  However, from a medical perspective, the possibility of human vaporization is not supported. The ground surface temperature is thought to have ranged from 3,000 to 4,000 degrees Celsius just after the bombing. Even after a body burned at these temperature with heat rays, bones and carbonized organs would remain. Even when considering the effect of radiation, though the skin may become severely inflamed and ulcerated, complete vaporization of the body is impossible.  The black x-mark indicates ground zero, while the red circle is the Hiroshima Branch of Sumitomo Bank (now Sumitomo Mitsui Bank) Aerial photograph on July 25, 1945, before the bombing Aerial photograph on August 8, 1945, two days after the bombing Human Shadow Etched in Stone was originally a part of stone steps at the entrance of Hiroshima Branch of Sumitomo Bank, which was 260m from ground zero.   The present address is at, Kamiya-cho 1 Chome, the current location of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Hiroshima Branch.[a] The building of the bank was built in 1928. It was designed by Kenzo Takekoshi (竹腰健造) at the department of engineering of Sumitomo Group (now Nikken Sekkei), and was constructed by Obayashi Corporation.  The building had reinforced concrete construction, with four floors above ground and one below with an open ceiling up to the third floor. The rooms for business, reception room and specie room were on the first floor, the meeting rooms and cafeteria on the fourth floor, and the boiler room in the basement.   It was built in the south of head office of Geibi Bank （Now head office of Hiroshima Bank (ja), which had been built a year before, and which was almost the same size. It had Romanesque architecture style in general, and was characterized by the large arch with molding of its front.  On August 6, 1945, it was bombed. It was not totally destroyed, but the interior was destroyed while the exterior remained.  Fortunately, the specie room was not damaged. The cash and passbooks remained.  Papers inside the building were blown as far away as Numata-cho (ja) by the blast.[b]  In the morning of the day of the bombing, the bank was to be open as usual. Most of the employees were on their way to the office when the bomb was dropped. 29 employees were killed immediately (including both those who were in the branch and those on their way to the work), 40 were injured and no one missing.  Some of the survivors died within a few days  because of the illness caused by the radiation exposure, others worked till their retirement age.  Since it was close to ground zero, passersby took refuge in the building, and a large number of bodies were recovered.  As the branch started their business again after the war, the entrance soon became a famous sight "a place of A-bomb" showing the damage of the atomic bombing, which was officially recognized by Hiroshima City.  In those days, the shadow was called "Human Shadow of Death".   According to a testimony, it was the second most famous sight next to Atomic Bomb Dome.  Sumitomo Bank made great efforts to preserve the shadow. In 1959 they built a fence surrounding the stone, and in 1967 they placed tempered glass covering the stone to prevent deterioration.    In 1971, Hiroshima Branch was planned to be rebuilt. The stone was cut down around the shadow, which was then donated to the museum.    According to Masaharu Hoshi (ja)(1947–), a radiology scientist, in his childhood he heard of the saying that the shadow had been generated after human vaporization.  "Journal on the damage of atomic bombing in Hiroshima" (広島原爆戦災誌), published by Hiroshima City in 1971, also contains a description implying human vaporization, which is now proved to be impossible. Within a radius of 500 meters of the ground zero, (Omitted) people were killed almost immediately as if they had been vaporized (Omitted) bodies and bones were burned thoroughly almost not to be found, and everything was destroyed, which was buried in white ash.In 1994 at the Committee on Health and Welfare of the House of Councillors Eimatsu Takakuwa (ja) mentioned the stone by saying "One was vaporized and vanished immediately. Only the shadow remained."   