Matsuki Miyazaki (宮崎 松記, Miyazaki Matsuki, January 10, 1900 – June 14, 1972) was a Japanese medical doctor, the director of the Kyushu Sanatorium (Kikuchi Keifuen Sanatorium) (1934–1958) in Kumamoto, Japan. He studied war and leprosy and found that stress was a great factor in the development of leprosy. He later established a leprosy center belonging to Japan Leprosy Mission of Asia, in India. He died in the Japan Airlines Flight 471 airplane accident in 1972. He was born in Yatsushiro City, Kumamoto Prefecture in 1900. He was interested in leprosy when he was a Fifth Higher School student. He visited the neighboring Kaishun Byoin, a leprosy hospital which Hannah Riddell established. After studying at the Medical Faculty, Kyoto Imperial University, he became a chief surgeon at the Osaka Red Cross Hospital. In 1934, he was named the director of the Kyushu Leprosarium. (Later, renamed Kikuchi Keifuen Sanatorium) He had been the director for difficult years between 1934 and 1958, since there were great and constant changes in the treatment and life of leprosy patients in the sanatorium. He invited a branch of the National Hansen's Disease Research Institute to his sanatorium (1955–1957), and activated research works for many medical doctors. Concerning the segregation policy, he testified before the Upper House that all patients be hospitalized, and during the history of the Kikuchi Keifuen, the hospitalized patients became the maximum number at his resignation. He has been criticized for his stubborn segregation policy. In 1959, he traveled to India to study the leprosy situation there. In 1964, he established a leprosy center of Japan Leprosy Mission of Asia, in Agra, India(Jalma Center) and assumed the post of the first director. It was established for the purpose of cooperative basic research of leprosy among Asian nations. Following his death in 1972, Mitsugu Nishiura served as the second director of the Center. In 1976, this center was transferred to the Indian Government. For the children born of patients, there was a small facility called Tatsudaryo, and he endeavoured so that the pupils would attend a normal primary school. Because of leprosy stigma, social disturbances including strikes of schooling occurred. Although he worked in order to reduce leprosy stigma, this incident reminded people that leprosy stigma was still deep-rooted at that time. 