Serum-derived bovine immunoglobulin/protein isolate (SBI), sold under the brand name EnteraGam among others, is a derived product from the blood of adult cows. It is primarily used to manage enteropathy in people whose ability to digest is impaired. It can also be used to manage chronic loose or frequent stools like those commonly associated with diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D), inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) or HIV-related enteropathy.  Serum-derived bovine immunoglobulin/protein isolate is most often used in the fat loss prevention of post-weaning piglets. Due to dietary change post-weaning piglets often develop diarrhea and it has been shown to have some efficacy in preventing this fat loss related to diarrhea in this animal population.  Oral immunoglobulins may improve function in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.   Conditions like HIV often limit or impair the body's ability to digest select nutrients. Studies have indicated that serum-derived bovine immunoglobulin/protein may help restore  the ability of the GI tract to properly absorb and utilize those nutrients.  Research into serum-derived bovine immunoglobulin/protein isolate (SBI) and other bovine-associated sources began in the field of animal health.  Early studies examined the health effects of SBI on early weaned piglets that had developed intestinal inflammation, intestinal barrier dysfunction, and general enteropathy. These issues often manifested in diarrhea, dehydration, and death for young piglets.   SBI and other immunoglobulin-rich substances in piglets improved digestion, metabolism, and feed intake, increasing lean muscle mass and protein utilization. Gastric infection and diarrhea were also reduced in the post-weaning phase.  EnteraGam, a formulation for people, was introduced into the US market in 2013 as a medical food.   Immunoglobulin from beef protein constitutes greater than 50% of the composition of EnteraGam. The product comes in a powder that, in addition to the serum-derived bovine immunoglobulin/protein isolate (SBI), is composed of around 5 grams of dextrose which aids in the product's ability to mix well into liquid and soft foods as well as trace amounts of sunflower lecithin which helps in spray drying the protein and dextrose to a powder. EnteraGam contains no milk products like whey protein, casein, or lactose. The product also contains no gluten, dye, or soy. Patients with a beef allergy or any other allergy to SBI components are advised to avoid using EnteraGam.     