Invisible Thread (formerly known as Witness Uganda) is a musical with book, music, and lyrics by Matt Gould and Griffin Matthews. It was based on the true story of Matthews' humanitarian trips to Uganda, and his work to fund his nonprofit, Uganda Project.  The musical premiered under the title Witness Uganda on February 4, 2014 at Cambridge's American Repertory Theater, and ran through March 16, 2014. Under the title Invisible Thread, the show transferred to off-Broadway's Second Stage Theatre in a production which ran during December 2015. From the A.R.T. website, "When Griffin, a young man from New York City, volunteers for a project in Uganda, he finds himself on a journey that will change his life forever. Inspired by a true story, this rousing new musical, staged by Tony Award-winning director and A.R.T. Artistic Director Diane Paulus, exposes the challenges confronted by American aid workers and the complex realities of trying to change the world."  The story was based on Matthews' experience in Uganda, as well as Gould's Peace Corps experience in Mauritania and other similar experiences.  The creation of the musical started around 2008, when the economy was suffering, Gould and Matthews needed money for their nonprofit Uganda Project. Gould asked, "Why don't we write a musical about aid work?", to which Matthews replied "That's the worst idea I've ever heard!". Unbeknownst to Matthews, a few days later Gould recorded Matthews ranting about how frustrating it can be to raise money. Gould set music to it and the project had officially begun.   Once they had a couple of songs, the pair rented out a theatre and sold out two shows. Sadly, after paying to rent the theatre and the lighting designer, they made no money. They did however make an impact: people came up to them emotionally telling them that was their story. They were invited to Disney ASCAP  and did a twenty-five-minute show the first night and a fifty-minute show the second night (to which they both said they didn't have fifty minutes and had to write a lot to put up the next night). Gould said of the experience, "The show was a mess at that time, but we knew what the heart of it was."  After the second performance, composer/lyricist Stephen Schwartz (Wicked, Godspell, Pippin) said to them, "Boys, this is a musical. Just figure out what story you want to tell.  Matthews and Gould brought in members of the creative team who also had foreign aid experiences. Choreographer Darrell Grand Moultrie taught dance in South Africa, and interns were hired (mostly from Harvard University) who had volunteered in Indonesia, Tanzania, and Uganda.  The show premiered under the title Witness Uganda on February 4, 2014 at the American Repertory Theater. The show was directed by Diane Paulus, choreography by Darrell Grand Moultrie, set design by Tom Pye, costume design by Esosa, lighting design by Maruti Evans, sound design by Jonathan Deans, projection design by Peter Nigrini, music supervision, orchestrations, and vocal arrangements by Matt Gould, music director Remy Kurs, electronic music design by Jeff Marder and Brian Li,  and associate director Shira Milikowsky. The band was Matt Gould (Conductor/Keyboard 1), Brian Li (Keyboard 2), Andrew Griffin (Viola), Nathan V. Terry (Drums), Charlie Chronopoulos (Guitar), Jonny Morrow (Bass), and Senfuab Stoney (Percussion).  The show starred Griffin Matthews (Griffin), Michael Luwoye (Jacob), Adeola Role (Joy), Emma Hunton (Ryan), Nicolette Robinson (Eden), Kristolyn Lloyd (Grace), Jamar Williams (Ibrahim), Tyrone Davis, Jr. (Ronny), and the ensemble of Melody Betts, Rodrick Covington, Kevin Curtis, LaTrisa Harper, Aisha Jackson, and Jamard Richardson.  The musical came to Diane Paulus' attention after it won the 2012 Richard Rodgers Award for Musical Theater.   She was impressed and noted it was like nothing she ever heard or read before. While she was working on Pippin at the American Repertory Theater, Schwartz mentioned there was a musical about Uganda that would interest her. Paulus said, "Needless to say, it felt like fate."  The show later won the 2014 award as well. Under the direction of Diane Paulus, the show had a staged reading October 23 and 24, 2014. The cast included Julius Thomas III, Adeola Role, Adam Kantor, Michael Luwoye, Kristolyn Lloyd, Nicolette Robinson, Jamar Williams, Tyrone Davis, Jr., Amber Iman, Aisha Jackson, LaTrisa Harper, Rodrick Covington, Kevin Curtis and Jamard Richardson.  The title was changed to Invisible Thread in 2015,  for a production at the Second Stage Theatre. Previews began on October 31, 2015 and it officially opened on December 2, 2015.  It closed in late December 2015. 2015 off-Broadway (Second Stage Theatre)     *Jeremy Pope played the role of Griffin at certain performances 