Stephen Ward is a musical with a book and lyrics by Don Black and Christopher Hampton, with music by Andrew Lloyd Webber.  Based on the real life events behind the 1963 Profumo Affair, [dead link]  the musical made its West End and world premiere at London's Aldwych Theatre in 2013. In February 2012, Webber first revealed in an interview with Chris Evans that he was considering working on a show based on the Profumo Affair.  A first reading of the musical  was held in London in early 2013,  with its first public outing coming in March,  with Milos Karadaglic  performing the title song from the show on an ITV special Andrew Lloyd Webber: 40 Musical Years. The track was later released as a digital download.  Officially confirmed on 28 June 2013, producers announced that the initial production would play the Aldwych Theatre,  with tickets going on sale immediately.  The show with a budget of £2.5 million  has a book with lyrics by Don Black and Christopher Hampton  and is directed by Richard Eyre,  with choreography by Stephen Mear, set design by Rob Howell, lighting design by Peter Mumford and sound by Paul Groothuis.  In 2014, the full libretto of the musical was published by Faber and Faber in book form.  Stephen Ward began previews on 3 December 2013,  at the Aldwych Theatre, London, before holding its official opening night on 19 December,  booking until 1 March.  On 6 September 2013, full casting was announced with Alexander Hanson playing the title role of Stephen Ward,  Charlotte Spencer as Christine Keeler,  Joanna Riding as Valerie Hobson,  Charlotte Blackledge as Mandy Rice Davies, Anthony Calf as Lord Astor, Daniel Flynn as John Profumo, Ian Conningham as Ivanov, Christopher Howell as Percival Murray, Ricardo Coke Thomas as Lucky Gordon and Wayne Robinson as Johnny Edgecombe.  Despite initially announcing the production would extend to 31 May,  the show closed on 29 March 2014, the same day as Lloyd Webber's former writing partner Tim Rice's show From Here to Eternity.   A typical London performance ran 2hrs 20mins, including one interval.  1. The Chamber of Horrors 2. Murray's Club 3. Wraysbery 4. The Cottage at Cliveden 5. Murray's Club 6.Wimpole Mews 7. A Party in Hyde Park Square 8.The El Rio Cafe in Notting Hill 9. Astor's House in Cliveden 10. Wimpolemews   1. Wimpole Mews 2. An Office at the News of the World 3. The Dorchester Hotel 4. The Profumo's House in Chester Terrace 5. House of Commons 6. The Home Secretary's Quarters in the Home Office 7. Marylebone Police Station 8. The Hotel Cipriani, Venice 9. The Arrest 10. Court No.1 at the Old Bailey 11. Wimpole Mews 12. The Chamber of Horrors, Blackpool   A West End original cast album, was released on 30 December 2013,  featuring nineteen songs.  The album released by Decca Records was originally slated for a March 2014  release, but was brought forward due to demand.  The West End production of Stephen Ward received mixed reviews from critics.   