Sunny Afternoon is a musical with music and lyrics by Ray Davies and a book by Joe Penhall. Based on the formation and career of the English rock band The Kinks, the musical made its world premiere in 2014, at the Hampstead Theatre, London, before transferring to the West End's Harold Pinter Theatre. Featuring songs by The Kinks, Sunny Afternoon includes their hits such as "Lola", "Waterloo Sunset", "You Really Got Me" and the musical's title song, "Sunny Afternoon". On 13 December 2013, it was officially confirmed that a musical based around the early life of Ray Davies and the formation of the band The Kinks  would receive its world premiere at the Hampstead Theatre in spring 2014.  The musical was named after the band's 1966 hit single "Sunny Afternoon,"  and features songs from the band's back catalogue.  The musical has a book by Joe Penhall  and is directed by Edward Hall, with choreography by Adam Cooper, set and costume design by Miriam Buether,  lighting design by Rick Fisher, sound design by Matt McKenzie and musical direction by Elliott Ware. The show's premiere production began previews at the Hampstead Theatre in London, on 14 April, 2014, with its official opening night on 1 May, booking for a limited run until 24 May 2014. In late June, it was confirmed that the production would transfer to the West End, beginning previews at the Harold Pinter Theatre on 4 October, with an official opening night on 28 October, 2014.  Tickets for the transfer went on sale on 30 June. Shortly after beginning previews the show extended booking to January, before quickly announcing another extension to 23 May 2015.  The musical closed on October 29th 2016.  On 14 November 2014, the cast appeared on the BBC's Children In Need, closing the show.   After closing down in the West End, the production embarked on its first UK and Ireland Tour, through to May 2017 ending in Belfast. A typical performance runs two hours and 45 minutes, including one interval.  The semi-biographical story is set against the background of political and social change of the 1960s. The musical examines the early years of the Muswell Hill, London-based group The Kinks. After initial failure, the band's lead guitarist Dave Davies experimented and created a distorted power chord sound on the group's third single, "You Really Got Me". The song, written by Dave's older brother Ray, went to No 1 in the UK charts and preceded a string of hits. Woven into the musical are the themes of the Davies brothers' sibling rivalry, management problems, their sister's untimely death, Ray's doomed marriage and their subsequent banning from the United States following a dispute with the musicians' union.     On 21 October, 2014, four preview tracks from the album, "Dedicated Follower of Fashion", "Dead End Street", "Too Much On My Mind/Tired of Waiting" and the show's title song "Sunny Afternoon" were released via Soundcloud.  Recorded at London's Konk Studio's, which was established by The Kinks, the album featuring 29 songs,  was released on 27 October via BMG Chrysalis.  On 20 April 2017 it was reported that the musical was in the early stage of a movie adaptation. The musical's book writer Joe Penhall will write the screenplay and Dexter Fletcher (director of Sunshine on Leith and Eddie The Eagle) has been approached to direct.  