Pathatrix  is a high volume recirculating immuno magnetic-capture system for the detection of pathogens in food and environmental samples.  Pathatrix was used in 2006, linking an E. coli O157 outbreak to contaminated spinach. The Pathatrix system is being used by regulatory agencies and food companies around the world to enhance their pathogen detection capabilities. Unlike other detection methods Pathatrix allows the entire pre-enriched sample or large pooled samples to be recirculated over antibody-coated paramagnetic beads. It can specifically isolate pathogens directly from food samples and in conjunction with quantitative PCR can provide results within hours. It is also used to improve the performance of other rapid methods such as PCR, lateral flow, ELISA and chromgenic media by reducing or eliminating the need for lengthy pre enrichment and/or selective enrichment steps. The Pathatrix is useful in pathogen labs that would be running food samples and looking for foodborne diseases. The Pathatrix is a rapid test method and Pathatrix pooling allows the screening of large numbers of food samples in a highly cost-effective way for specific pathogens such as E. coli O157, Salmonella or Listeria monocytogenes. The Pathatrix will selectively bind and purify the target organism from a comprehensive range of complex food matrices (including raw ground beef, chocolate, peanut butter, leafy greens, spinach, tomatoes). The Pathatrix is the only microbial detection system that allows for the entire sample to be analyzed. To perform a test using Pathatrix there are 4 major steps including sample preparation, pre-incubation, placing the sample in the Pathatrix, and washing and elution. Once the food samples are ready they are placed in the five independent incubation pots providing heat that makes the Pathatrix more sensitive for the detection of the target organism. Tubing, made of silicone rubber, is then connected to form a loop. Finally magnetic beads particles, coated with an antibody specific to the target pathogen, are added. The whole process runs for 180 minutes at a temperature between 30-37 degrees Celsius. After the incubation has taken place the target organism, now captured by the reagent, are now retained on the magnetic while unwanted debris is taken away. During the capture phase the microorganisms are removed from the system and further processed, otherwise  colonies can be seen within as little as 16 hours. 