The Arte Laguna Prize is an international art competition which takes place in Venice (Italy) and aimed at promoting and enhancing contemporary art. There are different contest sections: painting, sculpture and installation, photographic art, video art, performance, virtual art, digital graphics, and land art.  The Arte Laguna Prize is an art competition with roots in Venice, open to all, with free theme and no age restrictions. Its goal is to promote the artists and advance their career through an array of opportunities. The competition was organized for the first time in 2006 by Italian Cultural association MoCA (Modern Contemporary Art) from an idea of the Arte Laguna studio. The jury is international and is composed of museums and foundations directors, independent curators and art critics. Every year, the finalists of the various sections show their works at the Arsenale of Venice and in the exhibition spaces of the TIM Future Centre, also in Venice. During the first eleven editions, thousands of works have been submitted; At the finalists exhibition in 2016, artists from 44 nations were represented. During the first editions, the competition sections were painting and photographic art; later on there has been the addition of other sections devoted to sculpture and installation, video art, performance, virtual and digital art (since 2011), land art (since 2015), digital graphics (since 2016). For the 2010 edition, the Arte Laguna Prize was awarded with the medal of the President of the Italian Republic Giorgio Napolitano as his "prize of representation".  The competition provides a number of institutional prizes for the various sections: Special prizes include the realization of solo exhibitions in international galleries ("Artist in Gallery" Prizes), Art residencies for different periods in international locations, with the realization of on-site exhibitions and specific artworks ("Artist in Residence" Prizes). Over the various editions, other non-recurring special prizes were also awarded. The "Business for art" Prizes are dedicated to artistic projects related to production of industrial or craft items. These Prizes include the collaboration of artists with prestigious Made in Italy companies, and the implementation of product-specific projects. 