PIPA Prize is an initiative of PIPA Institute in partnership with the Museum of Modern Art of Rio de Janeiro – MAM/RJ to bring visibility to and encourage the production of contemporary art in Brazil. Created in 2010, the yearly award is considered one of the most important art prizes in Brazil.   Although it supports up-and-coming artists, PIPA Prize's mission is not to discover new talents, but to recognize new Brazilian contemporary artists that already have a critical following and a place in the art market.  There are no entries to run for the Prize. The artists that take part in the PIPA Prize are nominated by the Nominating Committee. Each member of the Committee selects up to three artists or art collectives that work in any media. During the 2010 to 2012 editions, each member could nominate up to five artists.  All of the artists selected by the Nominating Committee are showcased in a printed catalog and get a profile page in the award's website. Of these, four finalists are selected to exhibit their works at the Museum of Modern Art of Rio de Janeiro and donate a piece to their collections.  The winners and the runner-up for the PIPA award also donate an additional work of art to the PIPA Institute. The Board is the PIPA’s senior management body, composed of five to eight members, including representatives of PIPA Institute, representatives of MAM/RJ and renowned art experts invited for each edition. The Board is responsible for selecting the four finalists from the nominated artists. The Board also nominates the members of the Nominating Committee and the Award Jury.  The Nominating Committee is a set 20 to 40 art experts, invited in each edition, by the PIPA Board. They can be Brazilian or foreign artists, art critics, collectors, gallerists, or curators.  A group of five to seven members invited by the PIPA Board who will select the winner of PIPA amongst the four finalists. Their decision is based on the artists' portfolio, career, works presented at the MAM/RJ exhibition, and the role that the award would play in their trajectory as artists.  PIPA Prize gives out awards in three categories. There are no restrictions for an artist to win in more than one of them.  Principal award. Winners are determined by the Award Jury and receive a cash prize of R$130,000 and a three month long artistic residency at Residency Unlimited, in New York.  Winner is determined by popular vote of those who attended the MAM/RJ exhibition showcasing the four finalists. They receive a cash prize of R$24,000.  This award is determined by popular vote on the PIPA Prize website and encompasses all of the nominated artists. The website features profiles for each of the nominated artists in both English and Portuguese with photos of their work, texts and videos.  From 2012 onward, the voting process happens in two shifts: artists that receive more than 500 votes on the first round go on to the second one, where a winner is determined. First place wins a cash prize of R$10,000, the runner-up receives R$5,000. From 2014 to 2014, the winning artist would also participate in a two month long art residency at Instituto Sacatar, in Bahia.  In 2014 and 2015, the Online category was split up into two distinct categories: PIPA Online, where a juri determined the winner among all nominated artists; and PIPA Popular Online, where the winning artists was selected by popular vote on the award's website. Winners: Finalists: Antonio Obá, Bárbara Wagner, Carla Guagliardi, Éder Oliveira Nominating Committee: Alice Miceli, Ana Candida de Avelar, Anna Bergamasco, Claudia Saldanha, Claudio Mubarac, Consuelo Bassanesi, Daniel Senise, Felipe Ribeiro, Frances Reynolds, Francisco Dalcol, Gabriela Kremer Motta, Gabriela Salgado, João Laia, Josué Mattos, Kaira Cabañas, Marina Câmara, Marta Mestre, Flavia Gimenes, Michelle Sommer, Paulo Nazareth, Paulo Vieira, Tanya Barson, Thyago Nogueira, Vânia Leal Machado, Waldir Barreto Filho. Award Jury: Leda Catunda, Marcelo Campos, Consuelo Bassanessi, Fernando Cocchiarale, and Luiz Camillo Osorio. Winners: Finalists: Clara Ianni, Gustavo Speridião, Luiza Baldan, Paulo Nazareth Nominating Committee: André Severo, Cadu, Carlito Carvalhosa, Caroline Carrion, Catherine Petitgas, Cauê Alves, Fabio Faisal, Gabriel Pérez-Barreiro, Guilherme Gutman, Jacopo Visconti, Jesús Fuenmayor, Jones Bergamim, José Rufino, Kiki Mazzucchelli, Lenora de Barros, Lisette Lagnado, Luiza Teixeira de Freitas, Manuel Neves, Maria Ines de Almeida, Maria Iovino, Max Perlingeiro, Michael Ashbury, Monica Hoff, Pablo Leon de la Barra, Paulo Miyada, Rosangela Rennó, Solange Farkas, Virginia de Medeiros. Award Jury: Fernando Cocchiarale, Marisa Flórido, Júlia Rebouças, Milton Machado, and Luiz Camillo Osorio. Winners: Finalists: Cristiano Lenhardt, Leticia Ramos, Marina Rheingantz, Virginia de Medeiros Nominating Committee: Alejandra Hernández Muñoz, Alice Miceli, Aline Figueiredo Espíndola, Carlos Eduardo Bitu Cassundé, Daniel Rangel, Daniela Labra, Felipe Scovino, Fernanda Brenner, Fernanda Lopes, Gabriela Kremer Motta, Guilherme Simões de Assis, Janaina Melo, Josué Mattos, Júlia Rebouças, Luisa Duarte, Manuela Moscoso, Mara Fainziliber, Marcelo Rezende, Maria Montero, Marisa Mokarzel, Marta Mestre, Orlando Maneschy, Pablo Lafuente, Pedro Barbosa, Tadeu Chiarelli, Vanda Klabin. Award Jury: Cauê Alves, Gilberto Chateaubriand, Luiz Camillo Osorio, Pablo Leon de La Barra, Rosangela Rennó Winners: Finalists: Alice Miceli, Daniel Steegmann Mangrané, Thiago Martins de Melo, Wagner Malta Tavares Nominating Committee: Agustin Pérez Rubio, Alejandra Hernández Muñoz, Alexia Tala, Alfredo Setubal, Antonio Manuel, Beatriz Milhazes, Cadu, Carlos Eduardo Bitu Cassundé, Catherine Petitgas, Charles Watson, Cristiana Tejo, Daniela Labra, Fabio Cypriano, Fabio Szwarcwald, Fernando Oliva, Fersen Lamas Lambranho, Guilherme Simões de Assis, Heitor Reis, Jacqueline Jappur Plass, Jesús Fuenmayor, Jorge Menna Barreto, José Resende, Kaira M. Cabañas, Luciana Brito, Luiz Augusto Teixeira de Freitas, Luiz Schymura, Marisa Mokarzel, Paulo Miyada, Paulo Reis, Renata Azambuja, Tatiana Blass. Award Jury: Agnaldo Farias, Angelo Venosa, Flora Süssekind, Gilberto Chateaubriand, Luiz Camillo Osorio. Winners: Finalists: Cadu, Camila Soato, Berna Reale, Laercio Redondo Nominating Committee: Alexia Tala, Artur Fidalgo, Catalina Lozano, Cristiana Tejo, Daniel Rangel, Eduardo Brandão, Felipe Scovino, Fernando Cocchiarale, Guilherme Bueno, Heitor Reis, Irene Small, Jesús Maria Carrillo, Jose Ignacio Roca, Kaira Cabañas, Ligia Canongia, Luiz Augusto Teixeira de Freitas, Marcio Fainziliber, Marcius Galan, Marisa Mokarzel, Paulo Reis, Paulo Vieira, Regina Melim, Renata Azambuja, Sérgio Martins, Thereza Farkas. Award Jury: Carlos Vergara, Eungie Joo, Gilberto Chateaubriand, Luiz Camillo Osorio, Moacir dos Anjos Winners: Finalists: Marcius Galan, Rodrigo Braga, Matheus Rocha Pitta, Thiago Rocha Pitta Nominating Committee: Agustin Perez Rubio, Alejandra Hernandez Munoz, Alexia Tala, Ana Paula Cohen, Carlito Carvalhosa, Carlos Eduardo Bitu Cassundé, Carlos Vergara, Carolina Dias Leite, Daniela Labra, Daniela Name, Denise Gadelha, Eduardo Frota, Fabio Szwarcwald, Fernando Oliva, Frederico Coelho, Inti Guerrero, Jailson de Souza, Jochen Volz, Julieta Gonzalez, Lenora de Barros, Luciana Caravello, Marcio Lobão, Maria Iovino, Marisa Mokarzel, Matthew Wood, Michael Asbury, Pablo Leon de la Barra, Paulo Pasta, Paulo Reis, Regina Melim, Tatiana Blass, Tiago Mesquita, Tuca Nissel. Award Jury: Gilberto Chateaubriand, Luiz Camillo Osorio, Moacir dos Anjos, Rowan Geddis, Waltércio Caldas. Winners: Finalists: André Komatsu, Eduardo Berliner, Jonathas de Andrade, Tatiana Blass Nominating Committee: Agnaldo Farias, Carlos Eduardo Bitu Cassundé, Catalina Lozano, Cauê Alves, Cristiana Tejo, Daniel Roesler, Daniela Labra, Daniela Name, Fabio Cypriano, Fernanda Feitosa, Fernando Cocchiarale, Gê Orthof, Jailton Moreira, José Rufino, Laura Marsiaj, Léo Bahia, Lorenzo Mammì, Luisa Duarte, Luiz Zerbini, Marcio Botner, Marília Panitz, Michael Asbury, Paulo Darzé, Paulo Venâncio Filho, Paulo Vieira, Renata Lucas, Ricardo Trevisan, Solange Farkas, Susan May, Tadeu Chiarelli, Victoria Noorthoom. Award Jury: Gilberto Chateaubriand, Luiz Camillo Osorio, Rodrigo Moura, Rowan Geddis. Winners: Finalists: Renata Lucas, Marcelo Moscheta, Marcius Galan, Cinthia Marcelle Nominating Committee: Agnaldo Farias, Artur Lescher, Cristiana Tejo, Daniel Senise, Eduardo Leme, Elida Tessler, Ernesto Neto, Fernanda Feitosa, Franklin Pedroso, Guilherme Bueno, Iole de Freitas, Jones Bergamin, Jorge Menna Barreto, Jose Ignacio Roca, José Olympio Pereira, Juliana Cintra, Luiz Braga, Luiz Guilherme Vergara, Luiz Schymura, Marcia Fortes, Marga Pasquali, Mariana Moura, Marta Fadel, Milton Machado, Moacir dos Anjos, Paulo Reis, Paulo Sergio Duarte, Rina Carvajal, Rodrigo Moura, Tanya Barson, Tiago Mesquita, Victoria Noorthoorn. Award Jury: Antônio Dias, Catalina Lozano, Gilberto Chateaubriand, Lisette Lagnado, Luiz Camillo Osorio. 