The Irish American Arts Awards was a not for profit organization headquartered in New York City to recognize, encourage and celebrate contemporary visual art by those of Irish ancestry across the world, in particular by the annual award of a cash prize. Founded in 2005 it was launched at a reception on January 27, 2006 in the Irish Consulate General in New York, co-hosted by representatives of the governments of both sides of the Irish border.  The Irish American Arts Awards was led by its chairman, Simon Pereira Shorey, and its executive board, Attracta Lyndon, Antonia Reilly, Ciaran Grant and Anita Daly. The launch was attended by Ambassador Jean Kennedy Smith, a noted enthusiast for both things Irish and the power of art. Entries were submitted from St. Patrick's Day (March 17) 2006 until June 15, 2006 by artists from around the world. The 2006 Panel of Judges is: Professor Declan McGonagle (Chair), Professor of Art and Design, The University of Ulster, Belfast, NI; Professor Colm Ó Briain, Director of the National College of Art and Design in Dublin, Ireland; Cheryl Donegan, artist, New York, USA; Vincent Ferguson, businessman and art collector, Sligo, Ireland; Emily-Jane Kirwan, Associate Director at the Marian Goodman Gallery, New York, USA; Alice Maher, artist, Dublin, Ireland; Dr. Yvonne Scott, Director of TRIARC, the Trinity College Irish Art Research Centre, Dublin, Ireland The Panel of Judges announced their short list on June 27, 2006. The 2006 Short List was:- Under 35 Years Old Category: Katie Holten, New York, New York, USA; Suzanne Mooney, Dublin, Ireland; Katrina Moorhead, Houston, Texas, USA; Niamh O'Malley, Dublin, Ireland; Paul Rowley, Brooklyn, New York, USA Over 35 Years Old Category: Meg Cranston, Los Angeles, California, USA; Maud Cotter, Cork, Co. Cork, Ireland; Maureen Gallace, New York, New York, USA; Mary Kelly, Dublin, Ireland; Tom Molloy, Kilfenora, Co. Clare, Ireland The category winners and the overall winner (who received a cheque for $25,000) were announced on September 12, 2006 at the awards ceremony at Jumeirah Essex House, New York City. Six artists shortlisted for the 2007 Award withdrew their submissions after a long delay on announcing the winners.  