Science Centre AHHAA is the biggest science centre in Estonia and the Baltic states, located in Tartu. The main purpose of AHHAA is promoting science, technology and the scientific approach to solve common disadvantages. Since 7 May 2011, Science Centre AHHAA has been located in a building in the centre of Tartu. AHHAA was established as a project of the University of Tartu on 1 September 1997 and by 2004 it had developed into a foundation constituted by the city of Tartu and the University of Tartu.  From the very beginning, the head of Science Centre AHHAA was Tiiu Sild. In 2008, the AHHAA 4D Adventure Cinema was opened in the Lõunakeskus shopping centre in Tartu. In 2009, a branch office of Science Centre AHHAA was opened in Tallinn at the Freedom Square (the Tallinn branch was closed at the end of 2013). On 7 May 2011 Science Centre AHHAA in Tartu opened the doors of its new, 11,156 m² building engineered by architects Vilen Künnapu and Ain Padrik in the heart of the city. The activities of the Science Centre AHHAA Foundation are coordinated by a committee composed of Hannes Astok, Anneli Saro, Jaanus Karv, Mart Laidmets, Reno Laidre and Vallo Mulk. Additionally, the practical aspects of the activities of the foundation are appraised by a science committee composed of experts. Science Centre AHHAA offers a view of the starry skies in a fully spherical hybrid planetarium (which means that there is a possibility to show the skies with both optical and digital projection, which can be displayed either separately or together). The uniqueness of AHHAA's planetarium lies in the fact that in addition to the ordinary view on the ceiling and the walls, the image of the skies in the planetarium of the centre also extends under the floor, which is the reason why the floor of the planetarium is made of glass.  The AHHAA Planetarium belongs to two organisations: Science Centre AHHAA had a 4D Adventure Cinema, located in the Lõunakeskus shopping centre on the southern edge of Tartu. The cinema was open from 18.07.2008 to 31.12.2017  The Science Centre AHHAA Foundation regularly organizes special events. Some of the most reputable events are listed below: The Science Centre AHHAA Foundation participates in science festivals and fairs both in Estonia and abroad, its main “trade tricks” being the science theatre shows and various workshops. During the past few years Festival della Scienza and Perugia Science Fest  in Italy, Korea Science Festival  in South Korea, Moscow Science Festival  in Russia, Science Picnic in Poland and Science Festival Belgrade  in Serbia have been among the few places where Science Centre AHHAA has been represented. Science Centre AHHAA has been awarded with numerous prizes both for the building  as well as for its intellectual achievements. The activities of the Science Centre AHHAA Foundation are funded and sponsored by many academic institutions but close-knit relationships have been established with collaboration partners from private and public sectors as well: The Estonian Ministry of Education and Research, the City of Tartu, the University of Tartu, Haribo, Laima, AGA Estonia, Tallegg, Nordea Bank, the Environmental Investment Centre, The Rakvere Meat Factory, A.Le Coq Tartu Brewery. Coordinates: 58°22′36″N 26°44′03″E﻿ / ﻿58.376694°N 26.734098°E﻿ / 58.376694; 26.734098 