Coordinates: 37°47′19″N 122°25′26″W﻿ / ﻿37.78861°N 122.42389°W﻿ / 37.78861; -122.42389 The Institute for Advanced Study of Human Sexuality (est. 1976) is an unaccredited,  for-profit, degree-granting institution and resource center in the field of sexology located in San Francisco, California.  Degree and certificate programs focus on public health, sex therapy, and sexological research. The Institute grew out of research in the 1960s highlighting the general lack of understanding of and formal training in human sexuality. The library and archives are a collection of adult films, academic sexological and erotological resources, and sex therapy training materials. The IASHS has trained many of the current directors of sexology programs in other countries. Most recently, a sister school of the IASHS has been launched in China. Like all post-secondary schools in California, IASHS is required by California law to register with the State of California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education, an anti-fraud or anti-diploma mill unit of the California Department of Consumer Affairs.    IASHS has BPPE "approval to operate", which means that IASHS meets the minimum legal standards for "offering of bona fide instruction by qualified faculty".  The path that led to the founding of the Institute for Advanced Study of Human Sexuality in 1976 began in 1962 with a program called the National Young Adult Project (NYAP). Originating in the then Methodist Church, the NYAP ultimately became an ecumenical project that included the Evangelical United Brethren, Presbyterian Church USA, and United Church of Christ denominations on the national level. Other church bodies (African Methodist Episcopal, American Baptist, Lutheran Church Missouri Synod, Protestant Episcopal, United Presbyterian Church in the USA, and Lutheran Church of America) also participated on a regional or local level. Dr. Ted McIlvenna, a Methodist minister, and cofounder, owner and president of the Institute, headed the San Francisco project for the NYAP. Of the 50+ nationwide projects the NYAP developed by 1968, only the three connected to him and to Glide Memorial Methodist Church had anything to do with sexuality issues. McIlvenna believed that there was a lack of research on human sexuality and the absence of demonstrated effective training and educational methodologies. A meeting in 1967 at the Institute for Sex Research led to the formation of the National Sex Forum as part of the Glide Foundation to address this lack.  By 1974, it was clear to the Forum that a free-standing institute dedicated to the study of and education and training in the emerging field of sexology was required. They divided the creation of the academic institute as: McIlvenna to re-envision the Forum as an academic setting; Laird Sutton to collect a graphic-resource library; Herbert Vandervoort to organize and prepare the academic work of the study team; and Marguerite Rubenstein, Loretta Haroian, and Phyllis Lyon to define the professional training standards for the new academically trained professional sexologists.  Wardell Pomeroy was the first Academic Dean.  The Institute was integral to the development of humanistic sexology, emphasizing experiential techniques and sexual pleasure over positivist empiricism. The culture of casual as well as clinical nudity and the inclusion of various bodywork and erotic massage techniques led to the Institute being nicknamed "Fuck U" by some critics.  The inclusion of Reichian therapy and other techniques not well founded in research has similarly led to criticism.  Degrees are offered in Master of Human Sexuality, Master of Public Health in Human Sexuality, and Doctor of Human Sexuality, as well as Doctor of Education and Doctor of Philosophy degrees with a focus in sexology and erotology. They also offer professional certificates in: Associate in Sex Education, Clinical Sexology, Sexological Bodywork, Sexological Instructor/Advisor of AIDS/STI Prevention, Sex Coaching, and Erotology Certificates. Coursework varies by degree sought, but includes formal academic lectures, group-based discussion, video lectures and webinars (which may be undertaken off-site as part of a distance education program), and hands-on training in therapy and bodywork. Research-based degrees include independent or directed use of the Institute's extensive primary and secondary archives of sexological material.   Almost all of the faculty listed on the Institute's website obtained their most advanced degree from the Institute.  The Institute is not accredited.  The Institute's FAQ page, in response to the question "Is the Institute an accredited academic institution?", states that the Institute is approved by the California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education (BPPE).  However, the BPPE is not an accrediting agency; the agency's main focus is on identifying diploma mills.   In July 2014, the BPPE sent a Notice to Comply to IASHS regarding several violations. In early 2016, the California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education sent a Citation: Assessment of Fine and Order of Abatement to IASHS, for seven violations. As of September 2014, IASHS is required by CA SB1247 to seek and obtain accreditation. Quackwatch identifies the Institute as a "Questionable Organization".  Students at unaccredited institutions are never eligible for financial aid, including student loans, through any government agency. In some states, it can be illegal to use a degree from an unaccredited institution, unless approved by the state licensing agency.  “We don’t take federal money and that’s why we won’t be accredited by the traditional state agencies. We don’t want to be handcuffed as to what we can provide, say and do. We’ve been approached by accrediting bodies run by Mormons and Roman Catholics that wanted us to change our code of ethics to promote contraception and change our name to reflect ‘family and marriage counseling’ instead of sexuality. We won’t do it,” according to IASHS founder Dr. Ted McIlvenna.  In addition to its educational and archival mission, the Institute engages in outreach, such as teaching sex education to underserved teenagers in demographics at high risk for pregnancy. Ted McIlvenna, president of the Institute, favors a curriculum focusing on teaching teenagers techniques for "obtaining healthy, respectful relationships with their partners" rather than abstinence-only sex education.  The Institute has produced safe sex books, videos, and assorted paraphernalia.  The archives include hundreds of thousands of adult films, as well as documents tracing the development of sexology as a field of research and training and educational materials; together, they comprise one of the most comprehensive sexological and erotological resource centers in the world.    IASHS helped to establish the Erotic Heritage Museum in Las Vegas, in partnership with Harry Moheny, and offered a rotating selection of films and other art are on display at the Erotic Heritage Museum.  However, the museum is now owned and managed by Harry Mohney. The Institute favors open discussion of sexuality, including such issues as oral sex, masturbation, homosexuality, BDSM and informed consent, teen sex and pregnancy, and sex therapy. Roger Libby, adjunct professor, sex therapist, and author of The Naked Truth About Sex: A Guide to Intelligent Sexual Choices for Teenagers and Twentysomethings, encourages the use of extensive pre-sex discussions to set parameters and establish comfort levels.   Charles Moser, chair of IASHS Department of Sexual Medicine, has argued that paraphilias and BDSM should be removed from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM).   The Institute published the Electronic Journal of Human Sexuality each year until its final issue in 2014. Articles were reviewed by the editorial board with supplemental review by readers.  Notable graduates include: 