The Festival de Télévision de Monte-Carlo is an international festival and competition focusing on productions for television, founded 1961 and based in Monaco. By creating the Festival de Télévision de Monte-Carlo in 1961, Prince Rainier III of Monaco, wished to "encourage a new art form, in the service of peace and understanding between men." Monaco's international status ideally suited the Prince's ambition: to recognize television as an exceptional means of bringing cultures together and enhancing their respective knowledge. This project immediately generated worldwide interest and over the years, many distinguished celebrities have sat on the successive juries, bringing international recognition to the best of television programming. However, The Monter-Carlo Television Festival is above all, since the 1980s, a very important opportunity for business, a huge international market.  H.S.H. Prince Albert II of Monaco has been the Honorary President of the Festival since 1988. The best of worldwide television programming has been rewarded with Golden Nymph statuettes, copies of the "Salmacis" Nymph by the Monegasque sculptor François Joseph Bosio (1768–1845), the original of which is on show at the Louvre Museum in Paris. The Golden Nymph Awards – with a Golden Nymph or a selection of Special Prizes – the best TV programs and actors from all around the world. Throughout the Festival, international juries composed of distinguished industry professionals and talent participate in screenings of all programming in Competition. Each year, more than 30 countries are represented in the competition, with more than 60 programs selected for nomination. The Competition is open to all international networks, distributors and production companies. The Official Competition is separated 2 Categories : Other prizes are also awarded during the Golden Nymph Awards Ceremony - The International TV Audience Awards reward shows that have achieved the highest viewing figures worldwide. - The competition is also the host of Special Prizes awarded in partnership with major global organizations such as the International Committee of the Red Cross, the Monaco Red Cross, the AMADE, SIGNIS and the Special Prize Rainier III - presented by H.S.H. Prince Albert II of Monaco. The Festival de Télévision de Monte-Carlo closes with the glittering Golden Nymph Award Ceremony. 