Nottinghamshire Pride is a registered charity  in Nottingham, Nottinghamshire, England. It organizes an annual pride festival held within the city of Nottingham. The event usually takes place during July. The first festival was held in 1999. The festival aims to eliminate discrimination against the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender plus (LGBT+) community while celebrating each individual's differences.  The event usually consists of a day-long celebration, including a parade, stalls, art, music and other activities.  "The purpose of Pride is to provide a safe focal point to bring together our community to celebrate our diversity and a sense of pride which for some people may be difficult in everyday life, due to prejudice and injustice."  Pride 2009 took place on 25 July in the Nottingham Arboretum. Pride 2010 took place on 31 July on the Forest Recreation Ground. It was officially opened by the Lord Mayor of Nottingham, Brian Grocock, and the event was headlined by The Cheeky Girls, with other acts including Kenelis, Lisa Scott-Lee and Betty. Pride 2011 had over 20,000 visitors, with headline act Ruth Lorenzo performing. In 2011, E.ON UK was the principal sponsor of Nottinghamshire Pride. In 2018 Pride was held on Saturday 28 July in the city centre of Nottingham. The parade included many live events by various individuals, stalls, art and music, along with a huge Pride Parade which took place at 11 am. The parade began at Lister Gate and finished at Broad Street.  Pride 2018 was sponsored by various companies including Nottinghamshire Council, Nottingham Fire and Rescue and Capital One.  In July 2018, Nottingham Academy, Greenwood Campus became the first educational institution to support Nottinghamshire Pride. The secondary school's tutorial group 10SGI held various events and educational sessions for its pupils and teaching staff. These sessions included educational activities, powerpoints and two assemblies, one of which included a transgender speaker who gave students an insight into her story. The school raised funds for the charity through Pride-themed fundraisers, including an ice pole and cake sale, non-uniform day and face paints. The school raised over 110 pounds.  The aim of these activities and celebrations was to bring students and staff together to celebrate individuals' differences disregarding race, religion, colour, creed or sexual orientation, while educating those attending the Greenwood Campus.   