The Revolution is an American health and lifestyle talk show with some reality television components. It aired weekdays at 2:00pm (ET) on the ABC network from January 16 to July 6, 2012. Created by producer J. D. Roth, the series replaced the soap opera One Life to Live. The series was hosted by Project Runway's Tim Gunn, a consultant on style and fashion topics, fitness trainer Harley Pasternak, designer Ty Pennington, medical consultant Dr. Jennifer Ashton, and therapist/relationship expert Dr. Tiffanie Davis. The object of The Revolution was to effect positive change in the lives of women. Although the show's most prominent theme was women's weight loss, the show's other recurring themes involved promoting women's well-being, including mental health, style, and home environment.  The show featured various segments related to exercise, nutrition, fashion, medicine, and psychology. Through casting calls, women would send to the producers videos of themselves explaining what about themselves they would like to change, chief among which would be their weight. Customized plans were then created off-screen to help each woman achieve her goals. The women would later appear on the program to present their progress and accomplishments, which was usually featured in the form of a week-long chronological timeline of their progress, and later segments which would check back again on their progress. The show never gained any foothold in the ratings. High-profile sponsorship with Macy's, guest appearances from stars like Toni Braxton and Dolly Parton, attempts to have hosts from higher-rated ABC daytime programs and actors from ABC primetime programs appear on the show all failed to draw viewers. The Revolution was the lowest-rated show among all daytime programs on the Big Three television networks during its run.  From January to early April, The Revolution attracted on average an audience of 1.5 million viewers daily, of which 370,000 were in the women 18-49 targeted demographic.  By March, The Revolution had dropped to 1.3 million daily viewers, roughly half the viewership of One Life to Live.  On April 11, 2012, three months after the show's debut, ABC canceled The Revolution. No official announcement was ever made by the network regarding the cancellation of the show and the news was learned instead through Deadline Hollywood.  Its final episode aired nearly three months later, on July 6. The program was replaced the following Monday by the transitional series Good Afternoon America, which filled the timeslot for two months.  General Hospital moved up an hour on September 10 to permanently take over the timeslot.  