The Military History Working Group (Arbeitskreis Militärgeschichte, AKM) is a German professional association and research network formed in 1995 in Freiburg. It focuses on the interdisciplinary war studies and military history.  The Group's activities are coordinated out of the Historical Institute of the University of Bern. Initially chaired by historian Wilhelm Deist, it is chaired by historian Stig Förster (de) as of 2017. In cooperation with Verlag Ferdinand Schöningh, the association produces the War in History (book series) (Krieg in der Geschichte).  The Military History Working Group was founded in 1995. Wilhelm Deist, chief historian at the Military History Research Office (MGFA) was one of the founding members and, from 1995 to 2002, its chairman of the association. From 2002 to 2003, he was the honorary chairman of the association.  Its intention, according to Jörg Echternkamp, is to "contribute to the development of this current and important field of historical science, which is hardly represented at universities in German-speaking universities".  The Group's scientific work integrates several areas of historical science are such as politics, government, economics, and social, cultural and gender history.  In addition to the Working Group on Historical Peace Research and the Working Group on Military and Society in the Early Modern Period (de), it is one of the most important workplaces for military history in the German-speaking world.  The association currently has over 500 members, including historians such as Frank Becker (historian) (de), Christoph Nübel (de), Markus Pöhlmann (de), Alaric Searle and Jens Westemeier. As of 2016, the organisation's chairman was Stig Förster (de).  With 500 historians, it's one of the largest associations of this kind.   The Wilhelm Deist Prize for Military History, awarded by the association, recognises the research of young scientists in the field of military history. Established in 2006, it was named after Wilhelm Deist in his honour. The prize is awarded annually for outstanding contributions to historical sciences. Its recipients included Peter M. Quadflieg (de) (2007) and Christoph Nübel (de) (2008). Jury members include Stig Förster from the University of Bern and Sönke Neitzel from the University of Potsdam.  The Military History Working Group, in cooperation with Verlag Ferdinand Schöningh, publishes War in History (book series) (Krieg in der Geschichte). The series is edited by historians Stig Förster (de) of the University of Bern, Bernhard R. Kroener (de) of the University of Potsdam, and Bernd Wegner of the Helmut Schmidt University.  Select publications in the series include: 