 David Lawrence Ramsey III (born September 3, 1960) is an American businessman and author. Ramsey was born and raised in Antioch, Tennessee. He was a 1982 graduate of the College of Business Administration at University of Tennessee, Knoxville with a degree in Finance and Real Estate.  As a real estate investor, doing business as  Ramsey Investments, Inc., he built a rental real estate portfolio worth more than $4 million by 1986.  That year, a decline in the real estate business  forced him to file for bankruptcy relief. After recovering financially, Ramsey began counseling couples at his local church. He soon began attending workshops and seminars on consumer financial problems, he  developed a  set of lessons and materials based partially on his own experience and on works and teachings by Larry Burkett, Ron Blue and Art Williams of A.L. Williams company now called Primerica.  In 1992 he wrote his first book, Financial Peace.  Ramsey is a devout Christian.  He  has been married to his wife, Sharon, for over 30 years. They have three children, and  reside in Winchester, Tennessee.  Ramsey's syndicated radio program, The Dave Ramsey Show, is heard on more than 500 radio stations throughout the United States and Canada, in podcast format, on IHeartRadio, the Dave Ramsey Show iOS application, live on YouTube, as well as live audio and video on DaveRamsey.com.   He has written numerous books including five New York Times bestsellers. His books and broadcasts advocate a fiscally disciplined approach to personal and household finances, including the strict management of debt, and often feature a Christian perspective. Ramsey was named the 2009 Marconi Award winner for Network/Syndicated Personality of the Year,  and was inducted into the National Radio Hall of Fame in 2015.  His company, The Lampo Group, Inc., headquartered in Brentwood, Tennessee, oversees six divisions geared toward financial education.   Ramsey has been featured on many media outlets including The Oprah Winfrey Show, 60 Minutes, and The Early Show. He recorded a pilot and six unaired episodes of The Dave Ramsey Project  for CBS. He was the host of the television program The Dave Ramsey Show, which aired on the Fox Business Network until June 2010.  Twenty-five years ago, Ramsey started his radio career by co-hosting  The Money Game with Roy Matlock of Primerica. Over time, this local show on one radio station in Nashville turned into The Dave Ramsey Show. With a combined listenership of over 12 million weekly, the show is available on more than 575 radio stations and other channels.   In 2007, the Fox Business Network launched a television show under the same title, but canceled the show in June 2010. Ramsey founded his company, The Lampo Group, Inc., in 1992 (Now called Ramsey Solutions),  initially helping people one-on-one who were struggling with financial issues. In 1994, he hired Russ Carroll, Ramsey's lead financial counselor, and together they began teaching the first Financial Peace University classes on overhead projectors.  Between 1999 and 2004, The Lampo Group grew from 18 to 105 team members.  There are currently over 500 team members.  Ramsey is  the creator of Financial Peace University, a biblically based training series for adults that integrates video teaching, class discussions, and small group activities.   In 2013, he  launched a followup program, The Legacy Journey. This course is a biblically based training series for adults  focused on "what's next?" after getting out of debt.   He coined the term  word EntreLeadership to describe the responsibilities of a small business owner as an entrepreneur , and used it as the name of   a small business conference. Ramsey also released the book titled EntreLeadership in 2011. It rose to the New York Times Bestseller's list nearly overnight.   EveryDollar is a budgeting tool that was created by Ramsey Solutions, available online, on iOS, and Android. Users list all sources of income and they give every dollar a name for the month, based on zero-based budgeting.  Ramsey supports the debt snowball method, where debtors pay off their lowest balance debt first instead of paying off their highest interest rate debt first. While this approach has been criticized by some, such as NerdWallet.com,  other research such as that done by the Kellogg School of Management has found that the debt snowball method is generally effective. The article stated that the small victories give debtors motivation.    A 2016 study by Harvard Business School  also found people who used the snowball method to pay off their smallest account first paid down more of their debt than those who used other methods.  Ramsey states that investors can get a 12% average annual return and this is the number he uses in financial analyses.  Critics state that using an average annual return rate is misleading and that the compound annual growth rate is a better measurement when planning investments.  Critics have also stated that a 12% return is unrealisticly high--the usual planning assumption is 4%.  According to the Motley Fool, following Ramsey's calculations could cause individuals to be seriously under-invested for retirement.  Ramsey recommends investors to hold all their investments in stock mutual funds, which has been criticized as stocks are more volatile than bonds.  He recommends that retirees withdraw 8% of their retirement each year., a contrast to the generally recommended 4%.  In 2010, Ramsey received criticism on social media sites for building a large and lavish home. He responded that the cost of the home was paid in cash, represented a very low percentage of his net worth, and had already been used to host many fundraisers for ministries, charities and community causes.  The Total Money Makeover, Financial Peace Revisited, and More than Enough have been translated into Spanish. Further Reading 