National Institute of Securities Markets (NISM) is an Indian public trust and an educational institute and staff college of SEBI established in 2006 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) the regulator for the securities market in India. The institute offers academic programmes, training programmes, capacity building and skill development programmes in securities markets. The institute also provides financial education and standards to improve financial literacy in the country. The institute is located in Vashi, Navi Mumbai, India. The institute's new 72-acre campus at Patalganga, off Mumbai-Pune Expressway, was inaugurated by Narendra Modi, the incumbent Prime Minister of India, on 24 December 2016. NISM is an powerful autonomous body governed by a Board of Governors. Ajay Tyagi, the Chairman of SEBI, is the incumbent chairman of NISM. Dr. M. Thenmozhi is the incumbent Director of NISM. The institute is divided into six schools that address the different participants of the Indian financial market. In the Budget Speech of February 2006, P Chidambaram, the erstwhile Union Finance Minister, proposed to authorize the Securities and Exchange Board of India to set up a National Institute of Securities Markets for teaching and training intermediaries in securities markets and promoting research. Accordingly, NISM was established in 2006.  NISM seeks to add to market quality through educational initiatives.  It is an autonomous body governed by its Board of Governors. An International Advisory Council provides strategic guidance to NISM. The activities of NISM are carried out under six schools. These are as follows:  The School for Securities Education (SSE) offers academic programmes specialized in securities markets. The programmes offered under SSE are: SIEFL is aimed at working on various initiatives on Financial Literacy. There are three programmes in NISM that address financial education. The School for Certification of Intermediaries (SCI) at NISM is engaged in developing certification examinations for professionals employed in various segments of the Indian securities markets. These examinations are being developed by NISM as mandated under SEBI Certification of Associated Persons in the Securities Markets (CAPSM) Regulation, 2007. NISM examinations: Other Certifications: SSIR undertakes several initiatives that seek to support research in securities markets. The Network for Securities Markets Data (NSMD), a project undertaken by the SSIR, will act as a single point access to Indian securities markets related data and will boost the research and analysis activities on Indian securities markets. SRSS organizes executive education for officers of SEBI, stock exchanges, government officers, depositories, capital markets division of the ministry and participants of capital markets from other jurisdictions including SAARC nations and IOSCO nations. SRSS also initiated training programmes for Internal Auditors of Stock Brokers. SRSS organizes round table for mutual fund trustees. The school has also undertaken a project "Securities Market Simulator" which simulates the working of securities markets to facilitate training and research activities on Indian markets. SCG conducts workshops and round table conferences in matters pertaining to Corporate Governance and initiatives for capacity building in the corporate governance space. 