The National Foundation for Debt Management is a United States credit counseling agency.  The organization is incorporated, but is organized as a non-profit.   The foundation focuses on consumer education on debt practices.   They also focus on distributing personal finance information to the public. The National Foundation for Debt Management is committed to fostering community education on money management, budgeting and appropriate use of credit. Since 1999, NFDM certified financial counselors have assisted thousands of families. NFDM is dedicated to providing professional and confidential services to assist families and individuals who are in financial distress.  NFDM seems to help consumers better understand and manage their finances  through help with: National Foundation for Debt Management is a 501(c)(3) educational organization based in Clearwater, Florida. NFDM aims to help people better understand their personal finances and take control of their financial lives. NFDM has helped thousands of consumers achieve relief from crushing debt and has provided advice about personal financial matters to many thousands of others.  Certified counselors and educators work with schools, community groups, churches, charitable organizations and others to help citizens learn personal finance skills from the most basic to more advanced. Throughout the year NFDM supports many local and national charitable organizations. As part of its mission as a non-profit organization, NFDM has a responsibility to contribute to the wider community and is committed to helping others achieve their financial goals through education.  Staff members are encouraged to take part in events both inside and outside of work striving to improve schools, strengthen neighborhoods, and encourage volunteer service. NFDM seeks to make a positive difference in peoples lives. Some of the organizations that benefit from NFDM's philanthropic efforts are the All Children's Hospital, Toys for Tots, and the American Cancer Society, among others.  