Tony (Anthony) Steuer, CLU, LA, CPFFE (born 1964) is an American financial author, blogger, insurance consumer advocate and founder of the Insurance Bill of Rights Movement. He is best known for his Questions and Answers on Life Insurance book series. He has written five books since 2010, two of which have received the Excellence in Financial Literacy Education Award. He is currently a regular contributor to websites including:  The New York Times, reviews.com, bankrate.com, foxbusiness.com, yahoo.com, black enterprise.com, usnews.com, nytimes.com, washingtonpost.com, wisebread.com, forbes.com and mint.com. He also appears regularly on Bottom Line Personal, investopedia.com, A.M Best Review, insurancethoughtleadership.com, thinkadvisor.com, financialfinesse.com, Nolo.com, The Nest, and Love to Know., beyondtype1.org and insulinnation.com. He is currently a frequent guest contributor on national radio shows, including The Prudent Money Show and Your Financial Editor, where he provides non-biased advice on life insurance.   He has written and published free financial literacy tools available on his blog and website. Steuer is known as a spokesperson and leader in the financial literacy movement. In 2016, Steuer’s son (age 11) was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes. Faced with a chronic illness that requires constant maintenance, Steuer realized his own son could be denied insurance coverage under the health care plan proposed by President Donald Trump. This led him to author the petition Fair Health Insurance For All, described as a petition to the U.S. Senate to seek a “solution” to health insurance costs. And that “any solution should simplify and seek to reduce costs while maintaining and increasing benefits.” Steuer also authored The Insurance Bill of Rights, which is designed to empower consumers, and provides a Best Practices Roadmap for members of the insurance industry. Steuer was born on March 8, 1964, in San Francisco, California.  He was raised in San Francisco and later moved to Marin County where attended Redwood High School.  He attended California State University Chico where he received a Bachelor of Science Degree in Business (Finance) and was an intern for a free legal information service on campus, C.L.I.C. (Community Legal Information Center).  He earned the Chartered Life Underwriter (CLU) Designation in the late 1980s and the Certified Personal and Family Finance Educator (CPFFE) from the American Association of Family and Consumer Sciences in 2012. Steuer is one of 40 licensed Life and Disability Insurance agents from the California Department of Insurance.  Prior to becoming an author and insurance consumer advocate, Steuer was an assistant vice president with Acordia-Lloyd, a multi-line insurance brokerage firm.  He started his own practice in 1995. Tony is the award-winning author of five books, including two consecutive Excellence in Financial Literacy Education (EIFLE) Awards: Questions and Answers on Life Insurance and The Questions and Answers on Life Insurance Workbook.   Question and Answers on Life Insurance: The Life Insurance Toolbook, 3rd edition (2010) ISBN 0984508104 Steuer is involved with various causes including serving on the boards for: Diabetes Youth Families, California and as Treasurer of The Creative Community Education Foundation, California.  He also serves as a member of the Lucille Packard Children’s Hospital Foundation Advisory Council. Steuer served for eight years as an appointee of  California Insurance Commissioner to serve on the Curriculum Board for the California Department of Insurance.  He also serves on the Curriculum Advisory Panel for The National Financial Educators Council. Steuer lives with his wife and son in Alameda, CA. He enjoys serving as a Board Member at his son’s school, Alameda Community Learning Center, coaching his son’s CYO Basketball Team and managing his son’s Little League team. 