2    Judit Kormos (Hungarian pronunciation: [ˈjudit ˈkormoʃ]) (born 1970) is a professor of applied linguistics at the Lancaster University, United Kingdom.  She is renowned for her work on motivation in second language learning, self-regulation[disambiguation needed] in second language writing. Her current interest is in dyslexia in second language learning. Along with Rosa Manchón she has been noted for her work on the cognitive dimension of the acquisition and use of second languages, with special emphasis on the psycholinguistic dimension of textual production and along with Paul Kei Matsuda, Ken Hyland, Alister Cumming, Lourdes Ortega and Marjolijn Verspoor she has been considered as one of the most influential researchers on second language writing. Kormos graduated at the Eötvös Loránd University in Budapest, Hungary in 1994. Kormos gained her PhD at the Eötvös Loránd University in 1999.  Her PhD was supervised by Zoltán Dörnyei. Kormos took up a lecturer position at the Lancaster University in Lancaster, Lancashire, United Kingdom in 2008.  She is the coordinator of the Dyslexia for teachers of English foreign language project, funded by the European Commission.  Since 2011, she has been a member of the editorial board of the Journal of Second Language Writing.  In 2012, Kormos was interviewed by the Hungarian television channel ATV on recent changes in foreign language teaching policies in Hungary. Kormos emphasised the important role of teaching students to learn foreign languages independently and autonomously with the help of modern technological tools.  She has been an Editor of Special Thematic Issues and Associate Journal Editor of the Language Learning.  On 1 October 2012, Kormos was promoted to a Readership. She chose to be called Reader in Second Language Acquisition.  On 21 May 2014, Pearson Education released a new video lecture series on dyslexia and foreign language learning on YouTube. Kormos features in the first video of the series and discusses the psychological effects of dyslexia on the processes of foreign language learning.   On 23 May 2014, Kormos together with a European team of five partner countries have won the ELTons award of the British Council in the Excellence in Course Innovation category.   On 20 June 2014, Kormos was cited in the Education webpage of the Guardian in a recent article on teaching languages to students with disabilities.  On 8 January 2015, Kormos was awarded a personal chair. Her title became "Professor of Second Language Acquisition".  