The Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA) is a trade union in Sri Lanka. Founded in 1926 as the Government Medical Officers’ Association (Central Province) in Kandy, it was renamed as Government Medical Officers’ Association of Ceylon in 1927 and in 1949 registered as a trade union under the leadership of Dr E. M. Wijerama.   In 2016, the GMOA came under heavily criticism for the its demands of special admission criteria for children of its members to elite government schools by passing the national government admission process of the Ministry of Education.  In July 2018 they have threaten trade union action inform of an island wide strike if there demands for schooling of doctors’ children are not met.   GMOA have been highly critical of the establishment of the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (SAITM) the only private medical college in the country, calling for its closure and preventing of its graduates from registering with the Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC) as medical practitioners claiming low quality of the SAITM graduates. It has called for a national front and trade union action against SAITM following a Court of Appeal decision ordering SAITM medical graduates to be register with the SLMC.  The GMOA was highly criticized for demanding duty free vehicle permits by engaging in strikes when they were reviewed by government.   In May 2017 GMOA head Anuruddha Padeniya was caught by the media granting appointements at six private hospitals during the time of a strike by the GMOA and other trade unions against the SAITM and MP Ranjan Ramanayake also got an appointement with him on a time during the strike and showed the receipt in social media and in a media conference. Dr.Padeniya quickly reacted by cancelling the appointments. OPD services and medical clinics of several government hospitals were crippled due to the strike however it was ultimately considered a failure as many hospitals continued normal work and over 200 Trade Unions opposed the GMOA strike and accused them of attempting to return Mahinda Rajapaksa back to power. Rajapaksa visited Padeniya after handing over nominations in 2015 general election and Padeniya appreciated Rajapaksa for contesting     On 18 May 2018, the GMOA initiated a countrywide 24-hour token strike disrupting healthcare services in hospitals around the island against the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) signed by the Government of Sri Lanka with Singapore and the proposed Economic and Technology Co-operation Agreement with India.  The GMOA has claimed that the FTA with Singapore was not in line with the World Trade Organisation and it would create avenue for foreign countries to invade Sri Lanka's job market.  GMOA has been criticized for undertaking trade union action for various professional and national issues during epidemics such as influenza and dengue in the country on several occations.  GMOA has apposed amendments to the Inland Revenue (IR) Act which changed the rates of income tax stating that its detrimental to professionals. In July 2018 they have threaten trade union action inform of an island wide strike if there demands are not met.  Following strike action and discussions with officials of the Finance Ministry, Health Ministry and the GMOA, contradicting statements were released by the Health Minister stating that income tax imposed on specialist doctors will be reduced to 15% from the normal 24%; while the Finance Minister has refuted the Health Ministers statement stating that the income tax rate for 24% based on the Inland Revenue (IR) Act was not changed but provisional relief granted by changing the method of calculating tax imposed on specialist doctors.   According to the Department of Inland Revenue, only 6,000 out of the 39,000 registered doctors pay income tax.  