The Education World Forum (EWF) is a ministerial education seminar held annually in London, England. Ministers from around the world gather to debate future practice in education focused around certain "themes".  Founded in 2002  under the name “Moving Young Minds” the event was run by the governmental organisation Becta (British Educational Communications Technology Agency). It grew in the years 2000-2008 till it was renamed the“Learning and Technology World Forum” (LaTWF) in 2009.  The LaTWF followed the structure of the previous  “Moving Young Mind” conferences, but focused the events around certain themes, such as 'Next Generation Learning'.  With the abolishment of Becta in the May 2010 post-election spending review, and its liquidation in April 2011, responsibility for LaTWF was passed to the private sector. The British Educational Suppliers Association (BESA) obtained the contract for the event and renamed it the "Education World Forum". The EWF has close ties with the annual BETT show held in London at the same time. The organisers of EWF encourage the delegates to visit BETT, merging the areas of politics and business in education. The programme comprises keynote addresses, Ministerial keynotes, Ministerial Exchanges as well as time for networking and informal discussions.  These occasions include an official reception and official networking dinner hosted by Secretaries of State. Speakers and presentations at the event are given by over 50 world leading experts in the field of education, as well as by visintg goodwill dignitaries. All visiting dignitaries are provided with guest passes and ample time to visit the BETT show, the largest international education technology show in the world that is hosted by London at the same time. The Education World Forum was held in London, United Kingdom from 10–12 January 2011.  It built on previous Moving Young Minds and Learning and Technology World Forum events, bringing together Ministers of Education, their advisors and delegations to address key issues and to share the education system challenges they face, the solutions they have found, the learning that has occurred and the successes they have achieved.  The Ministers were joined by leaders from global and international organisations including UNESCO, the World Bank, the OECD and the British Council, as well as international corporations with a focus on education and technology. These corporations included Cisco, Intel, Microsoft, HP, Pearson, Promethean and Encyclopædia Britannica. The Education World Forum was held in London from 9–11 January 2012. Supported by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, the Department for Education, the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills and the British Council, it brought together Ministers of Education, their advisors and delegations to address key issues and to share the education system challenges they face, the solutions they have found, the learning that has occurred and the successes they have achieved. Leaders from global and international organisations including UNESCO, the World Bank, the OECD and the British Council and the Commonwealth, as well as international corporations and sponsors with a focus on education and technology joined the participating Ministers of Education.  The partner corporations included Intel, Microsoft, HP, Pearson and Promethean. Cisco, Adobe, The Alexandria Trust, University of Cambridge International Examinations, Encyclopædia Britannica and Lego Education were also partners to EWF 2012. The Education World Forum took place from 27–30 January 2013 and was supported by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), the Department for Education (DfE), the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS), the British Council and the EWF industry partners. It was hosted by the British Educational Suppliers Association (BESA) and its delivery partners. The Education World Forum, held in London from 19–22 January 2014, is the largest annual gathering of international education ministers.  Supported by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, the Department for Education, the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, the Department for International Development and the British Council, it built on ten previous annual Moving Young Minds and Learning and Technology World Forum events. The Education World Forum 2015 took place in London in January. The Forum is the internationally recognised ministerial forum for debating future practice in education and is a closed event, by official invitation only. The event runs with the support of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), the Department for Education (DfE), the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS), the British Council and the EWF industry partners. The Education World Forum, the largest   gathering of education and skills ministers in the world, took place in January 2016 in London in the United Kingdom(UK). The Education World Forum is a closed event, by official invitation only. The 2016 event saw the Sustainable Development Goals discussed by delegates,  along with providing education in crises   and the fundamental aspects of a successful education system.  Equalities  and goals for sharing ideas and knowledge  were also central themes. 2017  The Education World Forum took place in January 2017 in London, United Kingdom(UK). The Forum provides the opportunity to debate future practice in education and is a closed event, by official invitation only. The Education World Forum, the largest gathering of education and skills ministers in the world, will gather in January 2017 in London in the United Kingdom(UK). The Education World Forum, is the internationally recognised ministerial forum for debating future practice in education and is a closed event, by official invitation only.  