The Fifth Dimension of Warfare complements the four classical dimensions: land, sea, air, and space.  It was enunciated in 1995 as Information Operations.  This is part of core U.S. Military doctrine, that recognizes at least five dimensions, or 'domains of warfare' for which it is responsible:  The origin of the concept of Fifth Dimension Operations, was a criticism that the 'domain approach' reflected "a failure to think beyond the normal "four" dimensions of threats, both domestic and international".  In more recent times, the concept of Fifth Dimensional Operations, as a concept under military operations, has taken a wider scope, that its original information operations background, focusing on "the advanced space-time manipulating capabilities cyberspace offers".  This development, was begun as early as 1996, in regards to Advanced Battlespace and Cybermaneuver Concepts.  The historical analysis used to justify the concept of Fifth Dimensional Operations being developed, was the notion that: Core arguments used in the development of the Concept of Fifth Dimension Operations have been: "there is now a technological solution – an approach that makes possible the feat of entering the opponent's decision making loop via the imaginative use of information technology. In the sense, its key contribution is that it conceptually presupposes that as we move into the Information Age new possibilities are realized as the ability to enter into the mind of the opponent becomes reality, not merely guessing at their motives and actions, but molding and directing them as well."  The concept of a Five-Dimensional Operational space, is based on the notion, that there is a structural dimension to modern-day tactics and operational art, and that this has developed from the challenge posed by: The Concept of Fifth Dimension Operations, is conceptually based on adding the "five-dimensional, holistic approach to warfare that uses the three dimensions of land, sea, and aerospace but also incorporates the temporal and cyber dimensions of warfare".  A core technical component of Fifth Dimension Operations is cyberwarfare, and cyber-attacks.  Information warfare historically as a concept, has tended to be more developed under U.S. military doctrine, and tends to favor technology, and tends to extend into the realms of Electronic Warfare, Cyber Warfare, Information Assurance and Computer Network Operations/Attack/Defense. Concurrently, a more broader term of Information Operations has developed combining the making use of technology, as well as focusing on the more human-related aspects of information use, including social network analysis, decision analysis and the human aspects of command and control. This broader view has become the basis for Fifth Dimension Operations.  