The Annual BCI Research Award is an annual accolade to recognize excellence in the field of brain-computer interface (BCI) research. The award is open to any person or group in any country. Each year, a different institute known for BCI research is chosen to host the award. This institute selects a jury from established researchers within the BCI community, which selects ten nominees and then a winner. All ten nominees are invited and expected to submit chapters that summarize their submission to the Award, subsequent progress, and future directions. These chapters are then collected in a book with a major publisher, which also includes an introduction and conclusion with summary information. The winner of the Annual BCI Research Award also receives $3,000 (1st), $2,000 (2nd), $1,000 (3rd) and a statue at a gala awards ceremony attached to a major conference. g.tec medical engineering GmbH and Guger Technologies OG, companies headquartered in Austria that manufactures BCI products,  organize the Award together with international institutions. The jury is instructed to score all projects based on the following criteria: Each year, the Annual BCI Research Award follows a rigorous, structured schedule to encourage the best submissions, ensure the most effective decisionmaking processes, and maximize the impact. This section describes the general timeline for each annual. Since the Award is presented at a major conference, the exact dates change each year, but the general procedure will not change. Submissions for the 2017 BCI Award were due May 15, 2017. The jury was: As with previous years, the jury managed the selection of nominees and winners, and any jury members who also contributed a submission did not vote on that submission. The selection of nominees and winners was based on the same award criteria as previous years, described above. The Award Ceremony took place on September 20, 2017 as part of the 7th International BCI Conference 2017, which occurred from September 18 to 22, 2017. Prof. Gernot Muller-Putz introduced Dr. Guger, who briefly introduced the award to the attendees. The jury chair, Natalie Mrachacz-Kersting, announced the nominees, and Brendan Allison announced the winners. Takufumi Yanagisawa1–6, Ryohei Fukuma1,3,4,7, Ben Seymour8,9, Koichi Hosomi1,10, Haruhiko Kishima1, Takeshi Shimizu1,10, Hiroshi Yokoi11, Masayuki Hirata1,4, Toshiki Yoshimine1,4, Yukiyasu Kamitani3,7,12, Youichi Saitoh1,10 1 Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan. 2 Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan. 3 ATR Computational Neuroscience Laboratories, Kyoto, Japan. 4 CiNet Computational Neuroscience Laboratories, Osaka, Japan. 5 JST PRESTO, Osaka, Japan. 6 Osaka University, Japan. 7 Nara Institute of Science and Technology, Nara, Japan. 8 University of Cambridge, UK. 9 National Institute for Information and Communications Technology, Osaka, Japan. 10 Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan. 11 The University of Electro-Communications, Tokyo, Japan. 12 Kyoto University, Japan. Mariska J Vansteensel1, Elmar GM Pels1, Martin G. Bleichner2, Mariana P. Branco1, Timothy Denison3, Zachary V. Freudenburg1, Peter Gosselaar1, Sacha Leinders1, Thomas H. Ottens4, Max A Van Den Boom1, Peter C. Van Rijen1, Erik J. Aarnoutse1, Nick F Ramsey1 1 Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, University Medical Center Utrecht, Dept Neurology and Neurosurgery, Heidelberglaan 100, 3584 CX Utrecht, The Netherlands. 2 Neuropsychology Lab, Department of Psychology, European Medical School, Cluster of Excellence Hearing4all, University of Oldenburg, Ammerländer Heerstrasse 114-118, 26129 Oldenburg, Germany. 3 Neuromodulation Core Technology, 7000 Central Ave NE, Medtronic PLC, Minneapolis, 55432, USA. 4 University Medical Center Utrecht, Dept Anesthesiology, Heidelberglaan 100, 3584 CX Utrecht, The Netherlands. Tomislav Milekovic1, Marco Capogrosso1,2, David Borton1,3, Fabien Wagner1, Eduardo Martin Moraud2, Jean-Baptiste Mignardot1, Nicolas Buse4, Jerome Gandar1, Quentin Barraud1, David Xing3, Elodie Rey1, Simone Duis1, Yang Jianzhong5, Wai Kin D. Ko5, Qin Li5,6, Peter Detemple6, Tim Denison4, Silvestro Micera2,8, Erwan Bezard5,6,9,10, Jocelyne Bloch11, Grégoire Courtine1,11 1 International foundation for Research in Paraplegia chair in Spinal Cord Repair, Center for Neuroprosthetics and Brain Mind Institute, School of Life Sciences, EPFL, Switzerland. 2 Bertarelli Foundation Chair in Translational Neuroengineering, Center for Neuroprosthetics and Institute of Bioengineering, School of Bioengineering, EPFL, Switzerland. 3 School of Engineering, Brown University, USA. 4 Medtronic, USA. 5 Motac neuroscience Ltd., UK. 6 Institute of Lab Animal Sciences, China Academy of Medical Sciences, China. 7 Fraunhofer ICT-IMM, Germany. 8 The BioRobotics Institute, Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna, Italy. 9 University of Bordeaux, Institut des Maladies Neurodégénératives, UMR 5293, France. 10 CNRS, Institut des Maladies Neurodégénératives, UMR 5293, France; 11 Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois, Switzerland. Ujwal Chaudhary1,2, Aygul Rana1, Azim Malekshahi1, Stefano Silvoni3, Niels Birbaumer1,2 1 Institute of Medical Psychology and Behavioral Neurobiology, University of Tuebingen. 2 Wyss Center for Bio and Neuroengineering, Genéva, Switzerland. 3 Department of Cognitive and Clinical Neuroscience, Central Institute of Mental Health, Mannheim, Germany. Stephanie Martin1,2, Peter Brunner3,4, Iñaki Iturrate1, José del R. Millán1, Gerwin Schalk3,4, Robert T. Knight2,5 & Brian N. Pasley 1 Defitech Chair in Brain-Machine Interface, Center for Neuroprosthetics, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Switzerland 2 Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA 3 National Center for Adaptive Neurotechnologies, Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of Health, Albany, NY, USA 4 Department of Neurology, Albany Medical College, Albany, NY, USA 5 Department of Psychology, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA Surjo R. Soekadar, Matthias Witkowski, Cristina Gómez, Eloy Opisso, Josep Medina, Mario Cortese, Marco Cempini, Maria Chiara Carrozza, Leonardo G. Cohen, Niels Birbaumer, Nicola Vitiello University Hospital of Tübingen, Germany. David Hübner1, Pieter-Jan Kindermans2, Thibault Verhoeven3, Klaus-Robert Müller2,4,5, Michael Tangermann1 1 Albert-Ludwigs Universität Freiburg, Germany. 2 Berlin Institute of Technology, Germany. 3 Ghent University, Belgium. 4 Korea University, Seoul, Korea. 5 Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Saarbrücken, Germany. Takasaki K1, Liu F2, Hiramato M2, Okuyama K2, Kawakami M2, Mizuno K2, Kasuga S1,3, Noda T4, Morimoto J4, Fujiwara T5, Ushiba J1,3, Liu M2 1 Department of Biosciences and Informatics, Faculty of Science and Technology, Keio University, Japan. 2 Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Keio University School of Medicine, Japan. 3 Keio Institute of Pure and Applied Science (KiPAS), Japan. 4 ATR Computational Neuroscience Labs, Japan. 5 Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Juntendo University School of Medicine, Japan. Korostenskaja, M.1,2,3, RaviPrakash, H.4, Bagci, U.4, Lee, K.H.3, Chen, P.C.1,3, Salinas, C.3, Baumgartner, J.3, Castillo, E.2,3 1 Functional Brain Mapping and Brain Computer Interface Lab, Florida Hospital for Children, Orlando, FL, USA. 2 MEG Lab, Florida Hospital for Children, Orlando, FL, USA. 3 Florida Epilepsy Center, Florida Hospital, Orlando, FL, USA. 4 Center for Research in Computer Vision, University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL, USA. Ori Cohen1,2, Dana Doron3, Moshe Koppel3, Rafael Malach4, Doron Friedman1 1 the Advanced Reality Lab, Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya (IDC H.), P.O. Box 167 Herzliya, 46150, Israel. 2 the Department of Computer Science, Bar-Ilan University Ramat-Gan, 52900 Israel. 3 the Department of Brain Injury Rehabilitation, Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Israel. 4 the Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel. S. Aliakbaryhosseinabadi1, E. N. Kamavuako1, N. Jiang2, D. Farina3, N. Mrachacz-Kersting1 1 Center for Sensory-Motor Interaction, Department of Health Science and Technology, Aalborg University, DK-9220 Aalborg, Denmark. 2 Department of Systems Design Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Canada. 3 Imperial College London, London, UK. Birgit Nierula1,2, Maria V. Sanchez-Vives1,2,3,4 1 Institut d’Investigacions Biomè diques August Pi I S unyer (IDIBAPS ), Rosselló 149-153, 08036 Barcelona, Spain. 2 Event-Lab, Department of Clinical Psychology and Psychobiology, Universitat de Barcelona, Passeig de la Vall d'Hebron 171, 08035 Barcelona, Spain. 3 Institució Catalana Recerca i Estudis Avançats (IC R E A), Passeig Lluís Companys 23, 08010 Barcelona, Spain. 4 Departamento de Psicología Básica, Universitat de Barcelona, Passeig de la Valld'Hebron 171, 08035 Barcelona, Spain.  First place: "Online adaptive brain-computer interface with attention variations" S. Aliakbaryhosseinabadi et al.  Second place: "Individual word classification during imagined speech" Martin et al.  Third place: "BCI prosthetic hand to control phantom limb pain" Yanagisawa et al.  2018 Award One of the announcements during the 2017 Awards Ceremony stated that the next BCI Research Award ceremony would occur at the Seventh International BCI Meeting, which is scheduled for May 2018 in Pacific Grove, CA. The jury will again select twelve nominees from the submissions and then choose the three winners. Submissions for the 2016 BCI Award were due Mar 1, 2016. The jury was: As with previous Awards, the jury was responsible for reviewing submissions that presented new BCI research, nominating the best projects, and choosing the winners. For the first time in the history of the Award, the jury selected twelve nominees instead of ten. The twelve nominated projects were: Carlos Amaral1, João Andrade1, Marco Simões1, Susana Mouga1,2, Bruno Direito1, Miguel Castelo-Branco1,3 1 IBILI - Institute for Biomedical Imaging and Life Sciences, Faculty of Medicine – University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal 2 Unidade de Neurodesenvolvimento e Autismo do Serviço do Centro de Desenvolvimento da Criança, Pediatric Hospital, Centro Hospitalar e Universitário de Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal 3 ICNAS – Brain Imaging Network of Portugal.) A P300-based brain-computer interface for social attention rehabilitation in autism Daiki Aminaka, Tomasz M. Rutkowski University of Tsukuba, Japan. Sixteen Commands and 40 Hz Carrier Frequency Code-modulated Visual Evoked Potential BCI Luke Bashford1,2, JingWu3, Devapratim Sarma3, Kelly Collins4, Jeff Ojemann4, Carsten Mehring2 1 Imperial College London, Bioengineering, UK 2 Bernstein Centre, Faculty of Biology, BrainLinks-BrainTools, Univ. of Freiburg, Germany 3 Bioengineering, Ctr. For Sensorimotor Neural Eng. 4 Dept. of Neurolog. Surgery, Ctr. For Sensorimotor Neural Eng., Univ. of Washington, USA. Natural movement with concurrent brain-computer interface control induces persistent dissociation of neural activity Sharlene Flesher2,3, John Downey2,3, Jennifer Collinger1,2,3,4, Stephen Foldes1,3,4, Jeffrey Weiss1,2, Elizabeth Tyler-Kabara1,2,5, Sliman Bensmaia6, Andrew Schwartz2,3,8, Michael Boninger1,2,4, Robert Gaunt1,2,3 1,2,5,8Departments of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Bioengineering, Neurological Surgery, Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA 3 Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, Pittsburgh, PA, USA 4 Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Pittsburgh, PA, USA 6 Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA. Intracortical Microstimulation as a Feedback Source for Brain-Computer Interface Users Thomas J. Oxley, Nicholas L. Opie, Sam E. John, Gil S. Rind, Stephen M. Ronayne, Clive N. May, Terence J. O’Brien Vascular Bionics Laboratory, Melbourne Brain Centre, Departments of Medicine and Neurology, The Royal Melbourne Hospital, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia. Minimally invasive endovascular stent-electrode array for high-fidelity, chronic recordings of cortical neural activity Jaime A. Pereira1,2, Ranganatha Sitaram1,3, Pradyumna Sepulveda2,4,5, Mohit Rana2, Cristián Montalba5, Cristián Tejos3,4,5, Sergio Ruiz1,2,3 1 Department of Psychiatry and Interdisciplinary Center for Neuroscience, School of Medicine, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile 2 Laboratory of Brain-Machine Interfaces and Neuromodulation, Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile 3 Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering, Schools of Engineering, Medicine and Biology, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile 4 Department of Electrical Engineering, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile. 5 Biomedical Imaging Center, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile. Brain-Computer Interfaces based on fMRI for Volitional Control of Amygdala and Fusiform Face Area: Applications in Autism Matthias Schultze-Kraft, Daniel Birman, Marco Rusconi, Carsten Allefeld, Kai Görgen, Sven Dähne, Benjamin Blankertz, John-Dylan Haynes Neurotechnology Group, Technische Universität Berlin, Berlin, Germany. Reclaiming the Free Will: A Real-Time Duel between a Human and a Brain-Computer Interface Gaurav Sharma1, Nick Annetta1, Dave Friedenberg1, Marcie Bockbrader2, Ammar Shaikhouni2, W. Mysiw2, Chad Bouton1, Ali Rezai2 1 Battelle Memorial Institute, 505 King Ave, Columbus, OH 43201 2 The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA 43210. An Implanted BCI for Real-Time Cortical Control of Functional Wrist and Finger Movements in a Human with Quadriplegia Jordy Thielen, Pieter Marsman, Colleen Monaghan, Jason Farquhar and Peter Desain Donders Center for Cognition, Radboud University Nijmegen Broad-band BCI: finding structure in noisy data Yueming Wang1, Minlong Lu2, Zhaohui Wu2, Liwen Tian2, Kedi Xu1, Xiaoxiang Zheng1, Gang Pan2 1 Qiushi Academy for Advanced Studies, Zhejiang University, China. 2 College of Computer Science, Zhejiang University, China Vision-Augmented Rat Cyborg Seung Woo Lee and Shelley I. Fried Boston VA Healthcare System, Boston, Massachusetts, USA, Department of Neurosurgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. Precise and reliable activation of cortex with micro-coils L. Yao1, T. Xie2, Z. Wu3, X. Sheng2, D. Zhang2, C. Lin1, F. Negro1, L. Chen3, N. Mrachacz-Kersting4, X. Zhu2, D. Farina1 1 Institute of Neurorehabilitation Systems, University Medical Center Goettingen, Goettingen, Germany 2 State Key Laboratory of Mechanical System and Vibration, Institute of Robotics, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China. 3 Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, China.44 Center for Sensory-Motor Interaction, Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark Towards Online Functional Brain Mapping and Monitoring during Awake Craniotomy Surgery using ECoG-based Brain-Surgeon Interface (BSI) The Gala Awards Ceremony occurred on June 2, 2016 in Merrill Hall at the Asilomar Conference Center as part of the Sixth International BCI Meeting, which was from May 30 - June 3, 2016 in Pacific Grove, CA. Dr. Kyosuke Kamada represented the jury, while Dr. Christoph Guger presented the awards and Dr. Brendan Allison emceed the ceremony. Most of the conference attendees were present to see the twelve nominees receive a certificate and stand onstage while the first, second, and third place winners were announced. The winners were: The BCI Award 2016 winner was: Gaurav Sharma1, Nick Annetta1, Dave Friedenberg1, Marcie Bockbrader2, Ammar Shaikhouni2, W. Mysiw2, Chad Bouton1, Ali Rezai2 1 Battelle Memorial Institute, 505 King Ave, Columbus, OH 43201 2 The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA 43210. An Implanted BCI for Real-Time Cortical Control of Functional Wrist and Finger Movements in a Human with Quadriplegia The following image shows one person representing most of the twelve nomimated projects on stage during the Award Ceremony. (The picture shows ten nominees, not twelve, because two were not available at the Ceremony.) On the far right of the image is Dr. Christoph Guger, and to his right is Dr. Kyosuke Kamada. The BCI Award 2016 2nd and 3rd place winners were: Sharlene Flesher2,3, John Downey2,3, Jennifer Collinger1,2,3,4, Stephen Foldes1,3,4, Jeffrey Weiss1,2, Elizabeth Tyler-Kabara1,2,5, Sliman Bensmaia6, Andrew Schwartz2,3,8, Michael Boninger1,2,4, Robert Gaunt1,2,3 1,2,5,8Departments of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Bioengineering, Neurological Surgery, Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA 3Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, Pittsburgh, PA, USA 4Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Pittsburgh, PA, USA 6Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA. Intracortical Microstimulation as a Feedback Source for Brain-Computer Interface Users Thomas J. Oxley, Nicholas L. Opie, Sam E. John, Gil S. Rind, Stephen M. Ronayne, Clive N. May, Terence J. O’Brien Vascular Bionics Laboratory, Melbourne Brain Centre, Departments of Medicine and Neurology, The Royal Melbourne Hospital, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia. Minimally invasive endovascular stent-electrode array for high-fidelity, chronic recordings of cortical neural activity The first, second, and third place winners received cash awards of $3000, $2000, and $1000, respectively. These three winners also received a special bread knife, and all nominees won other prizes. The 2017 BCI Research Award will accept submissions later, and this information will be posted on the BCI Research Award website.  The 2017 BCI Research Award Ceremony will be part of the Seventh International BCI conference.  The deadline for the 2015 Award is 1 July 2015. The Annual BCI Research Award 2015 will be awarded by the Department of Biosciences and Informatics - Faculty of Science and Technology, Keio University, Japan at the Society for Neuroscience annual meeting, NEUROSCIENCE 2015, Oct 17-21, 2015 in Chicago, Illinois, United States. In 2015 60 top-level research projects were submitted from all over the world! The jury, chaired by Junichi Ushiba, carefully scores 10 nominated projects, and then selects the winner for the Annual BCI Research Award 2014. The ten nominees,  presented alphabetically by first author, were: The 2015 BCI Award winner was: Guy Hotson1, David P McMullen2, Matthew S. Fifer3, Matthew S. Johannes4, Kapil D. Katyal4, Matthew P. Para4, Robert Armiger4, William S. Anderson2, Nitish V. Thakor3, Brock A. Wester4, Nathan E. Crone5 (1Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, US,2Department of Neurosurgery, Johns Hopkins University, US, 3Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, US, 4Applied Neuroscience, JHU Applied Physics Laboratory, US, 5Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University, US) The BCI Award 2015 2nd and 3rd place are: Roni Hogri1,3, Simeon A. Bamford2,4, Aryeh H. Taub1,5 (1Psychobiology Research Unit, Tel Aviv University, IL,2Complex Systems Modeling Group, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, IT, 3Department of Neurophysiology, Medical University of Vienna, AT,4Inilabs Gmbh, CH,5Department of Neurobiology, Wiezmann Institute of Science, IL) Kenji Kato, Masahiro Sawada, Tadashi Isa, Yukio Nishimura (National Institute for Physiological Sciences, Aichi, JP) The 2015 jury consists of: Junichi Ushiba (chair of the jury 2015) Masayuki Hirata Nuri Firat Ince Zachary Freudenburg José del R. Millán Sydney Cash Tomasz M. Rutkowski The deadline for the 2014 Award was 1 July 2014, but was extended to 10 July 2014. The Annual BCI Research Award 2014 will be awarded by the Institute of Knowledge Discovery, Graz University of Technology, Austria at the  6th International Brain-Computer Interface Conference 2014,  September 16–19, 2014 in Graz, Austria. In 2014 68 top-level research projects were submitted from all over the world! The jury, chaired by Gernot R. Müller-Putz, carefully scores 10 nominated projects, and then selects the winner for the Annual BCI Research Award 2014. The ten nominees,  presented alphabetically by first author, were: The 2014 BCI Award winner was: K. Hamadaa, H. Morib, H. Shinodaa, T.M. Rutkowskib, c (bThe University of Tokyo, JP, bLife Science Center of TARA, University of Tsukuba, JP, cRIKEN Brain Science Institute, JP) The BCI Award 2014 2nd and 3rd place are: J. Ibáñeza, J. I. Serranoa, M. D. del Castilloa, E. Mongeb, F. Molinab, F.M. Rivasb, J.L. Ponsa (aBioengineering Group of the Spanish National Research Council (CSIC), bLAMBECOM group, Health Sciences Faculty, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, Alcorcón, ES) N. Mrachacz-Kerstinga, N. Jiangb, S. Aliakbaryhosseinabadia, R. Xub, L. Petrinia, R. Lontisa, M. Jochumsena, K. Dremstrupa, D. Farinab (aSensory-Motor Interaction, Department of Health Science and Technology, DK, bDept. Neurorehabilitation Engineering Bernstein Center for Computational Neuroscience University Medical Center, DE) The 2014 jury consists of: Gernot R. Müller-Putz, Deniz Erdogmus, Peter Brunner, Tomasz M. Rutkowski, Mikhail A. Lebedev, The original deadline for the 2013 Award was 30 March 2013, but was extended to 14 April 2013. The Annual BCI Research Award 2013 will be awarded by the Wadsworth Center, Albany, United States at the  BCI Meeting 2013  in June 3–7, 2013 in Asilomar, California, USA. 169 projects were submitted for the 2013 Award. Like the preceding years, the submissions came from groups all over the world, and reflected a wide range of different types of BCIs. The jury, chaired by Theresa Vaughan, carefully scores 10 nominated projects, and then selects the winner for the Annual BCI Research Award 2013. The ten nominees,  presented alphabetically by first author, were: The 2013 BCI Award winner was: M. C. Dadarlata,b, J. E. O’Dohertya, P. N. Sabesa,b (aDepartment of Physiology, Center for Integrative Neuroscience, San Francisco, CA, US, bUC Berkeley-UCSF Bioengineering Graduate Program, University of California, San Francisco, CA, US) The 2013 jury consists of: Theresa Vaughan, Dr., Douglas Weber, Dr., Adam Hebb, Dr., Donatella Mattia, Dr., Andrzej Cichocki, Dr., Adam Wilson, Dr., Surjo Soekadar, Dr. The original deadline for the 2012 Award was 15 July 2012, but was extended to 30 July 2012. The 2012 award was presented at a dinner ceremony at the 2012 conference  of the Society for Neuroscience, which was 13-17 Oct in New Orleans, Louisiana. The annual SfN conference is a well-established venue for presenting BCI research. 68 projects were submitted for the 2012 Award. Like the two preceding years, the submissions came from groups all over the world, and reflected a wide range of different types of BCIs. Relative to previous years, there was a stronger emphasis on BCIs with direct medical applications (as opposed to pure research, healthy user applications, etc.) Most of the nominated projects were aimed at helping groups with specific medical needs, such as persons with stroke, tetraplegia, epilepsy, paralysis or visual deficits. The ten nominees,  presented alphabetically by first author, were: A.B. Ajiboye, D. Bacher, L. Barefoot, E. Berhanu, M.J. Black, D. Blana, S.S. Cash, K. Centrella, E.K. Chadwick, A. Cornwell, J. P. Donoghue, E. Eskandar, J. M. Feldman, G. M. Friehs, E. Gallivan, B. Jarosiewicz, L. R. Hochberg, M. Homer, P.-S. Kim, B. King, R. F. Kirsch, J. Liu, W. Q. Malik, N. Y. Masse, J. A. Perge, D. M. Rosler, A. Sarma, N. Schmansky, J. D. Simeral, S. Stavisky, B. Travers, K. Tringale, W. Truccolo (School of Engineering, Brown University) and S. Haddadin, J. Vogel (Institute of Robotics and Mechatronics, German Aerospace Center / DLR) and P. van der Smagt (Institute of Robotics and Mechatronics, German Aerospace Center / DLR, and Institute of Informatics, Technische Universität München) Intracortical control of assistive devices by individuals with tetraplegia. The 2012 BCI Award winner was: Surjo R. Soekadar, Niels Birbaumer (Applied Neurotechnology Lab, University Hospital Tübingen and Institute of Medical Psychology and Behavioral Neurobiology, Eberhard Karls University, Tübingen, Germany) Dr. Eric Leuthardt said that "It is a great pleasure to congratulate the Soekadar and Birbaumer team on their project entitled "Improving Efficacy of Ipsilesional Brain-Computer Interface Training in Neurorehabilitation of Chronic Stroke." Their work is highlighting the important movement of neuroprosthetics towards stroke. There is a fundamental need to use BCI approaches to address this clinical area of motor disability that numbers in the hundreds of thousands per year and stands to increase substantially as the world population ages. BCI for stroke will likely be the next chapter for engineered restorative strategies that could be paradigm shifting in this widespread form of motor impairment." The 2012 jury again included some of the top figures in BCI research, with a stronger emphasis on medical doctors than previous years. The 2012 jury also included the winner of the 2011 BCI Award, just as the 2012 jury included the winnerof the 2010 BCI Award. For the first time, the jury also included scientists who had been jurors in previous years. Specifically, the jury included Profs. Gerwin Schalk and Gert Pfurtscheller, who were the chairmen of the jury in 2010 and 2011, respectively. The 2012 was chaired by Eric Leuthardt, M.D., and also consisted of: Gert Pfurtscheller, Ph.D., Leigh Hochberg, M.D, Ph.D., Gerwin Schalk, Ph.D., Moritz Grosse-Wentrup, Ph.D., Junichi Ushiba, Ph.D. Springer Publishing will publish a book about the 2012 BCI Award. Like the prior books about awards in earlier years, the book will include an introduction, discussion, and ten chapters from the ten nominees. These ten chapters will each describe the work submitted and updated information about more recent progress. The book will be edited by Drs. Guger, Allison, and Edlinger. The 2011 award was presented at a dinner ceremony at the Hotel Weitzer in Graz, Austria. The ceremony was scheduled around 5th International Brain-Computer Interface Conference, which was held in Graz from 22-24 Sept. 2011. The awarding institute was the Laboratory of Brain-Computer Interfaces, Institute for Knowledge Discovery, Graz University of Technology, which also hosted the conference. Prof. Gert Pfurtscheller, the Chairman of the Jury, presented the award, and the ceremony was emceed by Dr. Brendan Allison. In addition to Prof. Pfurtscheller, the 2011 jury consisted of: Robert Leeb, Ph.D., Cuntai Guan, Ph.D., Theresa Vaughan, Michael Tangermann, Ph.D., Jane Huggins, Ph.D. The ceremony featured over 100 attendees from the BCI community, and featured a Distinguished Special Guest, Prof. Jacques Vidal. Prof. Vidal is the inventor of BCIs (Vidal, 1973, 1977),   as widely noted in review articles and book chapters (Wolpaw et al., 2002;  Allison et al., 2007,  2012;  Wolpaw and Wolpaw, 2012 ).  64 projects were submitted for the 2011 award. The ten projects that were nominated showed the breadth of BCI research. The projects reflected a range of different sensor types, including BCIs based on single cell recordings, invasive recordings with implanted electrodes on the cortex, and non-invasive scalp recordings. A range of BCI applications were also nominated, including BCIs for speech recognition, stroke rehabilitation, and robotic device control. The ten nominees, presented in alphabetical order by first author, were: The winning submission 2011 was: Moritz Grosse-Wentrup, Bernhard Schölkopf (Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems, Tübingen, Germany) g.tec has announced that it is developing a book through Springer Publishing based on the 2011 BCI Research Award competition. This book will be similar to the book based on the 2010 Award, which is described below. All ten of the nominees have written chapters that summarize the work they submitted for the 2011 Award and their follow-up efforts. Two other chapters, an introduction and conclusion, include analyses and summaries of the ten projects that were nominated as well as all submitted projects. The chapters have been peer-reviewed, then revised by the authors, and are soon going to press. The book's editors are Drs. Christoph Guger, Brendan Allison, and Günter Edlinger. The 2010 award was presented at a dinner ceremony with over 100 attendees from the BCI community on the Asilomar Conference grounds near Monterey, California. The ceremony was scheduled around the BCI Meeting 2010, which was held on the same grounds from 31 May until 4 June 2010. The awarding institute was the Wadsworth Center, represented by Prof. Gerwin Schalk. The 2010 jury also consisted of: Eric Sellers, Ph.D., Dean Krusienski, Ph.D., Klaus-Robert Müller, Ph.D., Bo Hong, Ph.D., Benjamin Blankertz, Ph.D. 60 projects were submitted for the 2010 Award.  The ten nominees, presented in alphabetical order by first author, were: The ten nominated projects have been published in a 2011 book,  edited by Reza Fazel. The winning submission 2010 was: Cuntai Guan, Kai Keng Ang, Karen Sui Geok Chua, Beng Ti Ang (A*STAR, Singapore) In addition to the usual awards, the winner also received an autographed copy of the book “A Practical guide to Brain-Computer Interfacing with BCI2000”.  There are a few other awards for BCI research. For example, the Berlin BCI group has hosted several Data Analysis Competitions. These competitions provide data from different types of BCIs (such as P300, ERD, or SSVEP), and competitors attempt to develop data analysis algorithms that can most accurately classify new data. The recently announced HCI Challenge instead focuses on improving the human-computer interaction within BCIs, such as through more natural and friendly interfaces. The X-Prize Foundation lists X-Prizes for BCI and Enduring Brain Computer Communication  as “Concepts Under Consideration". The Gao group at Tsinghua University in Beijing coordinated an online BCI competition at a conference that they hosted in 2010, and hosted a second competition in 2012. The Annual BCI Research Award is the only general award open to any facet of BCI research. 