Globe Award is an international sustainability award which aims at encouraging and promoting the corporate and public sector, individual scientists as well as groups of innovator that have excelled in sustainable development in the world. Globe Award is a not-for-profit organisation with focuses on fostering sustainability in societies. Globe Award’s main goal boils down to inspire actors to take responsibility and act globally through awarding great cases within research, innovations, municipalities and companies.  The award is handed out in 4 categories: Sustainability Research, Sustainability Innovation, Sustainable City and Sustainability Reporting.  1. Sustainable development Driving sustainability by recognising and awarding sustainability champions from around the world is crucial. This is about understanding the consequences of nowadays’s activities and believing in global collaboration to reach solutions to safeguard humanity’s welfare today and in the future. 2. Impact It is significant to create behavioural change through rewording unique solutions that can be implemented in order to make a change. 3. Transparency The Globe Award jury groups run the selection process equally independently. 4. Innovation Honouring tomorrow's leaders develops innovative solutions to the world’s sustainability challenges. Innovative business perspectives are considered as well as people, planet and profit.  The noted and internationally recognized 4 groups of jury consist of experts in sustainability from all over the world. They select one winner in each category independently and on objective grounds. There is the over-all jury chairman who along with the Globe Award secretariat, keeps that the process and selection of applications is obeyed.  Globe Award is an initiative by Globe Forum.  When started in 2007, Globe Award was a Swedish CSR Award. After two years of success in Sweden, Globe Forum decided to go further with Globe Award. Struggling in making a difference and increasing awareness towards sustainable development in all societies, it made sense in creating Globe Award a truly global prize focusing on sustainability, instead of CSR, starting from 2009. The award ceremony takes place annually in Stockholm. The initiative is supported by H.R.H. Victoria, Crown Princess of Sweden. Despite the world-wide edition, there was a national edition in Poland. It took place in Gdansk in 2009. The Globe Award Polish Edition was handed out in two categories: Sustainability Innovation and Sustainable City.  2007  2008  2009  2010  Globe Award together with World Bank has been building an independent, global foundation which will be awarding annually outstanding sustainable cases in the world. 