Imagine Cup is an annual competition sponsored and hosted by Microsoft Corp. which brings together student developers worldwide to help resolve some of the world's toughest challenges.  It is considered as "Olympics of Technology" by computer science and engineering and is considered one of the top competitions and awards related to technology and software design. All Imagine Cup competitors create projects that address the Imagine Cup theme: "Imagine a world where technology helps solve the toughest problems". Started in 2003, it has steadily grown in size, with more than 358,000 competitors representing 183 countries and regions in 2011. The Imagine Cup Worldwide finals have been held all over the globe. The Imagine Cup 2017 Worldwide Finals was held in Seattle, United States.   The Imagine Cup began in 2003 with approximately 1,000 competitors from 25 countries and regions and has grown to more than 358,000 competitors representing 183 countries and regions in 2011. The Imagine Cup Worldwide finals have been held all over the globe. Since 2014, the Imagine Cup World Finals have been held in Seattle, United States.  All Imagine Cup competitors create projects that address the Imagine Cup theme: “Imagine a world where technology helps solve the toughest problems.”  Competitions: There are a number of competitions and challenges within the Imagine Cup. The Software Design category is the primary competition in which its winners take home the Imagine Cup trophy. Andre Furtado Carlos Rodrigues Ivan Cardim Roberto Sonnino  Team Wings Rafael Costa Guilhermr Campos Helena Van Kampen Tulio Marques Soria Kenny Deriemaeker Timothy Vanherberghen Filip Van Bouwel Jeroen Van Raevels Dong HoonKim KiHwan Kim Min My Park Luciano José  Edgar Neto  Vinícius Ottoni  Victor Rafael  Pierre Elias Eric Lee Veronica Burkel Chase Sandmann Thomas Tiam-Lee Jenina Chua Jeriah Miranda Keven Hernandez Learning and Education    Code Buzzers  Innovate and Collaborate    Super Sea Dragons   LeapKin   Tutus   flipped.uy  RELOAD  Learn n' Earn  BiDE Code  AfriGal Tech  Flow  CodeBlue  Team HCI/d Games  Team Silicon Innovation  Hiraya Gabriel Eric Villanueva Jomarie Anne Marquez Neo John Tuquero Games    Team Sticky Bits  Innovation    Team Mote Labs  Games    Liaison Team  Innovation    YouBeRu  The Imagine Cup Innovation Accelerator was a program that, between 2006 and 2008, provided Imagine Cup Software Design teams with direction on the next stage of developing their innovative ideas into a business. Each year, between 2006–2008, six teams were selected for the Innovation Accelerator program. Participants in the Innovation Accelerator program travelled to the Microsoft Mountain View campus in Silicon Valley and received technical support and business coaching to create the must-have technology and communications applications of the future. In 2010, Microsoft began inviting every Imagine Cup team to participate in its new program for startups: Microsoft BizSpark.  With this program, startups receive access to current, full-featured software development tools and platforms.  Previous teams include: A three-year, $3 million competitive grant program was established by Microsoft in 2011 to support a select number of winning teams’ solutions to go to market and realize its potential to solve a critical global problem. The inaugural grant recipients were announced at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland on January 27, 2012 which included the following teams: The grant packages include US$75,000 for each team, as well as software, cloud computing services, solution provider support, premium Microsoft BizSpark account benefits and access to local resources such as the Microsoft Innovation Centers. Microsoft will also connect grant recipients with its network of investors, nongovernmental organization partners and business partners. Imagine Cup participants from around the world who won their regional competitions in 2010 have been recognized by their government leaders.    In October 2010, two Imagine Cup 2010 United States finalists (Wilson To    from the Mobilifeteam and Christian Hood from BeastWare)  were invited to participate in the White House Science Fair.   New Zealand’s Prime Minister, Hon. John Key sent Team OneBeep from New Zealand a personal letter that congratulated them on their third-place finish. Team Skeek from Thailand, winners of the 2010 Software Design competition, met Dr. Khunying Kalaya Sophonpanich, a member of Parliament and Secretary General of The Rajapruek Institute Foundation. Microsoft Poland and members of the European Parliament hosted the “Pushing the Boundaries of Innovation” conference in Brussels. Imagine Cup teams from Poland (fteams and Mutants), Serbia (TFZR), Germany (Mediator), and Belgium (Nom Nom Productions) were in attendance.   Greek Imagine Cup winners, Giorgos Karakatsiotis and Vangos Pterneas, of Megadodo,  met with the Prime Minister of Greece, George Papandreou, and demonstrated their project that creates personalized descriptions of museum exhibits based on the user's needs. Teams Xormis and Educ8 from Jamaica were honored with a special luncheon hosted by the Government of Jamaica that included an address from Hon. Bruce Golding, the prime minister.  Team Think Green had the opportunity to meet with Ivo Josipović, President of Croatia.  