  Dr. Ambika Bumb is the CEO and Founder of Bikanta.  Bumb is a nanomedicine specialist and Marshall Scholar whose work spans uses of a variety of types of nanotechnology for the detection of treatment of disease. Her discoveries using nanodiamonds while working as postdoctoral researcher at the National Cancer Institute and the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute led to the launch of the biotech Bikanta.   Bumb was born to Indian parents who immigrated to the United States for higher education.  Her father was one of the earliest in his family to complete his Doctor of Philosophy degree and her mother the first female in her town to go to college.  Her maternal-grandfather was a veterinarian.  Bumb graduated as from Southside High School as valedictorian in 2002, where her younger sister and brother also followed her as valedictorians. Bumb graduated in 2005 from Georgia Tech with a  Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Engineering and a Minor in Economics from Georgia Institute of Technology, while being recognized with the Helen E. Grenga Outstanding Woman Engineer and E. Jo Baker President’s Scholar Awards.   With an early interest in nanomedicine, she conducted research focused on tracking quantum dots in bone and cartilage while also being an active leader in various campus organizations. In 2008, Bumb completed her doctorate in Medical Engineering in three years from University of Oxford while also on the prestigious Marshall Scholarship and NIH-OxCam Program.    Her doctoral work brought together 4 labs from 2 institutes, 4 fields, and 2 countries.  She developed a triple-reporting nanoparticle and showed the technology’s transferability across different disease types with studies in cancer and multiple sclerosis. The magnetic nanoparticles demonstrated strong potential in cancer diagnostics and therapy.   Upon graduation, she continued to go on to two post-doctoral fellowships at the National Cancer Institute and National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. She has received much recognition for excellence in engineering and was profiled early in her career in Nature as a successful young scientist on the fast-track. Her breakthroughs in the areas of nanomedicine and diagnostics have led to multiple patents, publications, and the spin out of the biotech Bikanta  that is using nanodiamonds to allow academics and doctors to study and address disease at the cellular level.  Nanodiamonds are next generation imaging probes  trailblazing cutting-edge research including applications with the recent Nobel Prize in Chemistry for super-resolved fluorescence microscopy and utility in portable cancer detection devices. Bikanta is one of the first biotechs to be funded by Y Combinator, winner of the Silicon Valley Boomer Venture and CapCon Competitions, a California Life Science Institute's FAST Awardee, and named 1 of 4 Best Diagnostics Startups of 2015 by QB3. Complementary to her scientific and commercial interests, Bumb has also been involved in national science policy initiatives, particularly related to nanotechnology.  Bumb was featured as a female role model to empower young girls by Career Girls.   She has been appreciated in various interviews, including by Nature at the Naturejobs Career Expo, San Francisco   and in an interview by WeFunder.  Bumb practices Jainism  and has been a dancer from an early age. 