  Natasha Gajewski (née Rana) is the CEO and Founder of Symple Health.   Gajewski is a 2013 Stanford MedX ePatient Scholar.  Gajewski was born to Riaz Hussein Rana and Dana Roy. Her father, Rana, was a commercial pilot turned statistician founder of the government contracting firm, Statistica Inc. He previously taught courses at the University of Connecticut before working at Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Lab in Laurel, Maryland. Rana immigrated to the United States from Zafar Chowk, Pakistan in 1960.  Gajewski has one sister, Holly Bossard. Gajewski's parents later divorced. Her father remarried to Parisienne, Jacqueline Nicole Marchal, through which, Gajewski gained three stepsiblings, Ariane Emery, Lynn Bowen and, chief enterprise architect and former White House Assistant Chief Usher Christopher Emery.  Gajewski's mother remarried to jeweler Samuel Kind, through which, she gained two stepsiblings, actor and voice actor Richard Kind and Joanne Hinton.  Gajewski has a Bachelor of Arts in Economics and Statistics from Rutgers University. After being diagnosed, in 2010, with the rare condition, Mixed connective tissue disease (MTCD), Gajewski told by her physician to keep track of her symptoms between medical appointments.  This motivated her to improve health prospects for patients.    This led to the idea to create a mobile symptom journal.  Gajewski was initially faced with the prohibitive costs of developing a Mobile app after approaching developers from the United States and India.  To evaluate the feasibility and validity of the app, she attend Eric Ries's 2011 Lean startup - San Francisco where her idea was the 2nd-place winner and was voted "most fundable" and "most likely to succeed."   In a February 2017 Heart Sisters interview, Gajewksi said of her experience designing a mobile app:  She has been described as a "revolutionary" in the engaged patient movement along with Dave deBronkart and Jamie Heywood.  In 2014, the Symple App had 60,000 users.  It is distributed through the App Store (iOS).  In an interview with MedCity News, Gajewski stated that she used simplistic design for the Symple App which operates as an online health journal.  In 2016, Symple was recommended by a National Health Service general practitioner, Dr. Golda Parker, for patients to use to create lists of symptoms so they come prepared to appointments.  Gajewski's Symple app has been the subject of research in academic journals.  A 2017 academic study rated her mobile app as one of the "highest performing apps" for heart failure monitoring.  Gajewski provided input on point of care patient decisions in a 2016 study.  Danny Gorog of Macworld had positive remarks on the App, stating that it " is a powerful iPhone app that lets users track up to 20 different symptoms at once. It also functions as a health diary, to let you note the things you eat, daily exercise and medications you take."   Gajewski serves as an Advisor for Princeton University's Keller Center eLab Summer Accelerator.  She is also a member of University of California, San Diego and Irvine's Health Data Exploration Project.  In December 2011, Gajewski was one of the Princeton alumni and women entrepreneurs and business leaders who served as a panelist for the event entitled "Women in Entrepreneurship" hosted by the Keller Center.  The panel explored the underrepresentation of women in venture capital and startup ventures to which, Gajewski reported "I just never imagined limitations based on my sex.”  Later remarking, “It just never occurred to me."  Gajewski is a faculty member for the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation sponsored National Health Care Transparency Summit.  Gajewski serves on the Advisory Board of Flip the Clinic, a project of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.  Gajewksi resides in Princeton, New Jersey.  To combat her Autoimmune disease, Gajewski practices Zumba.  