Cell-based vaccine is a type of vaccine developed from mammalian cell lines rather than embryonic chicken eggs.  The potential use of cell culture techniques in developing viral vaccines, especially for the Influenza virus, has been widely investigated in recent years as a complementary and alternative platform to the current egg-based strategies.   The main benefit is the ability to rapidly produce vaccine supplies during an impending pandemic. Other benefits are the avoidance of egg-based allergy reactions. In addition, cell lines can be grown in synthetic media avoiding animal serum. This prevents the spread of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies.    The United States Food and Drug Administration approved Flucelvax as the first mammalian cell-based Influenza vaccine in the United States on November 20, 2012.  The vaccine was produced by Novartis through culturing of the Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cell line.  Specifically, Flucelvax targets three Influenza sub-types which includes Influenza A subtype H1N1, Influenza A subtype H3N2, and Influenza B. The vaccine is aimed towards individuals over the age of 18. In clinical trials, Flucelvax exhibited similar levels of vaccine efficacy and immunogenicity as traditional egg-based vaccines.  Optaflu, also produced by Novartis, was approved by the European Medicines Agency in 2009 for use in countries affiliated with the European Union. Optaflu is nearly identical to Flucelvax; it is also produced in MDCK cells and targets the same Influenza subtypes.  The main differences are in release specifications for measuring vaccine lots' safety, efficacy, and quality, mostly due to differences between U.S. and European regulatory standards and tests.  Developed by Protein Sciences Corporation, FluBlok is produced with insect cells. It is approved by the FDA for use in the US and suitable for people with egg allergies.  The FDA has approved two mammalian vero cell based vaccines for rotavirus, Rotarix by GlaxoSmithKline and RotaTeq by Merck.  ACAM2000 is a smallpox vaccine approved by the FDA in 2007.  IPOL, developed by Sanofi Pasteur, was approved by the FDA in 1987.  Verorab, developed by Sanofi Pasteur, is a mammalian vero cell based rabies vaccine approved by the World Health Organization.  IXIARO by Valneva SE for Japanese encephalitis.  