Programs supporting regular vaccination of dogs have contributed both to the health of dogs and to the public health. In countries where routine rabies vaccination of dogs is practiced, for example, rabies in humans is reduced to a very rare event. Currently, there are geographically defined core vaccines and individually chosen non-core vaccine recommendations for dogs. A number of controversies surrounding adverse reactions to vaccines have resulted in authoritative bodies revising their guidelines as to the type, frequency, and methods/locations for dog vaccination. In 2010  and 2011,  revised guidelines addressed concerns about adverse vaccine reactions  by altering the recommended frequency, type, methods, and locations for administration of core and non-core canine vaccines. Most vaccination protocols recommend a series of vaccines for puppies, with vaccine boosters given at one year of age. Frequency of vaccination thereafter varies depending on the lifestyle of the individual dog, including:  Because these factors may change over time, many professional organizations   recommend routine annual examinations, where a vaccination plan for each individual canine can be decided during a discussion between the veterinarian and dog owner. In their 2010 recommendations, WSAVA (World Small Animal Veterinary Association)  emphasized the importance of administering non-adjuvanted vaccines whenever possible, as vaccines that included these immune-stimulating agents were shown to increase adverse vaccine reactions in pets. WSAVA  also prefers serological testing over unnecessary boosters or re-vaccination doses of core vaccines after the initial 12-month booster that follows the puppy series of modified live virus [MLV] vaccines. This is because core vaccines show an excellent correlation between the presence of antibody and protective immunity to a disease, and have a long DOI (Duration of Immunity). Antibody tests can be used to demonstrate the DOI after vaccination with core vaccines, though not for non-core vaccines (such as parainfluenza). Most vaccines are given by subcutaneous (under the skin) or intramuscular (into the muscle) injection. Respiratory tract disease vaccination may be given intra-nasally (in the nose) in some cases. Many recent protocols indicate that vaccines should be given in specific areas in order to: ease identification of which vaccine caused an adverse reaction, and ease removal of any vaccine-associated sarcoma.  Although these protocols were initially designed for cats, some similar protocols are likely to be developed for canines, as well. In North America, vets adopted the practice of injecting specific limbs as far from the body as possible,  for example the rear right for rabies. This set of locations was not widely adopted outside of North American, and the international Vaccination Guidelines Group (VGG) made new recommendations  that vaccines be administered: Core vaccines are defined as those vaccines which ALL dogs, regardless of circumstances, should receive. Core vaccines protect animals from severe, life-threatening diseases which have global distribution.  The latest (2011) North American recommendation  still includes rabies in the core vaccines. Likewise, the National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians (NASPHV) in the U.S. gives detailed instructions on how to deal with what they describe as a serious public health problem, and includes a useful table,  summarizing all the rabies vaccines sold in the U.S. However, the 2010 international VGG recommendation  generally considers the rabies vaccine a non-core vaccine, except in areas where the disease is endemic or where required by law. In many locations the rabies vaccine is accompanied by a single combined vaccine shot which protects against: Non-core vaccines are those that are required by only those animals whose geographical location, local environment or lifestyle places them at risk of contracting specific infections.  Generally not recommended, owing to unproven efficacy, are: Vaccination has become a controversial topic among veterinarians and dog owners. Specific adverse reactions and general consequences for long-term health and immunity are both being cited as reasons to reduce the frequency of pet vaccination. The 2010 vaccination guidelines  published by the WSAVA (World Small Animal Veterinary Association) reduce the number of vaccines which should be considered core for canines, as well as recommending less frequent vaccine administration. In the executive summary section, the WSAVA guidelines  do argue against needless vaccination and in support of "the development and use of simple in-practice tests for determination of seroconversion (antibody) following vaccination." They also note that "Vaccines should not be given needlessly. Core vaccines should not be given any more frequently than every three years after the 12 month booster injection following the puppy/kitten series, because the duration of immunity (DOI) is many years and may be up to the lifetime of the pet." The open letter critique focuses on the less-nuanced summary of these recommendations in the tables given for vaccination guidelines, which could imply that re-vaccination should occur every three years. Vets and owners should also consider factors that have been shown to increase the risk of adverse vaccine reactions.  Examples of such factors include: 