Established in 1988, the Consortium of Humanities Centers and Institutes serves as a site for the discussion of issues germane to the fostering of crossdisciplinary activity and as a network for the circulation of information and the sharing of resources within the humanities and interpretive social sciences. CHCI has a membership of over 200 centers and institutes that are remarkably diverse in size and scope and are located in the United States, Australia, Canada, China, Korea, Finland, Taiwan, Ireland, United Kingdom, and other countries. Established in 1988, the Consortium of Humanities Centers and Institutes (CHCI) serves as an arena for the discussion of issues germane to crossdisciplinary activity in the humanities and as a network for the circulation of information and best practices related to the organizational and management dimensions of humanities centers and institutes. CHCI produces a major Annual Meeting of its membership, maintains a content-rich website, produces an annual print directory, and serves as a re-circulator for information about its members via listservs and its website. Members of the Consortium also assist one another with ideas, evaluation, and other forms of service. The organization is headed by a President, and is governed by an International Advisory Board of member directors and other leaders in the humanities. CHCI was established in 1988 as the product of two meetings: The Institutional Impact of Institutes at the University of California Humanities Research Institute (UCHRI, now based at the University of California, Irvine), convened by Murray Krieger, and an organizational meeting at the 1988 meeting of the American Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), convened by E. Ann Kaplan of the Humanities Institute at Stony Brook University. These gatherings were the first moments at which directors of humanities research organizations had come together to discuss issues of mutual concern, and the major product of the meetings was a unanimous sense that it was essential to establish a consortium to continue these dialogues. Ralph Cohen of the University of Virginia served from 1988-1995 as the organization's first Chair, while CHCI administration was based at UCHRI. In its early years, the CHCI membership included over 70 members from the US and four other countries. In 1995 CHCI operations and leadership moved to the Center for 21st Century Studies at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee, at that time directed by Kathleen Woodward, currently Director of The Walter Chapin Simpson Center for the Humanities at the University of Washington. During CHCI's term at UW-Milwaukee, the membership grew to over 125 organizations as new centers were opened and existing members began to expand their programs and operations. This period of time also saw the dramatic expansion of CHCI's Annual Meetings, the development of the organization's first website, and two major grants from the Rockefeller Foundation for organizational development and network-building. In 2001 CHCI moved to the auspices of the Humanities Center at Harvard, where Director Marjorie Garber served a six-year term as President of CHCI. During Professor Garber's term, membership continued to grow, and CHCI's annual meetings grew markedly in terms of depth, scale and impact. In 2007, CHCI operations moved to the John Hope Franklin Humanities Institute at Duke University, under the leadership of ex-CHCI President Srinivas Aravamudan. At Duke, CHCI began developing new programs for membership, such as a partnership with the American Council of Learned Societies. In 2016, CHCI moved from Duke University to the Center for the Humanities at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where Professor Sara Guyer took over as president. In December of the same year, The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation announced their decision to fund two new CHCI initiatives: The CHCI Global Humanities Institutes and The CHCI Africa Initiative.  On January 5, 2018 it was announced that CHCI would serve as a host organization for the American Council of Learned Societies's Public Fellows program.  CHCI is an affiliate member of the American Council of Learned Societies. The organization has put out statements affirming its support of federal funding for the humanities in general and for the National Endowment for the Humanities in particular.  CHCI's Annual Meetings provide an opportunity for member directors and administrators to engage in stimulating intellectual dialogues about broadly defined, current issues in the humanities. Each Annual Meeting includes useful and lively workshops focused on management issues, programming ideas and structures, fundraising, facilities, staffing, and other operational challenges facing member directors and their staffs. Perhaps most importantly, each CHCI Annual Meeting provides invaluable opportunities to meet, network, and collaborate with peers and counterparts at humanities centers and institutes from around the world. Each CHCI Annual Meeting is each constructed around a broadly defined intellectual theme, and is hosted by a member center or institute. Upcoming and recent Annual Meetings include: Recent CHCI Annual Meetings Humanities Informatics  June 13–17, 2018 Institute of the Humanities and Global Cultures, University of Virginia The Humanities Improvised  August 10–13, 2017 Centre for Humanities Research, University of the Western Cape Area Studies in a Globalizing World: Past, Present, and Future  June 28 - July 1, 2016 School of Advanced Study, University of London Humanities by the Numbers June 5–7, 2015 Center for the Humanities, University of Wisconsin-Madison Performative Humanities  June 5–8, 2014 Research Institute for the Humanities, The Chinese University of Hong Kong Humanities, Publics, and the State  April 25–27, 2013 Hall Center for the Humanities, University of Kansas Anthropocene Humanities  June 13–16, 2012 Humanities Research Centre, Australian National University Cities Humanities Archives June 12–15, 2011 Jackman Humanities Institute, University of Toronto Whose Global Humanities?  June 14–15, 2010 Cogut Center for the Humanities, Brown University Dialogues of Enlightenment  June 11–13, 2009 The Institute for Advanced Research in the Humanities, University of Edinburgh The Humanities in an Age of Science  March 14–15, 2008 The Center for the Humanities, Washington University in St. Louis Regional Logics  April 2007 The Huntington Library, Art Collections, and Botanic Gardens The Fate of Disciplines  April 28–29, 2006 Franke Institute for the Humanities, University of Chicago Open to the Public?  June 17–18, 2005 Research Institute for Culture and History, Utrecht University After the Past  April 16–17, 2004 Stanford Humanities Center, Stanford University Sara Guyer, President Director, Center for the Humanities University of Wisconsin-Madison Jean Allman Director, Center for the Humanities Washington University in St. Louis Amanda Anderson Director, Cogut Center for the Humanities Brown University Ian Baucom Director, John Hope Franklin Humanities Institute Duke University Homi K. Bhabha Director, Mahindra Humanities Center Harvard University Rosi Braidotti Director, Centre for the Humanities Utrecht University Judith Buchanan Director, Humanities Research Centre University of York Alan K. Chan Dean, College of Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences Nanyang Technological University James Chandler Director, Franke Institute for the Humanities University of Chicago Javier Durán Director, Confluencenter for Creative Inquiry University of Arizona Debjani Ganguly Director, Institute of the Humanities and Global Cultures University of Virginia Elizabeth Giorgis Director, Modern Art Museum: Gebre Kristos Desta Center Addis Ababa University Simon Goldhill Director, Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities (CRASSH) University of Cambridge Hsiung Ping-ChenSimon Goldhill Director, Research Institute for the Humanities The Chinese University of Hong Kong Ranjana Khanna Director, Franklin Humanities Institute Duke University Premesh Lalu Director, Centre of Humanities Research University of the Western Cape Jie-Hyun Lim Director, Critical Global Studies Institute Sogang University Joyce C.H. Liu Director, International Institute for Cultural Studies National Chiao Tiung University Lydia Liu Director, Institute for Comparative Literature and Society Columbia University Helmut Muller-Sievers Director, Center for the Humanities and the Arts University of Colorado at Boulder Kerill O'Neill Director, Center for the Arts and Humanities Colby College Juan Obarrio Director, Programa Sur Global Universidad de San Martin; Johns Hopkins University Jane Ohlmeyer Director, Trinity Long Room Hub Trinity College, Dublin Robert Phiddian Founding Director, Flinders Institute for Research in the Humanities Flinders University Shalini Randeria Rector, Institute for Human Sciences (IWM); Director, Albert Hirschman Center on Democracy Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies Gary Tomlinson Director, Whitney Humanities Center Yale University Bin Wong Director, UCLA Asia Institute University of California at Los Angeles Kathleen Woodward Director, Walter Chapin Simpson Center for the Humanities University of Washington, Seattle 