90 Minutes in Heaven is a 2015 Christian drama film directed by Michael Polish and starring Hayden Christensen, Kate Bosworth, Dwight Yoakam, Michael W. Smith, and Michael Harding. It is based on the bestselling novel by the same name.     It is the first film by Giving Films, a sister company to retail chain Family Christian Stores,  and though the company announced plans to donate all profits from the film to charitable organizations, the poorly reviewed film showed a loss at the box office.     Don Piper is involved in a horrific car crash, pronounced dead at the scene and covered by a tarp. Ninety minutes later, having been brought to a hospital, he returns to life and claims to have seen Heaven and visited with deceased relatives while there. The project was shot in Atlanta, Georgia,  and the shooting finished in March 2015.     Since its publication, Don Piper's book was twice on the New York Times Best Seller list, was listed as a USA Today best-seller,  and has sold 7 million copies in 46 languages.    The producers chose to stay as true to the book which inspired the film as possible:  [sic]"I think a lot of people read books, especially true stories, and then the movie is not even close to the real story and they make up things. I told Don that I thought the story stood for itself and my commitment to him was that it would be true to the book, and be true period." - Rick Jackson  Actress Kate Bosworth stated she "was amazed how Piper's story affects so many people" and that she felt blessed "to be a part of the movie's cast."   Filming began in January 2015,    and by March 8, 2015, filming had wrapped and the project went into post-production.   90 Minutes in Heaven was released on DVD and Blu-ray on December 1, 2015.  90 Minutes in Heaven has received negative reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes the film holds a rating of 24%, based on 21 reviews, with an average rating of 4.4/10.  Metacritic gives the film a score of 28 out of 100, based on reviews from 9 critics, indicating "generally unfavorable reviews".  