Bad Times at the El Royale is an upcoming American thriller film written and directed by Drew Goddard. The film stars Jeff Bridges, Cynthia Erivo, Dakota Johnson, Jon Hamm, Cailee Spaeny, Lewis Pullman, Nick Offerman and Chris Hemsworth, and follows seven strangers who each are hiding dark secrets that come to a head on one night in a shady motel. It will premiere at the Fantastic Fest on September 27, 2018, and is scheduled to be released in the United States on October 12, 2018.  Seven strangers, each with a secret to bury, meet at Lake Tahoe's El Royale, a rundown hotel with a dark past. Over the course of one fateful night, everyone will have a last shot at redemption - before everything goes to hell. Additionaly, Jim O'Heir portrays Milton Wyrick, while Nick Offerman, Mark O'Brien and Russell Crowe appear in undisclosed roles. On March 8, 2017, it was announced that 20th Century Fox had bought the spec script Bad Times at the El Royale, written by Drew Goddard, who would also direct and produce the film.  On August 23, 2017, Chris Hemsworth and Jeff Bridges had been cast in the 1960s-set film to play two among the several characters who collide at the El Royale near Nevada's Lake Tahoe.  That same day, it was also reported that Tom Holland had passed on a role, and that Beyoncé was being courted for the role of an "African-American singer". It was also revealed that other main roles in the ensemble would include a vacuum cleaner salesman, two female criminals, a male cult leader, and a desk clerk.  Later in August 2017, newcomer Cailee Spaeny was added to the cast to play an impressionable Southern girl hiding out at the hotel  while Cynthia Erivo was cast in the film for the role of the African-American singer who finds herself in the wrong place at the wrong time.  In January 2018, Dakota Johnson and Russell Crowe joined the cast.  In February 2018, Jon Hamm, Nick Offerman and Mark O'Brien joined the cast.     In May 2018, Lewis Pullman was confirmed for a role in the film.  Principal photography on the film began on January 29, 2018 in Vancouver, British Columbia, and later in February, it was being shot in Burnaby.   Its first trailer was released on June 7, 2018.  The film will have its world premiere at Fantastic Fest on September 27, 2018 and also screen at the San Sebastián International Film Festival.   