Dead like Me: Life After Death is a 2009 direct-to-video film directed by Stephen Herek.  The film is based on the short-lived 2003 television series Dead Like Me created by Bryan Fuller. In the film, the "reapers" have a new boss, Kane, who leads them astray from the rules they followed (mostly) in the TV series. Lead character "George" is fired from her job at "Happy Time" and ends up admitting her identity to her sister, Reggie. George's fellow reapers confront Kane and find that he knows and doesn't care that their departure from the job rules is causing misfortune elsewhere. Unhappy with his leadership, they try various ways to end his existence. George gets her Happy Time job back, and then learns who the new boss of the reapers is. Laura Harris was unavailable to return for her role as Daisy Adair, and Sarah Wynter played the part. The rest of the returning cast was portrayed by the same actors as in the TV series, with new character Cameron Kane played by Henry Ian Cusick.  The film was released on February 17, 2009 after a month-prior debut on Canada's SuperChannel. A crew of "reapers", whose job is to extract the souls of people who are about to die, find themselves confronted by change as their habitual meeting place (Der Waffle Haus) burns down on the same day that their boss and head reaper (Rube) disappears (having "gotten his lights"). They soon meet their new boss, Cameron Kane (Henry Ian Cusick), a slick businessman who died falling from the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. He outfits them with color-coordinated smartphones and treats them to luxurious accommodations – teaching them, as Roxy (Jasmine Guy) puts it later, that "nothing we do here matters". This tutelage leads the reapers to perform such misdeeds as saving those they were to Reap (Roxy), abusing immortality for financial gain (Mason, played by Callum Blue), letting a soul wander, instead of showing him "his lights" (Daisy, now played by Sarah Wynter), and otherwise selfishly focusing on their wants.  Georgia "George" Lass (Ellen Muth), the movie's narrator, is fired from Happy Time (a temp agency) after she loudly chews out an employee for delivering a report late. The employee quits and later sues for harassment. George ends up admitting her identity to her sister Reggie (Britt McKillip). George finds herself reminiscing with Reggie, helping her prepare for the death of her boyfriend Hudson (Jordan Hudyma).  Her fellow reapers confront Kane and learned that he had realized (and didn't care) that the "pebbles" of their misdeeds would cause "waves" of misfortune elsewhere. Unhappy with his style of management, they find themselves trying to figure out how exactly a fellow reaper can be killed as they shoot, drown, and finally dismember and cremate Kane. His ashes are then shot into orbit along with those of Murray, the cat belonging to George's boss Delores.  At the launch, Delores tells George that the employee who had sued her for harassment had done so at several of the employee's previous jobs, and George is reinstated, now with a corner office. The reapers walk away from the launch, wondering who their new boss is; the movie closes with George who finds herself suddenly showered with Post-Its falling from the sky, like the Post-Its their former leader Rube had used to deliver their reaping assignments. Realizing she's been selected as the group's new leader, she says "I am so fucked" as the camera pulls away from the Earth into orbit.  In June 2007, a casting call was posted on an entertainment industry website for the role of Daisy Adair, formerly played by Laura Harris, who was unable to reprise the role due to commitments with Women's Murder Club. It noted that John Masius wrote the film and also confirmed that Mandy Patinkin, who starred in the original series, was not in the film. In August 2007, it was confirmed that Sarah Wynter would take over the role of Daisy Adair from Laura Harris. Harris and Wynter previously played sisters in the second season of 24. Henry Ian Cusick would play a new character named Cameron Kane.  The film's release date was set for July 2008  and later rescheduled and released on February 17, 2009.  An exclusive television debut occurred on January 16, 2009 on SuperChannel in Canada.  It has also been shown in the United States on Syfy. 