  Ee.Ma.Yau is a 2018 Indian Malayalam-language satire film directed by Lijo Jose Pellissery and written by P. F. Mathews.   It stars Vinayakan, Chemban Vinod Jose, Pauly Valsan, Bitto Davis, Kainakary Thangaraj and Dileesh Pothan in the main roles.   The film had its premiere on 30 November 2017 and was theatrically released on 4 May 2018.  The film revolves around the death and funeral of an older man from the Latin Catholic community in Chellanam, Ernakulam district. Lijo Jose Pellissery won the Best Director Award at the 48th Kerala State Film Awards for Ee.Ma.Yau.  Set in Chellanam, a fishing village in Eranakulam, the film revolves around the death of Vavachan mesthri. After returning from a long journey, Vavachan involves himself in a mishap with a villager. On arriving home, his wife Pennamma asks him to stop the wanderings and settle. When his son Eeshi returns home, Vavachan drinks and tells him that Vavachan's father had the most splendid funeral in all of Chellanam. Eeshi promises that Vavachan will also have a big grand funeral. After some time, Vavachan falls to the ground and dies. Sabeth, wife of Eeshi, informs neighbors about the death. Ayappan, a friend of Eeshi and a Panchayath ward member, arrives the scene and takes control. Ayyappan asks Paanji and Lasar, two neighbours of Eashi, to bring Dr. Geevarghese to confirm the death. But the wife of Geevarghese tells them that he is drunk and asleep and they have to go to a head nurse living nearby to confirm the death. Arriving the scene and seeing the injury in head, nurse tells them that she cannot do anything and only a doctor can confirm. A crime novel enthusiast and vicar of the parish, Fr. Zacharia Parapurath hears about the head injury and informs the police. The next day, the other wife of Vavachan arrives and claims her rights. This leads to a clash between the families of the two wives. The family of the second wife alleges that Eeshi and family murdered Vavachan and they want justice. Fr. Zacharia, who is already interested in the mystery surrounding the death, tells Eeshi that he won't allow burial of Vavachan unless the mystery is solved. On hearing this, a furious Eeshi attacks Fr. Zacharia and Fr. Zacharia further declares that he will not allow the burial in the local cemetery. The gravedigger, who was digging the grave for Vavachan dies suddenly and his burial takes place in the same grave he dug for Vavachan. Ayyappan goes to police station to seek the help of circle inspector to clear the clouds. Inspector comes to Eashi's house and tells that there is no crime element in the death. Since there is no positive confirmation from the Vicar about the burial, Eeshi decides to dig the grave in his courtyard. Everyone tries to stop Eeshi, but he carries on. The film's title is an abbreviation of "Eesho Mariyam Yauseppe", which in some Christian communities, is a prayer whispered in the ears of the deceased. The film, a satire, is set in the coastal village of Chellanam in Kochi and the story revolves around the death of Vavachan Mesthiri. Filming began in August 2017. Originally planned to shoot in 35 days, the film was completed in 18 days. Besides the main cast, most of the supporting roles were played by newcomers from Chellanam area.   The film was produced by Rajesh George Kulangara, but later director-producer Aashiq Abu bought the complete rights of the film.  Ee.Ma.Yau had a preview screening on 30 November 2017.  The film, originally planned to release theatrically soon after the preview, was postponed to next year for undisclosed reasons.  The film was released on 4 May 2018. Nirmal Jovial of The Week says that Ee.Ma.Yau will certainly be counted among the classics of Malayalam cinema.  Navamy Sudhish of The Hindu praises PF Mathews' screenplay and calls direcor Lijo Jose Pellissery and cinematographer Shyju Khalid as the heroes of the film.  Gokul M. G. of Deccan Chronicle calls Ee.Ma.Yau as the one of the finest films in Mollywood in a very long time. He also added that nobody is leaving without shedding a drop of tear or without a heavy heart.  Film Critic Veeyen, was all praise for the film, rated the film 'Excellent' and wrote that "..With ‘Ee.Ma.Yau’ Lijo Jose Pellissery surpasses himself, asserts once and for all that he’s a master craftsman who astutely sees his dough even in a theme that is as stiff and unmalleable as a corpse (pun intended), and crafts a chimerical ode to mortality.   