  Ironclad: Battle for Blood is a 2014 epic war film directed by Jonathan English. It is the sequel to his 2011 film Ironclad.  Five years after the events of Ironclad, the de Vesci family struggles with Scot raiders along the English-Scottish border. A blood feud begins after the Scot chieftain's son is killed in one of these raids. The wounded de Vesci patriarch, Gilbert, sends his son Hubert to seek help from his nephew, a "great warrior" named Guy de Lusignan. This Guy is revealed to be none other than Baron d'Aubigny's idealistic squire from Ironclad. Unable to find peace after the events at Rochester, he has grown into a cynical, hard-bitten fighting man who makes a living in mercenary work and underground bloodsports. Shrugging off Hubert’s appeal to family, he demands payment for his services and those of his partner Berenger, forcing Hubert to hand over the last of the de Vesci fortune. To bolster their numbers, Guy saves a condemned murderer called Crazy Mary with a bribe, but end up getting "two for the price of one" when authorities come after the headsman, Pierrepoint, for selling prisoners. Hubert leads the four mercenaries back to the besieged de Vesci castle, and they help the garrison beat back the Scot attacks. Guy's reunion with his relations proves awkward. His beautiful, spoiled cousin Blanche spurns him at first, especially after learning that he came for money instead of family, but begins to warm to him after he saves her from Scot infiltrators. Casualties mount as the siege drags on. Gilbert de Vesci dies of his wound, passing his lordship on to Hubert. His wife Joan later takes poison to join him, believing the battle lost. Pierrepoint is murdered by Mary, who held a grudge against her would-be executioner. At last, the Scots resort to fire, burning down the castle gates and storming the keep. Berenger, caught outside, nearly wins a duel with the Scot chieftain before the raiders interrupt and kill him. Hubert entrusts his sisters to Guy before making a last stand with Mary as lord of the castle. The Scots overpower Hubert and Mary, executing the latter by hanging. To spare Hubert the same fate, Guy recalls his honor and heritage and challenges the Scot chieftain to single combat. He emerges victorious with unexpected help from Blanche. With their leader dead, the clan renounces the blood feud and returns to the hills. An epilogue narrated by Hubert reveals that despite his apparent change of heart at the siege’s end, Guy stayed on the mercenary path, and went on to ply his trade in the Hundred Years' War in France. The film is based on an entirely new story, with only scattered callbacks to its predecessor. The rebellion and the fight against King John at Rochester are referenced, as are some characters. Archbishop Langton (Charles Dance), who is mentioned by name, helped Guy settle in a monastery to find peace after the great siege. Guy also recalls the words of Thomas Marshall (James Purefoy) in an exchange about the nobility of killing. There is also a parallel between the characters of Jedediah Coteral (Jamie Foreman) and Pierrepoint, in the form of purchasing prisoners to serve as mercenaries. In particular, Baron d’Aubigny’s (Brian Cox) question to Coteral before freeing him, “Are you sorry for your sins?”, is repeated by Pierrepoint to his victims. The epilogue states that Guy fought in the Hundred Years’ War. This is impossible as that war began in 1337, and the film is set five years after the Siege of Rochester Castle which took place in 1215. Guy Lodge of Variety wrote that English "rehashes most of his technical devices from the first film" and noted that the "production and costume design on the Serbian-shot production are economically restrained," though "Andreas Weidinger’s kitschily choral score is anything but."  