Midnight Sun is a 2018 American romantic drama film directed by Scott Speer and written by Eric Kirsten, based on the 2006 Japanese film of the same name. The film stars Bella Thorne, Patrick Schwarzenegger, and Rob Riggle, and follows a teenage girl with the disease xeroderma pigmentosum, which prevents her from going out into sunlight. When she meets a boy, she struggles to decide whether to tell him about her condition or pretend to live a normal life. Principal photography began on October 12, 2015 in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The film was released in the United States on March 28, 2018. Sheltered since early childhood, Katie Price lives with a life-threatening sensitivity to sunlight caused by the rare genetic condition, xeroderma pigmentosum. During the day, she is housebound, having only her father, Jack and her best friend, Morgan, to keep her company. Katie comes out of the house every night, when the sun is not present. One night, she is noticed and asked out by her longtime crush, Charlie, while playing guitar at the train station. Katie leaves suddenly, and forgets her notebook, which Charlie keeps. He returns the next day, and gives it to Katie when she shows up to retrieve it. He explains to her how he got his injury that prevented him from getting a scholarship to the University of California, Berkeley before kissing her on one of the boats.  However, Katie has yet to tell Charlie of her condition, despite her father warning her to. Charlie takes Katie out for a night to Seattle, where they go to a live show, and Charlie makes Katie play one of her songs on one of the city's streets. Once home, they go swimming out in the lake, and dry off with a fire on the beach. Charlie mentions watching the sunrise, and Katie freaks out, running home in fear. Charlie picks her up and quickly drives her there, but she does not make it in time, and is exposed to the sunlight for a couple of seconds. Katie runs inside, while Morgan and Jack come home soon after. Charlie still is standing confused at the front door, and Morgan explains that Katie has xeroderma pigmentosum. Once the doctors run some tests, Katie's doctor comes to the conclusion that Katie's brain is contracting, and it's only a matter of time before she dies. Katie begins to experience twitches in her finger, which prevents her from playing the guitar. She also ignores Charlie's  messages as she does not want to hurt him. Jack eventually convinces Katie to speak to Charlie, who still wants to be with Katie, and does not care about the medical condition. Katie goes to Charlie's swim meet with the Berkeley coach, and they hang out at the house with Morgan and Jack. Charlie takes Katie out one night, and surprises her by booking a recording session, where she sings a song she wrote for him. Soon after, while hanging out at her house, Charlie mentions that he has to visit the boat for the last time, which he has been hired to take care of the whole summer. Katie, fearing that she is going to die, eventually remembers the time Charlie told her that he wished they could sail together, and convinces Jack to let her go with Charlie, despite it being the day. Katie sails with Charlie, feels the sunlight, and spend her final moments with him, dying soon after. Bella Thorne as Katherine "Katie" Price  Patrick Schwarzenegger as Charlie Reed  Rob Riggle as Jack Price  Quinn Shephard as Morgan  Suleka Mathew as Dr. Paula Fleming Nicholas Coombe as Garver Ken Tremblett as Mark Reed Jennifer Griffin as Barb Reed Tiera Skovbye as Zoe Carmichael Austin Obiajunwa as Owen Alex Pangburn as Wes Paul McGillion as Blake Jones On June 22, 2015, it was announced that Scott Speer would next direct a young adult romantic drama film, Midnight Sun, based on the script by Eric Kirsten, which would star Patrick Schwarzenegger as Charlie and Bella Thorne as Katie.  The film is based on the 2006 Japanese film of same name. It was financed by Boies / Schiller Film Group,  and produced by John Rickard and Zack Schiller.  On October 9, 2015, Rob Riggle joined the film to play Katie's father, Jack.  Principal photography on the film began on October 12, 2015, in Vancouver, British Columbia.   In October 2016, Open Road Films acquired distribution rights to the film. They initially scheduled it for July 14, 2017, before setting it for March 23, 2018.  Midnight Sun grossed $9.6 million in the United States and Canada, and $17.8 million in other territories. The film grossed with $27.8 million againts 2.8 million budget and analized as the most success teen drama film of the year with a moderate box office.  In the United States and Canada, Midnight Sun was released alongside Pacific Rim Uprising, Sherlock Gnomes, Unsane and Paul, Apostle of Christ, and was projected to gross around $5 million from 2,173 theaters in its opening weekend.  It ended up debuting to a gross of a little over $4 million, finishing 10th at the box office.  On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 22% based on 54 reviews, and an average rating of 4.2/10. The website's critical consensus reads, "Midnight Sun is a typically manipulative and contrived teen romance that's unfortunately distinguished by its offensively inaccurate portrayal of a real-life disease."  On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 38 out of 100, based on 14 critics, indicating "generally unfavorable reviews."  Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A−" on an A+ to F scale.  Midnight Sun is the soundtrack album for the movie. It was released on March 16, 2018. The album features music of the pop and soundtrack genres.  