Murder Collection V.1 is a 2009 American horror anthology film written and directed by Fred Vogel, and co-written by Don Moore, Shelby Vogel and Jerami Cruise.   The film's opening explains that in 1994 a web series called Murder, which broadcast footage of actual deaths and acts of violence, appeared. After being active for four months, Murder was shut down by the authorities and had all of its content confiscated, though the website's host, a man known only as Balan, evaded capture. Now, years later, Balan has reemerged to share more clips that he has unearthed, while also offering commentary on people's obsession with death, the effect it has on them, and how accessible new media has made it. The series of videos is kicked off by Balan querying, "I ask you all... Why are you watching? Are you trying to find reality? Do you feel the need to be shocked? To witness something that human eyes shouldn't see? Murder is reality. Death comes when you least expect it. With what you are about to observe, you may question your own integrity. You will ask, could this happen to me? My answer to you is... Yes it can." After the last clip, Balan delivers the closing statement, "You realize now it's everywhere. Death casts a shadow on all our faces. The new media shines light on dank crevasses, revealing moral decay and broken experiences that are better left beyond the pale. Goosebumps explode on my skin with every clip we watch. I feel it now more than ever. How do you feel?" Ryan Doom of Arrow in the Head gave Murder Collection V.1 a 2/4 and wrote, "In the end, I think it's an interesting exercise, but I don't know if it makes it a good movie. This isn't the type of film that I suspect most viewers would revisit often, if at all. Instead, it's just an experiment that people will dig or not, depending on how much violence and gore they can stomach without a story for context. While it captivated me at times with certain segments, others seemed unnecessary or overdone. But maybe that's just me".  Horror News's Jay Alan praised the special effects, also calling the acting "convincingly believable for the most part" and writing, "As much as the film focuses on the graphic and dark nature of death, it also delves into the human psyche and personalities of the characters within the little given time shown."  