Puppet Master: The Littlest Reich is a 2018 horror-comedy film written by S. Craig Zahler and directed by Sonny Laguna and Tommy Wiklund and is the eleventh entry in the long-running Puppet Master franchise. It is a reboot of the series  and it stars Thomas Lennon, Kennedy Summers, Barbara Crampton, Udo Kier. It was released on August 17, 2018 by RLJE Films. In Puppet Master: The Littlest Reich, recently divorced and reeling, Edgar (Lennon) returns to his childhood home to regroup his life. When Edgar finds a nefarious looking puppet in his deceased brother’s room, he decides to sell the doll for some quick cash at a small-town convention celebrating the 30th Anniversary of the infamous Toulon Murders. Girl-next-door Ashley (Pellicer) and his comic book shop boss, Markowitz (Franklin), join Edgar for the doomed road trip. All hell breaks loose when a strange force animates the puppets at the convention, setting them on a bloody killing spree that’s motivated by an evil as old as time. The reboot was announced in May 2016 with Di Bonaventura Pictures and Caliber Media (later Cinestate) optioning the film rights and S. Craig Zahler listed as writing the screenplay.   In March 2017, it was announced that the Swedish film making duo Sonny Laguna & Tommy Wiklund would direct the film.  At the same time, it was also announced that Thomas Lennon had joined the cast as the lead and Udo Kier had been hired to play the puppet master Andre Toulon. Other announced cast members included Jenny Pellicer, Nelson Franklin, Charlyne Yi, Alex Beh, Barbara Crampton, Tina Parker, Skeeta Jenkins and Michael Pare.  The film began shooting in Dallas, Texas in April 2017.  In February 2018, it was announced that veteran Italian composer Fabio Frizzi would score the film.  The film had its world premiere at the Overlook Film Festival on April 20, 2018.  The film had its Canadian premiere at the Fantasia International Film Festival in Canada on July 23, 2018.  It was released to video on demand on August 17, 2018 and is expected to be released on DVD and Blu-ray in September 2018. On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 64% based on 25 reviews, with an average rating of 5.5/10.  