Shafaqna (Persian: شفقنا; International Shia News Association or Shia News Agency) is one of the main international  Shia news-gathering organisations. It focuses on news relating to Shia Islam. It started its activities on Friday, February 24, 2012.  It is an independent medium implemented in five languages: English, Persian, Arabic, Turkish and Urdu. Material in Arabic is produced out of Najaf, Persian from Tehran, Turkish from Istanbul, and English from Kashmir.    Shafaqna has also launched several independent pages: Pakistan, India, Lebanon, Bahrain, Iraq. Shafaqna explained its editorial intent to extend its coverage to all Islamic and specifically Shia events and activities across the world. It would inaugurate dialogues between Shia Islam and other faiths and religions.  Shafaqna is recognised as a news organisation close to the Ayatollah Ali Sistani and has published several article about his doctrine that may indeed be his legacy,.   Shafaqna also publishes Sistani fatwas frequently.  Much of Shafaqna progress is credited to its access to the Najaf seminary and publishing some rare photos of the tomb of prophet Muhammad and his daughter's (Fatemeh) house  and exclusive news of the top Maraji of Najaf Hawzah Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani.     In June 2014 Shafaqna launched a news reader called Lnews (latest news by country: most popular news headlines).  Shafaqna International News Reader originated as an Internet-based news aggregator so the text which appears on the chain of websites is made up of a list of items and contents presented in RSS feeds offered by news gathering organisations and websites across the world.  It operates in different languages mainly English, Arabic, Persian, Spanish, French, Urdu, Dutch, and Chinese. This news reader categorized news into "Last News", "Featured", "Most popular. As it is presented in its front page, Lnews (By Country News Reader) covers more than 100 countries and news and articles originally come from a range of global, regional and national news agencies, newspapers, and local web based news media from AP, AFP, EFE, and Reuters to CNN, BBC, CCTV, Kyodo, Xinhua, PRESS TV, IRIB, SPA, Itar-tass, etc.  