  Rankings of universities in South Africa are largely based on international university rankings, since there are no South African rankings as of yet. These international university rankings indicate that South Africa's university system is the strongest on the continent: it is home to five of the six highest ranked African universities,  including the two campuses consistently ranked as academically strongest in Africa, University of Cape Town and University of the Witwatersrand,  which are situated in South Africa's two most prominent cities (Cape Town and Johannesburg, respectively). In part because of the inherent difficulty of ranking complex educational institutions, there are an expanding number of competing international university ranking schemes, each with a different emphasis. Four of the most prominent are the Times Higher Education World University Rankings (most widely accepted), The Centre for World University rankings (CWUR),QS World University Rankings, and the Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU, sometimes referred to as the "Shanghai Rankings"). The 2018 edition of the Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings ranked the top South African universities as follows:  The 2014-15 edition of the QS World University Rankings ranked the top South African universities as follows: Previous years' world rankings are as follows (before 2010 the ranking was known as the Times Higher Education-QS World University Rankings): The 2015 Academic Ranking of World Universities has ranked the top South African universities as follows: Note: These are the only ranked South African universities. The 2015 edition of CWUR ranked the top South African Universities as follows:  URAP, which is a newer ranking scheme based solely on quantitative measures of academic productivity, includes data for a larger number of global universities, and thus gives an alternative view of the relative standing of more South African institutions. The 2016-2017 edition of URAP ranked the top South African Universities as follows:  Several international rankings schemes focus on the placement of graduates in business settings. This is another THE ranking which aims to measure the real world success of a University's alumni by ranking Universities according to the number of their graduates that are currently CEOs of Fortune Global 500 companies. The global number one for 2013 is by a considerable margin, Harvard University. The only African Universities that appear on the Global top 100 are the University of the Witwatersrand and the University of Cape Town. The 2013 South African rankings are as follows:  This is a global ranking of universities by the perceived quality of their graduates by top employers around the world. The only African university in the top 150 is the University of the Witwatersrand. The 2013 ranking is as follows:  This ranks universities according to their popularity among US based billionaires. The only ranked South African university is the University of the Witwatersrand. The 2014 ranking is as follows:  A 2010 report by Centre for Higher Education Transformation identified 3 different university clusters in South Africa, grouped according to function. The input variables used to group universities were: The output variables were: The Red cluster constitutes the top research-intensive universities. The Blue cluster consists of institutions focused primarily on technical training, while the Green cluster includes institutions which show characteristics of both missions. The clusters are:  https://www.4icu.org/topAfrica/ 