Round University Ranking (RUR Ranking) is a world university ranking, assessing effectiveness of 700 leading world universities based on 20 indicators distributed among 4 key dimension areas: teaching, research, international diversity, financial sustainability.   The RUR Rankings publisher is an independent RUR Rankings Agency, located in Moscow, Russia.  RUR Ranking is aimed to provide transparent, comprehensive analytical system for benchmarking and evaluating universities across the world to the widest possible audience: students, analysts, decision-makers in the higher education development sphere: both at individual and at the national level. The following principles are the basis of the RUR Ranking: Round University Ranking is published since 2010. 700 leading world universities were evaluated in RUR 2016 edition, including 91 higher education institutions of the BRICS economies. The raw data for RUR Ranking is provided within a special annual survey run by Thomson Reuters - Global Institutional Profiles Project (GIPP). The data for GIPP is collected annually in April - May. The RUR rankings are based entirely on InCites, the evaluation and benchmarking engine from Thomson Reuters for scientific research. The raw data for RUR Ranking is provided within a special annual survey run by Thomson Reuters - Global Institutional Profiles Project (GIPP).   Altogether there are 20 indicators divided into four groups: teaching, research, international diversity and financial sustainability. The first two groups obtain 40 percent each, the second ones get 10 percent.  The final methodology also includes the weight of each of the 20 indicators, and is shown below  Apart from the main Overall Ranking, which is calculated based upon 20 indicators in accordance with the methodology described above, the RUR system also demonstrates 4 additional rankings which echoe the main groups of rating groups of indicators:  • Teaching Ranking • Research Ranking • International Diversity Ranking • Financial Sustainability Ranking Round University Rankings contain all of the indicators used in the Times Higher Education (THE) world rankings, except for the “industry innovation: income” indicator. THE rankings also include some additions such as national and international measures of teaching reputation, citations per academic and research staff, papers per academic and research staff, papers per research income and normalised citations impact.                                                