 The Honduran Red Cross is a non-profit institution of social and voluntary interest that provides help to at-risk populations and those affected by disasters. It is part of the international organization Red Cross and Half Moon Red Crescent, which seeks to alleviate human suffering according to each particular situation. The Honduran Red Cross was developed in 1924 during the second civil war. During the conflict, a group of people organized to tend to those who had been injured at the site of Tegucigalpa by rebels, following the example set by Henry Dunant during the first world war. This group of volunteers- which included Carlos Rivas, Delia Becerra, Emma Bonilla, Ernesto López Alleys, Hernán López Alleys, Isolina Guilbert, Luz Becerra, Marine Stair, Marieta Guilbert, Otilia Idiáquez, Roberto Rivas, Soledad Lozano, among others- became the first to carry the symbol of the Red Cross in Honduras, albeit without a concrete leader. Later, in 1932, Tiburcio Carias Andino created a national aid committee, designating civil engineer Abraham Williams Caldéron as its president. Williams Caldéron, along with the doctor Enrique Douglas Guilbert- an active member of Rotary International- decided to devise the founding of the Red Cross in Honduras. Thus, on August 22 of 1934, the first board of directors was elected in a Honduran casino, which was as follows: In 1937, a group of women organized and was a sponsor of the first group of Honduran aid workers; however, they were not yet defined as the Honduran Red Cross.  Focused on their requests to the government to obtain a legal status, they  developed activities to benefit the Honduran society. On September 4 of the same year, the president, doctor and general Tiburcio Carias Andean, in a meeting in the Presidential House of Honduras, awarded legal recognition to the well-deserving group, organizing a board of directors. Original members included Adolfina Mejía, lady Berta García de Saenz Rico, lady Elia Pineda de Fortín, lady Ernestina de Landa, Lady Enriqueta Girón de Lázarus, doctor Guillermo Durón, doctor Hernán López Alleys, lawyer Héctor Pineda Ugarte, doctor Humberto Díaz Banegas, Isabel Siqueiros de Pinel, Isolina Lozano de Guilbert, Josefina Mejía, lawyer Jorge Fidel Durón, doctor Juan A. Mejía, doctor Manuel Cáceres Vijil, doctor and future president Ramón Villeda Moral, and lawyer Rubén Álvarez Channels.. By means of Decree No. 475 issued on date 6 October 1937, the institution was known officially as the Honduran Red Cross, with the intended function of engaging in humanitarian action in the national territory. In 1941, Lázarus Henrietta, serving as President of the Honduran Red Cross, requested the National Congress of Honduras to issue a law establishing income for the organization. It was issued as the "law of the income of the seal of the Red Cross", so that the organization would receive finances in order to sustain themselves independently and continue providing social services. The economic funds received by the organization would be help the organization to sustain itself independently and continue providing social services.  In October 1937, the original group of volunteers from 1924 were recognized for the first time. In 1942, the first units were established in  San Pedro Sula, Port Cortés, Tela, and La Ceiba. These units were authorized to retain 40% of donations collected by donors and benefactors and sending the other 60% to the central committee. In the same year, the Infant Consul was founded, with the goal of providing help and support to Honduran children. In 1950, the organization received its first ambulance, a Ford model. In 1954, the then-president of Honduras, doctor Juan Manuel Gálvez donated land for the construction of the official headquarters. In 1978, the official statutes of the Honduran Red Cross were published. The Honduran Red Cross has had a major impact in several Honduran events, such as: the third civil war of 1931, the events of 1954, the War of the Football of 1969. Together with ACNUR and Doctors without Borders, they have backed the mobilisation of civilians in the border zones with El Salvador and Nicaragua, as in the natural disasters caused by the Hurricane Fifi-Orlene of 1971 and Hurricane Mitch, which devastated the north zone and central office of the Central American country in 1998. Former presidents of the Central Committee of the Honduran Red Cross:  The body of paramedics, staffed by volunteers, receives a basic course in first aid, basic emergency aid, building rescue, mountains aid, rivers aid, etc. They also receive intensive training in infant nursing, in addition to cardiovascular and pulmonary resuscitation, minor surgeries, dealing with infections, and so on. The central headquarters of the Honduran Red Cross is in the Conception Neighborhood, 7th street, 1st and 2nd avenue, of Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. The expansion of the regional headquarters led to the expansion of the red cross into many major Honduran cities, such as: Comayagua, Danlí, The Ceiba, Choluteca, Santa Bárbara, Juticalpa, San Pedro Sula, Santa Rosa de Copán, and Yuscarán. Red Cross Youth Honduras is an auxiliary program of Honduran Red Cross founded on June 17, 1964.  It is composed of volunteers age 6 and up organized as follows: 6–12 years old are brigadistas; 12–30 years old are Juvenile; 30-up are Advisers. Offices of the CRJH (Cruz Roja Joventud Honduras) can be in Francisco Morazán, Comayagua, Choluteca, Valley, Olancho, El Paraiso, Cortes, Santa Bárbara, Atlántida,  Colon, Intibucá, Yoro and Copán.  Afghanistan   Albania   Algeria   Andorra   Angola   Antigua and Barbuda   Argentina   Armenia   Australia   Austria   Azerbaijan   The Bahamas   Bahrain   Bangladesh   Barbados   Belarus   Belgium   Belize   Benin   Bolivia   Bosnia and Herzegovina   Botswana   Brazil   Brunei   Bulgaria   Burkina Faso   Burundi   Cambodia   Cameroon   Canada   Cape Verde   Central African Republic   Chad   Chile   China   Colombia   Comoros   Congo   Congo, Democratic Republic of the   Cook Islands   Costa Rica   Côte d'Ivoire   Croatia   Cuba   Cyprus   Czech Republic   Denmark   Djibouti   Dominica   Dominican Republic   Ecuador   Egypt   El Salvador   Equatorial Guinea   Eritrea (pending recognition and admission)   Estonia   Ethiopia   Fiji   Finland   France   Gabon   Gambia   Georgia   Germany   Ghana   Greece   Grenada   Guatemala   Guinea   Guinea-Bissau   Guyana   Haiti   Honduras   Hong Kong   Hungary   Iceland   India   Indonesia   Iran   Iraq   Ireland   Israel   Italy   Jamaica   Japan   Jordan   Kazakhstan   Kenya   Kiribati   Korea, North  Korea, South   Kuwait   Kyrgyzstan   Laos   Latvia   Lebanon   Lesotho   Liberia   Libya   Liechtenstein   Lithuania   Luxembourg   Macedonia   Madagascar   Malawi   Malaysia   Maldives   Mali   Malta   Mauritania   Mauritius   Mexico   Micronesia, Federated States of   Moldova   Monaco   Mongolia   Montenegro   Morocco   Mozambique   Myanmar   Namibia   Nepal   Netherlands   New Zealand   Nicaragua   Niger   Nigeria   Northern Cyprus (non-member)   Norway   Pakistan   Palau   Palestine   Panama   Papua New Guinea   Paraguay   Peru   Philippines  Poland   Portugal   Qatar   Romania   Russia   Rwanda   Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (pending recognition and admission)   Saint Kitts and Nevis   Saint Lucia   Saint Vincent and the Grenadines   Samoa   San Marino, Republic of   Sao Tome and Principe   Saudi Arabia   Senegal   Serbia   Seychelles   Sierra Leone   Singapore   Slovakia   Slovenia   Solomon Islands   Somalia   South Africa   Spain   Sri Lanka   Sudan   Suriname   Swaziland   Sweden   Switzerland   Syria   Taiwan  Tajikistan   Tanzania, United Republic of   Thailand   Timor-Leste   Togo   Tonga   Trinidad and Tobago   Tunisia   Turkey   Turkmenistan   Tuvalu   Uganda   Ukraine   United Arab Emirates   United Kingdom   United States   Uruguay   Uzbekistan   Vanuatu   Venezuela   Viet Nam   Yemen   Zambia   Zimbabwe  