Find sources: Google (books · news · newspapers · scholar · free images · WP refs) · FENS · HighBeam · JSTOR · NYT · TWL Easy tools: Citation bot (help) | Advanced: Fix ambiguous links · Fix bare URLs · Fix broken links · Article logs · Draft logs.  The Q-Collection Comic Book Preservation Project was created in 2001 to rescue and preserve key comic books published from the 1930s to the 1960s. This preservation project was developed and the comic books assembled, in the small town of Quincy, Massachussets (U.S.). As a result, this "Quincy" collection is referred to as the Q-Collection.  Key comic books include the first issue of a series, the first appearance of an important new character within a series, the revising of an existing character for a new comic book age, or the origin issue of an important character. In a 1993 speech at the “Diamond Comics Seminar,” the American writer Harlan Ellison referred to comic books as the “noble American born art form.’ . From its inception in the 1930s, this comic book art form has now spread throughout the world, igniting interest about western culture among the world’s young.  Sadly, these comics treasures are endangered as the original comic books printed between the 1930s and the 1960s are rapidly deteriorating.  The acidic pulp paper on which they were printed will, inevitably, cause this part of American heritage and culture to self-destruct. When asked why it’s important to preserve the books, Sindall said, “It’s a stimulant to the imagination.  You don’t think that Spielberg and others that, things just popped into their head.  Here you have stimulants to the future.  People in the future will mine these like mining gold.” “This is the last opportunity to preserve these before they’re gone.” .   In 1989, the comic book historian Ernest Gerber wrote: "The worst enemy to comics books is ignorance and procrastination.  First we refuse to face established facts, then when the collector finds out about them, he figures that there is no rush to store the comics properly, and eventually, he’ll get to it.  Friends, the clock keeps ticking and cannot be reversed – the clock keeps ticking and cannot be reversed – lives of perishable pulps can be easily extended for many generations – if you want them to be."  Slabbing (encasing graded comic books in plastic) actually traps oxygen in the plastic case, which allows the acidic pulp paper to continue to deteriorate.(5) The Q-Collection gives readers a first-hand look at the comics in their original form that has been preserved and protected. (5)  Comic Book Heroics: Mensan Leads Effort to Preserve Key American Comics by Michael Hill, Ph.D. | Illustrated by Joyce Farmer, The Mensa Bulletin, The Magazine of American Mensa, February 16, 2016, No. 592, pages 26 to 29 Laminating deteriorating documents is an old idea that proved unsuccessful in the past due to the use of cellulose acetate as a lamination material. (6)  Everything changed with the introduction of heat-treated, UV-resistant, long-life Mylar laminating pouches. (6) Guidelines for the Care of Works on Paper with Cellulose Acetate Lamination, Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institute, Marit Muson (editor), Funded by the Getty Grant Program. Preservation is a challenge for any artifact, but the problem is acute with comic books, which are traditionally printed on cheap paper that disintegrates in a span of decades.(7) The laminate melts right into the fibers of the comic, sealing the pages while also keeping them supple enough to be flipped.  This preservation method reduces the market value of the comics, but increases the odds that they’ll stick around and be read in the future, which is exactly what Sindall wants. (7)  Boston Sunday Globe, Ideas, Brainiac, Comic Book Forever, by Kevin Hartnett, July 21, 2013 The company Preservation Technologies has developed a revolutionary process to save paper, including comic books. The process earned the firm a five-year contract from the Library of Congress to save about 100,000 comic books, including Superman and Spider-Man, as well as not-so-super characters such as Richie Rich.(8) "Comic books are a challenging type of material," said Mark Sweeney, chief of the preservation reformatting division at the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C.,   which houses the largest comic book collection in the   United States.    Because comics are printed on highly acidic wood pulp   paper, similar to newspapers, even the utmost of care   won't arrest their eventual decay, he said, and other   preservation methods don't work well for comics." "Our chemist predicts that the treatment will make the average book last between 300 and 800 years," said Ken Harris, preservation projects director for the Library of Congress. Untreated, books degrade and become brittle in 50 to 100 years, he said, "but we can avoid that now." "One reason this process is catching on throughout the world and is so popular with the Library of Congress is because it's so cost-effective," Harris said. He estimated   that books can be deacidified for about $16 each. (8) Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, Cranberry Firm uses revolutionary process to preserve precious paper, by Jill Cueni-Cohen, Sunday, November 21, 2004, updated Thursday May 24, 2018 The Q-Collection was begun in 2001 with the help of a restoration specialist who was the project’s first advisor and dropped out in 2006.  The second advisor joined the project in 2002.  By 2007 the Q-Collection Advisory Committee included 25 top comic book professionals in 18 countries. 1.	Amane Chu Yi Min (pen name: JDC Amane) (Singapore)   2.	Robert Beerbohm (Nebraska, USA)    3.	John Philip Borger, Esq. (Minnesota, USA)    4.	Dr. Tim Bollinger (New Zealand)    5.	Harlan Jay Ellison (California, USA)    6.	Professor William H. Foster (Connecticut, USA)    7.	Dr. Michael Hill (Australia)    8.	Usman Ali Khan (India)    9.	Chris Launder (Canada)    10.	Professor John A Lent, Ph.D. (Pennsylvania, USA) 11.	Antonius "Toni" Masdiono (Indonesia)   12.	Andy Mason (South Africa)    13.	Professor Fusami Ogi (Japan)   14.	Igor Prassel (Slovenia) 15.	Scott Preston (Oregon, USA)    16.	Dave Reeder (Dubai, UAE)    17.	Trina Robbins (California, USA)    18.	Charles "Chuck" Rozanski (Colorado, USA)    19.	Dez Skinn (England, UK)    20.	Professor Waldomiro Vergueiro (Brazil)    21.	Richard Williams (Wales, UK)    22.	Dr. Wendy Siuyi Wong (Hong Kong)   23.	Hugo Yonzon (Philippines)    24.	Steve Younis (Australia) 25.	Dr. Mikhail Zlatkovsky (Russian Federation) There are 72 3-ring binders in the Q-Collection.  Originally the comic book binders were to be tri-wood binders that would open like a book and close up like a box.  That design proved too cumbersome and too expensive.  The temporary 3-ring binders were of such good quality that they are now the permanent Q-Collection binders. For additional protection and to unify the Q-Collection custom-made binder sleeve were decided upon.  Those sleeves, currently in production, use bronze sheet metal for stability and longevity.  Etched into the front, top and spine are the words Q-COLLECTION COMIC BOOKS, 2001 – 2018, and the binder number such as 5 of 72.  Numbering the binder sleeves from 1 to 72 ensures that the collection is never broken up. The Q-Collection was intended to be a nonprofit donation.  That has recently changed for a variety of reasons. Possible donation locations included the Smithsonian Institute in Washington DC, The Library of Congress also in Washington DC, the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, the Comic Art Museum in China, or one of several suggested universities. One by one those donation locations were eliminated for a variety of reasons. 1.  Universities:  Universities are located in non-vacation locations.  This means that the average person my not take their vacation to universities located in Wisconsin, or Michigan, or Boston and the like.  Plus, most universities restrict access to their collection to those affiliated with the university or those who have been given special access permission.  2.  The Comic Art Museum in China:  This was a poor choice for a donation location.  Few outside of China would ever get to see the Q-Collection.  Donations ultimately become the property of the Chinese government.  3.  The Smithsonian Institute suggested that the Library of Congress would be a more appropriate destination for the Q-Collection. 4.  The Library of Congress began collecting comic books in 1950.  Half of the Q-Collection were printed after that date, which means that the LoC already owns half the comic books in the collection.  There is no reason to provide them with duplicates. 5.  The Victoria and Albert Museum purchased a private collection of 17,000 comic books in 1990.  When the Q-Collection offered to give the V&A museum these 275 key American comic books to them back in 2011 the museum director declined it stating that the museum did not have sufficient space for those comic books.  When a new director was appointed in 2018 the offer was resubmitted.  That submission received no response after one month.  At that time the V&A Museum was notified that the offer was being withdrawn. Members of the Q-Collection Advisory Committee have suggested that the Q-Collection be given to Sotherby’s (9) to be put up for auction in the fall of 2018.  The reasoning is that the bidders are likely to include libraries, museums and universities.  So the Q-Collection may end up where it was originally intended to go. Any proceeds would go to the founder of the Q-Collection project who funded 100% of the costs involved.  The founder also put in thousands of hours of work to get the project up and running and completed.  Any auction amount received would be only a small portion of the investment made during those 17 years. We have received an almost endless number of supporting statements from around the world for the Q-Collection project.  Here are a few of those: (1) Q-Collection Comic Book Preservation Project: The Threat to the “Noble American Art Form” (2) Diamond Comics Dialogue Magazine, Kilimanjaro Corporation, 1993. <http:harlanellison.com/text/comcspeh.htm>  (3)  Concord Journal, Thursday, Vol. 89, No. 12, June 11, 2015, page A-2 (4) The Photo-Journal Guide to Comic Books: Volume One, Gerber Publishing Company, Inc., Page A-13 (5)  Comic Book Heroics: Mensan Leads Effort to Preserve Key American Comics by Michael Hill, Ph.D. | Illustrated by Joyce Farmer, The Mensa Bulletin, The Magazine of American Mensa, February 16, 2016, No. 592, pages 26 to 29 (6) Guidelines for the Care of Works on Paper with Cellulose Acetate Lamination, Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institute, Marit Muson (editor), Funded by the Getty Grant Program. (7)  Boston Sunday Globe, Ideas, Brainiac, Comic Book Forever, by Kevin Hartnett, July 21, 2013 (8) Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, Cranberry Firm uses revolutionary process to preserve precious paper, by Jill Cueni-Cohen, Sunday, November 21, 2004, updated Thursday May 24, 2018  (9)  http://www.sothebys.com/en.html 