 Baijini are a race of people, mythical or historical is unknown, mentioned in the Djanggawul song cycle of the aboriginal Yolngu people of Arnhem Land in Australia's Northern Territory. The myths regarding them have become part of a debate about pre-European presences on the Australian continent, much like the discovery of medieval Kilwa Sultanate coinage on Marchinbar Island.  According to one view, the word "Baijini" itself is said to have been derived from a Makassarese root with the meaning "women", which would fit with the fact that the Baijini of the myths have women among them, unlike the historical Makassan trepang fishermen.  Joseph Needham wondered if the word Baijini itself might not have been derived from Chinese bái rén (白人, "white people" (i.e., those with lighter skin than the Australian natives), běirén (北人, "northern people"), or even běijīngrén (北京人, "people from Beijing").  In the Djanggawul song-cycles, it is told how, in the legendary land of Bu'ralgu somewhere beyond Groote Eylandt, there once lived three eternal beings called the Djanggawul: a brother, and his elder and younger sisters, together with a fourth man, Bralbral.  Bu'ralgu itself had been a stepping stone in their journey south from an even more distant land. The four, after a series orf ceremonies, rowed out from the island and, after several days, came to Arnhem Land, and followed the coast to Jelaŋbara (now Port Bradshaw.  They then travelled overland until they came to Wabilinga Island and it was there that they came across the Baijini folk, cooking trepang at a site still marked by a tamarind grove. The Djanggawu claimed this place as their own, asking the Baijini to move off, which they did, either to the other side of the island or to the mainland.  The dreamtime landing site at Jelaŋbara was, according to the song cycle, also, later, a Baijini settlement.  It has been argued that the account of the Baijini in the Aboriginal folklore are in fact a mythological reflection of the experiences of some Aboriginals who have traveled to Sulawesi with the Macassans and came back.  If there was indeed an historical reality behind the Baijini mentioned in Yolgnu myth, While, the origin and timing of those Asians who would have served as the prototype for this mythological people remains lost in the past.  It has been suggested that they may be identified with the Sama-Bajau,  or Sea Gypsies, the fishing folk of South East Asia who traveled with their families.  The Australian anthropologist Ronald Berndt, an authority on the mythology of the indigenous people of Arnhem Land, had undertaken intensive work in Yirrkala and Milingimbi Island in the late 1940s. In his work on their mythic traditions, published in 1952 he wrote:- 'the Baijini, although partially mythological are, rather, historical; for they are said to have been pre-Macassans, primarily traders and aliens to the coast, and not in any way creative as were the Djanggawul. They are, however, treated in the myth as if contemporary with these Ancestral Beings'. Berndt added that similar to the Makassan trepang fishermen in Australia known to the historians, the Baijini of the Djanggawul myth are said to be "cooking trepang, where the tamarind trees stand to-day".  Tamarind trees are thought to have been introduced to Australia by the Makassans. According to interpretations o the legends, the Baijini not only built stone houses (balapathu)  but also cultivated rice paddies.   The following year. the sinologist C.P. FitzGerald mentioned the possibility of pre-European Chinese visits to Australia in an article, which conjecture a possible early Chinese presence in northern Australia, by mentioning a Chinese statue which had been dug up in 1879 near Darwin. Fitzgerald's allusion was a figurine which had been dug up 4 feet down among the roots of a banyan tree by Chinese navies, under the direction of a Public Works superintendent, Mr. Strawbridge, who was overseeing the clearance of dense jungle for the construction of a road at a site called Doctor's Gully in Palmerston just outside of the town of Darwin in 1879.    The gully leads down to a sandy cove, and is one of the two sites where fresh water can be found in Darwin.  The figurine was mounted on an animal, identified as either a gazelle or antelope. It came into the possession of Thomas Worsnop who reproduced a drawing of it in his 1897 work on Aboriginal arts and manufactures. Worsnop described it as fashioned from a type of jade, though later scholars have stated it is made of soapstone,  and stated that all inquiries he had made to determine what it represented had failed to clarify its origin.  Eventually, In a paper read before the Royal Society of South Australia on 8 March 1928,  Norman Tindale identified it as a Chinese deity from the Tang dynasty,  a high backdating which elicited Fitzgerald's skepticism.  The deity in question, associated with Canopus, is the Old Man of the South Pole,Shòu lǎo,(壽老), the Chinese god of longevity who was one of the Sānxīng, or three stellar deities in Chinese religion. Peter Worsley took up Fitzgerald's remark in 1955, making a succinct synthesis of the overall scholarship regarding pre-European contacts with northern Australia. In his essay, he mentioned the Baijini myths current among the Yolgnu: history. In eastern Arnhem Land, moreover, the aborigines are quite categorical in their statements that the Macassarese were preceded another people they term the Baijini. These people were  different from the later Macassarese, though like the Macassarese, they came for the purpose of collecting trepan, a sea-slug which abounds in the shallow waters off the Arnhem Land coast.. The Baijini had an advanced technology: they possessed hand-looms, were agriculturalists, and built huts during their stays in Australia. One of the more interesting comments made about the Baijini is a reference to their light-coloured skins. Whilst it is possible that these people may have been Chinese, the trade in trepang was usually carried out by non-Chinese, the Chinese middlemen coming into the picture at Koepang and other such markets. Fitzgerald suggests that any Chinese voyages would most likely have been scientific and exploratory expeditions rather than trading expeditions. The Baijini, then, may have been another Indonesian people, and not necessarily Chinese.' J.V.G. Mills, in a note to a translation of a Ming dynasty account by Ma Huan concerning Chinese voyages at that time, suggested that if, of the many Asian people whose visits might have engendered a legend about the Baijini, they were Chinese, the likely explanation would be that it referred to some vessel detached from the fleet of Zheng He, which would have sailed south from Timor.  The anthropologist Ian McIntosh has interpreted the cycle's mention of the Baijini as a fictional history devised by the Yolngu, centered on Warramiri clanland at Dholtji[a] in the Cape Wilberforce peninsula whose function was to serve as a benchmark for trade with Asians.  A key figure was Birrinydji, the iron-maker of the Dreamtime, believed to be the first to inhabit Arnhem Land, perhaps modeled on a foreign captain, who could morph at will from being white to black. Birrinydji's people wore sarongs, distinctive whale-tail shaped hats and their craft flew a flag banded with blue, red and blue stripes. A Macassan story speaks of a group of Gowans sailing south and finding refuge in Arnhem Land after the Macassan Kingdom of Gowa was attacked by a joint Dutch-Bugis force in 1667.  But earlier elements, Islamic and Portuguese are also present in the myth cycle: a moon-dwelling deity called 'Allah' alluded to in funerary rites; pre-Macassan men in 'mirrors' (shining armour) rallied troops on Dholtji's shore; Warramiri elders refer to Dholtji as Mecca, etc. The word 'Birrinydji' itself appears to reflect a term for freebooting Portuguese crusaders.  Beneath these reflexes in myth of pre-modern contact with South Asian traders, the Baijini represent an older pre-Macassan order. One index of this is that Dholtji songs fail to mention precisely what the Macassan traders sought, trepang.  The Birrinydji cycle speaks of a tall bearded people with a king, Luki, the admiral of Birrinydji's fleet Lela and his boat's captain Djammangi. Whatever the historical reality, McIntosh concluded, functionally in these Yolgnu traditions, the contrast between a golden age of wealth, reciprocity and law-giving, and a subsequent period of seafaring Macassan trepang hunters, functions as two distinct realms, the sacred and profane, of thinking about their world, and as a metaphoric idiom for negotiating forms of reconciliation between their traditional order and the modern world of the whites who seek access to Arnhem Land resources.  The Chinese origin hypothesis for the Baijini has been recently revived by the American journalist Louise Levathes.  