Marina DeBris is the name used by an Australian-based artist whose work focuses on reusing trash to raise awareness of ocean and beach pollution.     DeBris uses trash washed up from the beach to create trashion, 'fish tanks', decorative art and other works of art.     She has also used beach trash to provide one perspective on what the earth might look like from space.  As well as creating art from debris, DeBris also is a fund raiser for environmental organizations,      and collaborates with non-profit organizations and schools to educate children about ocean pollution.    DeBris is also a social activist, for example, participating in a panel on how artists can contribute to environmental public policy,  promoting clean energy  and curating eco-art exhibitions.    DeBris's work is not just in pollution, but also works with non profits to raise funds for art education.  DeBris is listed with the Women Environmental Artists Directory,  has been cited by EcoSalon as one of four artists whose work raises awareness of environmental concerns,  and has been listed as one of ten key eco artists.  DeBris is also listed as one of the 30 most influential contemporary women artists,  and as one of 10 eco friendly artists who will blow your mind.  DeBris was educated at Indiana University and the Rhode Island School of Design. She has lived and worked in New York City, London, England, and Sydney, Australia. She was born in Detroit, had lived in Los Angeles,    and currently lives in Australia   Works by DeBris are often displayed in galleries,     Sculpture by the Sea,     featured in magazines,  included in science events,  included in the Smithsonian Institution’s Washed Ashore Project,  or may be used by organizations such as the United Nations as awards.    Her works are also displayed in venues not typically thought of as galleries, but are art venues nonetheless, such as retail venues,   Burning Man,   a trasher's ball,   a downtown art walk,  an Earth Day creek spring clean-up,  and an Environmental & Animal Justice Exhibit.  DeBris also partners or works with various anti-pollution organizations, such as Friends of Ballona Wetlands,   5 Gyres,  RuckusRoots,  the United Nations Special Assembly on Climate Change  Heal the Bay  and other organizations, such as Aquarium of the Pacific.  Marina DeBris has also designed accessories for Captain Charles J. Moore, who worked to bring attention to the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. DeBris' work with the United Nations Special Assembly was a collaboration with actress/poet Sheryl Lee, dancer Maya Gabay, and musician Marla Leigh.  DeBris also partnered with an office building, MLC Centre, to highlight the problems of throwaway coffee cups. The MLC Centre hosted her work "Disposable Truths" created from used throwaway coffee cups.    DeBris's "Inconvenience Store" was a joint recipients of the Allens People’s Choice Award at the 2017 Sculpture By the Sea.   The "Inconvenience Store" was also awarded with the Sydney Water Environmental Sculpture Subsidy for her work on water pollution and consumption,  and won the Waverley Council Mayor’s Prize.   