 The Minimalists are American authors, podcasters, filmmakers, and public speakers Joshua Fields Millburn and Ryan Nicodemus. The duo began pursuing the minimalist lifestyle in 2010. After experiencing significant improvements in their quality of life as a result of adopting and practicing the tenets of minimalism, the pair launched a website in December 2010 to share their experiences.  In late 2012 the pair moved from their hometown of Dayton, Ohio, to a cabin in Philipsburg, Montana, to focus on their writing. After four months in Philipsburg, they moved to Missoula, Montana. In late 2017 they moved from Missoula, Montana, to Los Angeles, California, to focus on the creation of a studio to further spread their message of simple and intentional living.  Millburn and Nicodemus created their website in the hopes they could help others through writing and posting essays discussing their personal journeys adopting and practicing the tenets of minimalism. Topics on the website include simple living, health, relationships, and personal growth.  The site now has an annual audience of more than four million readers,  and it has been featured in The Wall Street Journal,  Time, and The Guardian and on NBC, FOX, NPR, CBC, CBS This Morning,  and Today. In keeping with the tenets of minimalism, the website displays their essays in a simple layout and has no ads. Millburn and Nicodemus, with author and traveler Colin Wright, co-founded Asymmetrical Press, an independent publishing company and author community, in 2012.  Asymmetrical Press currently publishes works by The Minimalists, Joshua Fields Millburn, Colin Wright, Josh Wagner, Shawn Mihalik, Robyn Devine, Chase Night, Robert Brown, and Kelli Donley. Joshua Fields Millburn (born June 29, 1981 in Dayton, Ohio)  is an American author,  writing instructor,  and minimalist.  He lived in Dayton, chasing the American Dream by climbing the rungs of the corporate America ladder, until he quit his corporate executive job in 2011. "Blindsided by the loss of his mother and his marriage in the same month, Millburn started questioning every aspect of the life he had built for himself. Then, he accidentally discovered a lifestyle known as minimalism…and everything started to change."  He states, "Love people and use things, because the opposite never works.” Ryan Nicodemus (born October 23, 1981 in Knoxville, Tennessee)  is an American author, personal mentor,  and minimalist.  Ryan's family moved several times but eventually settled in Lebanon, Ohio, when Ryan was eight years old. Ryan began pursuing minimalism after he was laid off from his job as a corporate executive.  In 2013, Millburn and Nicodemus approached film director Matt D'Avella of Catalyst to join them on their upcoming world tour to promote their newest book, Everything That Remains. D'Avella had filmed the promotional video for the book earlier that year, and Millburn and Nicodemus wanted him to film their experiences and interactions on the tour so they could include the footage in a future project. In 2014, D'Avella accompanied Millburn and Nicodemus on several legs of the tour, filming their travels, their events, and their interviews with contemporaries and members of the media. As they periodically reviewed the dailies, they all agreed a narrative was beginning to emerge. It was then that they decided to form a partnership to develop the footage into a documentary film. In 2015, D'Avella completed the post-production of the film with assistance from the design firm, SPYR. In 2016, the partnership of The Minimalists, Catalyst, and SPYR released the film theatrically in May as Minimalism: A Documentary About the Important Things. They subsequently released it on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, and Vimeo in August, and on Netflix in December. Listing of authors and the books that were cited in the film: 