Green, red, brown The Abdul Wali Khan University Mardan (AWKUM) (Urdu: جامعہ عبد الولی خان مردان‬‎) is a public university located in Mardan, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.  Established in April 2009, the university is named after Abdul Wali Khan, a prominent  personality  of Pashtunkhwa and has forty nine institutions affiliated to it.   The university started in an already-built postgraduate college of Mardan,  has nine campuses and more than ten thousand students enrolled in thirty one disciplines as of 2015.  The campus at Swabi was opened in October 2010 in the Anbar elementary college building and has since then become the University of Swabi and the Palosa campus is home to Bacha Khan University.  Currently the university has five faculties and three constituent colleges. The faculties are Faculty of Arts & Humanities, Faculty of Chemical and Life Sciences, Faculty of Physical & Numerical Sciences, Faculty of  Economics & Business, Faculty of Social Sciences. The Pashtunkhwa College of Art, Womans' College and the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary College are also constituent colleges of the University. Abdul Wali Khan University consists of six faculties, which have the following departments: The university has several campuses, each with library facilities:  There is also a digital library serving all campuses.  The University College of Science, Shankar has departments of Chemistry and Computer Science. University College of Science, Shankar, is housed in a 12.5-acre complex with state-of-the-art research laboratories. It has full-fledged working laboratories in physical chemistry, organic chemistry, inorganic chemistry, analytical chemistry and computer science. A video lecture facility is also available. The newly constructed Garden Campus of the university is spread over on more than 2000 Kanals of land having state of the art infrastructure, well equipped laboratories, one of the biggest libraries of the region, computer labs, three hostels with a capacity of 1500 students, two on campus colleges, sports complex and many other facilities. Classes in the campus have been started.  Tahdhīb al Afkārbiannual is the biannual Islamic studies research journal of Abdul Wali Khan University Mardan published in three different languages English,Urdu and Arabic.  The university provides extra-curricular activities such as painting, articles, photography and sport. The students can participate through proper channels.  The university provides facilities for many sports; they have been merged into the Department of Physical Education and Health and named as Department of Physical Education and Sports.  Abdul Wali Khan University, Mardan establish partnerships with national as well as international universities, associations, institutes and academies and have signed a memorandum of understanding(MOUs or MoUs) with each. The following is the list of international collaborations.     On 13 April 2017, Mashal Khan, a journalism student at the university, was murdered by a mob apparently including some of his fellow students on the false suspicion of uploading blasphemous content on the social networking site Facebook.    