The Atlanta Public Schools cheating scandal refers to the accusation that teachers and principals in the Atlanta Public Schools (APS) district cheated on state-administered standardized tests and the subsequent fallout.  The scandal began in 2009 when the Atlanta Journal-Constitution published analyses of Criterion-Referenced Competency Tests (CRCT) results which showed statistically unlikely test scores, including extraordinary gains or losses in a single year.  An investigation by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI) released in July 2011 found that 44 out of 56 schools cheated on the 2009 CRCT.  178 teachers and principals were found to have corrected answers entered by students.  The size of the scandal has been described as one of the largest in United States history.    The scandal thrust the debate over using high-stakes testing to hold educators accountable, mandated by the 2001 No Child Left Behind Act, into the national spotlight.  Teachers who confessed to cheating blamed "inordinate pressure" to meet targets set by the district and said they faced severe consequences such as a negative evaluation or termination if they didn't.  Prior to the scandal, the APS had been lauded for making significant gains in standardized test scores. Between 2002 and 2009, eighth-graders' scores on the National Assessment of Educational Progress reading test jumped 14 points, the highest of any urban area.  Superintendent Beverly Hall, who served from 1999 to 2010, was named Superintendent of the Year in 2009.  The GBI's report said Hall "knew or should have known" about the scandal.  Hall's lawyer has denied she had any knowledge of cheating practices.  In 2013, she was indicted in relation to her role in the matter.  On September 6, 2013, Tamara Cotman, an Executive Director, represented by Benjamin Davis, was found not guilty of influencing a witness.  On September 29, 2014, the trial of the teachers accused of tampering with students' grades began in Atlanta. It was expected to last more than three months. On March 2, 2015, the superintendent at the center of the scandal, Beverly Hall, died of breast cancer, aged 68.  On April 1, 2015, eleven of the twelve teachers accused of being involved in the scandal were convicted on racketeering charges.  Dessa Curb was the only teacher found not guilty on all charges.  Sentences 