The history of libraries in Latin America dates back to before the conquest of the continent by the Spanish. Although the indigenous peoples of Mexico, Central America, and South America had developed a written language and, in some cases, created libraries and record depositories of their own, library history of the continent tends to focus on post-conquest institutions. This article will discuss the history of libraries in Latin America. The Aztecs, Maya, Mixtec, Olmec, Purépecha, and Zapotecs had all developed written language prior to the Spanish Conquest.  It is important to note that although numerous cultures in the region had developed writing systems, only the Maya had developed a phonetic language.  Although numerous types of writing surfaces were used, such as stone, bone, metal, and ceramics, the most famous surviving artifacts are the codices. As in other regions, codices were made from long strips of material folded into an accordion shape; in this region, bark from the amate tree, agave fibers, and/or animal hides were used as paper, and the codices were protected by wooden covers.  The Nahuatl codices (containing works from the Aztecs, Maya, and Mixtecs, among other tribes in the Nahua language family), are the most famous of these.  Codices were used to record a variety of types of information, including astronomical knowledge, religious calendars, genealogies of the ruling families, cartography, and tribute collection.  Temples and schools were the first "libraries" in the region, as this is where the codices were stored and used as educational materials.  Unfortunately, the Spanish arrival meant that preexisting Mesoamerican books and libraries were destroyed by conquistadores and missionaries.  Only 15 codices survived after 1521; these include the Borgia codex, the Vatican B codex, and the Tro-Cortesiano codex.  However, codices were slow to die out; Spanish-language, bilingual, and indigenous-language codices continued to be produced, with the list of materials changing to include paper and the subjects focusing on the Christian religion and tribute to colonial administrators.  One such example is the Codex Mendoza; it contains ethnography of the Aztecs with a commentary by Spanish priests and was created in 1541 as a gift for Charles V of Spain.  The first Mexican printing press was established in 1539 by Juan Pablos  Due to the lack of widespread Spanish literacy, most printed items were stored in the library of the university of Mexico City or in the private libraries of clergy, noblemen, and government officials.  Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz was one of the intellectuals of Mexico during the late 15th century. The Carmelite nun used a 4,000-volume library established by her grandfather to further her education; she corresponded with Sir Isaac Newton and was also renowned for her skill in poetry.  Unfortunately, Sor Juana became embroiled in a battle with Church politics in 1690; although she passionately defended the right of women to an education, she was banned from writing and her library in 1691, dying four years later.  The Inca Empire had developed a complex system of knots, called quipu, which was used to record information; whether this could be considered a writing system, and collections of quipu libraries, is debated.  As with Mexico and Central America, printing was slow to arrive to the Andes. Quito, Ecuador, obtained its first Spanish press in 1760.  As with the other colonies in Mexico and Central America, many printed materials found their way to the library of the University of Lima.  Prior to the mid-18th century, printing was strictly prohibited in Brazil due to its status as an agricultural colony.  The Biblioteca Nacional was founded in 1810 by the Portuguese royal family; the collection was left behind in the country following the terms of the treaty that allowed the royal family's return.  The library is one of the largest in the Americas, with over 9 million items in the collection.  The Biblioteca Nacional organized the first classes in library science in South America and pioneered modernization.  