Andrew Berman is an architectural and cultural heritage preservationist in New York City. He is known for being an advocate of affordable housing and LGBT rights. Berman was named executive director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation (GVSHP),  neighborhood preservation organization in New York City, in 2002. Andrew Berman has served on the boards of the New York State Tenants and Neighbors Coalition, Housing Conservation Coordinators, the Chelsea Reform Democratic Club, the Hell’s Kitchen Neighborhood Association, and was a founding member of the West Side Neighborhood Alliance and Friends of Pier 84. He is a member of the Board of Advisers of the Historic Districts Council. Berman was also a plaintiff in the lawsuit to remove private helicopter service from the Hudson River Park. Since 2002, GVSHP, under Berman's leadership, has secured landmark and zoning protections in the South Village, the Meatpacking District, along the Greenwich Village waterfront, and in the East Village. The organization also led campaigns against development plans by Donald Trump and New York University.  Berman has also focused on preserving the history of typically underrepresented groups (e.g., migrants and the working class) and previously overlooked sites and structures (e.g., tenement architecture).  Berman was born and raised in the Bronx, New York, where he graduated from the Bronx High School of Science. He holds a BA in Art History from Wesleyan University, and lives and works on the West Side, Lower Manhattan. Berman worked for New York City Councilmember Thomas Duane from 1993 to 1999, then for Duane as state senator until 2001. Under Duane, he focused on areas of education, transportation infrastructure, the environment, and senior services in Greenwich Village, Chelsea, and Hell’s Kitchen.  Under Berman's leadership, GVSHP has worked with other community groups to secure official landmark protections for around 1,100 buildings in Greenwich Village, the East Village, and NoHo, including 10 new historic districts or historic district extensions, and at least 40 individual landmarks. During his tenure, GVSHP also helped secure community-initiated contextual rezonings and downzonings of nearly 100 blocks of the East and West Village, designed to prevent new development, limit hotel and dormitory construction, preserve existing building stock, and retain and create affordable housing.  Timeline Other preservation efforts Berman has led include: Berman has focused on historical preservation of sites associated with the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender (LGBT) rights movement. Berman's engagement with the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission reflect his work to garner recognition of sites such as the Stonewall Inn; Julius’ Bar, and the Gay Activists Alliance Firehouse, for their historic significance. Berman led a campaign for the landmark protection of a house at 186 Spring Street which had served as a home to figures in the post-Stonewall LGBT rights movement. A determination of eligibility for the house for the State and National Registers of Historic Places was made, upon which Berman publicly criticized the LPC for refusing to landmark the site and allowing it to be demolished.  In April 2013, Berman, on behalf of GVSHP, along with PFLAG and the Church of the Village, unveiled a plaque marking the founding of PFLAG forty years earlier.  Andrew Berman's work has often included efforts to prevent the expansion of New York University within Greenwich Village, the East Village, NoHo, and satellite campuses. This includes his work with GVSHP to prevent NYU from building a planned 400-foot-tall tower on Bleecker Street, which would have been the tallest structure in Greenwich Village, Berman's participation in litigation blocking city approvals for NYU’s planned 20-year expansion plan. GVSHP also advocated for the expansion of the South Village Historic District, as originally proposed by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, to include several NYU buildings, including the full-block Vanderbilt Hall Law School on Washington Square South – a building which, without the landmark protections which were granted it, could have been replaced under existing zoning by a 300-foot-tall dorm.  Berman also reportedly criticized Donald Trump’s plans for a 454-foot-tall “condo-hotel” on Spring Street in the Hudson Square neighborhood adjacent to Greenwich Village, leading rallies and garnering support from civic groups throughout New York City in opposition to the plan, which was ultimately approved by New York City.  