"Once upon a time" is a stock phrase used to introduce a narrative of past events, typically in fairy tales and folk tales. It has been used in some form since at least 1380 (according to the Oxford English Dictionary) in storytelling in the English language and has opened many oral narratives since 1600. These stories often then end with "and they all lived happily ever after", or, originally, "happily until their deaths". The phrase is particularly common in fairy tales for younger children, where it is almost always the opening line of a tale. It was commonly used in the original translations of the stories of Charles Perrault as a translation for the French "il était une fois", of Hans Christian Andersen as a translation for the Danish "der var engang", (literally "there was once"), the Brothers Grimm as a translation for the German "es war einmal" (literally "it was once") and Joseph Jacobs in English translations and fairy tales. The phrase is also frequently used in such oral stories as retellings of myths, fables, folklore and children's literature.  The "story-starting phrase" is a common feature of many languages. (كان يا ما كان،في قديم الزمان، وسالف العصر والأوان‎) (Čiri – ik′a, lxini – ak′a, k′at′o – ik′a, p′k′vili – ak′a) A long time ago... / In the days of our ancestors / When men were men and women tended the kitchen or, A long time ago... or, In the days of our ancestors... (or this, usually among adults and jovially) Long ago, when men were men and women tended the kitchen... Be pāyān āmad in daftar,hekāyat hamčenān bāqist. Qesse ye mā be sar resid,kalāqe be xunaš naresid. ((V nekotorom tsarstve, v nekotorom goosudarstve) Zhil byl...) Некада давно...(Nekada davno...) Био једном један...(masc., Bio jednom jedan) Било једном једно...(neuter, Bilo jednom jedno) (láew túk kon gôr yòo dûay gan yàang mee kwaam sùk dtà-lòt bpai)  ∗ : This traditional opening phrase by the storyteller is rich with rhyming wordplays, tongue-twisters, as well as comedic and bizarre situational juxtapositions that are meant to draw listeners in, and set the stage for a whimsical, fantastical storyline.  Alternatively: Gökten üç elma düşmüş; birincisi, içindeki çocuğu yaşatmayı bilenlere, ikincisi, davranmadan önce dinleyip düşünenlere, üçüncüsü ise özündeki sevgiyi ve umudu hiç kaybetmeyenlere. Onlar ermiş muradına, biz çıkalım kerevetine. Alternatively: Lastly, three apples fell from the sky; one for those who know to keep their inner child alive, one for those who know to listen and think before they act, and one for those who never lose the love and hope within their soul. And with that, they* all achieved their hearts' desires. Let us** now step up and settle into their thrones.***  ∗ : the protagonists of the story ∗∗: the listeners ∗∗∗: a common conclusory storytelling expression meaning "may we all share in their good fortune" ((V deyakomu tsarstvi, u deyakiy derzhavi) zhyv-buv...) 