Wolfgang Axel Tomé is a Physicist working in Medicine.  He received his undergraduate degree in Physics from the Eberhard-Karls-Universität in Tübingen, Germany in 1986 and earned his doctorate in Mathematical physics in 1995 from the University of Florida under the guidance of John R. Klauder. He is the author of Path Integrals on Group manifolds  and the co-author of Dose painting IMRT using Biological Parameters.  Following his doctoral studies he completed a post doctoral fellowship and two-year residency in therapeutic medical physics at UF Health Shands Hospital under the direction of Jatinder R.  Palta. From 1998 to 2012, he served as a faculty member in the Departments of Biomedical Engineering, Human Oncology, and Medical Physics at the University of Wisconsin, where he was tenured in 2006 and promoted to full Professor in 2009. During his time at the University of Wisconsin he collaborated closely with  Thomas Rockwell Mackie, Minesh Mehta, Bhudatt R. Paliwal, and the eminent radiation biologist Jack F. Fowler and supervised the work of 16 Ph.D. students in the field of Therapeutic Medical Physics.  In 2012 he was appointed as the founding Director of Medical Physics of the Institute for Onco-Physics   at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and as Director of the Division of Therapeutic Medical Physics in the Department of Radiation Oncology at Montefiore Medical Center. He currently holds appointments as Professor of Radiation Oncology and Professor of Neurology at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and as Visiting Professor of Medical Physics at the University of Wisconsin and the Centre of Medical Radiation Physics of the University of Wollongong, NSW, Australia. He  is the author of more than 200 published articles in various areas of medical and mathematical physics,  has been a member of a number of AAPM task groups,  and currently has 5 patents  to his credit. In recognition of his distinguished and significant contributions to the fields of medical physics and radiation oncology he has been bestowed the distinction and title of Fellow of the American Association of Physicists in Medicine (FAAPM) in 2010 and Fellow of the American Society for Radiation Oncology (FASTRO) in 2017. 