William Wallace Foster (January 23, 1932 – May 10, 2000), known as The Fox, was an MC on the first season of Comedy Central's The Man Show under the show's original hosts, Adam Carolla and Jimmy Kimmel. He was billed as "The World's Fastest Beer Drinker", a feat which he performed in an appearance on the TV show Taxi as well as numerous times on The Man Show. Foster was a performer of what he called "songs your mother wouldn't sing." Foster had an album called Songs Banned in Boston, which is out of print. Prior to his television career he owned The Fox Inn, a bar in Santa Monica, California, where he performed nightly from 1961 to 1989.  The Fox also spent time playing on the University of Nevada, Las Vegas's campus between 1972-1987.  He regularly chugged beers on campus while playing his piano and singing, long before alcohol consumption laws were ever enforced on campus. Foster appeared as a champion fast beer drinker and demonstrated his skill in a 1978 episode of Taxi, "The Great Line". Foster was also featured on an episode of NBC's early 80s reality TV show Real People. Bill was crowned King of the 12th Occasional Doo Dah Parade in Pasadena, California on November 13, 1988.  He presided over the Parade on November 27, 1988, along with Queen Richelle Small. As an MC on The Man Show, Foster chugged beers and sang songs with the audience. He could chug two mugs of beer in less than two seconds, typically after performing the traditional German drinking cheer, "Zicke, Zacke, Zicke, Zacke, Hoi, Hoi, Hoi!".     After the sale of The Fox Inn, Foster continued to perform with his companion and agent Nancy Grade in and around Los Angeles. He played regular engagements at Weber's in Reseda, Mom's Cantina in Brentwood, MVP Sports Bar in Simi Valley, and American Pie in Santa Monica.  On May 10, 2000, Foster died at his home in Santa Monica after a long battle with prostate cancer. Carolla and Kimmel discussed The Fox being in the hospital during the first episode of Season 2. During the episode's epilogue, a message read:Shortly after taping this episode, our good friend "The Fox" passed away from Prostate Cancer. His family asks that we honor his memory by urging our male viewers to get their prostates checked regularly. With early detection his death could have been prevented. We will miss him a lot...  The hosts continued The Fox's cheer "Zicke Zacke Zicke Zacke hoi hoi hoi!" and chug at the end of every episode. 