  The Patiala peg is a peg of whiskey in which the amount is decided based on the height between the index and ring fingers when they are held parallel to one another, against the side of the glass. This has been confused with Chinese peg at times, in which water is poured followed by liquor thus forming two distinct layers.  Even major liquor companies have started selling their products in the single drink packaging of 90 ml & 120 ml bottles in India.  The name originates from the city of Patiala, which was once a state known[by whom?] for the extravagant ways of its royalty and extraordinary height of its Sikh soldiers.  There are multiple theories how the measure got its name, all of which revolve around Maharaja Sir Bhupinder Singh who ruled the princely state of Patiala from 1900 till his death in 1938. An enigmatic personality who came to rule when he was merely nine years old, Maharaja Bhupinder was a fierce warrior, a man with fine tastes. It is said that he had 365 women (queens as well as concubines) in his palace. He also owned more than 27 Rolls Royce cars and the famous Patiala Necklace which had 2930 diamonds including the world's seventh largest called De Beers. The founder of State Bank of Patiala, he lived life king size. It is believed that the Maharaja had a polo team that consisted of legendary Sikh warriors like himself. He invited the Irish team called Viceroy's Pride for a friendly tournament of 'tent pegging' (a game where players on horseback have to collect small objects with their spears). When the Irish team arrived, all as imposing as their Sikh counterparts.Irish team was known to be heavy drinkers. Wherever this game was held, there used to be a party night before and Irish were known to drink to full capacity and play their best the next day.Same as routine ,a night before game , party was held in Patiala, huge amount of whiskey was served to both teams and both teams drank to their capacity. Next day Irish team woke up with still effect of whiskey on them and could not play their best and thus they lose the game. From that day Patiala team became famous for their drinking capacity and Patiala Peg for its strong effect  of alcohol. Generally Patiala Peg is referred for its particular amount and strong effect of it.  