Stratified reproduction is a widely used  social scientific concept, created by Shellee Colen, that describes imbalances in the ability of people of different races, ethnicities, nationalities, classes, and genders to reproduce and nurture their children.  Researchers use the concept to describe the "power relations by which some categories of people are empowered to nurture and reproduce, while others are disempowered," as Rayna Rapp and Frye D. Ginsburg defined the term in 1995.  Globally, women are confined to different societal standards on reproduction. The ability to choose whether women want to become pregnant is not available to all women. Contraception and abortions can be illegal or difficult to obtain depending on location or socioeconomic status. Women’s experience of child birth has varied from required minimum number of children a mother must birth and honors for overachieving the set minimums to a restricted the number of children per household. Stratified reproduction also extends beyond the aspect of reproduction to the extent of childcare and the mother’s role in their child’s life. Since the emergence of the term stratified reproduction, researchers have applied its concepts to analyze the different effects of varying social factors on reproduction and childcare. Rayna Rapp and Frye D. Ginsburg pioneered the application of stratified reproduction to different societies to emphasize the variation to which women experienced reproduction and childcare. In Rapp and Ginsburg’s book, Conceiving the New World Order: The Global politics of Reproduction, they discuss several societies that limited women’s choice on reproduction and childcare due to socioeconomic factors.  They touch on Shellee Colen’s research on West Indian nannies in New York and how they are unable to participate in their own child’s childcare, because they must immigrate to America to find work to support their family.  They also include Gail Kligman’s research on abortion bans in Romania under Ceausescu’s rule.  State policy required the Romanian women to birth at least four children in hopes of increasing the population for a more efficient socialist country. They also discuss China’s limit on the maximum number of children per household, and low-income African American women’s struggle to obtain proper contraceptives and abortions.  Rapp and Ginsburg concluded that “global and local socioeconomic relations that form the context for stratified reproduction, whereby ‘some categories of people are empowered to nurture and reproduce, while others are disempowered’”, and that cultural ideologies and state policies reinforce the stratified reproduction implanted by socioeconomic factors. The scope of use of the stratified reproduction framework is not limited to women’s access to contraceptives or lack thereof. Researchers are applying stratified reproduction to the health of the mothers and children. Infertility has also been linked to the effects of stratified reproduction. Scarce financial resources deters mothers from being able to reach effective medical services to help prevent infertility.  Infertility is just one aspect of stratified reproduction. Although it is guessed to affect 186 million people worldwide, technology can be able to assist those who are infertile.  In-Vitro-Fertilization (IVF) is one assisted reproductive technique (ART) that is used. IVF was developed over 30 years ago to help women with blocked or damaged fallopian tubes. IVF has helped many couples achieve their dreams of having a child. However, IVF is extremely expensive or inaccessible to many globally. In Central and Southern Africa "two-thirds of infertile women have diagnoses of tubal blockage attributable to sterilizing RTIs [Reproductive Tract Infections]" which is exactly what IVF was developed for.  The high costs and inaccessibility keep infertility as a major aspect of stratified reproduction. According to a study done by Marcia C. Inhorn and Pasquale Patrizio, regions such as South Asia, sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East and North Africa, Central and Eastern Europe and Central Asia have high infertility rates.  While infertility is a global phenomenon, other issues within those regions play a role in their high infertility rates. Secondary infertility, being unable to conceive after a previous pregnancy, is the most common form of infertility in women.  Typically secondary infertility comes from RTIs. In countries where abortions are illegal, women will choose to have unsafe abortions. These unsafe abortions can lead to RTIs and secondary infertility if left untreated. Studies show that in places where laws are lifting the ban on abortions, secondary infertility rates are decreasing.  Ethnicity and race also play a role in infertility. Recently, the stories of Latinas' struggle for reproductive rights have been coming out. These stories provided evidence that the US was funding forced sterilization of Latinas and other ethnic groups. In their article, Elena R. Gutiérrez and Liza Fuentes study two communities, Puerto Rican women in Puerto Rico and New York and Mexican-origin women in Los Angeles.  Once Puerto Rico became a US colony in 1898, people began to talk about Puerto Rico being overpopulated. To deal with this a large portion, over 34% of mothers aged 20–49, were sterilized. Not all women chose to be sterilized.  Many of these women were used for contraceptive testing without their knowledge.  Mexican-origin women were another community that experiences forced sterilization. They were non consensual sterilizations.  These sterilizations came from the idea that Latinas are over-populating the US.  In his article, Leo Chavez discusses Latina fertility in the United States. Their ethnic identity drove a new set of advertisements, anti-immigration advertisements.  These advertisements suggest that the Latina communities leave. That their fertility was not wanted in the US, a country where the population growth rate was near zero.  Puerto Ricans such as those discussed in the article by Gutiérrez and Fuentes were apart of this larger Latina community that was being targeted. In Leo Chavez's article, he collects data to discuss fertility rates in Latinas. He uses this data to show that while Latinas are having more children, they are not started at a younger age as the US would like to believe.  