  This is a list of wetlands in Australia that are designated by the Ramsar Convention as sites of international importance. Under the Convention, the wetlands are considered as being of significant value not only for the Australian community, but for humanity as a whole. The Ramsar Convention on Wetlands came into force for Australia on 21 December 1975 (1975-12-21). Since that date, Australia has 65 sites designated as Wetlands of International Importance, with a total area of 8,319,886 hectares (20,558,890 acres).   The management of Ramsar sites listed within Australia is controlled at national level by the Australian government via the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 and its accompanying regulations, the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Regulations 2000.   The Act, as of 2015, lists the principles required for meeting treaty obligations in respect to “wetlands of international importance” including “environmental approvals” (i.e. sections 16-17B), the prerequisites for the making of both “declarations” and “bilateral agreements” (i.e. sections 34C and 37F, and 52 respectively), the approval process (i.e. section 138), “strategic assessments” (i.e. section 134J), and the management approach (i.e. sections 325 to 336 inclusive).  The applicable regulation (i.e. regulation 10.02) lists three requirements as of 2015.  Firstly, a set of general principles for management is described including the need for "public consultation," the involvement of parties with an interest and/or who may be affected by the management of wetland, as well as allowing for "continuing community and technical input."  Secondly, the requirements for the management plan to be prepared for each listed wetland are described.  Thirdly, the requirements for the “environmental impact assessment and approval" are described for parties wishing to undertake activities that are likely to have "a significant impact on the ecological character of a Ramsar wetland."   The following wetlands are located in the Australian Capital Territory:  The following wetlands are located in New South Wales:  The following wetlands are located in the Northern Territory:  The following wetlands are located in Queensland:  The following wetlands are located in South Australia:  The following wetlands are located in Tasmania:  The following wetlands are located in Victoria:   The following wetlands are located in Western Australia:  The following wetlands are located in the External territories:  