Kinelarty (from Irish  Cineál Fhaghartaigh, meaning 'Faghartach's kindred' ) is a former Irish district and barony in County Down, Northern Ireland.  It lies east of the centre of the county, and is bordered by five other baronies: Iveagh Upper, Lower Half to the west; Lecale Upper to the south and south-east; Lecale Lower to the west; Castlereagh Upper to the north; and Iveagh Lower, Upper Half to the north-west.  Kinelarty derives its name from the Irish Cineál Fhaghartaigh, which means Faghartach's (Fogarty's) kindred.  This was the name of an Irish district, the chiefs of which were the Mac Artáin (MacCartan).  The Mac Artáin descend from Artán, grandson of Fagartaigh of Uí Echach Cobo (anglicised as Iveagh). The Mac Artáin, as is professed throughout the Annals of the Four Masters and in parts the Annals of Innisfallen reigned supreme as High Kings for considerable periods of history further positioning themselves as lords of Iveagh. By 1177, the Norman John de Courcy had arrived in Ulster and set about conquering most of eastern Ulster, forming the Earldom of Ulster. The only clans who were able to exist independently in eastern Ulster during this time were in the interior away from the sea-coast, where the Uí Tuirtre, north of Lough Neagh, and the Uí Echach Cobo.  During the 14th century the Normans in Ulster faded as a result of the Bruce Invasion, with this period seeing the Mac Aonghusa and Mac Artáin clans emerge and expand from Uibh Echach, with their respective territories becoming the basis of the future baronies of Iveagh and Kinelarty.  With the fall of Norman power in Ulster, the Clann Aodha Bhuidhe (Clandeboy) branch of the O'Neills took control of north Down, with the chiefs of Kinelarty eventually becoming their tributaries.   Early mentions in regards to Kinelarty and the MacCartans include:  By the Elizabethan era, Kinelarty was simultaneously known under variations of "MacCarton's country", and during the reign of James I simultaneously under variations of "Killenarten", before once again becoming simply known as variations of Kinelarty.  Below is a list of settlements in Kinelarty:  Below is a list of civil parishes in Kinelarty:     