Cordell Cleare is an activist and advocate.  In 2017 she ran for City Council to represent the 9th district. She currently is Democratic District Leader for the 70th Assembly District, Part A.  She also co-founded the Michelle Obama Community Democratic Club which is located in Central Harlem. She has fought for environmental and social justice, tenants' rights and better educational opportunities and resources for public school students.  The recipient of the 1997 Brooke Russell Astor Award for advocacy and work to prevent childhood lead poisoning, Cordell chaired the New York City Coalition to End Lead Poisoning (NYCCELP) for over 1 years.  NYCCELP is the grassroots organization that lead the fight to bring about the most comprehensive childhood lead poisoning prevention law in the nation (Local Law 1 of 2004).  Cordell served as staff to former City Councilman and Deputy Majority Leader Bill Perkins where she advocated for individuals as well as the community on a wide range of issues. Her work in that office was effective and often brought positive results; from getting public benefits restored to preventing illegal evictions and uncovering national scandals. She worked extensively with former City Councilman Perkins on a variety of critical community and legislative matters including black male unemployment, land use & historic preservation, infant mortality, justice for the Central Park 5 and of course lead poisoning prevention to name a few. She was elected to Community School Board District 3 and served from 1999 – 2004. After the mayoral dismantling of school boards and Community District Education Councils were formed in 2004 she was elected by parents to the District 3 Community Education Council in 2004 and again in 2005. As an education advocate she has supported the Campaign for Fiscal Equity efforts and joined the fight for badly needed resources, funding, and technology and capital improvements, particularly in the most underserved and lowest performing schools in the district. Parent empowerment and involvement, qualified teachers and reforms to policies and practices that result in major inequities between schools in and/or students from certain neighborhoods and socio-economic backgrounds are among the many issues Cordell fought for. She served as Perkins’ Chief of Staff in the State Senate, where she continued to work on important issues affecting the community. As the female Democratic District Leader in the 68th Assembly District in Harlem (2007 – 2015) Cordell organized and participated in many efforts to build and improve the community and encourage participation in the political process. Through the Sojourner Truth Democratic Club, she supported and worked successfully to get numerous Democratic candidates on the ballot and elected to federal, state, city and party positions. After the 2010 Census and the redistricting that followed in 2012 Cordell was drawn into a new district (70th Assembly District) where she ran for and successfully won the vacant seat in 2015 and was re-elected to the position in 2017.   In 2007 she served as Coordinator of “CD 15 for Obama” and led petitioning efforts to get Barack Obama on the ballot in the 15th congressional district in New York, gathering the second highest number of signatures for his Presidential race than any other congressional district on the East Coast. Cordell also sat as an Obama delegate in the historic 2008 National Democratic Convention in Denver, Colorado. Cordell Cleare was born in the Bahamas and raised in Harlem. Her work in the community started as being a resident addressing community issues; such as housing conditions. She is an advocate for lead poisoning which affected the building where she lived. She organized tenants and community around lead paint poisoning. Cordell Cleare has worked for over 15 years for New York State Senator Bill Perkins (politician). She is a member of the Sojourner Truth Democratic Club based in New York City, NY, and New York City District Leader for District 70.  She is currently running for Harlem City Council seat of Inez Dickens.  She was a New York Delegate for the 2016 Democratic National Convention.  She has served as chair to the New York City Coalition to End Lead Poisoning. Her family was directly affected by lead poisoning.  She says, "as chief of staff she has been able to help the Harlem community to navigate the system". She has been Democratic District Leader. She supported Barack Obama's run for presidency, and was a delegate.  She is on the Advisory Board for the African American Day Parade, and has worked with the African Day Parade.  Cleare and Bill Perkins supported justice for the Central Park jogger case. She has worked and supported "New York Health" bill to establish universal healthcare system for the state of New York.  In 2008 Cleare campaigned for President Barack Obama's 2008 campaign for presidency.  She was a Bernie Sanders delegate for the Democratic Party Convention in 2016. As of 2017, Cleare is running for Harlem Council Member to represent District #9.  She was recently endorsed by New York Amsterdam News. They said "....we clearly understand the significant role she played during her years working in the City Council and State State". "Now, it's her turn in the election arena".  2017 - The League of Pissed off Voters of New York endorsed Cordell for District 9 City Council, stating that "she is exactly the kind of grass-roots figure we want to see taking up offices throughout this city".   "I'm not tired of serving". It has been a constant learning experience and constant fulfillment providing leadership for this community. I wake up everyday thinking about this job."  "We've dealt with this, we've lived with this, we've withstood loss of property, loss of irreplaceable items, photographs, record albums, artwork, loss of days from work, and just by the grace of God no one has been physically injured," said tenant Cordell Cleare.  