The GAHP (Global Alliance on Health and Pollution) is an international collaborative body working to help low- and middle-income countries deal with toxic hotspots and solve environmental health problems. These toxic locations suffer greatly from pollution-related diseases. "The group will work with governments to clean-up toxic hotspots where children, especially, are being poisoned. It could also respond to emergencies such as a recent lead poisoning outbreak in Nigeria that killed hundreds of children."   On October, 19, 2017, GAHP in collaboration with The Lancet and the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, published the Lancet Commission on Pollution and Health in The Lancet. The aim of the Commission is to minimize air, soil and water pollution by communicating the substantial economic and health costs of pollution globally, providing realizable solutions to policy-makers. "This is a larger problem than most people are aware of. Some of the research coming out now finds that the amount of health damage caused by chemicals in toxic hotspots is as significant as that of malaria or tuberculosis."—Richard Fuller, President, Pure Earth (Blacksmith Institute), Secretariat for the GAHP.  The GAHP is the first international alliance of its kind to respond to the threat of toxic pollution on a worldwide scale. The executive committee of the GAHP is based at the World Bank. Pure Earth (formerly known as the Blacksmith Institute, an NGO that works on cleaning up some of the world's worst polluted sites, serves as Secretariat for the GAHP. The GAHP is made up of an international alliance of members that includes the World Bank,UNEP, UNDP, UNIDO, Asian Development Bank, the European Commission, the Ministries of Environment of several low- and middle-income countries, and other agencies.  All GAHP members have an interest in fighting pollution. By banding together, GAHP members offer access to multiple lines of support and resources like a one-stop shop for pollution solutions.  