 The Leap Manifesto is a political manifesto issued by a broad coalition of Canadian authors, artists, national leaders and activists in September 2015, during the Canadian federal election campaign. Initial signatories to the Manifesto include actors Donald Sutherland, Rachel McAdams, Ellen Page, Sarah Polley, and documentary filmmaker Avi Lewis;  musicians Neil Young, Leonard Cohen, and Alanis Morissette; and writers William Gibson, Naomi Klein and Michael Ondaatje, along with environmental groups and labour union members including former Canadian Union of Public Employees president Paul Moist.  The document calls for a restructuring of the Canadian economy and an end to the use of fossil fuels. A resolution referring the manifesto to local riding associations for discussion was approved by delegates during the 2016 New Democratic Party (NDP) Convention.  Although those behind the leap manifesto identify as non-partisan,  they have intentionally presented the manifesto to the NDP at key times.  The Leap Manifesto was first presented in September 2015 during the Canadian federal election campaign, when then NDP leader Tom Mulcair was praising the party as moderate.  Leap advocates again pressed the NDP to adopt the manifesto principles at the NDP biennial policy convention held in Edmonton in April 2016, following the loss of the 2015 federal election. This has proven to divide members of the NDP party, with much controversy surrounding the Leap’s perspective towards pipelines and resource extraction energy projects.  In February 2018, on the night before the biennial NDP policy convention, Leap supporters held a conference to once again urge the NDP to embrace and support the manifesto principles. In the convention, the party remained divided regarding adopting the manifesto as party policy.  There are several criticisms about the Leap Manifesto. First, although the Leap Manifesto is heavily focused on climate change and the importance of moving away from a fossil fuel-dependent economy, there is very little in the document detailing how to transition to a green economy. The document suggests that new jobs will be created in the caregiving sector, although it is argued[by whom?] this isn’t plausible for many small communities.  Another concern is that the Manifesto is expensive. With a goal of a “100% Clean Economy by 2050”, the amount of technology needing to be installed and the attached prices are high. The Manifesto provides a document by Dr. Jacobson titled ‘100% Clean and Renewable Wind, Water, and Sunlight (WWS) All-Sector Energy Roadmaps for 139 Countries of the World’ to support its cause. The implementation of renewable energy systems is a lengthy and expensive process, which is argued[by whom?] to be unachievable. Another criticism[by whom?] is that there are many questions attached to the manifesto, yet there are not as many answers. The manifesto is much harder on resource extraction than it is on the inequalities brought about by a capitalist system. The manifesto mentions new jobs produced in caregiving sectors, although this may not be suitable for all communities across Canada.[according to whom?] Former New Democrat and co-founder of The Waffle, James Laxer, described the manifesto as "a document for elites and not the majority of Canadians" due to its focus on divestment from resource extraction rather than addressing wage and wealth inequality.  