 The Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat (CTBUH) annually announces eleven Tall Building Awards: nine awards for skyscrapers, and two lifetime achievement awards for individuals.  The awards committee selects awards from each category, while the Best Tall Building Overall is selected from the four regional winners. Initially only the special awards such as The Lynn S. Beedle Lifetime Achievement Award, and Fazlur Khan Lifetime Achievement Medal were given. In 2007 the CTBUH started awarding the skyscraper awards and in 2012 added a new award (Innovation Award). In 2013 a new 10 Year Award was added. In 2014 the Urban Habitat and Performance awards were issued for the first time. The CTBUH uses the following award criteria for skyscrapers.  The criteria for the Innovation Award:  The criteria for the 10 Year Award:  The criteria for The Lynn S. Beedle Lifetime Achievement Award:  The criteria for Fazlur Khan Lifetime Achievement Medal:  The Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat bestowed a new award for Burj Khalifa at its annual "Best Tall Buildings Awards Ceremony" on 25 October 2010 when Burj Khalifa honored as first recipient of CTBUH's new Tall Building "Global Icon" Award. According to CTBUH the new "Global Icon" award recognizes those very special supertall skyscrapers that make a profound impact, not only on the local or regional context, but on the genre of tall buildings globally. Which is innovative in planning, design and execution, the building must have influenced and re-shaped the field of tall building architecture, engineering, and urban planning. It is intended that the award will only be conferred on an occasional basis, when merited by an exceptional project perhaps every ten or fifteen years.  Former CTBUH Awards Chair Gordon Gill, of Adrian Smith + Gordon Gill Architecture said: "There was discussion amongst members of the jury that the existing 'Best Tall Building of the Year' award was not really appropriate for the Burj khalifa. We are talking about a building here that has changed the landscape of what is possible in architecture a building that became internationally recognized as an icon long before it was even completed. 'Building of the Century' was thought a more appropriate title for it."  The Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat announced the winners of its annual "Best Tall Building" awards for 2011 on June 15, 2011.  