The International Architecture Awards are the oldest global awards for new architecture, landscape architecture, interiors and urban planning. The program was launched by the Chicago Athenaeum Museum of Architecture and Design in 2005 to honor and celebrate the most outstanding architecture designed and built or unbuilt throughout the world.  The International Architecture Awards are the only non-commercial, global, and public awards program given jointly by two not-for-profit Museums in the United States and Europe dedicated to public education concerning architecture and industrial design. The Awards are also independent of any affiliation to a commercial trade organization such as the RIBA or AIA.  The Awards are also regarded internationally as the mark of excellence, recognizing the best global architecture practices, as well as the corporate clients, developers, state and local governments, institutions, general contractors that produced them.  The Program is open to all international architecture offices and U.S. firms with projects outside the United States. (U.S. submissions are judged annually for the American Architecture Award. The awards are awarded annually at the end of September by the Chicago Athenaeum Museum of Architecture and Design, and Metropolitan Arts Press Ltd. In 2009 the awards were presented in partnership with The European Center for Architecture Art Design and Urban Studies. The winning projects are selected by the international jury from a short list of several hundred international submissions from architectural practices around the world.  The short-list is then judged by a jury of peer practitioners, educators, and architecture journalists and critics.  Juries have taken place in Dublin, Oslo, Stuttgart, Munich, Istanbul, Athens, Vilnius, Helsinki, New York, Los Angeles, and San Francisco. All submitted projects are to be designed by architects in their respective countries of origin or abroad three years prior to the award year. For example, the deadline for submissions for the 2019 International Architecture Awards is December 1, 2018 for buildings designed and/or built between 2015-2018. Categories include:  Skyscrapers, high rises, corporate offices and complexes, housing, schools, universities, institutions, museums, galleries, social housing, entertainment, libraries, restoration and renovations, restaurants, industrial buildings, private homes, sports and transportation buildings, infrastructure, energy facilities, civic and community buildings, expositions buildings, exhibits, religious buildings, public spaces, urban planning, and landscape architecture. The awarded projects form an exhibition "The City and the World" that have toured inside Europe and South America including The International Biennial of Architecture Buenos Aires and The Istanbul Design Biennial.   as well as in Madrid, Athens, and Florence. Some of the world’s most distinguished and prestigious architecture offices have won The International Architecture Awards including: Adrian Smith + Gordon Gill Architecture, Auer Weber Assoziierte GmbH., Behnisch Architekten, Bohlin Cywinski Jackson · Bohlin, CannonDesign,  C.F. Møller Architects, christ.christ. associated architects GmbH., Jones Morehen Thorp,  GRAFT Gesellschaft von Architekten mbH.,  · Feilden Clegg Bradley Studios. Foster + Partners, Grimshaw, HASSELL, Haworth Tompkins, Heatherwick Studio, J.Mayer. H und Partner, Architekten mbB., Jakob+Macfarlane, John McAslan + Partners, Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates, KPMB Architects, Laboratory for Visionary Architecture Berlin GmbH., Monk Mackenzie Architects, nA Nakayama Architects Co., Ltd., NEUF architect(e)s, Nevzat Sayin Mimarlik Hizmetleri, Nordic — Office of Architecture, Pei Cobb Freed & Partners, Populous, Rogers Partners Architects + Urban Designers, Rogers Stirk Harbour + Partners, Safdie Architects, Sanjay Puri Architects, SheltonMindel, Sheppard Robson,  SPEECH,  Steven Holl Architects, Studio Libeskind, Tabanlıoğlu Architects, Tchoban Voss Architekten GmbH., Tzannes, Vo Trong Nghia Co., Ltd., Wilkinson Eyre, XTEN Architecture, and hundreds more visionary firms. Every year, a catalogue, Global Design + Urbanism is printed, documenting The International Architecture Awards and published by Metropolitan Arts Press Ltd. The International Architecture Awards® are a registered trademark of The Chicago Athenaeum and The European Centre for Architecture Art Design and Urban Studies. The number of awarded projects: 