 The Prix Versailles is an annual award dedicated to commercial architecture which was inaugurated in 2015. Discerned at the headquarters of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in Paris, it encompasses several categories, with the winners being selected by an independent judges panel. It is the world architecture award for stores, hotels and restaurants.  Following a call for submissions, this award singles out the architects and owners of shops and stores, hotels and restaurants around the world that are found to be particularly remarkable, from a perspective of their exterior architecture and their interior design. The prix focuses on commercial buildings, with the clear aim of fostering a better mix of the economic and cultural sectors.  Irina Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO, declared on 19 June 2015, "The Prix Versailles is one of the ways to shine light on the intersection between creation, art and economics".  The judges panel includes the following members: The awards were conferred at UNESCO Headquarters on 19 June 2015.   After a first edition specific to France, the prix was expanded to the rest of the world in 2016. The awards were conferred at UNESCO Headquarters on 27 May 2016.   There were nine winners in three categories.   The awards were conferred at UNESCO Headquarters on 12 May 2017. Twelve world winners were recognized in four categories, selected from amongst 70 continental winners from 35 countries.    1. Africa and West Asia: 2. Central America, the South and the Caribbean: 3. North America: 4. Central Asia and the Northeast: 5. South Asia and the Pacific: 6. Europe: The awards were conferred at UNESCO Headquarters on 15 May 2018. Twelve world winners were recognized in four categories, selected from amongst 70 continental winners from 32 countries.    The continental awards were conferred: 1. Africa and West Asia: 2. Central America, the South and the Caribbean: 3. North America: 4. Central Asia and the Northeast: 5. South Asia and the Pacific: 6. Europe: 