The Royal Institute of British Architects Stirling Prize is a British prize for excellence in architecture. It is named after the architect James Stirling, organised and awarded annually by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA). The RIBA Stirling Prize is presented to "the architects of the building that has made the greatest contribution to the evolution of architecture in the past year." The architects must be RIBA members. Until 2014 the building could be anywhere in the European Union, but since 2015 has had to be in the UK. In the past the award has come with a £20,000 prize, but currently it carries no prize money. The award was founded in 1996, and is considered to be the most prestigious architecture award in the United Kingdom. It is publicised as the architectural equivalent of the Booker Prize (literature) and Turner Prize (visual arts). The Stirling Prize replaced the RIBA Building of the Year Award.  The Stirling Prize is the highest profile architectural award in British culture, and the presentation ceremony has previously been televised by Channel 4. It is currently sponsored by developer Almacantar.  Six shortlisted buildings are chosen from a long-list of buildings that have received a RIBA National Award. These awards are given to buildings showing "high architectural standards and substantial contribution to the local environment". In addition to the RIBA Stirling Prize, five other awards are given to buildings on the long-list. In 2015 they consist of: the RIBA National Award, the RIBA Regional Award, the Manser Medal, the Stephen Lawrence Prize and the RIBA Client of the Year Award. For years prior to 1996, the award was known as the "Building of the Year Award". In 2000, several architects from Scotland and Wales made claims of metropolitan bias after five out of seven designs shortlisted by judges were located within London. Critics also described the list as "London-centric". The chairman representing the judges in the contest dismissed the claims, noting that the first Stirling Prize was awarded to a building in Salford.  As the "RIBA Building of the Year Award." 