Rise Against Hunger, formerly Stop Hunger Now, is an international hunger relief non-profit organization that coordinates the packaging and distribution of food and other life-changing aid to people in developing nations. Founded in 1998, Rise Against Hunger mobilizes more than 350,000 volunteers each year to package meals for people in need around the globe. Since 2005, Rise Against Hunger has  distributed more than 315,000,000 meals to recipients in 74 countries with a mission to end hunger in our lifetime. Rise Against Hunger is an international hunger relief agency that seeks to end global hunger by engaging local volunteers. The organization was formed in 1998 by Ray Buchanan, a United Methodist Minister, and began its meal packaging program in 2005. The organizational mission is stated as "Rise Against Hunger is driven by the vision of a world without hunger. Its mission is to end hunger in our lifetime by providing food and life-changing aid to the world’s most vulnerable and creating a global commitment to mobilize the necessary resources." Rise Against Hunger aims to end hunger through four pathways: Nourishing Lives, Responding to Emergencies, Empowering Communities and Growing the Movement. From the implementation of sustainable development community projects to the meal packaging program that utilizes local volunteers, Rise Against Hunger strives to make a global impact on hunger by building resilience, self-sufficiency and empowerment among the world’s most vulnerable populations.    Rise Against Hunger supports safety net programs that support nourishment and skills trainings that help the world’s most vulnerable navigate the difficult journey out of poverty. Rise Against Hunger partners with schools in order to promote and incentivize increased attendance. Additionally, Rise Against Hunger works to partner with skills trainings and clinics in order to support adults learning new trades and encourage healthy lifestyles. Rise Against Hunger works to nourish lives through a holistic approach in the development of the most vulnerable populations. Rise Against Hunger responds to emergencies. In times of floods, droughts or political unrest, to name a few, Rise Against Hunger aims to provide the immediate critical need, food. Access to food, wages and market systems are often destroyed in times of emergency. Rise Against Hunger works with its in-country partner organizations in order to address the immediate needs in the wake of crisis. Each year Rise Against Hunger reserves 10% of its projected meals to respond to crisis situations. Official Rise Against Hunger responses include the 2016 Hurricane Matthew, Syrian conflict, South Sudanese conflict and 2010 Haiti earthquake. In order to create long-term solutions to hunger and poverty, Rise Against Hunger works to empower communities through agricultural and income-generating initiatives. Rise Against Hunger works to increase agriculture production and incomes through programs that promote improved agricultural methods, business skills and market access. Farmers, one of the most food insecure populations in the world, are given access to quality seeds and fertilizers to increase agricultural production and diversify their crops. Rise Against Hunger supports vocational training to help at-risk individuals increase their earning potentials and gain consistent access to food. Part of Rise Against Hunger’s mission is to create a global commitment to mobilize the necessary resources to end hunger. Rise Against Hunger works with volunteer groups from communities of faith, corporations, schools and civic clubs to package meals while developing a greater awareness of hunger-related issues. Additionally, Rise Against Hunger engages its supporters to participate in advocacy activities to work toward changing laws, policies, systems and attitudes to end hunger by 2030. The assembly process combines rice, soy, dehydrated vegetables and a micronutrient flavoring mix formulated by Kraft Heinz Company Foundation that includes 23 essential vitamins and minerals. The cost of each meal varies between 29 and 34 cents. The food has a shelf-life of two years. Rise Against Hunger provides over 70% of its meals to support transformational development programs such as school lunch programs, vocational training programs, early childhood development programs, orphanages, and medical clinics. Working with these programs helps enhance lives by giving beneficiaries the opportunity to break the cycle of poverty through education, skills development, and healthcare while also receiving much needed nutrition. Rise Against Hunger supports partner organizations in developing countries by providing direct financial assistance to support ongoing programs that provide food, medicines or other basic necessities to impoverished populations. This program enables Rise Against Hunger to respond to crises immediately by working with organizations already on the ground. It also supports local economies in developing areas and promotes self-reliance. 