  Nick D'Aloisio (born 1 November 1995) is a British computer programmer, philosopher and internet entrepreneur. He is best known as the developer of Summly, which is an automatic summarization algorithm, developed with SRI International.  D'Aloisio has been recognised as the youngest person to receive a round of venture capital in technology, at just 15 years of age.   As of March 2013, Summly was sold to Yahoo for a reported US$30 million making him one of the youngest self-made millionaires.  D'Aloisio was awarded "Innovator of the Year" in New York City by the Wall Street Journal for his work on Summly and at Yahoo.  D'Aloisio was also included in TIME Magazine's 'Time 100' as one of the world's most influential teenagers,  as well as being profiled in their "Secrets of Genius" Publication.  Until October 2015, D'Aloisio led the critically acclaimed Yahoo News Digest, which launched at CES 2014 and won the 2014 Apple Design Award at WWDC for its technological and product excellence.  During the summer of 2015, he was also the "Entrepreneur in Residence" at Airbnb.    He is currently a student at Hertford College, Oxford University, where he is studying computer science and philosophy. In April 2017, D'Aloisio announced the publication of an academic paper in the peer-reviewed journal Philosophical Psychology (Routledge, Taylor & Francis) entitled "Imagery and Overflow: We See More Than We Report",   and the presentation of a second paper at a conference held at the Centre for Philosophical Psychology, University of Antwerp.  A third paper of his was published in the peer-reviewed philosophy journal Ratio (Wiley-Blackwell),   and three additional papers received conditional acceptances or revision from the peer-reviewed psychology journals the Review of Philosophy and Psychology (Springer), Disputatio: An International Journal In Philosophy and Philosophia, (Springer).  D'Aloisio has also peer reviewed for the journals Consciousness and Cognition (Elsevier) and Synthese (Springer).  According to the online publisher TechCrunch, D'Aloisio has raised US$12 million of investment for a new venture that was founded in early 2016.  D'Aloisio was born in London, England in 1995 to Lou Montilla and Diana D'Aloisio.  Shortly after D'Aloisio was born, the family moved to Australia where they resided in Perth. The family returned to the United Kingdom when D'Aloisio was seven and he grew up in London, where he lives with his mother, father and younger brother Matthew, aged 15. D'Aloisio was educated at King's College School,   an independent school for boys in Wimbledon in south west London, where he received an academic scholarship. Having completed his A-level exams in summer 2014, he now is a student at Hertford College at the University of Oxford, where he continued to fulfil his duties as Product Manager of Yahoo News Digest until summer 2015.  D'Aloisio created the Trimit application for iOS in March 2011, which used an analytical tool to condense text content into 1000, 500, or 140-character summary text.   The app caught the attention of Apple who featured Trimit as a new and noteworthy application on the App Store at the same time.   The potential of Trimit attracted the attention of billionaire Li Ka-Shing, who provided D'Aloisio with US$300,000 in venture capital funding.   D'Aloisio used the feedback and criticism from Trimit to completely re-design the application, and re-launched it in December 2011, as Summly.  Summly aimed to solve perceived problems with the way news articles are presented on smartphones,  with the initial version of Summly being downloaded by over 200,000 users.  As a result of the corporate support,  in November 2012, D'Aloisio received US$1,000,000 in new venture funding for Summly from several international celebrities such as Yoko Ono, Ashton Kutcher and Stephen Fry, in addition to Hong Kong business mogul Li Ka-shing.   As of March, 2013, Summly was sold to Yahoo for a reported $30 million US dollars.  Summly's cover page images were created by visual artist/photographer Kevin Abosch.  D'Aloisio completed a first round of venture capital funding for Summly from Horizons Ventures. He is the youngest person in the world to raise venture capital.  According to the Wall Street Journal, "...he contracted a team of Israeli coders who specialize in natural language processing..." He also hired scientist Inderjeet Mani, "a retired professor who'd written seminal books on the topic. He became our main scientist".    D'Aloisio and Summly have been covered by major publications, including ReadWrite,  Business Insider,  Wired,  Forbes,   The Huffington Post  and TechCrunch.  D'Aloisio has also made numerous television appearances on CNBC, Bloomberg, BBC, ITV; has been written about in the British newspaper Metro; and has been interviewed on BBC Radio Five Live.  D'Aloisio has appeared on CBS This Morning in an interview with Charlie Rose, CNBC Squawk Box, and Bloomberg. He appeared on CNN's Piers Morgan Tonight in December 2012.  Summly has had critical acclaim in receiving Apple's Best Apps of 2012 award for "Intuitive Touch" and currently has a 4.5/5 star rating on the App Store. In addition to WSJ Innovator of the Year and appearing in Time magazine's list of Most Influential, D'Aloisio was named a Top 1000 Influential Londoner by Evening Standard in 2012 and 2013. He won the 2014 Apple Design Award. He also appeared in the 30 under 30 list of Forbes magazine, GQ magazine's 100 Most Connected Men of 2014 and the Mail on Sunday's Top 100 things to watch in 2013. He was included in the Sunday Times' 100 Makers of the 21st Century. D'Aloisio was placed #30 on the 2014 Silicon Valley 100 by Business Insider. He won a Spirit of London Award in December 2012 as Entrepreneur of the Year. D'Aloisio received one of the British Inspiration Awards for Young Entrepreneur of the Year in 2013. He was placed 1st in Evening Standard's Top 25 under 25 for 2013. D'Aloisio has received a Spear's Wealth Management for Entrepreneur of the Year 2013, as well as a Merton Business Award.  D'Aloisio announced his new product, Yahoo News Digest, in January 2014 at CES in Las Vegas.  This product is a direct evolution of Summly, and D'Aloisio is the Product Manager for the new initiative. Yahoo News Digest provides users with a definitive summary of all the important news of the day in the form of a digest.  These digests are provided twice a day - once in the morning and once in the evening. The stories themselves are algorithmically and editorially curated.  The presentation of information is also unique, with news articles being summarized into key units of information, known as "Atoms", which include maps, stock tickers, infographics, and key quotes. The product has been critically acclaimed, with the Verge stating: "Yahoo News Digest is the boldest and most visually impressive app the company has released since Yahoo Weather last year."  It was the winner of the 2014 Apple Design Award.  