 College Scholastic Ability Test or CSAT (Korean: 대학수학능력시험, hanja: 大學修學能力試驗; also abbreviated as Suneung (Korean: 수능, hanja: 修能) is a type of standardized test accepted by South Korean universities. It was made official in 1994. CSAT is managed by the Korea Institute of Curriculum and Evaluation(KICE).   The test is offered every November, but the exact dates may annually change.  CSAT plays an important role in the Education in South Korea. It is commonly believed that the CSAT will determine which university the student will enter. CSAT is even described as 'the chance to make or break one's future.' Of the students taking the test, the percentage of re-takers are about 20%.  On the test day, the stock markets open late and buses and subways are increased to avoid traffic jams that could prevent students from getting to testing sites, and planes are grounded so the noise does not disturb the students. In some cases, students are also escorted by police officers. Younger students and the members of the students' families gather outside testing sites to cheer on the students.   CSAT has been praised for its efficiency, meritocratic factors, and high international results.  The Preliminary College Scholastic Ability Test (PCSAT) is a preliminary examination for the CSAT that is hosted nationally. The relationship between PCSAT and CSAT is comparable to that of PSAT and SAT. PCSAT is divided into two categories: National United Achievement Tests (NUAT) and College Scholastic Ability Test Simulation (CSAT Simulation). These two tests have more similar sample groups to CSAT than private mock tests do. Moreover, PCSAT’s examiner committee is similar to that of CSAT, so the types of questions resemble those seen in the CSAT. In particular, since CSAT Simulation is hosted by the same institution as CSAT, it is being used to predict the level of difficulty or the types of questions that might appear in that same year’s CSAT.  Although both NUAT and CSAT Simulation are similar to CSAT regarding the number of examinees, types of questions, or relative difficulty, NUAT is hosted by the Ministry of Education targeting only high school students. On the other hand, CSAT Simulation is run by KICE and can be applied by anyone whose eligible for CSAT application. Nevertheless, both exams are in common for both can function as reliable, official mock tests for CSAT and both are graded by KICE. Please read below for more details on the two tests. The National United Achievement Test (NUAT, Hangul: 전국연합학력평가, ; Hanja: 全國聯合學力評價) is administered in the same way as the CSAT. It was first introduced in 2002 to alleviate the dependency on private mock tests. High school students in South Korea can apply for this test, and local offices of education decide whether the test is administered in the district. Normally, every office of education throughout the nation participates in NUAT to prepare the students for CSAT; hence, the number of applicants is almost parallel to that of CSAT. Seoul Metropolitan Office of Education,  Busan Metropolitan Office of Education  (for freshmen and sophomores), Gyeonggi-do Office of Education,  and Incheon Office of Education  take turns creating the questions. KICE is in charge of grading and printing the report cards. The basic structure of this exam is identical to that of CSAT. For mathematics, social studies, science, and second language, the range the exam covers is determined by when the exam is held.   In case of Korean and English sections, the questions are not directly from textbooks but still constructed in consonance with the curriculum. As of 2014, there are four NUAT a year; however, it is not same for district, and some have only two exams a year for freshmen and sophomores. While NUAT for freshmen and sophomores is held in March, June, September, and November, seniors take tests in March, April, July, and October to avoid overlapping with months when CSAT Simulation is held (June and September). These two tests are appropriate for relative evaluations such as measuring average score, percentage, or ranks since PCSAT has more similar sample group to CSAT than private mock tests do. Also, PCSAT's composition of examiner committee is similar to that of CSAT, so the types of questions resemble those seen in CSAT. The College Scholastic Ability Test Simulation (CSAT Simulation, Hangul: 대학수학능력시험 모의평가 ) is hosted by KICE, and unlike NUAT, anyone who is qualified for CSAT can also apply for this test. CSAT Simulation was introduced after CSAT failed to set the proper difficulty level in 2001 and 2002. It was first implemented in 2002, and during its early years, it was held only once a year in September. Starting from 2004, it is being held twice a year, every June and September. The exam covers everything in the curriculum for Korean and second language section; for other sections, two-thirds of what CSAT covers. However, the September exam covers everything in every section just like CSAT.  The number of questions and test time per section is same as those of CSAT. Since the Liberation of Korea, South Korea has changed the methods of university and college admission at least twelve times. Some argue the number of changes can be extended to sixteen.  The policies ranged from sometimes allowing colleges to choose on their own to outlawing hagwons. Because of this, parents and students had difficult times in adjusting to the changes.  Some argue that the constant changes show an instability of the system as well as the sensitivity of the admission process to public opinion.  The very first methods of university and college admissions were left to the choice of the university. Each university was allowed to do as they like. The first form of CSAT appeared in the beginnings of 1960. The Supreme Council for National Reconstruction established an early form of CSAT from 1962 to 1963. It served as a qualification test for the students. However, due the small number of students passing the tests, the colleges soon had a shortage of students. The process was also criticized to have led to an inefficient selection of students, Due to this, the government scrapped the policy from 1964 to 1968. A similar policy was adopted in 1969 by the Third Republic of South Korea. The new test was called Preliminary College Entrance Examination (대학입학예비고사). This policy continued mostly unchanged until 1981.    In 1981, the policy was significantly changed. The test name was changed to Preliminary College Preparations Examination (대학예비고사). The cutline policy was scrapped. At this time, hagwons, or cram schools, were also outlawed. In 1982, the test name was changed to College Entrance Strength Test (대입학력고사).   The current system of CSAT was established in 1994, although it went through several revisions since then.   In 2004, the government of South Korea introduced a policy called '2008 College Admissions Change Proposal' but failed to bring about significant changes.  The test material is based on nation-standard textbooks and designed to prompt thinking skills. KICE is officially in charge of making the problems, printing the tests, correcting the tests, supervising the test-making processes, setting the test fee, and admitting the tests. The problems are created by members of the Korea Institute of Curriculum and Evaluation, university-level professors, and high-school teachers. There are two groups involved with making the problems, the 'creating problems' group and 'checking over the problems' group. The former group is mainly made out of professors, though high-school teachers have been included in the group since the year 2000. The latter group is composed only of high-school teachers. Those involved in making the problems sign non-disclosure agreement directly with the KICE. As of 2012, there were a total of 696 staff members involved in making the problems. A member of the problem-making group is paid around $300 per day.  The subjects of 2016 were: National Language, Mathematics, English language, Korean History, Social Studies/Science/Vocational Education, and Foreign language/Hanja. Students can choose from all or some of the subjects. The subjects Mathematics is also divided into type Ga(가) and type Na(나). Students can choose from which test to take. Korean History is Required subject, and if students do not take it, all the scores will be invalid. The subject Social Studies is further divided into Life and Ethics, Ethics and Thought, Geography of Korea, Geography of the world, History of Eastern Asia, World History, Law and Politics, Society and Culture, and Economics. Students can choose two subjects out of those. In the Science section, students can choose from Physics 1, Chemistry 1, Biology 1, Earth Science 1, Physics 2, Chemistry 2, Biology 2, and Earth Science 2. Students can choose two subjects out of those. Vocational Education is divided to Agricultural Science, Industry, Commerce, Oceanography, and Home Economics. Students must choose one subject. However, the subject Vocational Education can only be taken if the student had completed 80% of the expert studies. Foreign Language is divided into German language 1, French language 1, Spanish language 1, Chinese language 1, Japanese language 1, Russian language 1, Arabic language 1, basic Vietnamese language, and Hanja 1. Students can choose one subject.  After the test, the administrators gather the test, scan the image, and correct the test. The correction of the test, including confirming the documentations and the grades, and printing of the results take around a month  The test is taken extremely seriously and other day-to-day operations are grounded and delayed on the test day.  Neither the students nor the administrators of the test could bring in cell phones, books, newspapers, foods, or any material that could distract the other test-takers in any way. Most of the complaints after the test had been involved the actions of the administrators, involving: talking, opening the windows, standing in front of their particular desks, sniffle, clicking a computer mouse, and eating chocolate. Test administrators are warned to not do anything that could distract the student in any way.  Listening components during the day of the test will also be broadcast nationwide at 1:10pm on EBS Radio. During these broadcasts, all flights will be grounded, and the general public is advised not to be alarmed by the changes in radio programming on EBS Radio since the programmes during the day of the test are subject to change. Pressure to perform well on the CSAT has been linked to stress, psychological depression and suicide.   