Dr. Sun Yat-sen (Chinese: 中山逸仙; pinyin: Zhōngshān Yìxiān) is a 2011 Chinese-language western-style opera in three acts by the New York-based American composer Huang Ruo who was born in China and is a graduate of Oberlin College's Conservatory as well as the Juilliard School of Music. The libretto was written by established playwright and translator Candace Mui-ngam Chong. It is her first opera libretto.  The action of the opera focuses not on Sun's political life, but rather, it is a love story involving his second wife Soong Ching-Ling, a revered figure in modern Chinese history who became vice-president of the People's Republic of China until she died in 1981.   Writer Lindsley Miyoshi quotes  the composer's description of the opera as being "about four kinds of love—between husband and wife or between lovers, friendship, between parents and children, love of country"  and he continues by noting that "what I love about opera is character building", describing the technique as "dimensionalism",  while she states that the work "dramatizes what happens when these loves conflict".  Originally conceived by Opera Hong Kong (a company founded in 2003 under the artistic direction of tenor Warren Mok) and commissioned by the Hong Kong government's Leisure and Cultural Services Department and the opera company,    the work was also planned in collaboration with New York City Opera's VOX Contemporary American Opera Lab annual program of new American works in progress. For Huang Ruo, the opera became the means of celebrating the 100th anniversary of Sun Yat-sen being elected as provisional president of the new Republic of China (an office he held from 1 January 1912) and which was the culmination of the 1911 Xinhai Revolution, the revolution which ended 2,000 years of Imperial rule when Emperor Puyi, known as the Last Emperor of China,  abdicated on 12 February 1912. In terms of the music, Santa Fe Opera's general director, Charles MacKay, who chose to present the North American premiere in July 2014, has stated that he characterizes Huang Ruo's style as "a really original and striking voice",  while adding that he sees the opera as "a kind of Chinese bel canto.  In her essay on the opera, Desirée Mays notes that the relationships which had developed between Sun and Charlie Soong, his longtime supporter and fundraiser, and the complications which were to arise because of the love-affair (and then marriage) of Ching-ling, Charlie's second daughter, to Sun, the impetus for the opera came from the discovery by playwright Candace Mui-ngam Chong of "a snippet of a true tale about a wedding dress intended for Ching-ling".   It appears that the dress had been made some years before in anticipation of Ching-ling's future wedding, but when Charlie discovered that she had married Sun, he refused to give her the dress and ordered that it be sold by a friend. Recognizing its significance, the friend did not sell it. Chong then wrote the opera's libretto,  although  "while staying 98% close to historical facts, Ruo states, [it] focuses on the human side of the great man".  Huang Ruo planned the work in two versions, the first of which was designed to have a Western orchestra which would have been employed for the Beijing premiere while the second version, which was written for a Chinese orchestra, was planned to premiere at the Hong Kong Cultural Center under the direction of Yan Huichang leading the Hong Kong Chinese Orchestra. The composer chose to create two versions of the opera because, as Kelly Chung Dawson states, "he is interested in experimenting with the ways in which Eastern and Western influences can affect a composition".  Huang notes:  The premiere was planned to take place in Beijing in September 2011. It would then have been followed by  the premiere by Opera Hong Kong planned for 13 October 2011.  However, the Beijing performances were cancelled and, instead, the premiere was given in Hong Kong. Given the collaboration between Opera Hong Kong and New York City Opera's VOX Contemporary American Opera Lab program of new American works in progress, on 14 May 2011 a concert performance of act 1 of the opera was presented at New York University's Skirball Center for the Performing Arts.   With the fully staged Beijing production in rehearsal later in 2011, "word came down from Communist Party officials in late August: the 30 September world premiere of [the] opera [...] would be postponed indefinitely."  The New York Times reporter Nick Frisch examined some of the reasons and some of the consequences of the halt in the production, and noted that, although the Hong Kong performances were planned to continue (as did rehearsals in Beijing), another mainland China opera company, the "Guangzhou Opera House, originally scheduled to present the opera on Dec. 9, has withdrawn as well."  Frisch also commented on the musical consequences of the cancellation: In August 2012 with the composer present, The Santa Fe Opera announced that it would  present the North American premiere of the work as part of its 2014 summer season. The production was sung in Mandarin and directed by James Robinson, currently artistic director of the Opera Theatre of Saint Louis. The scenic designer was Allen Moyer and costumes were designed by James Schuette (a Helen Hayes Award recipient for design), with lighting by Christopher Akerlind. Some members of the cast  came from the premiere performances in Hong Kong.   There having been no Beijing performance with Western instruments (plus the above-noted plan which would have possibly cut and modified the score and scoring after that performance), Miyoshi states that what Santa Fe presented was "actually a world premiere, of a newly revised version incorporating both Western and Chinese instruments."  In a musical prologue, a wedding dress is wrapped, boxed, and taken on a journey by dancers Before the 1911 revolution: Soong's home in Shanghai The Chinese revolutionary, Charlie Soong, is hosting a fundraising event, ostensibly to build a church, but actually it is to generate money for the Chinese Revolutionary Alliance, which is led by Sun Yat-sen. Charlie's wife, Ni Gui-zhen, is concerned because of his anti-government stand as well as his deception, but Charlie expresses his firm support for Sun and the Revolution. Sun Yat-sen arrives, having escaped capture by Quin soldiers, and brings with him his wife Lu Mu-zhen who follows at a much slower pace since her feet are bound in the traditional Chinese manner. Sun quickly becomes the focus of attention and the guests begin to support his cause.  However, Charlie receives a notice from a messenger which advertises that Sun is a wanted man with a bounty on his head. Scene 1: Yokohama, Japan, after the 1913 Revolution. The home of the Umeyas Sun is in exile and has been given a home with his friend Umeya and his wife, both of whom offer support for Sun's cause. Also present is Charlie Soong’s twenty-year-old daughter Ching-ling, who has recently returned from America and who is a firm supporter of his cause: "Your sacrifice is not for naught!", she exclaims, "You overthrew 2000 years of feudalism".  As they talk, the couple  clearly become more and more attracted to each other, albeit that there is a 26-year difference in their ages. However, they begin to fall in love. Scene 2: Japan, 1915: The garden of the Umeyas' home It is the day on which Sun and Ching-ling are to be married. She has run away from home to be with Sun. Although he loves her, he expresses his sorrow at not being able to provide her with a home, but in loving him, she is confident that they will face the world together. Charlie enters and is furious at Sun for taking his daughter. He has not given his consent to the marriage and, furthermore, he states that Sun is still married to a woman in China. But to everyone’s surprise, Lu Mu-zhen enters the room and, although she sings about her misfortune and years of sacrifice, she gives Sun her signed divorce paper, thus setting him free to marry Ching-ling. Charlie is outraged.  He renounces his daughter and his association with Sun and the Revolution. As he leaves, the couple turn towards the clergyman to be married. Scene 1: China: The presidential palace Under Sun’s leadership and with the help of Yuan Shi-kai, an ambitious general in the Revolution, the Qing Dynasty is overthrown. Sun becomes provisional president of the new republic, but his power is limited and Yuan betrays him, thus making himself president, a step in becoming the emperor of a new dynasty. Accompanied by his newlywed wife Ching-ling, who is pregnant, Sun gives speeches in various locations in China, gathering supports to overthrow Yuan's rule: "Why does one start a Revolution?", he asks. "To create a world where all men are equal. If we fail, we will perish together. If I die for the Revolution, it will be worthwhile."  Scene 2: The Soong residence After Sun's house is attacked one night by Yuan’s assassins, the couple is forced to flee and, during their escape, Ching-ling miscarries but eventually she is able to reach her parents' home alone. Charlie is ill and dying but he has forgiven his daughter who assures her father that she is truly in love with Sun Yat-sen. Ashamed, Charlie confesses that he had all but given up his revolutionary dreams, but Sun’s indomitable determination and idealism has renewed his confidence. Mrs. Soong then tells Ching-ling that "Charlie had prepared a wedding gift for you since you were a child and regrets he did not place it in your hands on your wedding day".   In an act of reconciliation, Charlie gives Ching-ling the wedding dress that he had made for her. His final speech—a blessing upon Sun (who has arrived at the Soong residence) and Ching-ling—is a meditation on the true meaning of what it is to be a revolutionary. The two men share this spiritual reunion, revolutionaries to the end. Scene 3: A podium: Sun addresses the people With Ching-ling beside him, Sun delivers one of his final speeches: "I'll hold fast to my principles and forge forward. I will do all I can.  Even death will not deter me",  he declares as the people revere Sun as their great leader and "Father of the Revolution".  The triumphal atmosphere is tempered by Sun's reiterated reminder that "success and failure are always with us." As the opera ends, a large statue of Sun Yat-Sen is revealed and Ching-ling's wedding dress re-appears, carried by the dancer. At the time of the May 2011 VOX "preview" presentation of act 1 in New York, Nick Frisch interviewed the composer, who stated that: Frisch continues to explain that: Following the Hong Kong premiere, British critic John Allison commented on several aspects of the music in his article in the British magazine Opera: Additionally—quoting Huang Ruo as " 'collaging East and West' "—Miyoshi outlines what she describes as his: She states that this sound will accompany Ching-ling's act 3 aria when she has miscarried and is fleeing the assassins.  In his analysis of the music as performed at the premiere, critic John Stege begins by noting that  "These performances offer a stunning demonstration of Huang’s skill in molding Eastern and Western modalities into a successful theatrical synthesis, and he continues with: In his review, James Keller makes the following observations regarding the orchestration and its effects: Following the world premiere, a variety of critical evaluations were published.  They include: Notes Sources 