Digital Media Academy (commonly referred to as "DMA") is a digital art and technology training company, located in Los Gatos, CA, offering courses for adults as well as summer camp programs for kids, age 6-18, tech camps at several universities in the US and Canada, including Stanford, Harvard, UCLA, Duke, Chicago, Penn, NYU, UBC, UoT, McGill among other prestigious ones.  DMA was officially incorporated in 2002,  but was incubated at Stanford University in the late 1990s as the Academy for New Media, a program of Stanford's Academic Computing department. The Academy for New Media was created at Stanford in 1999 as an outreach to K-12 educators and high-school students interested in learning the latest digital media software tools from award-winning creative professionals.   In Fall 2001, the Academy for New Media fell victim to University budget cuts and the program was transitioned away from Stanford to a private entity – and Digital Media Academy was born. The Stanford University Continuing Studies department has continued to offer CEU credit through Digital Media Academy since its inception in 2002.  Students may attend Digital Media Academy summer camps with the day camp or sleepaway camp option.  These camps offer sports and recreation, while being known as a tech camp primarily. DMA designs, develops, and delivers STEM curriculum for students of all ages. Digital Media Academy summer tech camps offer kids 6-17 and adults the opportunity to learn a variety of tech and new media skills in topics including Programming & Coding, 3D Printing & Product Design, Filmmaking, Photography, Game Design & Development, Virtual Reality, Artificial Intelligence, Graphic Design, 3D Modeling, Animation, Robotics, and Wearable Tech. For adult-learners, DMA offers various industry certifications in topics like 3D Animation, Film Production, Game Programing, Mobile Device Programing  and Web Design, and is also an Apple Inc. Authorized Training Center  and Adobe Systems Training Partner.  For youth, DMA offers summer computer camps, including sleep away camps at top universities throughout the United States and Canada, including its flagship location at Stanford University  Digital Media Academy offers a scholarship program  to make its courses accessible to everyone and has partnered with various non-profit and community-focused organizations including the New Media Consortium,  CUE and the  John Lennon Educational Tour Bus.  