The Historical Association is a membership organisation founded in 1906 and based in London, England. The goals of the Historical Association are to support "the study and enjoyment of history at all levels by creating an environment that promotes lifelong learning and provides for the evolving needs of people who share an interest in history." The association's patron is Queen Elizabeth II. The Historical Association was incorporated by Royal Charter in 2006, its centenary year. It is a charity registered in England.  The Historical Association is active in supporting the study and teaching of history at all levels. Membership is around 6,000, largely UK-based, with a strong following in UK secondary school history departments. The association has 58 branches through the UK which run a variety of events ranging from historical talks to walks and visits. Branch associate members take the overall membership to about 8,000. The association campaigns on their behalf and to ensure history continues to be taught well at all phases of education. The association is committed to a policy of embracing a broad church and encouraging a general interest in history and in our cultural heritage. It has published a journal for professional historians called History since 1912 (Print ISSN 0018-2648; Online ISSN 1468-229X).  It also publishes Primary History, materials for teachers of teachers involved in primary education, and a journal called Teaching History for secondary school history teachers, as well as The Historian for a wider readership. The Historical Association aims to provide the best possible resources and support for history teachers in the United Kingdom, as well as providing Online Continuing Professional Development courses. On 5 January 1906, a group of history teachers and academics met in Central London to discuss the proposal from Miss M. A. Howard that they establish "an association to co-ordinate the efforts of all those working in England towards the improvement of history teaching in our schools." The aims Miss Howard identified for such an association were to be: The meeting agreed to act upon Miss Howard’s proposal, and in closing the meeting Professor Pollard gave a wider remit for the new association: that history should be properly recognised by universities and that history should be properly taught in our schools. This became the spark that formally founded the Historical Association on May 19, 1906. The first published aims were: The association’s aims have remained substantially unchanged and the aims stated in the Historical Association’s Charter closely echo these sentiments. By 1917 the constitution was changed to incorporate non-professional interest in the subject. Admission was "open to all persons interested in the study and teaching of history". The association quickly grew in the post-war years and by the early 1950s had over 70 active branches and more than 8,000 members. In 2010, the association expressed concerns over the reduction in history education in schools.  