British Society for the History of Medicine Founded by Sir William Osler in 1912, the History of Medicine Society (formally 'section'), at the Royal Society of Medicine (RSM), London, is one of the oldest History of Medicine societies in the world and is one of the four founder committees of the British Society for the History of Medicine. It covers every medical speciality and with the support from numerous notable physicians and surgeons of the time, including Sir Francis Champneys, Sir Ronald Ross and others, the first meeting on 20 November 1912 had 160 attendees. Subsequently, the society's events became regular and it continues to hold regular events at the RSM in London. Every year, undergraduate prizes are awarded in memory of the late pathologist Norah Schuster. Eponymous lectures are also held, including the C.E Wallis lecture every 5 years. Interest in the history of medicine at the RSM can be traced back to 1818, when an exhibition of the Chamberlen family's obstetric instruments took place at the Medical and Chirurgical Society of London. At the request of Dr Joseph Frank Payne, physician who was interested in the history of medicine, the RSM agreed to incorporate one meeting in each session on a historical topic.  Following a failed attempt by Sir D'Arcy Power to form the society in 1900, Osler then succeeded in founding the society by writing 168 personal invitations and planning for "all those who feel that the study of the history of medicine has a value in education".  It was considered by Osler to be one of the three most useful things he achieved during his life in England.    It covers every medical speciality and with the support from Sir Francis Champneys, Sir Raymond Crawfurd, Sir Thomas Clifford Allbutt, Sir Ronald Ross, Sir William Selby Church, Sir Henry Morris, Henry Barnes and Professor Richard Caton, the first meeting on 20 November 1912 had 160 attendees.   The society's lectures by Osler, as the first president, covered William Petty's manuscripts and the history of Anaesthesia, and encouraging research and scholarship in topics. Despite opposition from Sir Richard Douglas Powell, Osler personally invited guests to join the new society. When the 50th Jubilee of the Section was celebrated at a special meeting on 21 November 1962 it was noted that "the contribution to the knowledge of medical history made by the Section has been very considerable".  It is one of the oldest history of medicine societies in the world and is also one of the four founder committees of the British Society for the History of Medicine.    The president's medal was initiated by Dr W Hartsorn, president 1973–75. It was made by Kim Southam and donated by Maurice Newbold and officers of the section in 1976.  Named after the late clinical pathologist, Norah Schuster,  every year, since 1991, three essays in the field of history of medicine or science are chosen to receive this prestigious award.   The winners are invited to give a short presentation on their research.    This has opened up opportunities for medical students to further their careers.  Named after doctor and Dental surgeon, Charles Edward Wallis, this memorial lecture is given every 5 years and arranged in conjunction of the Odontology section. Wallis was active at the RSM and interested in history and Archaeology.    His brother, Mr Ferdinand Wallis donated £100 in 1927 to fund a lecturer, appointed by the society to speak on the history of dentistry.   Sponsored by Cambridge University Press, the Bynum lecture is named after Professor W. F. Bynum, medical historian. This lecture is given annually by a practicing social historian.   2017 Tilli Tansey has been elected Honorary Fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine.  These were bestowed by Osler in his will.  Sir William Hale-White, president of RSM 1922–1924 was a lecturer in Medicine who, following retirement, studied the history of medicine and wrote on René Laennec  and John Keats.  He is best known for cataloguing William Withering's letters.   A facsimile of Withering's letter was published by Dr Ronald Mann in 1986.  Dr Albert John Chalmers, born in Manchester in 1870, was a physician in tropical medicine in Ghana and Ceylon (now Sri Lanka). He died in India in 1920 and was documented to have an interest in the history of medicine.  His wife donated £500 and 350 old books from Chalmer's personal library, including a first printed edition of Celsus, 1478, to the new Chalmer's room on the RSM library's third floor. This room was opened by a ceremony on 23 June 1922.  Although the actual room no longer exists, many of its books were displayed in 2016 as part of an exhibition in the RSM library.  Sir William Osler D'Arcy Power Joseph Frank Payne, 2nd from right Sir Richard Douglas Powell - Opposition Sir Francis Champneys Sir Ronald Ross Sir William Selby Church Sir Henry Morris 1912 Council Minutes  