  The Sake Sommelier Association (SSA) is an independent non profit organisation formed to develop the understanding, education, and appreciation of Japanese sake.  Created by sommelier Xavier Chapelou and sake expert Kumiko Ohta in 2006 in London, it is the first organization in the United Kingdom to offer sake education outside Japan, and provides Sake Sommelier certification in a number of countries worldwide, particularly across Europe and Asia.  The association's objective is to strive to develop global education and awareness of sake to increase opportunities for students to learn the cultural history of sake, and to advance the success of sake demand and consumption on a global scale.  The association offers sake courses for professionals in the drinks industry, as well as for those who are just interested in learning more about Japanese sake. The course is aimed at those wishing to become qualified to work with sake in a professional capacity, or to teach others about sake. Course material focuses on understanding the culture behind the drink, knowledge of sake manufacturing methods, history of  how sake developed in Japan, and learning to distinguish the different types and categories of sake by smell and taste.  The Sake Sommelier Association currently offers three courses: The course is formed of two parts:     Module 1: the Introductory Sake Sommelier - which covers the basics; similar to the Introductory course but in greater detail, and Module 2: the Certified Sake Sommelier - which covers the wider aspects of the sake industry. The Certified Sake Sommelier is an entry-level qualification in sake, taught and recognized by the SSA and after successful completion of the course, participants become qualified Sake Sommelier with the SSA, and are given a "Certified Sommelier" lapel pin bearing the SSA logo. The sake education courses offered through the Sake Sommelier Association are provided world-wide, including Italy, Austria, Singapore, Hong Kong, Netherlands, France, Spain, China and Norway.   The association has founded and organised the London Sake Challenge, an annual sake competition held in Harrods.  The first competition was held on 20 August 2012. 