Copyright for Creativity - A Declaration for Europe  issued on 5 May 2010, is intended as a statement of how copyright policy could be constructed in the Internet Age. It comes against the background of political debate within Europe to rethink copyright in an era where the use of digital content without paying fees to the creators is part of the business model for some of the largest global internet platforms. Interests of content creators and online platform providers collide. The declaration has been written by a group from political party "European People's Party (EPP)"    The Declaration focuses on both the exclusive rights and the limitations and exceptions to existing copyright rulings and standards. The Declaration is influenced by the Adelphi Charter, which resulted from a project commissioned by the Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures & Commerce, London, UK. The ad-hoc coalition Copyright for Creativity (C4C), based in Brussels (Dilbeek), Belgium, is registered in the official EU Transparency Register in the section In-house lobbyists.  The website "copyright4creativity.eu" refers to a Brussels (Dilbeek) based public affairs and governemental relations firm, and to EU lobbyist Caroline de Cock, owner of this firm, as coordinator.    This firm did organise and communicate the EU Hackathon series for Google and mentions the firm as it's client, among other clients from industry and trade associations.  The Declaration reads:  Copyright for Creativity – A Declaration for Europe "Humanity's capacity to generate new ideas and knowledge is its greatest asset. It is the source of art, science, innovation and economic development." Adelphi Charter The development of new technologies underpinning the knowledge economy calls for a review of the copyright aquis. Together, we need to create greater incentives to maximise creativity, innovation, education and access to culture, and secure Europe's competitiveness. Exclusive rights stimulate investment and the production of cultural and knowledge based goods. Simultaneously, exceptions* to those rights create a balanced system that allow for the use of creative works to support innovation, creation, competition and the public interest. Well-crafted exceptions can serve both goals: preserving rewards and incentives for creators while also encouraging innovative re-uses that benefit the public. While exclusive rights have been adapted and harmonised to meet the challenges of the knowledge economy, copyright's exceptions are radically out of line with the needs of the modern information society. The lack of harmonisation of exceptions hinders the circulation of knowledge based goods and services across Europe. The lack of flexibility within the current European exceptions regime also prevents us from adapting to a constantly changing technological environment. Europe requires a balanced, flexible and harmonised system of exceptions that is in step with the 21st Century knowledge economy. The European Commission took a first step with the publication of the Green Paper, "Copyright in the Knowledge Economy." The signatories of this declaration call upon the European Commission, the European Parliament and Member States to take this Declaration into account and engage in policy and norm-setting on copyright exceptions to: * Copyright law enable an exclusive right to creators to regulate and control the use of their work as they wish. Limitations and exceptions balance the monopoly right of the creator, in the public interest. For example to promote education and learning, support a free press, deal with market failure etc.  Declaration News Other 