The Education Justice Project is a project of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign to "build a model college-in-prison program that demonstrates the positive impacts of higher education upon incarcerated people, their families, the communities from which they come, the host institution, and society as a whole."  Every year, the education justice program offers scholarships that are up to $500 for family members who have someone involved in the project. The education justice project has created a program that can support and motivate family members that are involved in the program. On the third Monday of every month, the education justice project invites members with loved ones in prison, to come together for what they hope is a supportive gathering. This is a time where people who have experienced jail first hand can provide those who have not, with knowledge that can help them. Question may be asked during this meeting, and can lead to a better understanding of what their loved ones are going through. Many people know this gathering as The Ripple Effect.  The education justice program accepts work applications in the fall, as well as in spring. Workshop facilitators, writing tutors, and much more are encouraged to get involved. While your contribution goes unpaid, the program greatly appreciates your help. In order to volunteer, each participant must have a bachelor's degree, however, undergraduates may have an opportunity to become an intern. The education justice program believes that maturity and an understanding of the social context are important when helping in the program. While anyone is welcomed, those who have strong social skills and are capable of working with diverse crowds are highly recommended. An extensive prison clearance must be completed, however, if you have a criminal record or have recently visited someone in an Illinois state prison, you will be declined to volunteer. The three sources of funds for the project are the University of Illinois, grants, and private donations. Approximately 25% of the donations they receive are from private donations. The estimated value of donated time on the part of faculty, graduate students, staff, and community members amounted to more than $200,000.    