Chagatai (جغتای Jağatāy ) is an extinct Turkic language which was once widely spoken in Central Asia, and remained the shared literary language there until the early 20th century. Chagatai is the common predecessor of Uzbek and Uyghur.  It was also spoken by the early Mughal rulers in the Indian subcontinent, where it influenced the development of Hindustani. Ali-Shir Nava'i was the greatest representative of Chagatai literature. As part of the preparation for the 1924 establishment of the Soviet Republic of Uzbekistan, Chagatai was officially renamed "Old Uzbek",      which Edward A. Allworth argued "badly distorted the literary history of the region" and was used to give authors such as the 15th-century author Ali-Shir Nava'i an Uzbek identity.   It was also referred to as "Sart".  In China it is sometimes called "ancient Uyghur".  The word Chagatai relates to the Chagatai Khanate (1225 –1680s), a descendant empire of the Mongol Empire left to Genghis Khan's second son, Chagatai Khan.  Many of the Chagatai Turks and Tatars, who were the speakers of this language, claimed descent from Chagatai Khan. Chagatai belongs to the Karluk branch of the Turkic language family. It is descended from the Old Turkic language that served as a lingua franca in Central Asia, with a strong infusion of Arabic and Persian words and turns of phrase. Its literary form was based on two earlier literary Middle Turkic languages, Karakhanid and Khorezmian. It can be divided into three periods: The first period is a transitional phase characterized by the retention of archaic forms; the second phase starts with the publication of Ali-Shir Nava'i's first Divan and is the highpoint of Chagatai literature, followed by the third phase, which is characterized by two bifurcating developments. One is the preservation of the classical Chagatai language of Nava'i, the other trend is the increasing influence of the dialects of the local spoken languages. The Chagatai Turkic language lived its heyday under the Timurid dynasty. Chagatai remained the universal literary language of Central Asia until the Soviet reforms of the early 20th century, and had a marked influence on the development of the Hindustani language. Uzbek and Uyghur are the two modern languages most closely related to Chagatai. Uzbeks regard Chagatai as the origin of their own language and claim Chagatai literature as their own. In 1921 in Uzbekistan, then a part of the Soviet Union, Chagatai was replaced by a literary language based on a local Uzbek dialect. The so-called Berendei, a 12th-century nomadic Turkic people possibly related to the Cumans, seem also to have spoken Chagatai. Ethnologue records the use of the word "Chagatai" in Afghanistan to describe the "Tekke" dialect of Turkmen.  Up to and including the eighteenth century, Chagatai was the main literary language in Turkmenistan as elsewhere in Central Asia. While it had some influence on Turkmen, the two languages belong to different branches of the Turkic language family. The most famous of the Chagatai poets is Ali-Shir Nava'i, who – among his other works – wrote Muhakamat al-Lughatayn, a detailed comparison of the Chagatai and Persian languages, in which he argued for the superiority of the former. His fame is attested by the fact that Chagatai is sometimes called "Nava'i's language". Among prose works, Timur's biography is written in Chagatai Turkic, as is  the famous Baburnama (or Tuska Babure) of Babur, the Timurid founder of  the Mughal Empire. Important works continued to be written in the Chagatai language into the early twentieth century. Among them are Musa Sayrami's Tārīkh-i amniyya (completed 1903) and its revised version Tārīkh-i ḥamīdi (completed 1908), representing the best sources on the Dungan Revolt (1862–77) in Xinjiang.   The following are books written on the Chagatai language by natives and westerners.:  The Qing dynasty commissioned dictionaries on the major languages of China which included Chagatai Turki, such as the Pentaglot Dictionary. Chagatai literature is still studied in modern Turkey and regarded as part of the Turkic heritage. The Chagatai alphabet is based on the Perso-Arabic alphabet and known as Kona Yëziq (old script). 