Cancer and nausea are associated in about fifty percent of people affected by cancer.  This may be as a result of the cancer itself, or as an effect of the treatment such as chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or other medication such as opiates used for pain relief. About 70 to 80% of people undergoing chemotherapy experience nausea or vomiting. Nausea and vomiting may also occur in people not receiving treatment, often as a result of the disease involving the gastrointestinal tract,  electrolyte imbalance, or as a result of anxiety.  Nausea and vomiting  may be experienced as the most unpleasant side effects of cytotoxic drugs   and may result in patients delaying or refusing further radiotherapy  or chemotherapy.  The strategies of management or therapy of nausea and vomiting depend on the underlying causes.  Medical treatments or conditions associated with a high risk of nausea and/or vomiting include chemotherapy, radiotherapy and malignant bowel obstruction.  Anticipatory nausea and vomiting may also occur.  Nausea and vomiting may lead to further medical conditions and complications including: dehydration, electrolyte imbalance, malnutrition, and a decrease in quality of life.  Nausea may be defined as an unpleasant sensation of the need to vomit.  It may be accompanied by symptoms such salivation, feeling faint, and a fast heart rate.  Vomiting is the forceful ejection of stomach contents through the mouth.  Although nausea and vomiting are closely related, some patients experience one symptom without the other and it may be easier to eliminate vomiting than nausea.  The vomiting reflex (also called emesis) is thought to have evolved in many animal species as a protective mechanism against ingested toxins. In humans, the vomiting response may be preceded by an unpleasant sensation termed nausea, but nausea may also occur without vomiting. The central nervous system is the primary site where a number of emetic stimuli (input) are received, processed and efferent signals (output) are generated as a response and sent to various effector organs or tissues, leading to  processes that eventually end in vomiting.  The detection of emetic stimuli, the central processing by the brain and the resulting response by organs and tissues that lead to nausea and vomiting are referred to as the emetic pathway or emetic arch. Some medical conditions that arise as a result of cancer or as a complication of its treatment are known to be associated with a high risk of nausea and/or vomiting. These include malignant bowel obstruction (MBO), chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting (CINV), anticipatory nausea and vomiting (ANV), and radiotherapy induced nausea and vomiting (RINV). Malignant bowel obstruction (MBO) of the gastrointestinal tract is a common complication of advanced cancer, especially in patients with bowel or gynaecological cancer. These include colorectal cancer, ovarian cancer, breast cancer, and melanoma.  Three percent of all advanced cancers lead to malignant bowel obstruction and 25 to 50 percent of patients with ovarian cancer experience at least one episode of malignant bowel obstruction.   The mechanisms of action that may lead to nausea in MBO include mechanical compression of the gut, motility disorders, gastrointestinal secretion accumulation, decreased gastrointestinal absorption, and inflammation.  Bowel obstruction and the resulting nausea may also occur as a result of anti-cancer therapy such as radiation,   or adhesion after surgery.  Impaired gastric emptying as a result of bowel obstruction may not respond to drugs alone, and surgical intervention is sometimes the only means of symptom relief.  Some constipating drugs used in cancer therapy such as opioids may cause a slowing of peristalsis of the gut, which may lead to a functional bowel obstruction.  Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) is one of the most feared side effects of chemotherapy   and is associated with a significant deterioration in quality of life.  CINV is classified into three categories:    Risk factors that predict the occurrence and severity of CINV include sex and age, with females, younger people and people who have a high pretreatment expectation of nausea being at a higher risk, while people with a history of high alcohol consumption being at a lower risk.  Other person-related variables, such as chemotherapy dose, rate and route of administration, hydration status, prior history of CINV, emesis during pregnancy or motion sickness, tumour burden, concomitant medication and medical conditions also play a role in the degree of CINV experienced by a person.    By far the most important factor which determines the degree of CINV is the emetogenic potential of the chemotherapeutic agents used. Chemotherapeutic agents are classified into four groups according to their degree of emetogenicity: high, moderate, low and minimal.  The European Society of Medical Oncology (ESMO) and the Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC) in 2010  as well as the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) (2011)   recommend a prophylaxis to prevent acute vomiting and nausea following chemotherapy with high emetic risk drugs by using a three-drug regimen including a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, dexamethasone and aprepitant (a neurokinin-1 antagonist) given before chemotherapy. A common consequence of cancer treatment is the development of anticipatory nausea and vomiting (ANV).   This kind of nausea is usually elicited by the re-exposure of the patients to the clinical context they need to attend to be treated.   Approximately 20% of people undergoing chemotherapy are reported to develop anticipatory nausea and vomiting. Once developed, ANV is difficult to control by pharmacological means. Benzodiazepines are the only drugs that have been found to reduce the occurrence of ANV but their efficacy decreases with time.  Recently, clinical trials suggests that cannabidiolic acid suppresses conditioned gaping (ANV) in shrews.  Because ANV is widely believed to be a learned response, the best approach is to avoid the development of ANV by adequate prophylaxis and treatment of acute vomiting and nausea from the first exposure to therapy.    Behavioral treatment techniques, such as systematic desensitization,  progressive muscle relaxation and hypnosis have been shown to be effective against ANV.   The incidence and severity of radiation therapy-induced nausea and vomiting (RINV) depends on a number of factors including therapy related factors such as irradiated site, single and total dose, fractionation, irradiated volume and radiotherapy techniques. Also involved are person related factors such as gender, general health of the person, age, concurrent or recent chemotherapy, alcohol consumption, previous experience of nausea, vomiting, anxiety as well as the tumor stage. The emetogenic potential of radiotherapy is classified into high, moderate, low and minimal risk depending on the site of irradiation:   Nausea and vomiting may have a number of causes in people with cancer.  While more than one cause may exist in the same person stimulating symptoms via more than one pathway, the actual cause of nausea and vomiting may be unknown in some people. The underlying causes of nausea and vomiting may in some cases not be directly related to the cancer. The causes may be categorized as disease-related and treatment-related.  The stimuli which lead to emesis are received and processed in the brain. It is thought that a number of loosely organized neuronal networks within the medulla oblongata probably interact to coordinate the emetic reflex.  Some of the brain stem nuclei which have been identified as important in the coordination of the emetic reflex include the parvicellular reticular formation, the Bötzinger complex and the nucleus tractus solitarii.   The nuclei coordinating emesis had formerly been referred to as the vomiting complex, but it is no longer thought to represent a single anatomical structure.   Efferent outputs which transmit the information from the brain leading to the motoric response of retching and vomiting include vagal efferents to the esophagus, stomach and intestine as well as spinal somatomotor neurones to the abdominal muscles and  phrenic motor neurones (C3–C5) to the diaphragm. Autonomic efferents also supply the heart and airways (vagus), salivary glands (chorda tympani) and skin and are responsible for many of the prodromal signs such as salivation and skin pallor.  Nausea and vomiting may be initiated by various stimuli, through different neuronal pathways. A stimulus may act on more than one pathway.  Stimuli and pathways include: The strategies of management or prevention of nausea and vomiting depend on the underlying causes, whether they are reversible or treatable, stage of the illness, the person's prognosis and other person specific factors. Anti emetic drugs are chosen according to previous effectiveness and side effects.  Drugs that are used in the prophylaxis and therapy of nausea and vomiting in cancer include: Other non-drug measures may include: Palliative care is the active care of people with advanced, progressive illness such as cancer. The World Health Organization (WHO) defines it as an approach that improves the quality of life of patients and their families facing the problems associated with life-threatening illness, through the prevention and relief of suffering by means of early identification and impeccable assessment and treatment of pain and other problems (such as nausea or vomiting), physical, psychosocial, and spiritual.  Sometimes it is possible or necessary to provide relief for cancer caused nausea and vomiting through palliative surgical intervention. Surgery is however not routinely carried out when there are poor prognostic criteria for surgical intervention such as intra-abdominal carcinomatosis, poor performance status and massive ascites.   The surgical approach proves beneficial in affected people with operable lesions, a life expectancy greater than 2 months and good performance status.  Often a malignant bowel obstruction is the cause of the symptoms in which case the purpose of palliative surgery is to relieve the symptoms of bowel obstruction by means of several procedures including:  12.7 million new cancer cases and 7.6 million cancer deaths were estimated worldwide in 2008.  