Human papilloma virus (HPV)-associated oropharyngeal cancer awareness and prevention is a vital concept from a public and community health perspective. HPV is the sexually transmitted virus that is known to be the cause of genital warts. There are currently more than 100 different strains of HPV, half of which can cause genital infections.  It is worth noting here that although it is not usually the HPV strains that cause genital warts that are associated with the oropharyngeal cancers, they are transmitted the same way through oral-genital sexual contact, and consumers should protect themselves accordingly and adhere to a routine health and dental screening schedule to monitor and maintain their health status.   Learning and utilizing self-examinations of your body, checking for changes or abnormalities in your mouth while performing your oral hygiene as well as routine checks of your genitals after showering  to note changes or abnormalities can enhance your awareness of changes in your health status. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, most of all sexually active people will acquire at least one HPV infection in their lifetime.  It is important that consumers seek routine dental examinations as a part of their health care to allow for dentists and primary care providers to screen them for this type of cancer, as early detection can mean all the difference in treatments. Oral cavity and oropharyngeal cancers can occur anywhere in the mouth, but occur most often in the tongue, tonsils, oropharynx (back of the throat), gums and the floor of the mouth.  According to the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force, "Oropharyngeal cancer is difficult to visualize and is usually located at the base of the tongue (the back third of the tongue), the soft palate (the back part of the roof of the mouth), the tonsils, and the side and back walls of the throat"  and requires a thorough exam by a dental provider or specialist preferably. Men are twice as likely than women to have oral cancer, regardless of race, as African-Americans and Caucasians are equally likely to develop oral cancer.  Many people do not realize that some cancers can be linked to viral illnesses, such as human papilloma virus (HPV). Oropharyngeal cancer has been linked in some cases to HPV. The most common type of oral and oropharyngeal cancer is squamous cell carcinoma...and this kind is indicated in about 90% of oral and oropharyngeal cancers.  Approximately 63% of oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas each year are associated with HPV infection.  Most cases of HPV go undetected and clear up on their own without the patient ever knowing they had contracted it.   However, there are 13 HPV strains that are known to potentially cause cancer  According to the CDC, during an analysis of reported data from national cancer and epidemiological registries between the years of 2008 and 2012, of 30,700 cases of cancer that were estimated to be caused by HPV, 24,600 were found to be caused by strains HPV 16 and HPV 18, which are strains that are preventable as they are covered in the vaccinations that are available to guard against HPV.  3,800 were also found to be caused by 5 other preventable strains.  More specifically, 9500 cases of oropharyngeal cancers were caused by the same preventable strains, while 900 more were caused by the other preventable strains.  Vaccination is recommended for females and males alike, as early as age 9 and up to 26 years of age.  Pre-teens can get their HPV vaccination at the same time as other scheduled vaccinations and boosters for convenience, as they are able to be safely administered together. Parents should speak to their child's pediatrician regarding their recommendations for vaccinations. Pregnant women are recommended to wait until after they deliver to receive the vaccination.  Anyone with allergy concerns especially to yeast should consult their physician.  Until recently, Gardasil (bivalent, quadrivalent, and 9-valent versions) and Cervarix brands have been available;  however, after May 2017, only Gardasil 9 (9-valent) will be available for vaccination in the U.S.  9-valent simply refers to the 9 strains that the vaccine helps to protect against that are known to be associated with cancers. The World Health Organization(WHO) says between 30% and 50% of cancer deaths could be prevented by avoiding alcohol and tobacco products, especially concurrent use.   The WHO also indicates there are about "529,000 new cases of cancers of the oral cavity and  pharynx each year, and more than 300,000 deaths"  "The American Cancer Society’s most recent estimates for oral cavity and oropharyngeal cancers in the United States are for 2017...(are) that about 49,670 people will get oral cavity or oropharyngeal cancer...(and) an estimated 9,700 people will die of these cancers."  In summary, consumers need to take charge of their own health and be accountable. Go see your doctor and dentist for regular exams, perform self-examinations to look for changes in your body, follow the recommended vaccination guidelines, practice safer sex, and avoid alcohol and tobacco products for a healthier you. 