D. J. Sackmann (born January 14, 1987) is an American basketball player and current athletic trainer, specializing in basketball skill development.  . He has worked with players at all levels, including Evan Turner, Andre Barrett, DeMarre Carroll and Mario Chalmers, amongst others. DJ owns numerous basketball training companies in the United States and overseas. His companies focus on basketball specific areas such as camps, clinics, private/group training and online training. He is partners with Micah Lancaster founder of I’m Possible Training, a training company based in Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina. Micah Lancaster said that "DJ Sackmann is quickly rising as one of the worlds best skills trainers."   As well as a brand ambassador with adidas basketball.   Sackmann is known[by whom?] for his demonstrative and innovative approach to basketball training. He demands that he be more skilled than any player he trains—regardless of their performance level. His philosophy: To train at a high level, you must be able to understand game purpose, turn raw skill innovation into game like action, motivate with purpose, and demonstrate at the highest level. A four-year starter at the University of New Haven, Sackmann later took advantage of his playing years by studying player development strategies, as well as team development strategies. As a player, he began helping the coaching staff with opposing player personal and opposing team-scouting reports. DJ then traveled to Germany for a brief professional playing career before returning to the States and being hired as an AAU director and lead trainer in North Jersey. Sackmann joined Micah Lancaster's I'm Possible Training in 2012 and quickly was recognized as the companies top trainer.  I’m Possible Training is an influential alliance of trainers and coaches collectively changing the world of basketball through innovative and efficient training, services, and basketball education. I'm Possible Training also provides basketball services including camps, training academies, clinics, private training, and motivational speaking. DJ Sackmann caught the attention of the international brand adidas.  The German multinational corporation which consists of the Reebok and TaylorMade has put together a team of five basketball trainers to represent adidas hoops. They showed them off at their #LVL3 event space at the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino in July 2016 Since starting his professional career with I'm Possible, Sackmann has expanded his reach off the court appearing in The Gap Inc.'s Fall 2017 campaign "bounce-meets-bounce" to working with Eastbay, who is a direct mail catalog and internet supplier of athletic footwear & apparel.  The Hoop School North Jersey’s premier basketball specific training program. Training is open to boys and girls in grades K - 8. The Hoop School gives players access to year-round training  from some of the most well known trainers in the country where they will be brought through I'm Possible Training's world-renowned innovative basketball training curriculum.   Handle Development Known for his ball handling skills, Sackmann launched an online training program players of any level can benefit from. When launched in August 2016 the program called, Handle Development was only one of a handful of its kind in existence and is known as one of the top ball handler programs in the world. Sackmann is partners with Israel’s largest basketball training company Basketball Coaching. Sackmann handles all basketball specific programs within the organization. Sackmann has worked with over 3,000 players in the country in the past three years. Within this partnership, DJ Sackmann and Basketball company started Accelerate Israel. Accelerate Israel gives players a uniques experience of receiving a full year long basketball training program with camps and training in Israel as well as a two-week-long camp in America with competition against some of America’s top players. An online basketball training platform. These are not drills, but concepts and movements that players, coaches and trainers can access from their mobile device. #HoopStudy was created for those who can not get in the gym with DJ. Members can access his knowledge and approach to basketball training using some of the highest level of skill development teaching at anytime, from anywhere in the world. 