Screencast-O-Matic is a screencasting and video editing software tool that can be launched directly from a browser.     The software has been widely used in the education sector to support video creation for flipped classrooms,  bi-directional student assessments, lecture capture, and student video assignments.     It is used for various tasks including creating a video tutorial, transforming a presentation such as Microsoft PowerPoint into video with narration, creating a video game walkthrough and showing a technician a computer error.     Screencast-O-Matic is based in Seattle, WA.  Screencast-O-Matic was founded in 2006 to better facilitate learning with a screen recorder tool designed for non-video professionals so they could master screencasts in a short amount of time.  Screencast-O-Matic is available as freeware as well as a paid subscription that includes a suite of video editing tools.    It is available for desktop including Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X and Chrome OS.   Screencast-O-Matic supports the MP4, AVI, and FLV file extensions.   The free screen recorder features screen capture, webcam recording, and microphone audio recording for screencasts up to 15 minutes long.     The screen recorder allows users to adjust the size of the screen recording to any area displayed on the screen or use preset resolutions provided in the recorder.    The free version allows you to save screencasts to a video file on your computer, upload and publish to YouTube and Screencast-O-Matic.com.   A closed captions file can be included with the uploaded video.  The paid version of the screen recorder removes the watermark, has no time limits on recording and provides the ability to add computer system audio to the recording.   There are additional upload options with the paid version that publishes to Google Drive, Dropbox and Vimeo.  The paid version includes a script tool allowing the user to read while recording, has speech-to-text captioning, drawing tools and the ability to highlight an area of the screencast.  The video editor is provided with a paid subscription and enables the ability to edit the audio and video sections of a screencast.    Video editing tools include the ability to cut, crop, resize, hide the cursor or webcam, narrate, insert multimedia (video, images, and text), replace sections of the video, control the speed (up or down), add transitions, and music.   Screencast-O-Matic also allows the user to edit audio tracks.  Hosting services are offered in free and paid versions of Screencast-O-Matic and built on top of Amazon Web Services (AWS).   Hosting allows for a dedicated space to host screencasts, uploading longer videos, the ability to protect screencasts and options for sharing screencasts.   