This may take more than two months, since drafts are reviewed in no specific order. There are 3957 pending submissions waiting for review. anafee is a proprietary software solution for the financial management of IT and shared serviced. It is developed and published by Catenic AG, a company of Serviceware SE. The software is used for the automation of IT controlling processes and is generally deployed in mid-sized and large companies. anafee's main functions are the creation of IT service catalogs, the automation of calculation and accounting processing, as well as transparent reporting. System development and international support are handled at Serviceware SE’s location in Munich-Unterhaching. Distribution happens directly, via subsidiaries, or via partners. anafee is developed by Catenic AG, a company of Serviceware AE. Catenic AG was founded in 1999 had had their first office in Bad Tölz. The software itself entered the list of trademarks on October 22, 2001. In 2002 the first versions of anafee were shipped based on the Swing toolkit. In 2006 it received its SAP certificate (SAP Netweafer) and was then shipped with a new user interface based on the “CaptainCasa” framework. Catenic AG then moved their headquarters to Munich-Unterhaching in 2007 and in 2014 became part of PMCS.helpLine Software Group which went public as Serviceware SE in 2018.  Ever since 2015, anafee is developed based on Angular (client) and Java (backend). In 2017, anafee was listed in the “Gartner Market Guide for IT Financial Management.”  In the subsequent year, anafee was the market leader in the area of IT Financial Management according to a study by Research in Action GmbH.  The main goal of anafee is realizing consistent, transparent IT controlling. This is achieved via the digitization and automation of all underlying process (e.g. planning, budgeting, forecasting, charging) based on benchmarks and similar key figures.  One of anafee’s core functions is the IT service catalog, which lists all of services provided by IT, e.g. acquired components and services, technical services, business services).These services are divided into their subcomponents and put into a framework where the costs they are causing is causally linked to the value they are generating. The software takes this causal chain and visualizes it in the so-called cost-to-service-flow. This aids making transparent the utility of IT services and helps with the identification and analysis of cost drivers for the purpose of holistic IT financial management.  New services can be created using a special assistant (BSC). Another functionality of anafee is the so-called scenario-based planning. Here, key metrics (e.g. costs, services used, revenues) of earlier business cycles are used in order to create a derived planned scenario. In these planned scenarios, individual parameters (e.g. changes to unit costs) can be configured to project and analyze possible consequences.  The tariff administration system allows users to manage framework contracts, service level agreements (SLAs) as well as operational level agreements. Here, service tariffs are displayed separately on a client-by-client basis. Processes like monitoring, billing, and the creation of reports are handled individually per client, service, organizational unit, and billing period.  Reports can be issued graphically and in various formats (XLS, PDF, HTML). Furthermore, anafee includes processes for the automated creation and management of invoices, the monitoring along the lines of regular planned/actual comparisons, as well as options for transfer pricing documentation.   The focus technology of anafee’s backend development is the coding language Java. Java components like the Wildfly Application Server are used with the integrated WebServer. anafee's web components are based on HTML5 and builds upon the Java Application Service. On the other hand, anafee’s database is based on the MS SQL server. The software has a multilayer software architecture (multi-tier application) with a persistence layer, a business layer for process logics, as well as a presentation layer for frontends. These frontends are provided via the anafee web client.   anafee  Serviceware SE 