SaferVPN is a Virtual Private Network utility developed by Safer Social, Ltd.   The network protects user data from Wi-Fi security risks through end-to-end encryption of user connections.  SaferVPN has provided free accounts to dissidents in Turkey, Iran, and Bangladesh.  SaferVPN was released in 2013 by cybersecurity software developers, including founders Amit Bareket and Sagi Gidali. SaferVPN’s parent company began raising capital after creating and patenting a system created to aid law enforcement in identifying and catching car thieves.   In the Microsoft Imagine Cup competition the first application cofounders Amit Bareket and Sagi Gidali assembled together made second place.  In March 2014 when Turkey attempted to block Twitter, SaferVPN launched the #UnblockTheWeb initiative to give individuals blocked by government censorship free access to a VPN.  In August, 2016, Unblock the Web provided a free VPN account to a coalition of Bangladeshi bloggers allowing them to communicate.  In 2016, Apple approved SaferVPN to implement automatic Wi-Fi Security. Its patented technology alerts users when they connect to an unsecured Wi-Fi network even if their device is locked, preventing harmful data leaks.  SaferVPN uses protocols to secure data that is transmitted over its network. Each protocol varies in how the data is secured.  SaferVPN’s supported protocols include: The World Wide Web started to function as a "Global Village" without any meaning to geographical boundaries. It was accessible, open and equal to all users. Over the years, more and more regulations have been enforced on the users and the Internet has turned into a completely different ecosystem.  Many countries have begun censoring a variety of sites and services (a prominent example is Iran and China, which blocked Facebook, Google, Gmail, YouTube and many other well-known services).  In addition, a high percentage of content services are currently accessible only from parent countries. For example, Netflix, the popular content service, blocks access to most content for those outside the US. Pandora, Spotify, and many other sites are also blocked.  In fact, the Internet has become a place with many "local villages" and defined boundaries. SaferVPN focuses on developing a secure VPN service, which allows users to bypass censorship restrictions in more than 65 countries and bypass geographical limitations of various network services. In addition, the service enables users to enjoy network privacy and to avoid being monitored by governments and large companies and enjoy security over public wireless networks. 