Vitech Corporation is a systems engineering company responsible for the development and management of two model-based systems engineering tools, CORE and GENESYS. Vitech products have a range of applications and have been used for program management by the U.S. Department of Energy,  for railway modernization  and waste management in Europe,  and for space station  and ground-based air defense system development  in Australia. In an effort to promote the study of model-based systems engineering, Vitech partners with universities throughout the United States, providing them with its software for instructional and research purposes.  Vitech Corporation was established in 1992 in Vienna, Virginia by David Long, then an undergrad student at Virginia Tech. Long, who at the time was majoring in engineering science and mechanics and studying under Benjamin Blanchard and Wolter Fabrycky, developed a software program to meet the requirements for a senior project. He began the project as a tool for academic use, then refined it to make CORE, a modeling environment for systems engineering problems,  while earning his master’s degree in Systems Engineering at Virginia Tech.  Long initially sought to license the program through an existing company, but eventually opted to manage and market the product himself, establishing Vitech Corporation in the process. CORE has gone on to become a tool used in the teaching of model-based systems engineering, and is cited in engineering textbooks such as Systems Engineering: Design Principles and Models,  by Dahai Liu, The Engineering Design of Systems Models and Methods (pp. 62–66),  by Dennis M. Buede and William D. Miller, and System Engineering Management (p. 243),  by Benjamin S. Blanchard and John E. Blyler. CORE is offered free to universities such as MIT and the Naval Postgraduate School  as part of the Vitech University Program.  In 2011, David Long, president, and Zane Scott, vice president of Professional Services at Vitech, wrote A Primer for Model-Based Systems Engineering. The book outlines the systems thinking approach and reviews the basic concepts of model-based systems engineering.  Vitech Corporation offers a range of systems engineering consulting services to private sector firms as well as governmental organizations such as DOD, DOE, and NASA.  David Long, President of Vitech, and Zane Scott, Vice President of Professional Services at Vitech, have both served as officers for the International Council on Systems Engineering, or INCOSE, the international nonprofit trade organization for the discipline. Long served as president from 2014-2016 and as committee chair of the INCOSE Nominations and Elections Committee (2016–present), and Scott as member of the INCOSE Working Groups (2013–present), the INCOSE Board of Directors (2016–present), and as co-chair of the INCOSE Corporate Advisory Board (2016 - ongoing). Scott is also a member of INCOSE's Institute for Technical Leadership.  