Andreas Georgiou (Greek: Ανδρέας Γεωργίου, born Patras, 1960) is a Greek economist. On 2 August 2010 he was appointed as President of the Hellenic Statistical Authority (ELSTAT).  On 2 August 2015, he surprisingly resigned from office with immediate effect.   In July 2016, the Greek Supreme Court upheld charges against Georgiou for having harmed the "national interest",  with a possible sentence of up to 10 years in prison.   These charges have been widely criticized as spurious by numerous international statistical bodies and experts who have backed the accuracy and ethics of his work.  As the Financial Times reported, "The case has sparked outrage from economists and statisticians worldwide who believe Mr. Georgiou has become a scapegoat for Greece's political class."   Mr. Georgiou's prosecution has been denounced as a violation of scientific freedom and human rights by the American Statistical Association's Committee on Scientific Freedom and Human Rights , the editorial board of The Economist , and others.  In June 2018, the Supreme Civil and Criminal Court of Greece ('Aeropagus') sentenced him to two years on probation.     He completed his secondary education in Athens College, and studied at Amherst College, where he received his Bachelor of Arts (Summa Cum Laude) in Economics and in Political Science-Sociology. He went on to receive his Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Michigan with specialization in Monetary Theory and Stabilisation Policy as well as in International Trade and Finance. From 1989 to July 2010 he was staff of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). He has been head of missions, responsible for the preparation, negotiation, and monitoring of economic programs with IMF member countries. From March 2004 to July 2010 he was deputy division chief in the IMF Statistics Department. During that period, among other things, he led the work of the statistical program for the methodological development and dissemination of new indicators of stability of financial systems (Financial Soundness Indicators). He has taught economics at the University of Michigan and he is a visiting professor at the Economics University of Bratislava. In addition, he has conducted seminars and courses in statistical methodologies for IMF staff as well as state officials of more than 120 countries. He speaks English, French, Slovak, Russian and Greek. Among his personal interests are the protection of the environment and the preservation and dissemination of Greek culture and heritage. 