 George Chouliarakis (Greek: Γιώργος Χουλιαράκης), also transliterated as Giorgos Houliarakis, is a Greek academic and politician who is currently an Alternate Minister of Finance in the Second Cabinet of Alexis Tsipras, serving under Euclid Tsakalotos. Chouliarakis was formerly the interim Minister of Finance in the caretaker government led by Vassiliki Thanou-Christophilou. He is currently a lecturer in economics at the University of Manchester, and was also the chief negotiator for the Greek government in the run-up to the third bailout package. Chouliarakis was born in Iasmos  and studied economics at the University of Athens, before completing a Master's degree at the University of London. He later completed his PhD in economics at the University of Warwick.  Chouliarakis has taught economics at the University of Essex, and has been a research fellow at the Institute for Employment Research of the University of Warwick. He is currently the Jean Monnet Lecturer in European Economic Integration at the University of Manchester. He is also a visiting scholar at the Bank of Greece and a fellow of the Euro Area Business Cycle Network.  His research interests include macroeconomics, economic history, labour economics, international macroeconomics and the macroeconomics of monetary unions.  Chouliarakis has served as Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers (SOE), and in this capacity has accompanied ministers, such as Euclid Tsakalotos, to meetings in Brussels.  He has also been described as an "ally" of the Deputy Prime Minister of Greece, Yannis Dragasakis.  In late April 2015, Chouliarakis was brought in as the chief Greek negotiator in the team negotiating the terms of the third bailout package. He replaced Nicholas Theocarakis, who was considered an ally of Yanis Varoufakis. Chouliarakis was praised by Thomas Wieser, the president of the EU's Economic and Financial Committee, as being a "gifted negotiator".  He has been called "the invisible negotiator" by some of the Athens media due to being notoriously media-shy.  The Wall Street Journal described him as a "constructive interlocutor".  On 28 August 2015, Chouliarakis was sworn in as the interim Minister of Finance in the Caretaker Cabinet of Vassiliki Thanou-Christophilou, replacing Euclid Tsakalotos. His appointment was praised by Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the president of the Eurogroup, who said: "[Chouliarakis] knows what he's doing because he was top man in the ministry for the past year and half." Tsakalotos also praised his successor, saying: "I am certain that with his work, as always, and with his devotion to the public good it would be difficult to think of a better interim finance minister, someone who loves what he does and does it very well."  Following the September legislative election and the formation of the second Tsipras cabinet, Chouliarakis was re-appointed to the Ministry of Finance as an Alternate Minister of Finance, serving under Tsakalotos as Minister of Finance. His responsibilities included overseeing the national accounts office, "a post seen as critical to achieving the ambitious fiscal targets set by the bailout programme" according to the Financial Times.  Chouliarakis, in his capacity as an Alternate Minister of Finance, is also a member of the Board of Directors of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF).  Chouliarakis has also resumed the role of Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors (SOE), and in that capacity is a member of the Board of Directors of the Greek Public Debt Management Agency.  References:   