Stay in Europe, or Menoume Europi or Menoume Evropi (Greek: Μένουμε Ευρώπη in Greek) is an initiative that surged in Greece since the elections of 2015.  The concerns over the Grexit activated people with different political, ideological and political positions who participated in mass demonstrations in Athens, Syntagma Square and in other major cities.  The main slogan of these peaceful political protests was that Greeks want to stay in Europe, to keep the country within the European Union and the euro area. The belief was that the minimum consensus in politics in Greece during the negotiations over the austerity measures with the Members of Eurozone, should be the European perspective of the country. From there on, all other political, social and other positions stated in the programmes of political parties are acceptable. This initiative was founded in 2012 from Greek students   in Oxford, and it spread among Greek students in other European universities. The first demonstration took place in Athens, Syntagma Square in June 2012 in between two major elections that brought to the country political instability and financial insecurity. The 2012–13 Cypriot financial crisis similarly activated the civil society of Cyprus and the European perspective of the Country was challenged. A group of activists was organised and under the slogan 'Stay in Europe' they host a series of events. In January 2015, Syriza won the elections and formed a coalition government. Due to the unsuccessful negotiations of the newly elected government, 'Grexit' become once again headline in the newspapers and the political option in case an agreement was not reached. Mass demonstrations were organised this time in Athens   and in other major cities, such as Thessaloniki, Patra, etc.  that surprised the coalition government led by Syriza, since it was the first mass political protests against its inefficient policy of negotiations.  Once the government called for a referendum 'Stay in Europe' organised the campaign  of YES  