Dark Train is a 2016 puzzle adventure game by Paperash Studio. It was released on 25 October 2016.  Dark Train is described as an atmospheric adventure game with unconventional game mechanics.   The game uses elements of Steampunk and Noir fiction mixed with Fantasy elements.  The game is controlled by mouse. The mouse cursor is represented by a mechanical Squid Ann 2.35.f. Ann 2.35.f. controls eponymous Dark Train which is described by developers as mechanical "Tamagotchi." Player's task is to get the train to the client. Every wagon of the train represents a certain world. Players can change their order which affects the train. The player is to explore the behavior of the train and its secrets. Player can also fins small creatures that he can raise and they will help him with the train. Players will eventually face consequences of their action during the game when the train reaches its destination.  The player will eventually get through 3 worlds that feature slightly different gameplay -  Story of the game is told visually without spoken or written dialogue. The game centers on the eponymous Dark Train. It is the last creation of genius inventor D. W. Tagrezbung. The train was ordered by a mysterious client. The client wanted a functional model of human world but without humans. Tagrezbung worked on it by day and night an finally finished the job. The train consists of wagons and each wagon represents an environment on its own. Tagrezbung died on the day he finished the train.   The story follows a mechanical ANN 2.35f on her journey to get Dark train to the Client.  Ann 2.35f is a mechanical squid and the protagonist of the game. She represents the cursor but also has her "own head." She can get scared and in such case she is hiding or waiting. She has multiple abilities. She can enter the inventory, can camouflage, can learn to emulate various shapes and objects to which it may subsequently transform. Her eyes serve as an indicator. Their glow can signal a warning signal or inform the player about changes in the status of the train. She can be repaired in her engine rooom.  Player can also meet her "sisters" during the game. They have their own head and interests and aren't always friendly towards Ann.  Player starts in the World of the Inventor. This world serves as a place where player learns to control the train and game mechanics. Player later gets to the World of Transparent lands. It uses different scale and outside of train. There are many threats and player has to use his knowledge of train to succeed. There are also new ways to control the train. Player ends in the World of Client. There are different rules and conditions. Game mechanics are different than those from the other worlds.  Dark Train was an idea of Vojtěch Vaněk Prague-based indie studio Paperash Studio. The studio previously made some animation projects with similar technics that were later used in Dark Train. Paperash were in contact with experienced developers from othe Czech studios such as Bohemia Interactive, Madfinger Games or CBE Software. They helped with programming of the game. The game was announced in November 2014.  The game was developed with use of Unity engine.   Graphics is use cut-out animation. It is cut from the paper at first. It is then pen drawn and in the end it is digitalized and post produced. Developers mentioned that game's world grew together with its model in real world. Developers noted that they continue the tradition of Czech animation and that they themselves previously created 2 short animated films Strap and Box.     Developers started their Greenlight campaign on 12 November 2015 to allow the game to be released on Steam and also to introduce it to non-Czech audience.  Dark Train hit TOP20 on 16 November 2015 and was Greenlighted on 22 November 2015. It received overally 2,154 yes votes, had 5,899 unique visitors and 230 followers.   Dark Train was released for Steam on 25 October 2016.  Deep into the City 1 is a free update released on 2 December 2016, which added new levels. There are 3 new levels. They include Basketball playground, Harp Room and Factory of Panzer Ritter. Player can get new upgrades for his Train in new levels.  Frozen to the Metal is a second free update for Dark Train. It was released on 20 December 2016. It adds 3 winter levels. It also added new event Frozen to the Metal but it was active only until the end of January 2017.  Demo of Dark Train was released on 9 March 2017.  Deep into the City 2 is a free update released on 5 April. It adds new location and other content. It also disables some content from Frozen to the Metal until winter.  Dark Train has received very positive reviews from critics. Chris Priestman of Kill Screen commented that the game reminds of 1990s films by Alex Proyas. He praised game's "shrouded" storytelling and also praised game's complexity.  Justin Deckard of Keengamer game Dark Train 8 points of 10. He praised storytelling mechanics which he called "unique." He also praised puzzles and gameplay's deviation from classical Adventure game. On the other hand, he noted that there are some bugs that can make game more frustrating. He also criticised game for some crashes.  Lukáš Grygar of Games.cz gave Dark Train 9 points of 10. He mentioned that the game can remind of titles by Amanita Design but it changes when "the train speeds up." He praised artistic execution of the game. He noted game!s visuals and music that complement each other. He also praised hard difficulty and high replay value.  Games.cz also selected Dark Train the best adventure game of 2016 and one of the best games of 2016.   Dark Train was nominated for 6 Czech Game of the Year Awards. It has along with Samorost 3 the most nominations for the awards.  It was nominated in categories Best Game, Best PC/Console Game, Best Audio, Best Game Design, Best Story and Best Visuals. Winners were announced on 10 February 2016.  Dark Train has won award in category Best Visuals.  Dark Train participates in International Video Game Contest at Anifilm 2017.  Paperash Studio announced Dark Train: Coupe on 16 May 2017. It will be prequel to Dark Train. Unlike the original game it will be Text Adventure game.  It will follow Ann Tagrezbung who is the protagonist of the original game when she was human.  