Kahoot! is a game-based learning platform, used as educational technology in schools and other educational institutions. The company was launched in August 2013 in Norway.  Its learning games, "kahoots", are multiple-choice quizzes that allow user generation and can be accessed via web browser. Kahoot can be used to review students' knowledge, for formative assessment,  or as a break from traditional classroom activities.  Kahoot also includes trivia games.  Kahoot was designed for social learning, with learners gathered around a common screen such as an interactive whiteboard, projector or a computer monitor. The site can also be used through screen-sharing tools such as Skype  or Google Hangouts.  The game design is such that the players are required to frequently look up from their devices.  The gameplay is simple; all players use a device to answer questions created by a teacher, business leader, or other person. These questions can be changed to award points. Points then show up on the leaderboard after each question.  Kahoot can be played through different web browsers and mobile devices through its web interface.  In September 2017, Kahoot launched a mobile application for homework.   In May 2017, YouTube channel GTLive played a game on their live stream with over 10,000 players.  Kahoot was launched in private beta at the third annual SXSWedu in March 2013.  In March 2017, Kahoot reached the billion cumulative participating players milestone and in the month of May, the company was reported to have 50 million monthly active unique users.   As of 2017, Kahoot has raised $26.5 million in funding from Northzone, Creandum and Microsoft Ventures, as well as private investors in Norway.   According to research by two students at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology, the network latency in accessing the website greatly influences the quality of experience of the platform, in both longitudinal and cross-section studies, with a sample size N=21.  It was found that about 70% of the sample size regard Kahoot! as having positive results on all delay levels, while a varying number of students (between 10-20%) report that the platform is too time-consuming, forming a direct relationship with the duration of delay. 