One Chance is an indie browser video game developed by Dean Moynihan and released for Newgrounds on December 2010. The player controls a scientist named John Pilgrim, who created a cancer-attacking "cure"; it is released in a gas form and begins to cause humanity's extinction by targeting unexpected human cells. The player has six days to create an antibiotic, after which point one of several endings may be achieved depending on the choices made. The game's name refers to the player's inability to replay it upon completion; refreshing the page after finishing the game brings the player back to the ending received. However, this can be circumvented by playing the game on a different website, using a different computer, or clearing the Internet browser's cookies; Moynihan discourages these workarounds, and feels that they detract from the game's impact.  Players assume the role of a Dr. John Pilgrim, who has a wife named Penny and a daughter named Molly. Pilgrim is the leader of a small group of scientists who have discovered what seems to be the cure for cancer, titled E48K15. They soon realize that the experimental cure doesn't just kill cancer cells, but all living cells as well. The virus is released into the air, and the player is given 6 days to save the Earth. WhatGamesAre describes the gameplay as that of "a simple adventure game where you can walk around, talk to people and open doors. Every day the game changes the scenario up a little bit and reinforces the message of how much time is left. In the end... the results are stark and affecting."  There are multiple endings, and some reviewers asked readers to share their own personal experiences on how they chose to spend their last 6 days on Earth before the ceasing of all life.  BulletReviews noted that "With the inability to restart the game, in One Chance there are genuine consequences for your decisions for the first time ever in gaming history".  WhatGamesAre praised the unpredictability of the game, saying,  "At several points the game then surprises you. You think you have it figured out, and then something changes and it sneaks past your defences. You might feel appalled or just freaked out that this little Flash game is somehow getting to you, and you may well feel conscientious and even guilty about the situation that the game places you in." It added that "The biggest flaw with One Chance is that it is only good for one play through...The other game-side flaw is that there is no sense of a solution."  Alternatively, Destructoid spoke positively of inability to replay, stating, "There's a problem with branching paths and moral decisions in videogames: even if they are meaningful (few are), players can usually bypass the system by using multiple save files or other means to go in for another attempt and a different outcome", adding that the game had a very good system to prevent people from "cheating".  