Robert Yang is an academic, artist, and indie video game developer, whose work often explores gay subculture and the boundary between video game and art. His projects include Borges adaptation Intimate, Infinite and The Tearoom, a game which involves soliciting sex in a public toilet. He is a member of faculty at NYU Tisch School of the Arts's Game Center and curated their annual indie game exhibition in 2015.  Intimate, Infinite is an art game adaptation of Jorge Luis Borges's story "The Garden of Forking Paths", which itself played with genre.  The game comprises three subgames which explore themes of repetition, infinity, and sudden endings, taken from the story.  Cobra Club is a photo studio game that involves the player taking pictures their character's penis. The player can interact with different NPCs and trade "dick pics" with each other. The game was banned by the live-streaming platform Twitch for its overly sexualized content.   Hurt Me Plenty is a sexually-explicit game based on BDSM subculture and explored the issue of negotiating consent.  Rinse and Repeat was released in 2015. It takes place at a public shower room. The player has to rub down other men. The game was widely banned on Twitch for its extensive nudity.    The Tearoom (2017) alludes to the gay sexual practice of cottaging. Players must stand at a urinal and make eye contact with a neighbor until a power bar fills up and oral sex begins. Players must also avoid being spotted by police officers.  Instead of penises, it shows guns.  The game parodies or critiques aspects of other games: the presence of non-functioning toilets in other video games; the way games normally allow you to look at everything without being penalised; and the different attitudes of the video game industry to sex (largely prohibited) and violence (almost omni-present).  Yang's shorter games include Succulent, A game that allows you to have oral sex with some sort of orange object, possibly a corndog.   Stick Shift (2015), a short driving game about pleasuring a gay car, and No Stars, Only Constellations, a stargazing game about relationship breakups and alien life. A few of Yang's games were released on Steam in a series of collections called Radiator. The compilation Radiator 2 added virtual reality to his games for a more immersive experience.  