Samorost is a puzzle point-and-click adventure game developed by Amanita Design. The first game of the Samorost series, it was released in 2003 for free at the Amanita Design website. The player interacts with the world with simple point and click interface directing a small, white-clad humanoid with a little cap and brown boots (called simply "gnome" by Dvorsky). The goal of the Samorost games is to solve a series of puzzles and brain teasers. The puzzles are sequentially linked forming an adventure story. The game contains no inventory or dialogue, and the solving of puzzles mainly consists of clicking onscreen elements in the correct order. Solving a puzzle will immediately transport the player character to the next screen. The game features surrealistic, organic scenarios that mix natural and technological concepts (often featuring manipulated photographs of small objects made to look very large), creative character designs and a unique musical atmosphere.  Music tracks are available through iTunes.  Samorost was created by Jakub Dvorský while he was a student at the Academy of Arts, Architecture and Design in Prague, in the department of Graphic Design and Visual Communication in 2003. Although short and simplistic in its gameplay, its surreal graphics and memorable score made the game stand out. The object of the game is to avert a collision between the gnome's home planet and a large incoming spaceship.  Samorost was nominated for the Webby Award in 2004 and the Top Talent Award in 2003.  Samorost is a Czech word that is used to describe objects sculpted from discarded wood (roots, trunks, branches, etc.), usually for decorative purposes. The protagonist of the game lives on an asteroid that resembles such an object. Another meaning of 'samorost' is "maverick."  The word is composed of the parts samo- ("self, auto-") and rost (form of růst, "to grow"). This could also be translated as "vagabond," "self-identifier," "individualist," or "wanderer," especially in the context of the protagonist. A soundtrack for the video game Samorost was "selected by Amanita Design's founder Jakub Dvorský from various sources".  It wasn't officially released on any format; however, it was ripped from the game by a fan and uploaded to the Internet.  