Shadow of the Colossus is an action-adventure game developed by Bluepoint Games and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. It is a remake of the original game for the PlayStation 2 using ultra-high definition art assets. The remake was led by Bluepoint, who developed the earlier PlayStation 3 remaster, with assistance from SIE Japan Studio. The developers remade all the game's assets from the ground up, but the game retains the same gameplay from the original title aside from the introduction of a new control scheme. The game received acclaim from critics, who praised it for preserving the feel of the original while vastly improving graphics, performance, and updating the control scheme. However, minor criticism was given to the gameplay and camera, which some felt should have been improved. The gameplay is nearly identical to the original version of the game, aside from reworked controls.     Progression through Shadow of the Colossus occurs in cycles. Beginning at a central point in a landscape, the player seeks out and defeats a colossus, and is then returned to the central point to repeat the process.   Most colossi are located in remote areas, such as atop cliffs or within ancient structures.   Players are able to choose from several options when playing the game. On a standard PlayStation 4, the game runs at 30 frames per second at a 1080p resolution. On a PlayStation 4 Pro, the game can run either at a 1440p resolution (upscaled to 4K) at 30 frames per second, or at 60 frames per second at 1080p.  Sony announced a remake of Shadow of the Colossus for the PlayStation 4 during their Electronic Entertainment Expo 2017 press conference.  The remake is led by Bluepoint, who developed the earlier PlayStation 3 remaster. The idea for a remake came after a conversation Bluepoint developers had. They wanted to create a new definitive version of the original game, and after speaking with friends at Sony Japan, they were on the same page as Bluepoint. Bluepoint producer Randall Lowe and technical director Peter Dalton stated in an interview with Game Informer that the original Shadow of the Colossus is on many of their employees' Top 5 of all-time list.   The developers remade all the game's assets from the ground up, but the game retains the same gameplay from the original title along with the introduction of a new control scheme.  The game uses the original codebase from the PlayStation 2 game. The art staff used the PlayStation 2 version to create parity with the PlayStation 4 version.  The game was released on February 6, 2018 in North America, February 7 in Europe, Australia and New Zealand, and February 8 in Japan.    Shadow of the Colossus received "universal acclaim" reviews from critics, according to review aggregator Metacritic.  Brett Makedonski's 10/10 score on Destructoid stated that "Nothing in this entire game is forgettable. For a game predicated on methodically finding and exposing these creatures' weak points, you'd be hard-pressed to find a weak point throughout the entire experience."  Nick Plessas's score of 8.5/10 on Electronic Gaming Monthly said that "Remakes can seem like the low-hanging fruit of game development, but Bluepoint does Shadow of the Colossus justice with an evolution of the classic game that improves the overall experience while maintaining its familiar spirit."  Tom Hurley from GamesRadar gave the game a score of 4 out of 5 stars saying that "Both a great remaster and an enjoyable ‘new’ game in its own right that takes you on a journey in a way few things can."  9.7/10 was Marty Sliva's score on IGN and said "Shadow of the Colossus on PS4 is a stunning return to the classic that wowed us in 2005."  It sold 21,900 copies on PlayStation 4 within its first week on sale in Japan, which placed it at number 2 on the all format sales chart.  