Vision Forum was an evangelical Christian organization based in San Antonio, Texas. It was founded in 1998; its president was Doug Phillips, son of U.S. Constitution Party leader Howard Phillips. Vision Forum Ministries was a 501(c) non-profit organization which was closed by its board of directors in November 2013 after Doug Phillips' confession of marital infidelity.    The associated commercial operation, called Vision Forum, Inc., continued to operate until January 2014, when it was announced that it too was shutting down operations. Vision Forum advocated Biblical patriarchy, creationism, homeschooling, Family Integrated Churches and Quiverfull beliefs. Vision Forum was an advocate of "biblical patriarchy". The "Tenets of Biblical Patriarchy" article on its website advocated such beliefs as: [not in citation given] The organization sponsored the Christian Filmmakers Academy and the San Antonio Independent Christian Film Festival.   In 2007, the group organized an alternative celebration of the 400th anniversary of the founding of Jamestown, Virginia, saying that the official celebration did not give enough emphasis to the Christian perspective of the settlers.  Vision Forum was criticized for allegedly holding views that demean women and view them as property. Don and Joy Veinot of Midwest Christian Outreach interpreted the Vision Forum statement to imply that "women really cannot be trusted as decision makers" and "unless a daughter marries, she functionally remains pretty much the property of the father until he dies."  They also argued that Vision Forum promoted a "pagan top-down view of authority".  Similar criticisms were voiced when a lawsuit was filed against Doug Phillips and Vision Forum, Inc. by a woman who had worked as the Phillips family's nanny. Her suit alleged that Phillips had sexually abused her for years.   Phillips acknowledged an "inappropriate relationship" but denied all charges of sexual abuse, "calling them sensationalist and suggesting that they are motivated by a desire for financial gain."  