 World Fit is a program of the United States Olympic Committee (USOC), and the United States Olympians and Paralympians Association (USOP)  to promote physical fitness and the Olympic Games ideals to school children through kids fitness programs, school fitness programs, and childhood obesity programs.  World Fit is part of the world's largest obesity-prevention network, EPODE International Network  World Fit was founded by three Olympians: World Fit  promotes youth fitness programs and Olympic ideals under the Olympic Charter to middle school fitness programs for children by having Olympic Games athletes and Paralympic athletes act as Role models for fitness and encouraging children to embrace a lifetime of fitness. United States Olympic athletes and Paralympic athletes adopt schools for life, promote a culture of health and fitness for children, inspire students about the importance of health & fitness, and promote the Olympic values of perseverance, respect and fair play. Approximately 7,000 USA Olympians and Paralympians are recruited by the USOP to adopt at least one school, and speak annually to its students about the importance of physical fitness activities & a healthier lifestyle, and promote school Walking programs. The Olympic athletes and Paralympic athletes encourage the students to participate in the World Fit Walk, which is held each spring on the school’s campus, where the students, teachers and family walk daily for 6 weeks. The World Fit Program includes the following components for Kids School Fitness Programs:  Each Olympic athlete or Paralympic athlete adopts up to three schools in the region where he or she lives, and adopts the schools for life, for kids school fitness programs. A daily school fitwalking program, where the numbers of miles walked, jogged, or run are logged each day and totaled for the kids fitness programs.  Prepared lessons are offered by the World Fit organization to school teachers on the topics of: An on-line social media community that facilitates the involvement of USA Olympians, families and students in a project of physical education. Students who reach a minimum of 10 miles per week receive a certificate for their achievement signed by the Olympic athlete or Paralympic athlete, the Athletic Director, and the Principal of the school. Twenty five Olympic style medals are given to each participating school to award to their top students in kids fitness programs education. The University of Miami Miller School of Medicine department of Pediatric Research provides studies and outcome analysis of the World Fit program.  World Fit is supported by the following USA Olympic athletes and Paralympic athletes  