Hershel of Ostropol (Yiddish: הערשעלע אסטראפאלער‎, translit. Hershele Ostropoler, 1757 – 1811) is a prominent figure in Jewish humor. Hershele was a prankster from Ostropol, Ukraine, who lived in poverty and targeted the rich and powerful, both Jew and Gentile. Common folks were not safe from his shenanigans, either, but usually got off lightly. He is also remembered by Ukrainian gentiles as something of an ethnic folk hero,  who could take on establishment forces much larger than himself with nothing but his humor. While his exploits have been mythologized over the years, the character of Hershele is based on a historic figure, who lived in what is today Ukraine during the late 18th or early 19th century. He may have used his wits to get by, eventually earning a permanent position as court jester of sorts to Rabbi Boruch of Medzhybizh.  In the Hershele stories, he was chosen by members of Rabbi Boruch's court in order to counter the rebbe's notorious fits of temper and lift his chronic melancholy.  It is believed that Hershele died of a fatal accident that was brought about by one of Rabbi Boruch's fits of anger. Hershele lingered for several days and died in Rabbi Boruch's own bed surrounded by Rabbi Boruch and his followers.   He is thought to be buried in the old Jewish cemetery in Medzhybizh, though his grave is unmarked. Hershele was the subject of several epic poems, a novel, a comedy performed in 1930 by the Vilna Troupe, and a US TV program in the 1950s. Two illustrated children's books, The Adventures of Hershel of Ostropol, and Hershel and the Hanukkah Goblins, have been published. Both books were written by Eric Kimmel and illustrated by Trina Schart Hyman. A tale about him, When Hershel Eats- by Nathan Ausubel, was included in Joanna Cole's 1982 work, Best-Loved Folktales of the World.  In 2002, a play entitled Hershele the Storyteller  was performed in New York City. in 1999, Shari Aronson of Z Puppets Rosenschnoz received permission from Eric Kimmel to adapt the book Hershel and the Hanukkah Goblins for the stage. This adaptation has since been produced four times by MInnesota Jewish Theatre Company, with puppets by Chris Griffith winning a 2009 MN Ivey Award, and multiple times by Jewish Community Centers across the U.S. During dinner, his father noticed that Hershele's shirt was grease-stained and that the goose's left foot was missing. That evening, Hershele took his father out to a lake near their village. A flock of geese were sleeping on the banks, each tucking one foot into its body so that only the other was visible. Agreeing with his wife, the innkeeper allowed Hershele to stay for the night, going so far as to offer him a large meal and a place at their table. After dinner, he offered Hershele one of his finest rooms, to which the vagabond happily agreed. Hershel of Ostropol was adapted into a 30-minute short film by Lukas Gordon in 2015, which received release on YouTube.  