"In My Country There Is Problem", also known as "Throw the Jew Down the Well" after the song's key line, is a song written by British comedian Sacha Baron Cohen for his comic character Borat Sagdiyev. It features in the 'Country Music' segment of "Borat's Guide to the USA (Part 2)", that focuses heavily on the (positive) reaction of the patrons of an Arizona country and western bar to the antisemitic sentiments of the song. It appeared in Stereophonic Musical Listenings That Have Been Origin in Moving Film "Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan". Baron Cohen's character Borat is a simple-minded antisemitic and antiziganistic Kazakh journalist who is depicted in Da Ali G Show as attempting to learn about the culture of the United Kingdom and, in the HBO series, the United States. In interviews, Baron Cohen, who is Jewish, has stated that the purpose of Borat was both to expose antisemitism in his interview subjects, as well as simple indifference to antisemitism.   Baron Cohen, as Borat, typically displays his character's fear and hatred of Jews frequently on the show. The song itself is a country-style song played on acoustic guitar consisting of three verses. The first verse is a complaint about the state of transportation in Kazakhstan, which is followed in a refrain with a call to "Throw transport down the well—so my country can be free." The second verse is directed at the Jews of Kazakhstan, alleging they "take everybody's money", and calling for the listeners to "Throw the Jew down the well". The third verse contains a warning for the listener to "be careful of [the Jew's] teeth" before repeating the second refrain.  Borat debuted the song in the third episode of the third season of Da Ali G Show, "Peace" on HBO on 1 August 2004, as the climax of the character's investigation of country music. He sang the song at a country music club in Tucson, Arizona, and managed to drive much of the club's patronage to cheer and sing along by the end of the song.  After the episode had been broadcast, The Jewish Daily Forward published an article which claimed that the song depicted on the show was in fact a small segment of Borat's full performance at the bar. According to the article, Borat had been on stage for over two hours when the sketch was filmed, and the full performance also contained a rant about throwing his family down the well which helped make it clear that Borat's actions were indeed a joke.  Jody Rosen, writing for Slate, stated that with the song as well as his other antics Borat managed to offend everyone: ...Borat's performance of "In My Country There Is Problem (Throw the Jew Down the Well)" on an episode of Da Ali G Show [is] a densely packed piece of sociopolitical parody: an incitement to pogrom ("Throw the Jew down the well/ So my country can be free/ You must grab him by his horns/ Then we have a big party") sung by a British Jew disguised as a Central Asian bumpkin before a whooping, Bud-swilling audience at a Tucson, Ariz., honky-tonk. It's hilarious. It's catchy. And it's a perfect distillation of Borat's satirical attack, designed to offend and indict just about everyone: Old Europe and Middle America, fulminating right-wingers and piously PC liberals,  in addition to Kazakhstan's President Nursultan Nazarbayev and Anti-Defamation League director Abraham Foxman.  After the episode had been broadcast, the Anti-Defamation League sent Baron Cohen an open letter warning him that, while they understood the message he had intended the sketch to deliver, they were concerned that this aspect may not have been grasped by his audience.  The organization issued a similar statement prior to the release of the Borat film.  Others, notably columnists David Brooks  and Charles Krauthammer,  have expressed the opinion that the song, rather than being biting satire, was "a supreme display of elite snobbery reveling in the humiliation of the hoaxed hillbilly." 