The Sarah Silverman Program is an American television sitcom, which ran from February 1, 2007 to April 15, 2010 on Comedy Central  starring comedian and actress Sarah Silverman, who created the series with Dan Harmon and Rob Schrab. The Sarah Silverman Program faced cancellation in 2009 when Comedy Central and the producers were unable to reach an agreement for the show's per-episode budget. LGBT-interest cable channel Logo stepped in to co-produce the third season.  Episodes revolve around the adventures of Sarah and her friends in Valley Village, California, a district in the San Fernando Valley portion of Los Angeles that is portrayed as an autonomous city within the show. Silverman plays a fictionalized version of herself, an unemployed woman who leads an irresponsible life. Her most notable trait is her undiluted, childlike self-absorption, which commonly leads to awkward comedic situations in which she insults friends, family, and total strangers. The show tackled issues such as abortion, racism, and same-sex marriage; it was canceled after three seasons.  The show was filmed at Hollywood Center Studios, Hollywood, California. The 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike put The Sarah Silverman Program on hiatus in November 2007.  The second half of the second season began airing on October 8, 2008.  The third season premiered February 4, 2010.  The series' first TV-MA rated episode, "Just Breve" (episode 308), aired on April 1, 2010. The show's premiere drew impressive ratings, 1.8 million total viewers and 1.3 with the 18–49 demographic, making it "cable's biggest audience of the night."  The show had the single best debut ratings "for a Comedy Central original since the premiere of the animated series Drawn Together (2.2 million viewers) in 2004."  On February 12, 2007, eleven days after the show's premiere, Comedy Central announced that it had "ordered 16 new episodes for air this fall and next spring." The network claimed the early pickup was because in its first two weeks, "[the show] was the most-watched cable show in primetime among all key demos." Comedy Central called it "its most successful primetime launch in three years."  The show also drew positive reviews. Tim Goodman of the San Francisco Chronicle, said that the show was "bursting with imagination, audacity, rude charm, and a relentlessly funny worldview" and called the show "an offbeat gem."  Daniel Fierman of Entertainment Weekly called it "totally hilarious."  Tad Friend of The New Yorker called the show "The meanest sitcom in years – and one of the funniest."  Doug Elfman of The Chicago Sun-Times called the show "a live-action comedy as funny as Chappelle's Show."  Time magazine's James Poniewozik named it one of the top 10 new TV series of 2007, ranking it at No.six.  The show has also been praised for its non-stereotypical portrayal of a gay couple, resulting in a GLAAD Media Awards nomination.  On July 16, 2009, Silverman was nominated for an Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series for her performance on the series. A soundtrack album was released on March 2, 2010 entitled From Our Rears to Your Ears. It contains 99 tracks from the show's three seasons. 