 The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel is an American period comedy-drama television series starring Rachel Brosnahan that follows a housewife in 1958 New York City who discovers she has a knack for stand-up comedy. The series's pilot premiered as a part of Amazon Studios' spring pilot season on March 17, 2017, to critical acclaim, and was picked up by Amazon for a two-season order on April 10, 2017. It was created by Amy Sherman-Palladino. Sherman-Palladino and her husband Daniel Palladino serve as executive producers. The first season was released on November 29, 2017, to positive reviews. The series won two Golden Globe Awards (Best Television Series – Musical or Comedy and Best Actress – Musical or Comedy for Brosnahan) and five Primetime Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Comedy Series and Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series for Brosnahan. It was renewed for a third season on May 20, 2018, before the second season had aired. Miriam "Midge" Maisel is a Jewish housewife living in New York City in 1958. Her husband, Joel, is a businessman who moonlights as a struggling comedian at The Gaslight Cafe. Midge supports Joel, providing feedback about his sets, but becomes disillusioned when she discovers that Joel has stolen one of his best routines from Bob Newhart. One night, after a particularly unsuccessful performance, Joel confesses to Midge that he has been having an affair and leaves her. Midge goes to her parents for support but is instead met with criticism for choosing to marry Joel and a demand to persuade Joel into returning. After drinking too much wine, Midge returns to the Gaslight Cafe and impulsively goes on stage, delivering an impromptu set about her predicament which the audience finds hilarious. After baring her breasts in an attempt to demonstrate how attractive she is, Midge is arrested and taken to jail for indecent exposure and performing without a cabaret license. The squad car contains another comedian who was also arrested: Lenny Bruce.  Midge, who had seen Lenny perform, returns to jail the next morning to bail him out and ask him if he loves performing stand-up comedy.  Bruce warns Midge that the comedy business is terrible, but Midge takes his warning as encouragement and teams with Susie, a comedy club employee, to hone her act. The second season is set to feature Midge and Susie going out on the road together with Midge playing clubs along the Borscht Belt in the Catskill Mountains.   Amy Sherman-Palladino was inspired by childhood memories of her father (a standup comedian based in NYC) and an admiration for early female comics such as Joan Rivers.  Sherman-Palladino explained the show concept as follows:I wanted to do a story about a woman who thought she’d scored...She’d gotten it all, and then, bam, it all falls apart. And in falling apart, she discovers an ambition and a need to speak, and a voice that she just frankly didn’t know was there.” The series drew inspiration from female comedians of the time period like Rivers and Totie Fields.   On June 6, 2016, it was announced that Amazon had given the production a pilot order. The pilot episode was written by Sherman-Palladino, who was also expected to executive produce.  On March 2, 2017, it was reported that the pilot would premiere as a part of Amazon's Spring 2017 pilot season on March 17, 2017.  On April 10, 2017, it was announced that Amazon had given the production a series order consisting of two seasons. The series was expected to be executive produced by Sherman-Palladino and Daniel Palladino with Dhana Gilbert serving as a producer.  On October 10, 2017, it was reported that the series would premiere on November 29, 2017.  On May 20, 2018, it was announced that Amazon had renewed the series for a third season.  On August 5, 2016, it was announced that Rachel Brosnahan had been cast in the pilot's titular lead role.  In September 2016, it was reported that Tony Shalhoub and Michael Zegen had joined the pilot's main cast.   On October 6, 2016, it was announced that Marin Hinkle had been cast in one of the pilot's main roles.  In May 2017, it was reported that Joel Johnstone, Caroline Aaron, Kevin Pollak, and Bailey De Young were set to appear in recurring roles.   On May 23, 2018, it was announced that Zachary Levi would appear in the second season in a recurring capacity.  On August 15, 2018, it was reported that Jane Lynch would reprise her role of Sophie Lennon in recurring capacity in season two.  Principal photography for the pilot took place from September 27 to October 14, 2016 in New York City.  On October 4 and 5, 2016, filming took place at 96 St. Marks Place in New York City where exterior shots were being filmed. Residents of the building being used for filming were reportedly unhappy about the disruption that the production would cause.  The "apartment" where Midge and her husband Joel live was created on the same set as the apartment where Midge's parents live, but with more modern (late-1950s) design, inspired in part by Doris Day movies, according to production designer Bill Groom.  The retro looking typeface used for the main title is called Sparkly and was designed by Stuart Sandler of Font Diner.  On October 10, 2017, the official trailer for the first season was released.  On August 9, 2018, a teaser trailer for the second season was released.  On November 13, 2017, the series held its official premiere at the Village East Cinema in New York City.  The series has been met with a positive response from critics since its premiere. On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the first season has an approval rating of 94% based on 70 reviews, with an average rating of 7.63 out of 10. The website's critical consensus reads, "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel is an upbeat addition to Amazon's original offerings, propelled by a playful yet poignant performance by Rachel Brosnahan."   On Metacritic the series has an average weighted score of 80 out of 100, based on 27 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".  The pilot episode of The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel was one of Amazon Video's most successful ever, achieving an average viewer rating of 4.9 (out of 5).  The review of the pilot in The Guardian praised the "combination of [Sherman-Palladino's] banging dialogue and the utterly winning charm of Brosnahan",  while The A.V. Club praised the "outstanding" production design and said "this is a series that's as confident as its heroine—and what a heroine she is. Midge is already layered, conflicted, hilarious, and charming."  A critic for Slate called the episode "a knockout", stating that the stand-up element "introduces a welcome streak of discipline, both verbal and thematic, into Sherman-Palladino’s charming but manic work."  The Jerusalem Post highlighted the exceptionally well done "Jewishness" of the work, calling it a "comedic delight of a show, combining Sherman-Palladino’s knack for witty dialogue with the colorful, rich world of 1950s New York and the intensity of family drama and changing times."  NPR similarly highlighted the effectiveness of the comedy in the show, writing "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel isn't aiming for realism. It's a heroic fantasy. And Midge's humor, one might say, is the ultimate version of staircase wit. Recklessly honest, she says what female comedians would've said half a century ago — if they had only been free to say it."  