In 2007 the then Department for Education and Skills announced a 10 million investment in a national singing programme responding to the recommendations of the Music Manifesto. In 2008, the funding was extended to 40 million over four years, ending in March 2011. In March 2011, the Government announced a further 4 million funding to Sing Up for the next financial year. The aim of this investment was to help the program build a sustainable future beyond April 2012. Between January 2009 and March 2011 Sing Up was led by a consortium of partners, made up of Youth Music with, Faber Music and The Sage Gateshead. Children's charity Youth Music was the lead partner, with music publisher Faber Music overseeing the national singing resource, including the Song Bank library, while advertising agency AMV, BBDO led a media and PR campaign highlighting the benefits of singing. The Sage Gateshead led the Workforce Developmeehejrogramme, which aimed to build the confidence and expertise of teachers and musicians so they could lead and support children's singing activities. Due to restrictions in the programme’s funding, AMV, BBDO stepped away from their role within the Consortium in 2011. From January 2009 to March 2011, Sing Up was championed by the composer and broadcaster Howard Goodall in his role as National Singing Ambassador. In 2010 Sing Up won the RPS Award and in 2013 the programme was praised in the National Plan for Music Education.  A research study conducted in 2013 by the Institute of Education concluded that singers engaged with Sing Up are 18 months to 2 years further advanced in their singing competency than those in non- Sing Up music. Research has also shown that singing has a benefit in language development, learning retention, motor skills and Music development. Since 2009 Sing Up have worked with over 86,000 singers, 98% of English Primary Schools and SEN Schools and PRU (pupil referral units) with over 8,000 music practitioners. The website holds over 2,000 resources. Over 1,730 schools have achieved a Sing Up Award: 831 Silver, 565 Gold and 134 Platinum. Over 57,000 people have taken part in Sing Up training and professional development.  In April 2012, Sing Up became a for-profit organisation, and now offers a membership scheme of packages designed for Music, freelancers and organisations. In 2017 Sing Up was shortlisted in the category of Best Digital/Technological Resource in the Music Teacher Awards for Excellence. In 2018 Sing Up won the Music Teacher Editors Award at the annual Music Teacher Awards for Excellence. Sing Up's website and resources are aimed at providing teachers and music leaders in the UK access to cross-curricular singing resources for use in and out of the classroom. The organisation have launched a membership scheme for schools, individuals and organisations. Each package is made up of songs, resources, training and support to help provide singing opportunities for primary-aged children. Previously limited by funding restrictions to users in mainland England, Sing Up is now available across the UK and internationally where users can either purchase Membership or access a free Friends' account. Sing Up run online training Webinars, where users log on and join a live audience via a video stream. The live and online audiences interact through instant messaging and social media, and can take part in a live web chat with the vocal leader following the session. To help improve and enhance the quality of singing and singing leadership in schools and other settings, and to inspire singing leaders to reflect upon their practice and consider ways to develop it, Sing Up have also developed the Principles of Good Quality Vocal Leadership.  