Telephone numbers in Luxembourg employ a closed dialling system, whereby all numbers are dialed in the same format whether from within Luxembourg or from abroad. There is no trunk like "0". The incumbent operator employed an open numbering plan with numbers of varying lengths, where a two-digit area identifier is followed by one to four digits, all 6 digits formed the subscriber number. This was changed by the introduction of a new numbering plan in 1999.  Telephone numbers introduced since May 2000 by the incumbent operator begin with "2" (generally 26, 24 and recently 27 ) followed by two to 6 digits. The area identifier is still present and generally following the 26, 27 or 24, however numbers can be taken to any other area. In Luxembourg PBX extensions were generally appended to the main number, hence the need for an open numbering plan. As more PBX were installed in offices in Luxembourg compared to areas with almost exclusively residential customers, this led to the impression that numbers in Luxembourg City would be longer than 6 digits. The regulator has therefore decided that new phone numbers must be 8 digits long including the extension. In order to fulfill this requirement, operators have to shorten a customer's phone number to 3-6 digits, to allow 2-5 digit extensions. Mobile telephone numbers always carry a three-digit network code, in the format "6x1", which is followed by six digits. The leading "6" of these numbers is not omitted when dialing from abroad. These codes were introduced on 1 September 2006, replacing codes in the format "0x1". Existing numbers were converted to the new format. Each mobile number has an equivalent voicemail number, the network code is in the format "6x8" (note: except for Join Experience, they are not using it). The mobile network codes are: In June 2009,  a new numbering range for mobile machine-to-machine communication was introduced. The numbers have a fixed length of 12 digits and start with "60", the only assigned network code from this range is: 