Telephone numbers in Israel consist of an area code and a subscriber number. The dial plan type in Israel is closed, and "0" is the internal Trunk prefix in Israel. Israel's country calling code is +972. When dialing an Israeli number from inside of Israel, the format is : "0 - Area/network operator code (A/N) - subscriber number (X)" When dialing an Israeli number from outside Israel, the format is : "+972 - Area/network operator code (A/N) - subscriber number (X)" The Israeli telecommunication infrastructure is including the Palestinian telecommunication system. In 1965, many Israeli phone numbers had 6 digits, but some had 5, according to the Tel-Aviv-area phone book.    There were ten area codes at that time: 02 Jerusalem, Bet Shemesh; 03 Tel Aviv, Petah Tikva, Rehovot, Ashdod; 04 Haifa and western Galilee; 051 Ashkelon; 053 Netanya; 057 Beersheva and most of the Negev; 059 Eilat; 065 Afula, Nazareth; 063 Hadera, Zichron Yaakov; and 067 Tiberias, Zefat and eastern Galilee.    As recently as the 1990s, most telephone numbers in Israel had 6 digits (without area code digit). Currently there are 5 geographic area codes and 2 more non-geographic area codes, and numbers has 7 or 8 digits (without area code digit). With the influence of VoIP long distance was deregulated in Israel. According to the Israel Ministry of Communication a VoIP number may be ported to a landline carrier and vice versa providing the option to have, say, a northern number in the south of the country. Numbers may not be ported, say, from the north to the south of the country on the same kind of line (e.g., VoIP to VoIP or landline to landline). Mobile number portability was introduced in late 2007. The format for calls to landlines within the same area code is XXX-XXXX (7 digits subscriber number). For calls to a landline outside the local area, the area code is prefixed and the format becomes (0A) XXX-XXXX for calls to landlines, where "0A" is the area code. The format for calls to cellular mobile phones is 05N-XXX-XXXX, where "05N" is the mobile operator indicator. The format for calls to VoIP lines is 07N-XXX-XXXX, where "07N" is the VoIP operator indicator. When calling from outside of Israel, the leading "0" in area codes is not dialed, and the format is +972-A-XXX-XXXX for calls to landlines, +972-5N-XXX-XXXX for calls to mobile lines, +972-7N-XXX-XXXX for calls to VoIP lines. For calling from Israel to another country: choose operator, and dial its international access code, then dial destination country code and then the rest of the local number. Due to mobile number portability, a mobile phone with a prefix of one provider can be associated with a different provider. When dialing within one of the geographical area codes (2, 3, 4, 8, 9) the prefix can be dropped (so instead of dialing (0A)XXX-XXXX you can dial XXX-XXXX). Non-geographic nationwide area code can be used by Landline and VoIP operators. Special numbers include emergency and aid services, along with technical support and other provider services:  Kosher phones and networks are essentially phones with Haredi rabbinical approval that can be used for communication without entertainment functionality or connectivity. This is a line that has a pre-defined prefix and it is blocked to content that Haredi activists feel is not appropriate for their community. Such blocking includes cellular internet access, chat rooms, SMS, etc. This does not mean that other phones are not kosher according to Jewish law, as evidenced by the fact that a very large number - if not the majority - of observant Orthodox Jews worldwide do not restrict themselves to "kosher" phones; rather the description "kosher" phones is a loose one, implying an added level of stringency accepted by some communities. The companies who provides "kosher numbers" allocated exclusive ranges for those lines, which are: 