Telephone numbers in China are organized according to the Chinese Telephone Code Plan. The numerical formats of landlines and mobile phones are different: landlines have area-codes, whereas mobile phones do not. In major cities, landline-numbers consist of a two-digit area code followed by an eight-digit inner-number. In other places, landline-numbers consist of a three-digit area code followed by a seven- or eight-digit inner-number. The numbers of mobile phones consist of eleven digits. When one landline is used to dial another landline within the same area, it is not necessary to specify the area-code. Between different areas, the target-number must be prepended with the trunk-prefix, which is 0. Calling a mobile phone from a land line requires the addition of the "0" in front of the mobile phone number if they are not in the same area as well. Mobile to land line calls require the "0" and the area code, if the land line is not within the same area. Mobile to mobile calls do not require the "0". The "0" is not dialled from outside mainland China. The Special Administrative Regions of Hong Kong and Macau are not part of this numbering plan, and use the country codes +852 and +853, respectively. In addition, the PRC numbering plan once reserved space for Taiwan, but have dropped this practice. 2016 December in mainland China have excuted real name to each cell phone number. In mainland China, mobile phone numbers have 11 digits in the format 1xx-xxxx-xxxx, in which the first three digits (e.g. 13x, 14x,15x,17x and 18x) designate the mobile phone service provider. As new numbers were introduced over time, it is possible to recognize the age of a number: The oldest GSM numbers start with 1390…, the second oldest 1380… and 1300… Keeping the same number over time is somewhat associated with stability and reliability of the owner. As the fourth digit was introduced later, thus it is 0 for all old numbers. In further extensions, non-139,138,130 numbers were introduced. The fifth to seventh digit sometimes relates to age and location. Even earlier, before GSM, mobile phones had numbers starting with 9. Those numbers were eventually translated into 1390xx9…, where xx were local identifiers. Mobile service providers can be identified by the first three or four digits as follows: 1 - Formerly China Unicom 2 - Assigned to VNOs 3 - Operated by China Transport Telecommunication & Information Center To call in China, the following format is used: xxx xxxx Calls within the same area code 0yyy xxx xxxx Calls from other areas within China +86 yyy xxx xxxx Calls from outside China 1nn xxxx xxxx Calls to mobile phones within China +86 1nn xxxx xxxx Calls to mobiles from outside China The prefix 1 is used exclusively by the national capital, Beijing Municipality. These are area codes for the municipalities of Shanghai, Tianjin and Chongqing, as well as several major cities with early access to telephones. All of these cities have upgraded to an 8-number system in the past decade. The People's Republic of China reserves code 26 for Taipei, capital of Taiwan, which it unilaterally claims sovereignty over, but does not actually control. All telephone numbers are 8-digit in these areas (exclude Taipei). These are area codes for the provinces of Hebei, Shanxi and Henan. These are area codes for the autonomous region of Inner Mongolia, and the provinces in Northeast China (Liaoning, Jilin, and Heilongjiang). Additionally, numbers starting 400 are shared-pay (callers are charged local rate anywhere in the country) numbers. The provincial capital, Shenyang, and Tieling, Fushun, Benxi, uses code 24. These are area codes for the provinces of Jiangsu, Shandong (predominantly), Anhui, Zhejiang and Fujian. The provincial capital of Nanjing uses code 25. All telephone numbers are 8-digit in Jiangsu. While most areas in Shandong use the prefix 5, some areas also use the prefix 6. Kinmen, Matsu, and Wuchiu are currently under the control of the Republic of China; and are under the international calling code of 886. All area codes with prefix 6 were assigned in recent years. This prefix (+866) previously was reserved for Taiwan, which is now assigned (+886).  While most areas in Shandong use the prefix 5, some areas also use the prefix 6. While most areas in Guangdong use the prefix 7, some areas also use the prefix 6. The provincial capital Guangzhou uses code 20. While most areas in Yunnan use the prefix 8, a couple of areas also use the prefix 6. These are area codes for the central provinces of Hubei, Hunan, Guangdong (predominantly), Jiangxi, and the autonomous region of Guangxi. The provincial capital of Wuhan uses code 27. Some areas in Guangdong use the prefix 6, while the provincial capital of Guangzhou uses code 20. These are area codes for the provinces of Sichuan, Hainan, Guizhou, Yunnan (predominantly) and the autonomous region of Tibet. The provincial capital of Chengdu, and Meishan, Ziyang uses code 28. Some areas in Yunnan use the prefix 6. These are area codes for northwestern regions including the provinces of Shaanxi, Gansu and Qinghai, as well as the autonomous regions of Ningxia and Xinjiang. The provincial capital Xi'an uses code 29. Xianyang uses the same code as Xi'an starting from 16 September 2006.  From within Mainland China, the following emergency numbers are used: In most cities, the emergency numbers provide assistance in Mandarin Chinese and English. 1. Starting from 2012 in Shenzhen, a system upgrade was put in place to unify three emergency reporting services into one number, 110. This similar system is being installed in more cities in China to make them more convenient. From within Mainland China, the following special numbers are used: (ex. 962288- Shanghai foreigner assistant hotline, when dialing from other areas within China, dial 021-962288) The international access code from the PRC is 00. This must also be used for calls to Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau from the Chinese mainland, together with their separate international codes, as follows: 