 Every Second Counts is the name under which a parody video contest amongst European satirical late-night talk shows was launched by German comedian Jan Böhmermann's Neo Magazin Royale on 2 February 2017. The goal is to ridicule U.S. President Donald Trump, especially his inaugural statement that "From this day forward, it's gonna be only America first! America first!" by introducing one's own country with a dose of self-deprecating humour and requesting to become 'second' after America.  The contest was inspired by Dutch comedian Arjen Lubach's show Zondag met Lubach, which broadcast the parody video "The Netherlands welcomes Trump in his own words" on 22 January 2017.  In the video, Trump's speeches and actions –mostly from his election campaign– are imitated and mocked by voice actor Greg Shapiro,  who gives a short description of the Netherlands using some self-mockery as well, finishing with the request that the Netherlands may come 'second' if America is to be 'first'.  A semi-serious undertone is formed by fears that Trump's announced "America First" policy signifies isolationism, including withdrawing U.S. support for NATO:  "If you screw NATO, you're gonna make our problems great again."  The video went viral, being discussed by multiple international newsmedia   and reaching over 73 million views worldwide by 3 February.  On 2 February during Neo Magazin Royale, Böhmermann challenged the Dutch's second place, broadcasting a rival video that claimed 'Germany second' whilst making fun of the Netherlands and Germany itself as well. Then, he encouraged other satirical talkshow producers in all European countries to make similar videos parodying Trump, themselves and challenging the Netherlands' second place behind America.   Production teams in at least eleven other countries committed to making their own parody videos, and by 3 February, versions for Belgium (by De Ideale Wereld), Switzerland (by Deville Late Night), Denmark (by Natholdet), Portugal (by 5 Para A Meia-Noite) and Lithuania (by Laikykitės ten) had been released; these would all be gathered on the website everysecondcounts.eu.   Many of the videos are narrated by voice actor Shaun Streeter, with the exception of the Chinese and Japanese versions.  By 6 February, Italy (by Casa Surace), Luxembourg (by Studio Ben), and Morocco (a non-European country, expanding the contest further) had joined the fray.  On 8 February, the website of Every Second Counts changed the original layout from a virtual 360° NATO council room with national flags of all European countries plus Morocco and Namibia next to each seat, to a clickable world map divided into the continents of "Europe", "Middle East", "Africa", "Oceania", "North Asia", "South Asia", "North America" and "South America", with "North Asia" and "North America" currently being unavailable.  Though widely varying in contents specific to each country's presentation, and the way in which they criticise and/or ridicule President Trump and his ideas and actions, the videos often share common elements. Many revolve around (sarcastically) taking pride in or mocking their own country's history, and comparing it to Trump's actions or American history in general, and how the latter is better, equal or worse.    This list only includes those parody videos mentioned on everysecondcounts.eu. Several unofficial videos have also been made by individuals or groups not connected to Neo Magazin Royale. These often feature non-European countries or subnational regions within European countries. 