The anti-bias curriculum is an activist approach to educational curricula which attempts to challenge prejudices such as  racism, sexism, ableism, ageism, homophobia, and other forms of kyriarchy; the approach is favoured by civil rights organisations such as the Anti-Defamation League.  The anti-racist curriculum is part of a wider social constructivist movement in the United Kingdom, United States and other Western societies, where many scientific worldviews are seen as manifestations of "white privileged" Western cultures,  claiming that there is a sociocultural aspect to education; the studies of these subjects in Western societies have usually exhibited racial and cultural bias,  and focuses too much on "dead white men", especially in mathematics. [note 1] The anti-bias movement was born out of the multiculturalism movement.[clarification needed] Some of the people involved in the multiculturalism movement felt that it did not do enough to address social problems in the education system.  Multicultural curriculum taught basic facts about different cultures, often on specially designated culture days or holidays, rather than being systematically infused into the entire curriculum.  While this did increase students' superficial knowledge of other cultures, some people within the movement wanted students to know why they didn't know about other cultures and why certain people of certain ethnicities and classes are less likely to be economically successful. The objectives of the anti-bias curriculum are to raise awareness of bias and to reduce bias.  Anti-bias curriculum transgresses the boundaries by actively providing children with a solid understanding of social problems and issues while equipping them with strategies to combat bias and improve social conditions for all. Instead of presenting the culturally dominant view of a subject, idea, history, or person, the anti-bias curriculum presents all possible sides. It claims to allow the student to see the whole view of the subject.  Students will be able to analyze the topic from the different perspectives and see why and how different groups have different views of the subject.  The anti-bias curriculum is seen by its proponents as a catalyst in the critical analysis of various social conditions. It is implemented as an active means of reducing social oppression with the ultimate goal of social justice in mind.  British Prime MinisterMargaret Thatcher, in a speech to  the Conservative Party Conference, 1987, referred to "hard left education authorities and extremist teachers" teaching "anti-racist mathematics—whatever that may be"."  [note 2] and later on [in 2005], Fox News carried a story detailing "The 'anti-racist education' program in place at Newton Public Schools."  The article The Politics of Anti-Racist Mathematics by George Gheverghese Joseph goes through many different assumptions made by teachers of mathematics that can have a negative effect on students of ethnic minorities.  An anti-racist approach to mathematics education could include any or all of the following: Shahid Muhammed has suggested that poor mathematics performance among African Americans is linked to higher anxiety caused by negative stereotyping: that is they associate math with middle-class white people.  Advocates claim there are two parts to an educational curriculum: Anti-bias curriculum advocates claim that varying degrees and layers of oppression exist in educational institutions, and that a biased curriculum perpetuates oppression, interferes with interpersonal relationships, and impedes the acquisition of skills and knowledge. The anti-bias approach urges educators to be aware of these social limitations and to eliminate them. The anti-bias approach is intended to teach children about acceptance, tolerance and respect; to critically analyze what they are taught; and to recognize the connections between ethnicity, gender, religion, and social class, and power, privilege, prestige, and opportunity. Educational experts such as Deirdre Almeida, have said that typical anti-bias materials omit the contributions of non-African ethnic groups, such as Native Americans, Inuit and Alaskan Natives.  Portrayals of Native Americans in typical anti-bias materials conflate actual aboriginal practices with invented, obsolete or erroneous ideas about Native American culture.  Other critics, such as J. Amos Hatch, have noted that some anti-bias curricula can be construed as actively or passively adopting an anti-European racist bias, seeking to minimize contributions of Europeans in favor of other ethnic groups.  This has produced "anti-bias" curricula that are overtly biased against people of European descent or in favor of people of African descent.  Pioneers in activism and education: Educating and teaching children: 