Eye Level Learning, formerly known as E.nopi, offers supplementary educational programs from Daekyo. The name "Eye Level Learning" is used internationally whilst in South Korea, where Daekyo is headquartered, it is named "Noonnoppi" (Hangul: 눈높이) meaning "eye level". Established in 1976, Daekyo provides a systematic learning method developed by Dr. Young Joong Kang. The program consists of Eye Level Math, which includes Basic and Critical Thinking Math, Eye Level English which includes four main concepts (reading, writing, speaking, and listening) and Eye Level Korean. Eye Level has centers and student enrollment throughout North America and Asia. More than 2.5 million children in 25 countries have benefited from the Eye Level program. Eye Level Learning centers are located around the world.  Eye Level Franchise provides its franchisees with thorough training and comprehensive ongoing support. Eye Level Math has two main sections: Basic Thinking Math and Critical Thinking Math. In Basic Thinking Math, students focus on the arithmetic part of mathematics (addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division). In Critical Thinking Math, students focus on patterns and relationships, geometry, problem solving, measurement and reasoning. Students are assigned to their levels based on test results, not by their grade levels.  The "eye level" name means to look at the problem from the children's level.  A teacher should get down to the child's level and see the problem to better assist them in solving it.  Eye Level English focuses on four main fundamental skills: Reading, Listening, Writing, and Speaking. Within the program, students have the ability to reinforce their English skills with such activities as Active Listening, writing prompts, and phonics. Eye Level Chinese (Only in China) is reviewed by Beijing University. It focuses on listening, speaking, reading and writing. They learn about Chinese characters by role-playing, songs, games and other engaging activities. Eye Level works through the No Child Left Behind Act. Eye Level offers tutoring known as Supplemental Education Services. Eye Level is an approved provider in the following U.S. states: California,  Connecticut, Illinois,  New Jersey,  New York,  Pennsylvania and Texas. 