Center for Culinary Arts, Manila (CCA) is an institution which provides culinary education in the Philippines. CCA, Manila was formally established in 1996 and is currently located in Katipunan Avenue, Quezon City, Philippines. CCA, Manila has satellite campuses in Farmers Market, Cubao; a Restaurant School at SM Mall of Asia called Oceana and at Eastwood Mall called CCA Kitchen . CCA offers diploma and certificate programs accredited by the accrediting commission of the American Culinary Federation. The school also offers basic courses for beginners and professionals as well as international degree succession and certification. CCA, Manila finds its roots with the opening of the Cravings Bakeshop on October 16, 1988. This gave birth to the Cravings Group of Companies. Thus, the conceptualization of CCA, Manila began and took form. This was materialized by the team of experts led by Dr. John Knapp, project coordinator of the Northern Alberta Institute of Technology in Canada, and the University of the Philippines-College of Home Economics. It took three years to assess the needs of the industry, formulate an effective curriculum, form a team of chef instructors, and construct the culinary school itself. CCA was established on August 26, 1996, followed by the launch of the country’s first formal culinary education program, the Diploma in Culinary Arts and Technology Management (DCAM) in 1997. The CCA offers both diploma and certificate programs in either Culinary Arts or Baking and Pastry Arts. Apart from lectures and spending at least 5 hours daily in the kitchen laboratories, students undergo actual hotel work for their apprenticeship to acquire mastery of techniques. The school also offers an International Degree Succession program which is available through their partner schools should one decided to enhance their one- or two-year program and earn a degree.  These schools are William Angliss Institute in Australia, Johnson and Wales University in the US, Les Roches in Switzerland, Thames Valley University in the UK, and the Northern Alberta Institute in Canada. Graduates of two-year program in Culinary Arts & Technology Management and one-year program in Baking and Pastry Arts who are active members of American Culinary Federation Foundation are eligible for ACF certification. The CCA offers continuing education courses for basic, intermediate and advanced professionals. It also features a creative recreational course for profit. A kitchen discovery class for hobbyists and enthusiasts is also offered. - Bachelor of Science in Culinary Management - Diploma in Culinary Arts and Technology Management - Diploma in Professional Pastry Arts and Baking Program - Certificate in Culinary Arts - Fast Track Pro Chef Program  - Fundamentals in Culinary Arts Course - Fundamentals in Baking and Pastry Arts Course - Global Cuisines (Advanced Culinary Arts) - Advanced Baking and Pastry Arts Course - Team Bonding Workshop - Kitchen Discovery Class - Culinary Arts in Special Diets - ServSafe (Review & Certification) - Catering Management - Young Chefs Boot Camp - Urbane Classes (Lifestyle Courses) Center for Culinary Arts, Manila (Katipunan Main Campus) 287 Katipunan Avenue, Loyola Heights, Quezon City, Philippines  CCA at Farmers Market 2/F beside the Administration Office Farmers Market, Araneta Center, Cubao, Quezon City, Philippines  CCA Kitchen 3rd Level, Eastwood Mall, Eastwood City, E. Rodriguez, Jr. Ave. Bagumbayan, Quezon City, Philippines  CCA OCEANA Building A, San Miguel by the Bay, SM Mall of Asia, Pasay City, Philippines  CCA Podium. Culinary School. Market Cafe. 5th Level, SM Podium, ADB Avenue, Ortigas Center Pasig City, Philippines  