Hunter Industries is a manufacturer of irrigation equipment for the landscaping and golf course industries,  based in San Marcos, California.  They are the second largest employer in San Marcos after the San Marcos Unified School District  Hunter produces pop-up gear-driven rotors, spray sprinklers, valves, controllers, central controllers and weather sensors. The company reports that it holds more than 250 product patents and 40 trademarks, and conducts business in 125 countries.  The company was founded in 1981 by Edwin J. Hunter and Paul M. Hunter, to produce a compact landscape sprinkler called the "PGP" (an acronym meaning "professional gear-driven pop-up"),   the first sprinkler to utilize "matched-precipitation" regardless of the radii or arc.  The former president and CEO was Richard E. Hunter, Edwin’s son.  Richard's son, Greg Hunter, is the current president.  Hunter Industries products are used in a wide array of locations including sports stadiums, national landmarks, hotels, and city parks. They also offer products in several other industries, such as customer manufacturing, landscape lighting (through its acquisition of FX Luminaire in 2009), and the medical industry. They operate manufacturing facilities in both San Marcos, California, and Tijuana, Mexico as well as having overseas offices located in China. They previously operated a manufacturing plant in Cary, NC, from 1992 to 2009, the plant closed due to poor market conditions at the time.      In 2016, the Center for Executive Excellence (CEE) recognized Hunter Industries as one of twelve companies that excelled in promoting a successful business culture.   On June 16, 2017 Hunter industries acquired Dispensing Dynamics International from Kinderhook Industries.  This acquisition marks Hunter Industries' first major foray into a market unrelated to irrigation or landscape products. On January 4, 2016 Hunter Industries acquired Florida-based Senninger Irrigation.  The two companies have been strategic partners since 2004. On June 24, 2015 the firm  acquired all landscape irrigation products, patents, and trademarks from Alex-Tronix Controls.  In  2009 it acquired landscape lighting company FX Luminaire,  and in  2008 it acquired custom molding company Grizzle & Hunter Plastics LLC.,  now  re-branded as Hunter Custom Manufacturing. In  2007 Hunter   acquired the MP Rotator product line from Walla Walla Sprinkler company through an agreement with Nelson Irrigation Corporation.  In  1999 it acquired the Legacy Golf irrigation product line from Buckner Incorporated.  As part of the increased focus on environmental sustainability in the irrigation industry, Hunter Industries has rolled out new and more eco-friendly sprinkler's, including the MP800SR Rotator (short range)  and new dripline and subsurface irrigation offerings such as the eco-mat.  On October 26, 2003 a fire was started at the main location of Hunter Industries likely by a disgruntled employee or ex-employee, though no one was ever prosecuted for the crime. The fire caused damage to inventory and production areas of the plant, and caused the company to undergo major rebuilding. Fires had been started in 8 locations of the building using accelerants. Total losses reported due to the fire was $17 million USD.   