The FilmFernsehFonds Bayern (FFF Bayern) is a company to promote media in Bavaria. The fund has its headquarters in Munich. Since its founding in 1996, the FFF Bayern has had the task of carrying out a quantitative and high-quality film funding in Bavaria as well as additional services for the film industry. Its aim is to create and develop a powerful and competitive film and television industry in Bavaria.  On 1 March 1996, the fund was founded at the Bavarian Film Center Geiselgasteig. President and CEO at the time was Herbert Huber, his deputy was Klaus Schaefer. Chairman of the Board was the Bavarian Minister of Culture Hans Zehetmair. In 1999, the Bayerische Staatskanzlei, took over the responsibility for the fund and Minister of State Erwin Huber became chairman of the FFF. In that year, the fund participated for the first time in the Medientage München (Munich Media Days). Since 1999, the fund awards prizes at the Dokumentarfilmfestival München (Documentary Film Festival Munich) and the Regenburger Kurzfilmwoche (Regensburger Short Film Week). To assist in the financing of film productions, HypoVereinsbank, the BayernLB, Bankhaus Reuschel & Co., and the LfA Förderbank Bayern founded the Bavarian Bank Fund (BBF) in 2000.  Klaus Schaefer took over the FFF management in 2001. In 2003, the first film agreement was signed in Quebec between the regional Canadian film funding Société de développement des entreprises culturelles and the FFF. In 2005 the FFF Bayern presented for the first time its award for film journalism at Filmfest München. In September 2006, FFF Bayern adopted its current logo. Since 2009 , the FFF Bayern has supported the introduction of digital technology in film productions and in film projection in theaters. The fund also promotes culturally and educationally sophisticated computer games. Since the summer of 2009, the Bavarian Bank Fund engages in sureties for new films. For productions from students and graduates of the HFF Munich, a surety of a maximum of €135,000 may be requested for each project. The shareholders of the fund are the Free State of Bavaria, the Bayerische Landeszentrale für neue MedienBavarian (Regulatory Authority for new Media), the Bayerischer Rundfunk, ZDF, and the private broadcaster ProSiebenSat.1 Media and RTL Television.  