Exhibit Columbus is an "annual exploration of architecture, art, design, and community," that alternates programming between symposium and exhibition years.   After hosting its inaugural symposium, "Foundations and Futures," in fall 2016 and inaugural exhibition in the fall of 2017, the 2018 symposium is set for September, 2018.  The project has been credited with renewing the design legacy of the city.  Early planning work for Exhibit Columbus began in late 2014, and the project was officially launched on 5 May 2016 in Columbus as a program of Heritage Fund—The Community Foundation of Bartholomew County. It receives funding from a number of local and regional individuals, foundations, and corporations.  The project was recognized by NUVO as a "2016 Best Of Editors Pick."  An exhibition was created in the fall of 2014 as a pilot project that featured designer Jonathan Nesci  who created 100 unique tables for an installation in front of First Christian Church.  This exhibition, "100 Variations," was produced by Indianapolis-based curator, Christopher West with support from the Columbus Area Visitors Center, Columbus Museum of Art and Design, and the Haddad Foundation.   Each of the tables was made by Noblitt Fabricating  in Columbus, Indiana under the leadership of Curt Aton.  The Chicago-based graphic design firm, Thirst, was hired in 2016 to create the Exhibit Columbus identity with the goal of creating a system that was aligned with Paul Rand's designs in Columbus, along with Alexander Girard's work at the Miller House and Garden.   This identity was immediately recognized with an award from the Society of Typographic Artists, and has gone on to considerable critical acclaim.   The identity was primarily created by Rick Valicenti, a 2006 AIGA medalist and a 2009 National Design Award winner. The Miller Prize was created to honor J. Irwin Miller and his wife Xenia S. Miller, two of the twentieth century’s greatest patrons of architecture, design, and art, and a "family whose visionary commitment to community remains unparalleled." The Miller Prize is the center piece of Exhibit Columbus. In 2016 ten designers were paired at one of the five sites in a competition to see which team would be selected by a jury for the opportunity to build an installation in conversation with the past while exploring the future of design and fabrication.  In 2018 five studios were selected from a short list to be the winners.  The 2019 will feature five Miller Prize recipients. , five Washington Street Civic Projects, six University Design Research Fellows, a project by Columbus high school students, and an environmental design system. The exhibition will open August 24 and run through December 1, 2019. The 2018 symposium will take place September 2018 and was created in partnership with Docomomo US, AIA Indiana and Kentucky, and the Indianapolis Museum of Art at Newfields.  The theme for the symposium is Design, Community, and Progressive Preservation, a title which recognizes the need to look for forward looking preservation plans in the future of cities.  The 2017 exhibition opened on 26 August and features 18 site-responsive installations in downtown Columbus. Funding from the project has come from a number of individuals, corporations, and foundations in the region, including the Ball State University, Cummins, Indiana University, Efroymson Family Fund, and the Graham Foundation for Advanced Studies in the Fine Arts . The eighteen installations on view during the inaugural exhibition were:  Five projects of architecture or art that are in conversation with one of the Miller Prize Sites;   On 10 December the 10 Miller Prize finalists presented their concepts to a jury that will decide the winners.  The presentations took place at Columbus City Hall.  Five installations by designers selected by leading design galleries; Five installations created by architecture schools:  Many of the temporary installations from the exhibition have gone on to be exhibited in other exhibitions or at new sites. The 2016 symposium took place September 29 to October 1 and was entitled "Foundations and Futures." It featured a sold out keynote session  with  Deborah Berke, Will Miller, Robert A. M. Stern, and Michael Van Valkenburgh and sessions with experts on the history of Modern architecture, Columbus, Indiana, fabrication, and the community.   The symposium was billed as the first step to launch the first exhibition which is slated to take place in August 2017.   All ten of the 2016 Miller Prize Finalists were featured in panel discussions. 