Outbreaks of methanol poisoning have occurred when methanol is used to adulterate moonshine (bootleg liquor).  Methanol has a high toxicity in humans. If as little as 10 ml of pure methanol is ingested, for example, it can break down into formic acid, which can cause permanent blindness by destruction of the optic nerve, and 30 ml is potentially fatal,  although the median lethal dose is typically 100 ml (3.4 fl oz) (i.e. 1–2 ml/kg body weight of pure methanol ). This does not happen with ethanol, which breaks down into acetic acid, which is non-toxic on small amounts. Reference dose for methanol is 0.5 mg/kg/day.  Toxic effects take hours to start, and effective antidotes can often prevent permanent damage.  Because of its similarities in both appearance and odor to ethanol (the alcohol in beverages), it is difficult to differentiate between the two. In 1999, 35 people died, in ten cities of the state of Bahia as a result of drinking cachaça contaminated with methanol. Further investigation revealed concentrations as high as 24.84% methanol. As other different cases have also been related, in a 20 day window there have been 450 people hospitalized with the toxicity symptoms of methanol ingestion.  In 2012, 49 people died, and more than 300 people were hospitalized, after drinking rice wine contaminated by methanol.  The 2012 Czech Republic methanol poisonings occurred in September 2012 in the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia.  Over the course of several days, 38 people in the Czech Republic  and 4 people in Poland died as a result of methanol poisoning and several tens of others were taken to hospital.   In El Salvador, as many as 122 people died in 2000 as a result of drinking low quality liquors sold in unauthorized shops that were found to be adulterated with methanol.  The incident prompted the authorities to declare a 10-day emergency prohibition and a massive inspection of alcohol-vending establishments. The root cause was believed to be an act of terrorism, possibly a social cleansing campaign targeted against alcoholics,  as the offending distilleries were not found to be responsible for the methanol contents that were present in the affected liquors.  The Pärnu methanol tragedy occurred in Pärnu county, Estonia, in September 2001, when 68 people died and 43 were left disabled after contents of stolen methanol canisters were used in production of bootleg liquor. India has a thriving moonshine industry, and methanol-tainted batches have killed over 1,000 people in the last 3 decades. In 2013, as a result of methanol mass poisoning in Iran   694 people were hospitalised in the city of Rafsanjan. 8 people were reported dead due to severe intoxication. In 1986 the methanol-tainted wine scandal  was a fraud perpetrated by adulterating table wine with methanol, poisoning hundred of people, with 90 hospitalized, 23 deaths, and many others heavily injured (blindness and neurological damages).  At least 51 people  died  in Tripoli in 2013.   The  consumption and sale of alcohol is illegal in Libya.  The Madagascar methanol mass poisoning occurred in 1998 when 200 people died.  Between April 14 and April 26, 2015, 23 deaths were recorded in relation to methanol poisoning in Ayadi and Ode-Irele towns of Irele Local Government Area in Ondo State.  Between September 2002 and December 2004, 51 people were admitted to hospital with symptoms of methanol poisoning, of whom 9 died. A further 8 people who died outside hospital were found to have died from methanol poisoning following autopsy. The liquor responsible for all of the cases contained 20% methanol and 80% ethanol and probably came from the same source in southern Europe.  In December 2016, 72 people died in a mass methanol poisoning in Irkutsk, Siberia. The poisoning was precipitated by drinking counterfeit surrogate alcohol—actually scented bath lotion that was marked as not safe for consumption.  Named Boyaryshnik ("Hawthorn"),  it was described by the Associated Press as being counterfeit.  In 1963, methanol was used in the preparation of bottled mixed alcohol drinks such as coffee liqueur.  According official records, 51 died and 9 lost their sight, but according to newspapers there may have been thousands of victims, mainly in Galicia and the Canary Islands.   In December 1963, a rash of 31 deaths in Philadelphia's homeless population was traced to a local store that knowingly sold Sterno to people for them to consume and get drunk.  