The Doctor Television Channel, known as Doctor TV (stylized as DrTV), is a healthy lifestyle digital television network in the United States. Doctor TV is primarily affiliated with the digital sub-channels (main channel or second) of television stations owned and/or operated by Edge Spectrum Inc, as well as a handful of other station groups, with additional stations adding the channel in the near future.  The network’s programming format is somewhat similar to those of ION Life and the Live Well Network. A sister channel to IBN Television, the DrTV headquarters are located at 1511 S Chestnut St in Lufkin, Texas.  In December 2013, DTV America Corporation announced the network’s launch. The official launch took place on January 6, 2014. DTV America signed an agreement to launch Doctor TV affiliated low-power television stations in 68 markets between December 2013 and July 2016, including 18 within the top 100 markets, with more coming soon after.  Currently, DTV America is the largest group of Doctor TV affiliates.  Doctor TV signed affiliation deals with stations  in 25 other markets. The network was to be dedicated to health care, in which what the channel’s specialty programming will be offering. DTV America is currently the largest group of Doctor TV affiliates.  In early 2014, the network’s first affiliates signed on the air, including stations in Amarillo, Texas; Bowling Green, Kentucky; Jackson, Tennessee; Lubbock, Texas; Fort Myers, Florida; and Fayetteville, Arkansas. Eventually, KGPT-CD in Wichita, Kansas became the first non-DTV America-operated station to sign one of its subchannels with Doctor TV in Fall 2014. Currently, the Sacramento, California media market is the largest by size[clarification needed] to have a DrTV affiliate.   In the first quarter of 2015, WCKV-LD in Clarksville, Tennessee, along with KPVM-LP in Pahrump, Nevada, became the newest stations to sign on DrTV-affiliated subchannels. In January 2018, network was sold to Captender LLC with master control moved to Lufkin Texas.  Doctor TV offers many healthy-lifestyle programs on their schedule. It is mainly a blend of programming with healthcare information from medical professionals. In addition, the channel offers healthy cooking shows, as well as three fitness program series.  They also broadcast “health minutes,” which are one-minute-long spots that give the viewer health advice in a varied topic. Four and a half hours of children’s educational programming is provided on Saturday and Sunday mornings, making a total of 9 hours of FCC-mandated children’s educational programming.  Doctor TV also offers classic public domain movies from 8:00 to 10:00 p.m. ET (7 to 9 p.m. CT) on Saturday and Sunday nights, and from 12 Midnight to 2:00 a.m. ET (11 p.m. to 1 a.m. CT). Overnight hours from 2 to 4:30 ET (1:00 to 3:30 a.m. CT), Doctor TV provides programming from The Worship Network under the title “Music for Meditation.”  In addition to its over-the-air affiliates, DrTV can also be viewed worldwide by using their live network stream at their website.  In addition, users of the Roku Digital media receiver can also access the network as well, making DrTV available to all users of that device.  