 Jane Thornthwaite (born 1958 or 1959) is a Canadian politician and activist who was elected as a Member of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia in the 2009 provincial election. In 2017 she was re-elected to a third term as member of the BC Liberal Party in the riding of North Vancouver-Seymour. Thornthwaite currently serves as the Official Opposition's critic role on Mental Health and Addictions and has been appointed to the Select Standing Committee on Public Accounts.  Thornthwaite was raised in West Vancouver, attending Hillside Secondary School and also in North Vancouver, attending Windsor Secondary School. She graduated from the University of British Columbia with a degree in health education. Prior to her election to the legislature, Thornthwaite worked as a registered dietitian and nutritionist for her own consulting business.  According to Thornthwaite, working in that field fostered a sense of advocacy for organic foods  and a desire for labelling of food products containing genetically modified ingredients.  During that time she raised three children of her own. In 2005, Thornthwaite stood as an independent  in the North Vancouver School District election. She received the most votes, making her one of four candidates elected from the District of North Vancouver.  The school board, facing declining enrollments, had to close schools, though there was resistance from the community. Balmoral Junior Secondary School was specifically identified as a school that ought to be closed, though the board refused and kept it open (until 2009) due to public pressure.  Thornthwaite, along with another board member, issued a public statement criticizing the board's decision to enter into a public-private partnership to deliver courses specializing in dance, figure skating and other related disciplines.  In the November 2008 election, Thornthwaite was the only board member seeking re-election.  Entering her second term, Thornthwaite was elected chairperson of the board. In March 2009, long-time Member of the Legislative Assembly Dan Jarvis suddenly announced his retirement and endorsed Thornthwaite to replace him as a candidate in the upcoming provincial election, a recommendation later supported by the party's election readiness committee.    In the election, Thornthwaite faced substance abuse counsellor Mo Norton for the NDP, software developer Daniel Quinn for the Green Party, and Gary Hee for the BC Conservatives. The electoral district was considered one of the safest BC Liberal ridings in the province  and the 50-year-old Thornthwaite easily won, with her BC Liberal Party winning a majority government. Thornthwaite stayed on as chair of the school board until July 2009.  As the 39th Parliament, Thornthwaite was appointed to three committees but was left out of Premier Gordon Campbell's cabinet.  In all four session she served on the Select Standing Committee on Finance and Government Services which travelled the province listening to public input, and provided recommendations for the provincial budget priorities. She served on the Select Standing Committee on Children and Youth in the first two sessions. She was appointed to the Select Standing Committee on Education in the first, second and fourth sessions and the Select Standing Committee on Legislative Initiatives in the third and fourth sessions but neither committee held a meeting. On February 22, during the 2010 Winter Olympics, Thornthwaite was driving home after attending receptions at the Northern House and Sochi House when at 1 am she was stopped at a road block near the Ironworkers Memorial Second Narrows Crossing. She twice registered a blood alcohol content of 0.11 in road-side breathalyzer tests and was arrested for drunk driving.   The next day she issued a public apology stating "Drinking and driving is dangerous and completely unacceptable; I know that and make no excuses for what I did. I know what I did was wrong and I will take full responsibility for my actions."  At the trial, Thornthwaite argued that, while she did consume alcohol, she was not intoxicated.  The prosecution and defense agreed to a plea bargain requiring Thornthwaite to plead guilty to "driving without due care and attention" in violation of the Motor Vehicle Act, which came with a $500 fine and one-month of community service while allowing Thornthwaite to avoid a criminal record.   Thornthwaite's support for the Harmonized Sales Tax, as well as her drunk-driving charge, made her a target for recall.   The FightHST group collected 6,903 signatures from her riding in support of repealing the HST  and placed Thornthwaite on their list of 18 BC Liberals to investigate for potential recall.  In the subsequent HST referendum her riding voted 60% in favour of keeping the HST, though the final province-wide result was 55% against keeping it. Early in the BC Liberal leadership election, Thornthwaite endorsed George Abbott.  Christy Clark won the party leadership, and became Premier, but did not include Thornthwaite in her cabinet.  In 2012, Thornthwaite introduced legislation banning puppy mills in British Columbia, Bill M-214, known as the "Standards of Care for Breeders of Companion Animals Act".    The bill did not pass initially, but Thornthwaite re-introduced it in 2016 after a government raid rescued 66 mistreated dogs from a puppy mill.   The bill passed that April.  Jane Thornthwaite was re-elected as a Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) representing North Vancouver-Seymour for a third term in May 2017 with 47 percent of the vote.  The Liberal Party's representative has typically won the vote for the North Vancouver-Seymour seat.  As part of the BC Liberal Party, Thornthwaite serves as a member of the Official Opposition.  She was appointed as official Opposition Critic for Mental Health and Addictions, a role similar to her prior work as Parliamentary Secretary of Mental Health for Children.  