Laura Lynette Vikmanis (previously Robb; born September 10, 1968) is an American dietitian, personal trainer, and dancer who was a professional cheerleader for the Cincinnati Ben–Gals, the cheerleading squad of the Cincinnati Bengals. She was the oldest cheerleader in National Football League history, at 40 years of age when she joined in 2009.   She is also a co-author of the book It’s Not About the Pom-Poms.  Vikmanis is from Springboro, Ohio. As a child, Vikmanis danced for Dance Theater Dayton and attended John F. Kennedy Junior High School, where she was a member of the cheerleading squad. She attended Fairmont High School and was a member of the Fairmont Firebird Drill Team. She graduated from Fairmont High School in 1986.  After high school, Vikmanis attended California State University, Long Beach where she received a Bachelor of Science in Dietetics and Food Administration. She is a certified dietitian and personal trainer. Although raised Presbyterian, she married Brian Robb, a Roman Catholic, in a Catholic ceremony.  They later had two daughters, who are both competitive cheerleaders. After filing for divorce, Vikmanis decided to pursue a career in professional cheerleading.  Vikmanis works as a registered dietitian and personal trainer for Nutrition and Wellness Specialists. She works with weight loss, weight management and cardiovascular nutrition. She teaches group fitness classes as well as private personal training sessions.  Vikmanis made the squad in 2009. After attending a football game and seeing the cheerleaders, Vikmanis decided she wanted to pursue professional cheerleading. At the age of 39, she tried out for the Ben–Gals and made it all the way to the finals cuts, but was not put on the team. The following year she met a Ben–Gal cheerleader in one of her dance classes, who helped her train for the next tryouts.  She tried out again and made it.   Since making the Ben–Gals, Vikmanis received huge publicity and has appeared on various television networks and talk shows. In March 2012, her book, co-written by Vikmanis and Amy Sohn, titled It's Not About the Pom-Poms was released.  In 2012, Vikmanis would have been dethroned from the honor of being the oldest cheerleader in the league by Dallas Cowboys Cheerleader-hopeful Sharon Simmons, at 55, but Simmons was unable to make the squad.   Vikmanis went on to qualify and be member of the Bengal squad for 3 more years.  New Line Cinema picked up the rights to make a film on Vikmanis' life story. The upcoming film, whose name is yet to be released, is being written by Gnomeo and Juliet and Ratatouille writers Emily Cook and Kathy Greenberg.   