 Amy Alexander is an artist and researcher working in audio/visual performance, interactive art and software art, under a number of pseudonyms including VJ Übergeek  and Cue P. Doll.   She is Associate Professor at the Department of Visual Arts at the University of California, San Diego.  Amy Alexander is active across the digital arts, playing a leading role in shaping the domains of software art  and live coding.  Her works have been exhibited and performed at museums, festivals, and conferences including the Whitney Museum, Transmediale, Ars Electronica, and SIGGRAPH. She has also performed in non-art venues including nightclubs and street performances.   Alexander's first widely exhibited new media work was the net art project, The Multi-Cultural Recycler (1996/7), which was nominated for a Webby Award in 1999.  She then developed the plagiarist.org website, which was known for its humorous projects related to Internet culture.  Her more recent work has been in video installation and visual performance, most notably SVEN, Discotrope: The Secret Nightlife of Solar Cells with Annina Ruest and CyberSpaceLand. She has also written texts on historical and contemporary audiovisual performance, including a chapter in the See This Sound compendium.  Alexander attended Rowan University from 1988–1991 and received her BA in Communications: Radio/TV/Film. She was also actively involved in the Cinema Workshop club and Rowan Radio 89.7 WGLS-FM. She then attended the California Institute of the Arts from 1993–1996, and received her MFA in Film/Video and New Media.  Alexander developed a background in programming, music, and visual media at her alma maters. She taught at the California Institute of the Arts and the University of Southern California. She also worked in television, animation, information technology and new media.  Amy Alexander is currently the Associate Professor of Visual Arts: Computing at the University of California, San Diego. Her teaching focuses on contemporary expanded cinema, visual performance, abstract cinema history, and process-based digital media art.  