Sergio Maltagliati (born 1960 in Pescia, Italy) is an Italian Internet-based artist, composer, and visual-digital artist.  His first musical experiences with the   Gialdino Gialdini Musical Band in early 70s.  Sergio Maltagliati an artist from Florence Italy; studied music at the Conservatory "Luigi Cherubini" in Florence,  then he began to paint. Thus creating a new method of writing music where the score becomes a visual composition.  The relation between the sound and color creates a living feeling that art is not dead. It does not stop at the artist's last attempt at the canvas, but goes beyond to the viewer. It is the relationship between artist and viewer, one is no different from the other. Now the viewer can take the step that the artist may dare not to across. It is the point of translation a fear to most artist that want to create and let their work go. This kind of art allows the viewer to create with the artist and create so much more. Sergio Maltagliati has always been deeply interested in a multimedia concept of art.  His education, in both music and the visual arts, has placed him in the position to incorporate sign, colour, and sound into a unitary concept of multiple perception, through analogies, contrasts, stratifications, and associations. At present he is a teacher professor. He's a composer who joined, at the end of the eighties, the Florentine artistic current, that has been active since the end of World War II up to the present, including  Sylvano Bussotti, Giuseppe Chiari, Giancarlo Cardini, Albert Mayr, Daniele Lombardi, Pietro Grossi. These musicians have experimented the interaction among sound, sign and vision, a  synaesthetics  of art derived from historical avant-gardes, from Kandinskij to futurism, to Scrjabin and Schoenberg, all the way to Bauhaus. His work in the eighties is also based in involving, with didactic-educational projects, students as executors of performances in the example of the Music Circus carried out in 1984 in a High School in Piemonte by John Cage. And it is the American musician (met in 1991 in Zurich for the execution of Europeras 1&2)  who appreciates this aspect of Maltagliati's work, because he is able to involve young people as performers. These works, besides building  approach to music and, specifically,   developing  a different way of listening, aim at expanding the concept of artistic creation to the executor, till it reaches just the user, often unprovided with a traditional artistic formation. Since 1997, Sergio Maltagliati has dealt principally in music on the Internet and one of his first compositions intended for the network, netOper@  a new, and the first Italian interactive work for the Web starting in the spring of 1997.  The interactive work will be presented simultaneously in real and cyberspace. The Opera is realized with the collaboration of Pietro Grossi, the legendary father of Italian music informatics.  The essential aspect to Sergio Maltagliati's approach is the idea that art is not just the fruit of the composer, the creation is always the fruit of collaboration. Two of his works are strongly based on this concept: neXtOper@_1.03 (2001)  a work for mobile phones, and midi_Visu@lMusiC (2005) music and images on I-Mode mobile phone. In 1999, he writes the program autom@tedVisualMusiC,  software from experiences of the visual HomeArt programs designed by Grossi in the '80s, written in the language BBC Basic with computer Acorn Archimedes A310, a project that creates abstract designs and sound by using programming to make the piece interactive and adds movement. This artwork not only has visually pieces, but also is interactive.  In 2001, he  has participated in the project Interview yourself by Amy Alexander.  He currently uses a personal computer to set up interactive sound and graphics works, open compositions where the listener has a predominant and decisive role. autom@tedVisualMusic, generative visualmusic software, creates images and sounds in relation to precise correspondences sound-symbol-color, producing multiple variations.  Recorder from original tape Quantum Bit Limited Edition 