Anthropodermic bibliopegy is the practice of binding books in human skin. As of April 2016, The Anthropodermic Book Project "has identified 47 alleged anthropodermic books in the world's libraries and museums. Of those, 30 books have been tested or are in the process of being tested. Seventeen of the books have been confirmed as having human skin bindings and nine were proven to be not of human origin but of sheep, pig, cow, or other animals."  (The confirmed figures as of  August 2017 have increased to 18 bindings identified as human and 14 disproved. ) Bibliopegy (/ˌbɪbliˈɒpɪdʒi/ BIB-lee-OP-i-jee) is a rare   synonym for bookbinding. It combines the Ancient Greek βιβλίον (biblion = book) and πηγία (pegia, from pegnynai = to fasten).  The earliest reference in the Oxford English Dictionary dates from 1876; Merriam-Webster gives the date of first use as circa 1859  and the OED records an instance of bibliopegist for a bookbinder from 1824. The word anthropodermic (/ˌænθroʊpəˈdɜːrmɪk/ AN-throh-pə-DUR-mik), combining the Ancient Greek ἄνθρωπος (anthropos = man or human) and δέρμα (derma = skin), does not appear in the Oxford English Dictionary and appears never to be used in contexts other than bookbinding. The practice of binding a book in the skin of its author - as with The Highwayman, discussed below - has been called 'autoanthropodermic bibliopegy'  (from αὐτός autos, self). One of the earliest examples of a binding claimed to be in human skin is the account published in 1606 of the execution of Henry Garnet for his involvement in the Gunpowder Plot, A True and Perfect Relation of the Whole Proceedings Against ... Garnet a Jesuit. A copy auctioned in 2007 was claimed by the auctioneer to be bound in Garnet's own skin.   An early reference to a book bound in human skin is found in the travels of Zacharias Conrad von Uffenbach. Writing about his visit to Bremen in 1710: Auch sahen wir noch ein klein Büchelgen in Duodetz, Molleri manuale præparationis ad mortem. Man würde daran wohl nichts merkwürdiges finden, und warum es allhier stehe, erkennen, wenn man nicht vornen läse, daß es in Menschen-Leder eingebunden sey; welcher sonderbare Band, desgleichen ich noch nie gesehen, sich zu diesem Buche, zu besserer Betrachtung des Todes, wohl schicket. Man sollte es wohl vor Schwein-Leder ansehen.(We also saw a little duodecimo, Molleri manuale præparationis ad mortem. There seemed to be nothing remarkable about it, and you couldn't understand why it was here until you read in the front that it was bound in human leather. This unusual binding, the like of which I had never before seen, seemed especially well adapted to this book, dedicated to more meditation about death. You would take it for pig skin.)During the French Revolution, there were rumours that a tannery for human skin had been established at Meudon outside Paris.  The Carnavalet Museum owns a volume containing the French Constitution of 1793 and Declaration of the Rights of Man described as 'passing for being made in human skin imitating calf'.  The majority of well-attested anthropodermic bindings date from the 19th century. Surviving examples of human skin bindings have often been commissioned, performed, or collected by medical doctors, who have access to cadavers, sometimes those of executed criminals, such as the case of John Horwood in 1821 and the Red Barn Murder in 1828.  Another tradition, with less supporting evidence, is that books of erotica :98 or the occult have been bound in human skin. The Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh preserves a notebook bound in the skin of the murderer William Burke after his execution and subsequent public dissection by Professor Alexander Monro in 1829.  What Lawrence Thompson called "the most famous of all anthropodermic bindings" is exhibited at the Boston Athenaeum, titled The Highwayman: Narrative of the Life of James Allen alias George Walton. It is by James Allen, who made his deathbed confession in 1837 and asked for a copy bound in his own skin to be presented to a man he once tried to rob and admired for his bravery.  The Newberry Library in Chicago owns an Arabic manuscript written in 1848, with a handwritten note that it is bound in human skin, though "it is the opinion of the conservation staff that the binding material is not human skin, but rather highly burnished goat". This book is mentioned in the novel The Time Traveler's Wife, much of which is set in the Newberry.  The French astronomer Camille Flammarion's book Les terres du ciel (The Worlds of the Sky) (1877) was bound with the skin donated from a female admirer.  A portion of the binding in the copy of Dale Carnegie's Lincoln the Unknown that is part of the collection of Temple University's Charles L. Blockson Collection was "taken from the skin of a Negro at a Baltimore Hospital and tanned by the Jewell Belting Company".  The National Library of Australia holds a book of 18th century poetry with the inscription "Bound in human skin" on the first page.  An exhibition of fine bindings at the Grolier Club in 1903 included, in a section of 'Bindings in Curious Materials', three editions of Holbein's 'Dance of Death' in 19th century human skin bindings;  two of these now belong to the John Hay Library at Brown University. Other examples of the Dance of Death include an 1856 edition offered at auction by Leonard Smithers in 1895  and an 1842 edition from the personal library of Florin Abelès was offered at auction by Piasa of Paris in 2006. Bookbinder Edward Hertzberg describes the Monastery Hill Bindery having been approached by "[a]n Army Surgeon ... with a copy of Holbein's Dance of Death with the request that we bind it in a piece of human skin, which he brought along."  The identification of human skin bindings has been attempted by examining the pattern of hair follicles, to distinguish human skin from that of other animals typically used for bookbinding, such as calf, sheep, goat, and pig. This is a necessarily subjective test, made harder by the distortions in the process of treating leather for binding. Testing a DNA sample is possible in principle, but DNA can be destroyed when skin is tanned, it degrades over time, and it can be contaminated by human readers.  Instead, peptide mass fingerprinting (PMF) and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) have recently been used to identify the material of bookbindings. A tiny sample is extracted from the book's covering and the collagen analysed by mass spectrometry to identify the variety of proteins which are characteristic of different species. PMF can identify skin as belonging to a primate; since monkeys were almost never used as a source of skin for bindings, this implies human skin. The Historical Medical Library of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia owns five anthropodermic books, confirmed by peptide mass fingerprinting in 2015,  of which three were bound from the skin of one woman.  This makes it the largest collection of such books in one institution. The books can be seen in the associated Mütter Museum. The John Hay Library at Brown University owns four anthropodermic books, also confirmed by PMF:  Vesalius's De Humani Corporis Fabrica, two nineteenth-century editions of Holbein's Dance of Death, and Mademoiselle Giraud, My Wife (1891). Three books in the libraries of Harvard University have been reputed to be bound in human skin, but peptide mass fingerprinting has confirmed only one, Des destinées de l'ame by Arsène Houssaye, held in the Houghton Library.  (The other two books at Harvard were determined to be bound in sheepskin, the first being Ovid's Metamorphoses held in the Countway Library, the second being a treatise on Spanish law, Practicarum quaestionum circa leges regias Hispaniae, held in the library of Harvard Law School. ) The Harvard skin book belonged to Dr Ludovic Bouland of Strasbourg, who owned a second, De integritatis & corruptionis virginum notis, now in the Wellcome Library in London. The Wellcome also owns a notebook labelled as bound in the skin of 'the Negro whose Execution caused the War of Independence', presumably Crispus Attucks, but the library doubts that it is actually human skin. Peptide mass fingerprinting was also used to determine the binding material for a miniature devotional book in the University of California's Bancroft Library, L'office de l'Eglise en françois. It is now known not to be bound in human skin but horse hide, or a mixture of horse and goatskin.  Brown University, John Hay Library, RARE 1-SIZE QM21 .V37 1568 Brown University, John Hay Library, N7720.H6 A43 1816 Brown University, John Hay Library, N7720.H6 D5x 1898 Brown University, John Hay Library, PQ2193.B7 M313 1891 College of Physicians of Philadelphia, Historical Medical Library, Ga 168 College of Physicians of Philadelphia, Historical Medical Library, GGa 53b College of Physicians of Philadelphia, Historical Medical Library, GGc 15.1 College of Physicians of Philadelphia, Historical Medical Library, GGa 33 Image for non-commercial use Mutter Minute (video): Book Bound in Human Skin College of Physicians of Philadelphia, Historical Medical Library, Ad 14 The Grolier Club, Grolier Club Library, \56.3f\Kauf\1868 Harvard University, Houghton Library, FC8.H8177.879dc University of Cincinnati, Archives & Rare Books Library, PS866 .W5 1773 Preservation Lab Treatment Report and photographs Public Library of Cincinnati and Hamilton County, 811 W557p Preservation Lab Treatment Report and photographs Boston Athenæum $65.Al57 Digitised version University of Notre Dame, Hesburgh Libraries, B 785 .P588 A1 1504 Harvard University, Harvard Law School Library, Foreign Treatises G Harvard University, Francis A. Countway Library of Medicine, PA6519 .M2 1597 University of Memphis, Ned R. McWherter Library, BR845 .R53x University of California, Bancroft Library, t BX2024.A5 F7 1671 Charles E. Young Research Library, UCLA, DG975.M532 R2 1676 College of Physicians of Philadelphia, BF 441 L814e 1709 Juniata College, Beeghly Library Slippery Rock University, Bailey Library  FOL PQ7298.23 .E3 L3 University of Georgia, Hargrett Rare Book and Manuscript Library Rare Bk PA3870 .A7 1599 The binding of books in human skin is also a common element within horror films and works of fiction. Fiction Television and cinema  Video games 