Margaret Garner is an opera in two acts composed by Richard Danielpour to an   English-language libretto by Toni Morrison. The opera is loosely based on actual events in the life of runaway slave Margaret Garner. A co-commission by the Michigan Opera Theatre, Cincinnati Opera and Opera Philadelphia, it premièred on 7 May 2005 at the Detroit Opera House in Detroit, Michigan with Denyce Graves in the title role. Morrison previously used the historic Margaret Garner as the inspiration for her novel Beloved. This is one of a few operas written about the African-American experience; other notable examples are George Gershwin's Porgy and Bess (1935) and Scott Joplin's Treemonisha (1910/1972). The opera explores themes of freedom and personal and community relationships, and makes some use of the African-American musical tradition of spirituals. It was the first libretto for the author and the first opera for the composer. Danielpour began work on the opera in 1998.  The opera premièred on May 7, 2005 in Detroit; it was performed in Cincinnati in July 2005, and Philadelphia in February 2006. The three companies spent more than $2 million on the opera.  Denyce Graves sang the title role in the premiere run, which featured a cast of nearly one hundred, flaming torches, a hanging on stage, and black-powder pistols. The opera requires a large cast because of the requirement for separate African and Caucasian choruses to portray the slaves and slave-owners. Other members of the initial cast were Angela M. Brown as Cilla, Gregg Baker as Robert Garner, Rod Gilfry as Edward Gaines, Roger Honeywell as the Auctioneer and John Mac Master as Casey. Kenny Leon directed. Jessye Norman was originally cast as Cilla but withdrew and was replaced by Brown.  The opera has also been staged by Opera Carolina in Charlotte, North Carolina in 2006, the New York City Opera in 2007  and in Detroit and Chicago in 2008.  National Public Radio broadcast the Opera Carolina production.  The plot follows the slave Margaret Garner as a new master comes to Maplewood, the Kentucky plantation where she is held.  Margaret catches her new owner's eye and is brought in to work in the "big house", while her husband Robert is rented out to another farm. While the widowed plantation owner, Edward Gaines, sees Margaret as a sexual object, his daughter Caroline comes to see Margaret as a sort of foster mother. At Caroline's engagement party, a rift develops between Gaines and his daughter over her respect for Margaret. Robert returns to escape with Margaret and his children; his mother Cilla refuses to go, claiming to be too old to learn the new habits of freedom. While they prepare to escape, the overseer Casey finds them and, after a struggle, Robert kills him.  The couple and their two children flee, but are later found by Gaines and a posse. After a gun fight, Robert is captured and lynched.  Margaret kills her two children to prevent them being returned to slavery, but she is taken alive. Gaines forces a criminal trial where Margaret is charged with "destruction of property" for the killing of his slaves, her children.  Caroline appeals to Gaines to advance the abolitionist agenda by having Margaret tried for murder instead, acknowledging the slaves' humanity.  He refuses.  After the guilty verdict and sentence of execution, Gaines fears losing Caroline.  Believing he acted as a "proper" gentleman, he obtains a commutation for Margaret if she admits her guilt.  Ignoring him, Margaret steps voluntarily off the gallows. The opera does not intend to be accurate history. Some of the differences between the story of the opera and historical events follow: 