Richard Henry Dana Middle School (Priority Admission) Da Vinci Schools is a public charter school network located in Hawthorne, El Segundo, Manhattan Beach, and Redondo Beach in Los Angeles, California, United States. Da Vinci Schools are dedicated to preparing students for college completion and 21st century jobs through an interdisciplinary real-world, project-based "learn by doing" curriculum that exceeds state content standards and California's "a-g" university admissions requirements. Da Vinci signature programs and practices include: project-based learning; a small and personalized learning environment where every student is known, seen and valued; strategic public-private partnerships with many innovative industry, higher-ed, and nonprofit leaders; a Work Experience Program in which high school students gain on-the-job, real-world work experience; and an Early College Program in which  students take college classes for credit (at no cost to families) while they simultaneously earn their high school diploma. Established in 2009 as independently governed and operated charter schools, Da Vinci Schools have earned a reputation for hands-on learning and a new public-private partnership model where industry helps to define the real-world skill sets needed to prepare students for jobs in today's global economy. Dr. David Brown, the former executive director of the WASC Accrediting Commission, said "Da Vinci Schools are among the very finest I've seen." Former California State Superintendent of Public Instruction Jack O'Connell, said "Da Vinci Schools should be a model for other public schools in the state."   The Los Angeles Times reported that Da Vinci Schools offer a teaching model that would make Leonardo da Vinci proud.  Ninety-eight (99%) of Da Vinci graduates have completed the necessary coursework for admission to a University of California or Cal State campus. Da Vinci graduates have been accepted to every UC and CSU, and to Stanford, MIT, Yale, Columbia, Brown, Princeton, Dartmouth, Purdue, USC, LMU, and many other prestigious private and public universities across the nation. In Fall 2017, Da Vinci Communications, Da Vinci Design and Da Vinci Science high schools will co-locate to a new campus at 201 N. Douglas Street, El Segundo, CA.  Da Vinci Schools are fully accredited by the Western Association of Schools & Colleges (WASC) and are a member of the Coalition of Essential Schools.  Da Vinci Innovation Academy (K-8) is a hybrid educational model for K-8 students that combines school-site instruction with home-based learning. Da Vinci Innovation Academy partners with families to provide a unique learning model where students can discover their passions and talents in a flexible and personalized learning environment. DVIA offers two unique models: (1) Homeschool Hybrid Program- 2 days of project-based learning at school. Three days of family facilitated off-site learning; and (2) Homeschool Collaborative Program– 5-day per week homeschool program with required monthly meetings and participation in Da Vinci's signature practices of Presentations of Learning, Student-Led Conferences, and Exhibition.  Da Vinci Communications High School has a project-based curriculum. Da Vinci Communications is preparing students for college completion and careers in computer science, journalism, strategic communications, and music & media. Da Vinci Design High School is preparing students for college completion and careers in architecture, digital design, and other jobs that call for skills in art, design, and technology. Da Vinci Science High School is preparing students for college completion and careers in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) subjects. Da Vinci Science offers pathway classes in engineering, biomedical, and STEAM. Da Vinci Science is a certified Project Lead The Way school offering all of the Pathway to Engineering PLTW classes, many for dual credit/ concurrent enrollment through El Camino College. Da Vinci RISE High offers individualized education for foster, homeless, and other youth in need of flexible scheduling. Da Vinci Extension offers two unique pathways leading to college degree completion: DVX-UCLA Extension and DVX-College for America at Southern New Hampshire University. President - Chet Pipkin, Founder, Chairman, President and CEO, Belkin International; Vice President - Dr. Donald Brann, former superintendent of Wiseburn School District and a member of the El Segundo City Council; Trustee - Art Lofton, Sector Vice President Global Mission Excellence at Northrop Grumman Aerospace Systems; Treasurer - Brian Meath, Principal with Nigro Karlin Segal & Feldstein, LLP; Board Secretary - Jennifer Morgan, Wiseburn community member, small business owner; Trustee - Israel Mora, General Manager, LAX Courtyard Marriott; Trustee - Roger Bañuelos, President of Element Consulting, Inc. Project-based learning (PBL) is learn-by-doing curriculum that integrates core subjects with real-life problems to be solved. Teachers work in teams with one another to identify key content standards and essential skills that need to be addressed at the grade-level. Then, teachers work backwards to plan their curriculum, striving to create a project that centers on a big idea and a real world connection. Students work in teams to create a final product that demonstrates mastery of content standards and a demonstration of key skills. One of the most important aspects of project-based learning is a public presentation of the work created, as assessment is based on students’ ability to articulate and demonstrate the content and skills learned. For a recent Engineering project, students learned about mechanics and motion, then constructed a Medieval-style Trebuchet to calculate the trajectory of a ball’s travel from its starting point to its ending point represented by a quadratic equation.  Student progress is measured and assessed through traditional tests and quizzes, public presentations of learning, exhibitions, and digital portfolios. Da Vinci Schools' graduation requirements are aligned with the UC/Cal State admission requirements. 99% of the Class of 2017 graduates met the UC and CSU “A-G” requirements for admission; 78% of the Class of 2016 graduates received four-year university offers. Da Vinci Schools has strategic partnerships with many corporate, nonprofit and education institutions. Community partners offer students and faculty access to expert knowledge, industry-specific curriculum, internship opportunities, mentoring, teacher training, early college programs, career guidance, volunteer support, direct funding, and much more. Some of Da Vinci Schools’ partners include:  Northrop Grumman, Belkin International, The Boeing Company, Chevron Corporation, Raytheon, SpaceX, Gensler, 72andSunny, Karten Design, Project Lead the Way, El Camino College, UCLA Extension, Southern New Hampshire University, Cal Poly San Luis Obispo, Loyola Marymount University, and many more. High school students have the opportunity to earn college credits for free while simultaneously earning their high school diploma. Higher education partners include El Camino College, UCLA Extension, Southern New Hampshire University, West L.A. College, and Cal State University Dominguez Hills. and Antioch university. Da Vinci high school students have the opportunity to work unpaid at local businesses and corporations as part of the Real World Learning Program. The goal of the Work Experience Program is to provide students with workplace skills in a real-world environment.  Additionally, the program is designed to develop a talent pool of diverse employees to meet the local community’s workforce planning objectives.  Work Experience and Internship partners include Belkin, 72andSunny, Gensler, Northrop Grumman, SpaceX, Old Navy, Best Buy, Barnes and Noble, FIDM, Toyota Sports Center, New Earth, and many more. Da Vinci high school students are required to perform a minimum of 20 hours of Community Service each year.  Community Service must be as a volunteer and benefit the community at large. Students and families are guided through the college process, including the financial aid process, via college counseling with on-site counselors and advisory teachers.  Starting in 10th grade, students receive additional guidance in testing, financial literacy, and in exploring college options. By the start of the senior year they will be ready to finalize their college lists and focus on the actual applications. Da Vinci seniors are required to apply to a minimum of two colleges.  Students begin making college visits in the 9th grade. Past college visits have included trips to USC, UCLA, UC San Diego, UC Irvine, Pepperdine University, LMU, and The Claremont Colleges. Every student is enrolled in an Advisory class for the full 4 years of high school that includes students from 9-12 grade. The advisory class is a place where students can bond with each other, get academic support, and have a safe place to share their feelings. Technology is integrated throughout the day in student performance, classroom instruction, data management, and communication.  Da Vinci Schools recently adopted digital math and physics resources that students use both on campus and from home.  A web-based student management system provides families a portal to check their child’s progress 24/7. Seminar classes (similar to electives) are practical, real-world non-core classes that are co-taught by Da Vinci faculty and industry professionals.  Some recent seminar classes have included:  Architecture and Design, Vehicle Design, Toy Design, Game Theory, Product and Industrial Design, Web Programming, Robotics, Flight School, Aerospace Engineering, Rocketry, Creative Writing, Leadership, Youth and Government, Drama, Yearbook, CrossFit, Yoga, Photography, and many more. Da Vinci Schools offer extracurricular activities, including CIF sports, after-school clubs, music, and more. There is also a non-profit Crossfit gym, Crossfit Zen, that offers a free after school exercise program for Da Vinci Science students.  This program is funded by a once per year fundraiser, and Da Vinci Science students are creating a documentary that follows its development.  Coordinates: 33°54′29″N 118°22′34″W﻿ / ﻿33.90806°N 118.37611°W﻿ / 33.90806; -118.37611 