National Heritage Academies, Inc. (NHA) is a for-profit education management organization headquartered in Grand Rapids, Michigan.  As of the 2017-18 school year, NHA operates 84 charter schools in nine states: Michigan, Indiana, Ohio, New York, North Carolina, Colorado, Georgia, Louisiana, and Wisconsin.  NHA is the largest charter school operator in Michigan and one of the largest charter school operators in the United States.  NHA schools are prominent among charter institutions for employing the brick and mortar or traditional school concept.  NHA was formed in 1995 by entrepreneur J. C. Huizenga.  J. C. Huizenga was founding chairman of the Huizenga Manufacturing Group. It owns and operates six flourishing enterprises that manufacture several innovative products. His entrepreneurial spirit encouraged the man to etch a space in history as an educational reformist.  In 2015, National Heritage Academies managed charter schools enrolled over 58,000 students on a vendor operated school basis. :87 NHA managed charter schools are publicly funded and charge no tuition.  They are authorized by state-approved institutions such as universities and school boards, and therefore have no geographic boundaries. The schools focus on college preparedness and generally serve students from kindergarten through eighth grade, with some schools also offering pre-kindergarten.This start-up culture dictated the beginning of charters in 1997, when community organizers, educators and local nonprofits opened institutions of learning to envisage their vision of public education. Charters still develop from local programs. Yet, what supporters describe as the “charter school movement” was backed up by networks of schools which included for-profit chains.  According to a 2017 study by the Center for Research on Education Outcomes, students in NHA schools were found to show improved spring-to-spring academic growth in the subjects of reading and math, compared with their traditional public school peers.  NHA schools use the NWEA test as a measure of student performance. The Northwest Evaluation Association has instituted an assessment process for both mathematics and reading. This flexible and computerized assessment is administered to provide data on students' growth in the fields of Math and Reading for teachers to use it in informing instruction.  