Oakland International High School opened in August 2007 with the support of The Internationals Network for Public Schools, Oakland Unified School District, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The school targets a population of students, newly arrived immigrants, who have historically been under-served nationally, in California, and in Oakland. OIHS is a member of The Internationals Network for Public Schools, a non-profit organization that grew out of the work of a group of international high schools in New York City. It now supports 12 schools in New York and California. The first international high school, located on the campus of LaGuardia Community College, opened in 1985; two more followed in the 1990s. Since 2001, the network has opened and supported nine additional high schools with the help of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The network of schools annually serves 4,000 students immigrating from 90 countries.  The network's mission is to provide quality education to recently arrived immigrants by developing and interconnecting small high schools based on the Internationals approach. The school campus is the former Verdese Carter Middle School, built in the 1970s. The site  formerly served as Woodrow Wilson Junior High School from 1926. The mission of OIHS is to provide newly arrived immigrants a quality alternative education focused on English language acquisition in preparation for college. 100% of the student body is made up of English language learners, nearly all of whom immigrated to the US in the last four years.  Collectively, students speak over 30 languages other than English.  Students have come from over three dozen countries: Afghanistan, Brazil, Bhutan, Burma, Cambodia, China, Congo, Côte d'Ivoire (Ivory Coast), Cuba, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Guatemala, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Haiti, Honduras, India, Iraq, Japan, Liberia, Macau, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Peru, Philippines, Russia, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, and Yemen.  52% of students are Latino, 6% African, 36% Asian, and 6% Arab or White. Approximately 25% of students hold refugee immigration status, having escaped ethnic conflicts in Liberia, Nepal, Burma, and Central Asia.  More than 90% of the student body qualifies for free or reduced-price lunch. Approximately 97.2% of students are socioeconomically disadvantaged.  To promote a sense of community and support, class sizes are kept small, holding only 25 students or fewer. The total enrollment for the school in the 2017-2018 academic year was 360 students, maintaining a maximum of 100 students per grade level.  In their freshman and sophomore years, students at OIHS are kept within a tight circle of the same four teachers who strengthen their basic English skills. As upperclassmen, students are acquainted with new teachers and are given the opportunity to participate in internships at local businesses, government bureaus, and community service programs. OIHS teachers are trained in the Internationals Approach to teach students to improve their speaking, writing, and reading skills in English. This approach is built on the belief that English-language acquisition is best fostered in an academic environment in which students participate in 1) heterogeneous groups, using 2) a project-based curriculum, and where 3) English development is integrated into all content areas.  Working in small groups, students learn academic content, art, music and technology through exciting, rigorous, hands-on projects as they learn their new language.  