SABIS is an education management organization that operates schools and licenses a proprietary education program. It is associated as licensor or operator with schools in 20 countries, including one in Europe.  In 2015, SABIS managed charter schools in the United States enrolling 6,332 students on a vendor operated school basis. :90 In 1986 Reverend Tanios Saad and Louisa Proctor founded the International School of Choueifat in Beirut, Lebanon. The school was initially for girls but later became co-educational. The International School of Choueifat embarked upon an expansion program outside Lebanon in the mid-1970s that has since grown to include schools in 20 countries on five continents. The company is structured in three corporations headquartered in the U.S., Lebanon, and the U.A.E. SABIS Educational Systems, Inc. of Eden Prairie, Minnesota was established in 1985 and licenses the SABIS Educational System in North America, South America, and Europe. In 1995 SABIS was contracted to operate the SABIS International Charter School (SICS) in Springfield, Massachusetts, a public charter school. In 2014, the International Academy of Trenton was founded as a SABIS charter school. As of 2016 SABIS operates 15 schools in the United States, comprising twelve charter schools, two licensed schools and one private school, The International School of Minnesota.  It also has several branches in the Middle East with 12 in the United Arab Emirates alone (and counting) and other schools in Qatar, Oman, Egypt and so on. It also has several sister schools in Europe including a boarding school in Bath, England as well as a school in Romania and another in Germany, it has even extended itself further to India and Pakistan and proves to be one of the more difficult educational systems in those respective countries. Although the SABIS system is slightly different in each region depending on the management. The toughest proves to be the education system in the GCC where high school students can be subjected to a peak of 16 exams per week.  In 1998, SABIS established the SABIS Foxborough Regional School. The company was released from its management contract in 2007 for curricula non-compliant with Massachusetts charter law.  In January 2018, SABIS' charter for the International Academy of Trenton Charter School was revoked by the state of New Jersey for failure to meet minimum standards.  A student led society called the Student Life Organization is used in SABIS schools. SLO is usually led by a Student Life Coordinator. There are student discipline prefects during the SLO period. They are led by a Head Prefect. The Student Life Organization, SLO, or Student Life is a SABIS educational approach used for students. It provides development of student's academic, managerial, organizational, and leadership skills. Some academic-based activities include student tutoring, planning school events, organizing community service projects, and being involved in the school newspaper and yearbook. SLO  points are also awarded to students who volunteer to help in the SLO and these points help the students get stronger recommendations for students. 