Traditional education, also known as back-to-basics, conventional education or customary education, refers to long-established customs that society traditionally used in schools.  Some forms of education reform promote the adoption of progressive education practices, a more holistic approach which focuses on individual students' needs and self-control. In the eyes of reformers, traditional teacher-centered methods focused on rote learning and memorization must be abandoned in favor of student-centered and task-based approaches to learning.  However, many parents and conservative citizens are concerned with the maintenance of objective educational standards based on testing, which favors a more traditional approach. Depending on the context, the opposite of traditional education may be progressive education, modern education (the education approaches based on developmental psychology), or alternative education.  The definition of traditional education varies greatly with geography and by historical period. The chief business of traditional education is to transmit to a next generation those skills, facts, and standards of moral and social conduct that adults consider to be necessary for the next generation's material and social success.   As beneficiaries of this scheme, which educational progressivist John Dewey described as being "imposed from above and from outside", the students are expected to docilely and obediently receive and believe these fixed answers.  Teachers are the instruments by which this knowledge is communicated and these standards of behavior are enforced.  Historically, the primary educational technique of traditional education was simple oral recitation:   In a typical approach, students sat quietly at their places and listened to one student after another recite his or her lesson, until each had been called upon.  The teacher's primary activity was assigning and listening to these recitations; students studied and memorized the assignments at home.  A test or oral examination might be given at the end of a unit, and the process, which was called "assignment-study-recitation-test", was repeated.  In addition to its overemphasis on verbal answers, reliance on rote memorization (memorization with no effort at understanding the meaning), and disconnected, unrelated assignments, it was also an extremely inefficient use of students' and teachers' time.  This traditional approach also insisted that all students be taught the same materials at the same point; students that did not learn quickly enough failed, rather than being allowed to succeed at their natural speeds.  This approach, which had been imported from Europe, dominated American education until the end of the 19th century, when the education reform movement imported progressive education techniques from Europe.  Traditional education is associated with much stronger elements of coercion than seems acceptable now in most cultures.   It has sometimes included: the use of corporal punishment to maintain classroom discipline or punish errors; inculcating the dominant religion and language; separating students according to gender, race, and social class  , as well as teaching different subjects to girls and boys. In terms of curriculum there was and still is a high level of attention paid to time-honoured academic knowledge. In the present it varies enormously from culture to culture, but still tends to be characterised by a much higher level of coercion than alternative education. Traditional schooling in Britain and its possessions and former colonies tends to follow the English Public School style of strictly enforced uniforms and a militaristic style of discipline. This can be contrasted with South African, US and Australian schools, which can have a much higher tolerance for spontaneous student-to-teacher communication.  Little connection between topics  Focus on independent learning. Socializing largely discouraged except for extracurricular activities and teamwork-based projects. Students choose (or are steered towards) different kinds of classes according to their perceived abilities or career plans. Decisions made early in education may preclude changes later, as a student on a vo-tech track may not have completed necessary prerequisite classes to switch to a university-preparation program. A passing grade may or may not signify mastery:  a failing student may know the material but not complete homework assignments, and a passing student may turn in all homework but still not understand the material. 