V. T. Rajshekar, in full Vontibettu Thimmappa Rajshekar, (born 1932) is an Indian journalist  who is the founder and editor of the Dalit Voice,  which has been described in a release by Human Rights Watch as "India’s most widely circulated Dalit journal".  Born into the upper caste Shetty community, he is the son of late P.S. Thimmappa Shetty, who retired as the Collector of South Kanara District.Who has belong to forward caste "Bunt" community. He was formerly a journalist on the Indian Express,  where he worked for 25 years. He is the founder of the 'Dalit Voice' organisation  a radical  wing of the broader movement for Dalit interests.  He is also the author of a great number of pamphlets and books, mainly published by his own organisation. Started in 1981, Dalit Voice is a periodical launched by Rajshekhar. Under Rajshekhar's leadership the Dalit Voice organisation formulated an Indian variant of afrocentrism similar to that of the Nation of Islam in the USA but it is different from other magazines in many aspects. It is notable for the radical antisemitism it preaches and also its link to Afrocentrist ideologies.  The book declares the Indian castes as nations within the nation of India. It argues for the strengthening of each caste.  Dalit Voice has published articles about 'Zionist conspiracies' regarding Hitler and the Third Reich.   They have also supported the Iranian government and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's denial of the Holocaust.  In 1986 Rajshekar’s passport was confiscated because of "anti-Hinduism writings outside of India". The same year, he was arrested in Bangalore under India’s Terrorism and Anti-Disruptive Activities Act. Rajshekar told  Human Rights Watch that this arrest was for an editorial he had written in Dalit Voice, that another writer who republished the editorial was also arrested, and that he was eventually released with an apology.  Rajshekar has also been arrested under the Sedition Act and under the Indian Penal Code for creating disaffection between communities. Rajshekar was married to Hema Rajshekar until her death. His son Salil Shetty works for Amnesty International in London. 