  The University of Queensland Anthropology Museum is in Brisbane, Australia.  It houses the largest university collection of ethnographic material culture in Australia.  The Museum is located on level 1 of the Michie Building at the St Lucia campus of The University of Queensland The Museum was formed in 1948 by Dr Lindsey Winterbotham's donation of over 1,000 objects.  The initial focus of the Museum was on the material culture of Aboriginal Australia, but swiftly broadened to incorporate a diverse range of material from Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands and the broader Pacific region.   Early donors to the museum included missionaries, researchers and anthropologists such as Ursula McConnel and AP Lyons. Under subsequent Directors (Dr Peter Lauer, Dr Leonn Satterthwait and Dr Diana Young), the Museum developed an active exhibition program and strengthened the Museum's involvement in community engagement, research and teaching. The Museum houses over 19,000 artefacts and over 6,500 photographs.  The collection includes field collections and private donations and as a whole describes mid-late 20th century intercultural engagements in Queensland and the Pacific region. The Museum holds a broad range of stone artefacts from across Australia. The collection includes smaller collections from southern Africa and Southeast Asia, as well as a collection of colonial surveying equipment from William Landsborough and Augustus Gregory.  Highlights include South East Queensland material, including photographs, manuscripts, audio recordings and drawings.  Collections from Stradbroke Island and Moreton Bay include basketry and midden material. 120 piece ceramic mural Creation III by renowned sculptor Thancoupie   One of the earliest collections of Aurukun ceremonial sculpture North Queensland rainforest shields and jawun bicornial baskets Large collection of mid to late 20th century bark paintings from Arnhem Land, including works by David Malangi, Wandjuk Marika and Wally Mandarrk 19th century carvings from the Solomon Islands   Painted bark cloth from across the Pacific, from mid 19th century Futuna salatasi to contemporary Omie works| The Museum is on level 1 of the Michie Building and is open 11am to 3pm daily.  Admission is free Coordinates: 27°29′50″S 153°00′42″E﻿ / ﻿27.4973°S 153.0118°E﻿ / -27.4973; 153.0118 