Kuali is a higher education software development company based in Salt Lake City, Utah. The company develops open-source administration software for universities and colleges in collaboration with higher education partner institutions. As of 2014, about 59 institutions were involved in the development of various Kuali products.    The Kuali community consists of universities and colleges cooperating to build open-source, scalable, and service driven tools. Kuali and its community have worked together to build many different tools including Kuali Open Library Environment (OLE), the Kuali Financial System, Kuali Rice, Kuali Research, and Kuali Coeus.    The Kuali community began in 2004.The organization was established to take on the “Kuali Project,” a project aimed at developing a community sourced financial system. The group was founded by the University of Hawaii, Indiana University, rSmart and The National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO) with an initial grant of $ 2.5 million from Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and funding by the founding members.  In 2005, the Kuali community organized a more formal non-profit organization, the Kuali Foundation. The new organization was created “for higher education, by higher education,” and its member dues-paying institutions rose to 74 by 2014.   In August 2014, the Kuali Foundation announced the launch of its for-profit commercial entity.   The company’s existing software remained free and open-source and the Kuali Foundation would still exist, but the company would launch new services.  In February 2018, Kuali raised $ 10 million from Owl Ventures. The funds secured will be used to hire more employees, build more features in the Kuali Student Curriculum Management System (KSCM), and create more modules in Kuali Research.    Kuali Student is a student information system that can be used for curriculum management, academic planning, management of personal identity, management of student information and other student services.  Curriculum Management, a Kuali Student module, enables faculty to plan and develop courses and programs.  Kuali Research is an enterprise software system that addresses the full sponsored projects life cycle.  The software handles administrative processes for pre- and post-award tasks.  It was created by academic researchers, in keeping with Kuali’s “by and for higher education” slogan.  It can be used by OPR staffs, investigators and others for collaboration of research.  The application was created through the collaborative effort of multiple higher education institutions, including the University of Maryland, Indiana University, University of Toronto, Boston College, University of Washington and North-West University.  KFS is software that can be used for business transactions, budget management, purchasing, payments and reimbursement, capital asset management, labor distribution and many other financial functions. KFS improves accountability by providing an online history of all transactions and related administrative services.   Kuali Ready is a cloud-based software that provides a framework for Business Continuity Planning (BCP). BCP software can help higher ed institutions mitigate and/or recover from unexpected disruptions until normal business operations can be restored. Kuali Ready was originally developed by the University of California Berkeley.   