Litmos is a SAAS/Cloud platform for e-learning, also known as a learning management system or LMS, based in Silicon Valley, CA, USA. Litmos is used for employee training, customer training, channel training, and compliance training. Litmos has over 10 million users worldwide including technology, education, healthcare, retail, construction, public sector, and non-profit companies.  Litmos focuses on the corporate mid-market and enterprise but also offers plans for small and mid-size businesses.   Litmos was founded by Rich Chetwynd, Dan Allen, and Nicole Fougere.  Chetwynd founded Litmos early in 2007 with the aim of creating a learning management system (LMS) that was quick to set up, easy to manage and fun to use; Allen developed the initial Litmos solution.   In June 2011, Litmos was acquired by CallidusCloud.  The company relocated to a new headquarters location in Dublin, CA in February 2015.  In July 2015, the company acquired BridgeFront LLC, a leading provider of healthcare insurance and compliance education content  to expand its offerings. It has been rebranded as Litmos Healthcare. Litmos acquired the assets of ViewCentral, a leader in the extended enterprise learning market, in April 2016. The acquisition added a full revenue management and e-commerce platform designed for selling and optimizing profitable training.  In June 2017, the company acquired Learning Heroes , differentiated for its fun and engaging animated training content for Learning & Development markets in EMEA and the U.S.  It has been rebranded as Litmos Heroes. In addition to individual users, groups and teams may be set up to assign and track performance. Administrators can schedule and track registration and attendance for live trainings, as well as online courses. A variety of rich media content can be uploaded to Litmos, including Flash, Video, PowerPoint, Audio, and SCORM; there is an HTML Editor, Assessment Editor and Survey Editor to build modules within Litmos. Litmos also supports learner uploads (assignments), course discussion boards, gamification with leader boards, and iOS and Android mobile apps. Litmos supports a number of features standard to software in this category, including support for selling courses and extensibility options.  Litmos comes with built-in integration with a variety of external services and products, such as payment processors and eLearning industry standards such as Experience API (Tin Can API)   and SCORM. It also supports SAML 2.0 and various providers of SSO like OneLogin and Okta.   In June 2017, Litmos added the Learning Heroes training course library to its course catalog, adding over 150 e-learning modules and 1,000 blended learning resources. With the acquisition of ViewCentral in April 2016, a leader in the extended enterprise learning market, Litmos added a full revenue management and e-commerce platform designed for selling training to customers and partners.  Litmos offers a VR Immersive 360 video player to facilitate the creation of fully immersive learning experiences; this minimizes the time required to onboard learners and provides a deeper learning experience. Litmos Bot, a telepresence robot, enables students to interact with instructors and receive personalized instructions from remote locations.  Litmos is written in the .NET programming language and hosted on Windows-based infrastructure. The front end makes use of HTML5 features and Ajax-based interaction. Litmos themes use Bootstrap which allows for customization of look and feel. 