WebWeaver is a commercial web-based Learning management system. This software has been developed and distributed by a German company DigiOnline GmbH   including a variety of tools that allow and enhance communication and collaboration of those involved in education. Part of WebWeaver is a Content Management System (CMS), which is used for building and maintenance of websites. It all started in 1999.[tone] The initial objective of the developers was to support teachers and educational stuff in their first steps towards the collaborative usage of new digital media and provide them with a secure online environment. The further development of the software was driven by the educational and organisational needs of various educational institutions. This institution-oriented approach has been pursued by WebWeaver in its standard version since 2004. The learning platform in its standard version includes the following areas:  Private (personal desktop), Institution (tools for all members of an educational institution as well as internal groups and classes), Community (overarching tools as well as open and closed groups for all members of the platform), eLearning (online courses) and eContent (data distribution). The current goals of the platform are: The standard version of WebWeaver includes the following tools: The software is mainly used as a learning and community platform for educational purposes. It also serves as a technical base for the cost-free learning platform used in German schools lo-net²   and for the learning platform from the Swiss educational server,  as well as for the learning, communication and working platform qualiboXX.  The web-based software is complemented with WebWeaver Desktop, which can be installed on the user’s computer as any other desktop tool.  The tool includes a messenger, enables an easy access to the data storages of the platform using drag & drop as well as other features such as special storage for Whiteboard screens. WebWeaver Desktop can also be used as a portable version saved on an USB flash drive. To enable a mobile access to the messenger of the platform a user will need to install an iPhone App.  