  The Swiss children coercion reparation initiative (German: Wiedergutmachungsinitiativ) was a Swiss federal popular initiative to change the federal constitution,  which was launched in April 2014. In April 2014, the collection of Swiss citizens' signatures started, and at least 100,000 had signed by 1 October 2015. The popular initiative addressed the fate of forced child labourers in Switzerland, the so-called Verdingkinder, a term formerly used in the Swiss-German language. Another "integration project," related to the so-called "misplaced persons," affected tens of thousands of juveniles, who were placed as labourers at Swiss farms, with low pay. Among them were also Fahrende or Jenisch juveniles affected by the then Swiss foundation Kinder der Landstrasse, though not their families.  The initiative was actively supported by the Beobachter revealed the fates of the Verdingkinder  and the Kinder der Landstrasse foundation. The popular initiative, set up by Guido Fluri and other prominent citizens, among them writer Lukas Hartmann,  was supported among others, by the parent organization of the Swiss churches and the association of the Swiss teachers. The initiative was started by an inter-political committee and addressed the inadequate measures by the Swiss governmental authorities. It demanded: It was pointed out that only severely affected victims obtain redress and that an independent commission should be formed to examine each case individually.  Verdingkinder (literally: "contract children" or "indentured child labourers") were children in Switzerland who were taken from their parents, often due to poverty or for "moral reasons" (usually because their mothers were unmarried and poor), of Gypsy–Yeniche (Swiss German also Fahrende) origin   and sent to live with new families, often poor farmers who needed cheap labour.  Many of these children, when they grew to be adults, have come forward to claim they were severely mistreated by their new "families,"  suffering neglect, beatings, and other physical and psychological abuse. There were auctions where children were handed over to the farmer asking the least money from the authorities, thus securing cheap labour for his farm and relieving the authority from the financial burden of looking after the children. In the 1930s, in the Canton of Bern, about 20% of all agricultural labourers were children below the age of 15.  The actions of the Swiss municipality guardianship authorities were tolerated by the federal authorities until the 1960s. Swiss historian Marco Leuenberger found that in 1930 there were some 35,000 indentured children, while, between 1920 and 1970, more than 100,000 are believed to have been placed with families or homes. Ten thousand former Verdingkinder, women and men in Switzerland, are still alive in the mid-2010s.  The initiative demands that the Swiss Federal Constitution should be amended as follows:  On December 19, 2014 the initiative was submitted at the Federal Chancellery (Bundeskanzlei).   On 16 September 2016 both chambers of the Swiss parliament approved that presumably to each surviving individual will paid CHF 25,000 in compensation.  As of March 2018, about 7000 victims have applied for compensation.  