Contaminated land contains substances in or under the land that are actually or potentially hazardous to health or the environment. Areas with a long history of industrial production are known as brownfield land. Many such sites may be affected by their former uses such as mining, industry, chemical and oil spills and waste disposal. Contamination can also occur naturally as a result of the geology of the area, or through agricultural use. A requirement was placed on all local authorities in England, Wales and Scotland to investigate potentially contaminated sites and, where necessary, ensure they are remediated by Part IIA of the Environmental Protection Act 1990,  which was inserted by the Environment Act 1995 The regime in Part IIA did not apply to radioactive contamination, but section 78YC permitted Ministers to make regulations to apply Part IIA to such contamination. Such Regulations have been made.  The Waste and Contaminated Land (Northern Ireland) Order 2007 made similar provision for Northern Ireland  Section 78A(2) of the Environmental Protection Act 1990  defines "Contaminated Land" as: The Contaminated Land Report (CLR) series of documents have been produced by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) and the Environment Agency, to provide regulators with "relevant, appropriate, authoritative and scientifically based information and advice on the assessment of risk from contamination in soils". The Environment Agency has issued a number of Soil Guideline Values (SGVs) which, whilst non-binding, may be used as guidance in the environmental risk assessment  of land and in setting remediation targets.  They should only be applied to human health assessments. Assessment of contaminated land in the UK is predominantly undertaken under the planning system.  The National Planning Policy Framework  (NPPF) sets out that, following development, a site should not be capable of being determined as ‘contaminated land’ under Part IIA of the Environmental Protection Act .  In addition, the risks from contamination should be assessed within the context of a site’s end-use and upon completion, the site should be ‘suitable’ for its new use. A technical framework for identifying and dealing with land affected by contamination is detailed within DEFRA and Environment Agency guidance entitled Model Procedures for the Management of Land Contamination  (CLR11). The process can broadly be divided into three stages: risk assessment, remedial options appraisal, and implementation of remediation. A 'phased approach' to risk assessment is encouraged within CLR11 and should typically include the following: Should the risk assessment demonstrate that unacceptable risks to human health or the surrounding environment are likely to exist, then some remedial work will be necessary.  This process involves three key stages: Once the remedial strategy has been approved by relevant regulatory authorities then it should be implemented.  A verification report should be produced upon completion of the work to demonstrate that remedial targets have been achieved.  This work may include testing of remedial excavations, results of post-remedial monitoring, certification for imported material or membrane integrity testing, amongst other things.  Details of ongoing/long-term monitoring may also need to be agreed at this stage, possibly under a Section 106 Agreement. Upon completion of this process, the site should not pose a significant risk to future users or the surrounding environment and should be suitable for its end use.  Once this process of site assessment has been completed successfully then any associated planning conditions can be discharged. 