Pollution is the introduction of contaminants into the natural environment that cause adverse change. Pollution can take the form of chemical substances or energy, such as noise, heat or light. Pollutants, the components of pollution, can be either foreign substances/energies or naturally occurring contaminants. Pollution is often classed as point source or nonpoint source pollution. In 2015, pollution killed 9 million people in the world. Major forms of pollution include: Air pollution, light pollution, littering, noise pollution, plastic pollution, soil contamination, radioactive contamination, thermal pollution, visual pollution, water pollution. Do you have a question about Pollution that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. For editor resources and to collaborate with other editors on improving Wikipedia's Pollution-related articles, see WikiProject Pollution. Overview of main health effects on humans from some common types of pollution. Air pollution in the US, 1973 Thermal oxidizers purify industrial air flows. A visual comparison of the free market and socially optimal outcomes. Gas nozzle with vapor recovery A Mobile Pollution Check Vehicle in India. Historical and projected CO2 emissions by country (as of 2005).Source: Energy Information Administration. Air pollution control system, known as a Thermal oxidizer, decomposes hazard gases from industrial air streams at a factory in the United States of America. Blue drain and yellow fish symbol used by the UK Environment Agency to raise awareness of the ecological impacts of contaminating surface drainage. A dust collector in Pristina, Kosovo The Lachine Canal in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. A litter trap catches floating waste in the Yarra River, east-central Victoria, Australia Smog Pollution in Taiwan An industrial area, with a power plant, south of Yangzhou's downtown, China The litter problem on the coast of Guyana, 2010 The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 