 Billy Connolly's World Tour of England, Ireland and Wales is the third of Scottish comedian Billy Connolly's "world tours" commissioned by the BBC. It was first aired in 2002, and was released on DVD in 2004, with three episodes on disc one and the remaining five on disc two. Episode 1: In the first episode, Connolly visits the city of Dublin, Ireland Sail on the River Liffey where Guinness is made I think, Spirit of the Liffey sculpture, Cobblestone Bar music Sesson where Billy jamming his banjo with music folk, GPO (general post office) building landmark where Irish rebellion 1916 and brought in Kilmainham Gaol where Patrick Pearse and James Connolly where executed by fire squad for 24 hours, Thin Lizzy Phil Lynott Grave, Phil's mum Philomena here. Drogheda St Oliver Plunkett head in St Peter's Church and Carlingford Lough where the Oyster farm is. Episode 2: Connolly visits fairy tree hilltown. the city of Belfast in Northern Ireland. While there, he visits a graveyard that has a wall built under the ground to keep the Protestants and Catholics apart in death. The Crown bar, City Hall, Billy is on top of Harland and Wolff Cranes  Samson and Goliath this is where Titanic was built. Loyalist place Shankill Road. And Carrick-a-Rede rope bridge near Ballintoy in County Antrim on north east coast of Northern Ireland where the Jolly Fishingmen lived and view Fairhead and Scotland's Mull of Kintyre. Episode 3: While still in Ireland, Billy visits the town of Killarney, Blarney Stone, Dingle where the Beehive Huts and gallarus oratory, Galway coast surrounding areas Errislannan Connemara where Billy's ancestor Charles Mills b.1796 lived his house he was a coast guard and Bartholomew Valentine In Conelleys grave and cant find it. and Lough leane fly over it looks like Loch lomond islands, end of Ireland tour. Episode 4: Connolly's first episode to be set in England starts Hadrian's wall on a wet rainy day, Into the city of Newcastle upon Tyne visit University of Northumberland art degree show, climb the stair of Tyne Bridge inside graffiti Vincent is a Mackem see Millennium Bridge and CCTV Spy on people and build the bridge and horses and carts complain say we're never get over now it's too steep. On his visit he gives an insight to how the Geordies got their nickname. Ashington Colliery about Art and Proggy mats and visit Angel of the North when Billy heads South. Episode 5: The fifth episode focuses on the nation's capital, London. Connolly climbs to the top of the Big Ben clock tower, rides down the River Thames, pass Trafalgar Square, down the stairs to Down Street Subway Station open 1907 closed 1932 where Winston Churchill used to live down there during the war and Billy got a free ride on the subway train, Marble Arch, Hyde Park where the pet cemetery and elf tree and performs at Shakespeare's Globe. Episode 6: Connolly visits the cities of Manchester where the textile works, canal street the gay district, chinatown, matchstick men on the building and 2002 commonwealth games in Manchester scene.  Pendle Hill where the famous witches trial held. Peak District Derwent Reservoir Dam where Dambuster 617 Squadron practice before going to Germany.  Saltaire in Bradford and Sheffield Steel Capital of the world ride on the canal barge called Milly Molly Mandy. Episode 7: The whole episode focuses on the country of Wales, in which he visits the Millennium Stadium, Cardiff Castle, Road Sign sculpture roundabout, Flat Holm lighthouse. the Brecon Beacons and Portmeirion where the Prisoner was filmed. Episode 8: In the final episode of the series, Connolly visits Bournemouth beach with huts, Mary Shelley grave novel wrote Frankenstein.  Tolpuddle famous for Tolpuddle Martyrs and Plymouth where the artist Robert Lenkiewicz done his work of the portrait of Billy Connolly to which Billy Connolly, in an almost traditional way for his World Tour Series, strips down to nothing as he rides off on his bike during the ending credits. The closing credits of each episode feature Ralph McTell, Cara Dillon and Mary Hopkin singing verses of McTell's song, "England" (suitably adapted for 'Ireland' and 'Cymru').  Hopkin can additionally be heard singing a verse of "Bugeilio'r Gwenith Gwyn" during Episode 7.  The DVD also includes audio tracks of songs performed by Connolly and Dillon, and instrumental versions of three McTell compositions (including the series Theme Tune). 