The Blue Collar Comedy Tour was a comedy troupe, featuring Jeff Foxworthy with three of his comedian friends, Bill Engvall, Ron White, and Larry the Cable Guy, who had replaced fellow comedian Craig Hawksley, who performed in the first twenty-six shows on the tour. The troupe toured together for six years beginning in January 2000 at Omaha, Nebraska before finishing in 2006 at the Warner Theatre in Washington D.C.  Jeff Foxworthy had already established himself as a well-known, Grammy Award-winning stand-up comedian, best known for his jokes and stories about life as a redneck. Foxworthy had cast best friend Engvall in the NBC version of The Jeff Foxworthy Show, and featured Larry on his nationally syndicated, weekly, country radio show The Foxworthy Countdown. White was brought on as his comedy is based around personal experiences retold in his smoking, drinking Southern United States persona. The tour that featured these four "good ole boys" proved to be such a hit that they recorded a live album in November 2001 and the first DVD called Blue Collar Comedy Tour: The Movie in the spring of 2003. After the success of the tour, album and live DVD, the comedians recorded a second live DVD called Blue Collar Comedy Tour Rides Again and a series on the WB called Blue Collar TV. Ron White was on the second DVD, and although he was not a regular on the TV show he did make guest appearances. A third  Blue Collar movie was produced for Comedy Central entitled Blue Collar Comedy Tour: One for the Road, which premiered on the channel in June 2006. Blue Collar Comedy Tour: One for The Road was released on DVD in June 2006. In March 2006, the group started a Blue Collar Comedy channel on Sirius Satellite Radio titled Blue Collar Radio. The station features not only various stand-up acts from the four members but various acts from other working class-esque comedians such as Brian Regan, Rodney Carrington, Kathleen Madigan, John Caponera, Rodney Dangerfield, Ray Romano, and others as well.  When Sirius Satellite Radio merged with XM Satellite Radio, this brought more coverage of the channel.  Blue Collar Radio can be heard on Sirius XM 97. As of 2011 Foxworthy, Engvall and Larry still do comedy tours together under the title Them Idiots Whirled Tour.  This is keeping true to their claim that One for the Road was the last Blue Collar tour, thus respecting the fact that Ron White is not part of it. A CD and DVD of the new show from the Consol Energy Center in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania was released on March 13, 2012.  