Bob and Tom Radio: The Comedy Tour is a DVD made as a spin-off from The Bob & Tom Show. This is a syndicated US radio program established by Bob Kevoian and Tom Griswold at radio station WFBQ in Indianapolis, Indiana, in 1983. The program is among the highest rated in American radio. The show is hosted by Bob Kevoian and Tom Griswold and its format is that of a comedy variety show.  Each day, there are usually several guests on the show, including many comedians seeking a national fan base. Over the past few years, Kevoian and Griswold have organized comedy show tours around the USA, with select groups of 4-5 comedians and usually one of their stalwart show members as an emcee, like Kristi Lee or Chick McGee.  These are now known collectively as the Bob and Tom Radio Comedy Tours and they play in venues all over the country throughout the year.  The high penetration of their 150-station syndication almost guarantees a full house of folks who are very much in tune with the comedians through their radio presence on the Bob and Tom Show.  As a way to extend their popular format into the homes of viewers, they have filmed the performances of more than a dozen exceptional standup comedians at the historic Paramount Theatre in Anderson, Indiana.  A "cleaner" and shortened version of the DVD was presented on Comedy Central shortly before the DVD went on full release to the public.  While a buyer for Lockheed Corporation, he thought “Why make $200 a day, when I can be a comedian and make that in a week!”   His manic presentation on the DVD takes ones breath away as you try to assimilate madcap offering in just a moment of his show.  "High Five, Myself, No Friends" has Greg giving himself a "High Five" and he deserves it. Armstrong was formerly a police officer and brings to the stage a hilarious set of anecdotes about his time as a sworn officer, his wife of many years, ("I've been married so long, I don't look when I cross the street!"), his neighbors, and his kids.   When, during his stage performance, he tells about meeting a burglar in his own home, naked and with an axe, you will not wonder why the burglar called the police on him! Roy was born and raised in the South and he provides a hilarious insight into his life as a person of color living there.   During his performance, Wood brings an exceptional understanding of everything from a late night police stop to multiple births triggered by fertility drugs to the stage. A 50-year-old, self-proclaimed Metrosexual, who abandoned the fast-paced life of Southern California to "get off the grid" and move to Ohio and become a gentleman farmer, Hastings wit leads you gently down the wrong path with every joke.   During his performance, he wonders how could his girlfriend have misunderstood his use of the telescopic sights on his rifle rather than the mislaid binoculars to view her across the field ('serpentining"). Zany's decades in the standup comedy world have given him a position, but it is the freshness of his material, much of which is drawn from the daily news, which continues to raise his stature.   During the DVD performance, he interacts directly with the audience as many stage comics have done over the years, but always to punctuate his bits rather than to belittle the audience member. 