 "Clown" is the fourth single by the American nu metal band Korn from their self-titled debut album. What inspired Jonathan Davis to write this song though, was an early gig in San Diego where a person in the audience was booing them and telling them to "go back to Bakersfield!" Jonathan knelt down to hear him and the guy took a swing at him. He missed and the band's manager assaulted him. The person was all tattooed and looked like a "clown" to Jonathan Davis, inspiring the title of the song and also the line "Hit me clown, because I'm not from your town."  Preceding the song is a conversation with Korn fooling around at the song's recording. A quote taken from Korn's Who Then Now?' video, which serves as an introduction for the music video: The video begins with the band walking in a hallway of a high school. There are shots of a clown balancing something on his nose. Soon, the band starts playing in a locker room which appears to be happening at night. Jonathan Davis is seen singing and, in some clips, he's sitting in a locker room inside one of the dry showers. With a few people spraying a little bit of water on his hair to tease him. This represents some of his painful experiences in high school of being teased. It also features the band in a gym with clips of jocks in their football jerseys and cheerleaders seen by someone in the halls. One of the cheerleaders goes into a bathroom and starts smiling in the dark room. She proceeds to brush her hair with her hands. Clips also show the band performing in a dark room. The video ends with the cheerleader in the bathroom taking off her shirt, showing a tattoo on her back which is the band's logo. The music video most likely could be them in the school after a football game at night.  The music video aired in 1995 and was directed by McG.  The song can be heard playing in the character Trent's car in a Season 1 episode of the animated series Daria.   Note: the back cover does not state which version this is. However, it's identical to the Radio Edit on the below European promo. 