 "Heart-Shaped Glasses (When the Heart Guides the Hand)" is a song by Marilyn Manson. It was released as the first single from their sixth album, Eat Me, Drink Me released on June 5, 2007. It should be the part of your personality that you might feel guarded or too secret to put out the rest of the world. Initially, "Putting Holes In Happiness" was set as the first single from the album, but this was changed, similar to the case of "Get Your Gunn". The digital single was released on iTunes on April 24 and also added to the player on Manson's MySpace page on the same date. The CD single was released in Germany on May 25, and in the United Kingdom on May 28. A thirty-one second preview clip was released on French radio website Radio France on April 9, 2007. The single was played again in full on April 11 (after being debuted on the same radio station days before), 2007 at 20:05 GMT on the French radio station Le Mouv'. The whole track was leaked onto the web as was apparent on several YouTube videos, which were revoked by the Universal Music Group. On April 27, 2007, a 34-second clip of the video for "Heart-Shaped Glasses (When the Heart Guides the Hand)" was released on YouTube, featuring Manson and girlfriend Evan Rachel Wood kissing while drenched in blood. Later, the video appeared on Manson's official website. On May 22, 2007, an exclusive single was released through Hot Topic, containing a different B-side than the other singles. On May 23, 2007, Marilyn Manson and Tim Skold performed an acoustic version of the track on BBC Radio 1.  The video officially premiered on the German website sevenload on May 8, 2007. It contains a 2:47 introduction featuring Manson and girlfriend Evan Rachel Wood kissing maliciously while having simulated sex and scenes of her being covered in blood, overdubbed with an instrumental of the Eat Me, Drink Me track "Evidence". At the 1:35 mark the scene cuts to Manson and Wood driving down a highway in the dark, Wood daring Manson to go faster, to which Manson proclaims "[I'm] going as fast as I can." Manson takes his hands off the wheel to take numerous pictures of Wood, who lifts her leg up to the wheel and holds a knife to her mouth while wearing heart-shaped glasses. The two kiss again, concluding the introduction, and the setting cuts to a club. On stage, in front of a large crowd, Manson begins singing as Wood watches him intently, apparently masturbating, from the crowd (still wearing the heart-shaped glasses), while numerous photos begin to fall over the audience. Shots of the two driving are flashed throughout the video, as the scene once again changes, this time revealing Manson and Wood in a bed, drenched in what appears to be blood. The two begin kissing vigorously again before the final scene returns to the two of them speeding along the highway. The front of the car erupts in flames, and they continue along, kissing once again. Manson says "Together as one...", and Wood replies "Against all others", before they drive off a cliff and fall, the video ending as they crash. The video was directed by Marilyn Manson using a 3-D system developed by James Cameron.  It had been rumored that the scenes in the video depicting sex between Manson and Wood was footage of legitimate sex between the two. To make matters more confusing, in an MTV interview with Manson, he did not confirm or deny the authenticity of the depictions, at one point dismissing it: And at another point implying the possibility that the sex was in fact real: Evan Rachel Wood has said the sex was not real, however.   CD single UK CD single UK 7" vinyl and Enhanced CD single Promo single Hot Topic exclusive CD single 