 "Thoughtless" is a song written by American nu metal band Korn for their fifth studio album, Untouchables. "Thoughtless" was released as the album's second single in July 2002. The single charted at 11 on the US Alternative chart, and at 37 on the UK main chart. "Thoughtless" is about the Columbine High School shooting through the eyes of the murderers. Jonathan Davis, the vocalist of Korn, said that "Thoughtless" is "a song about people who are constantly ridiculed and the collateral damage it can cause".  This song was introduced to fans during a live show at the Hammerstein Ballroom, in NYC on June 10, 2002, which celebrated the release of the band's fifth album, Untouchables. This performance appears on the DVD release entitled Live. "Thoughtless" has been played during the Untouchables promotional tour, in 2002, but it was scrapped  from the band's set list one year later. It eventually returned in 2006 on the See You on the Other Side World Tour as a part of a medley. The full song was played at the 2006 Family Values Tour and the Escape from the Studio Tour. It has most recently been performed within a medley at the Music as a Weapon V tour. The song was well received. In the beginning, a high-school aged boy (who is revealed to be called Floyd Louis Cifer in a yearbook) (portrayed by Aaron Paul, who was 22 at the time) is walking through the hallways of his school. Four girls are teasing and looking at him in disgust. A group of jocks on the other side of the hallway attack and give him dirty looks. In the next scene, Floyd is in his science class drawing strange pictures in his notebook. Song titles from Untouchables can also be seen. He then goes to the pool to swim. However, the jocks find Floyd there and attempt to drown him. After that, he's in the locker room wrapped in a towel and is seen increasingly agitated. We then see Floyd in his room looking at a yearbook. Floyd throws the yearbook at his window and looks in the phone book for a service which says "Fantasy Escorts." He calls the service and shows up at his prom with a woman (portrayed by Aimee Sweet). He vomits on everyone who had bullied him and gets his revenge. Korn performs inside his mind throughout the video. Aaron Paul's character's name appears in his yearbook as "Floyd", which was the working title for "Thoughtless" on the unmastered, leaked version of Untouchables. There are also two other versions of the video. The "performance version" that only shows Korn performing the song in the room featured in the original video and the "uncut version"; where rather than puking on the bullies at his prom, the character shoots them all.  The song has been covered by band Evanescence, both on tour and for the 2004 live album Anywhere but Home, with a different intro that features piano arrangements. Lead singer Amy Lee said to the crowd at the beginning of the performance, "We're going to do something completely different now. This is by a band that we all like very much. I'm not even going to announce it; you ought to know what this is." . Enhanced Maxi CD Single DVD Single 