Nancy McWilliams, Ph.D., is a lecturer at the Graduate School of Applied and Professional Psychology at Rutgers University.  She has written on personality and psychotherapy.    She is a psychoanalytic/dynamic author, teacher and therapist. Currently teaches at Rutgers University in New Jersey at the Graduate School of Applied and Professional Psychology and has a private practice in Flemington NJ. she is an author of Psychoanalytic Diagnosis (1994; rev. ed. 2011), Psychoanalytic Case Formulation (1999), and Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy (2004), all with Guilford Press. She has edited and contributed to several other books, and is Associate Editor of the Psychodynamic Diagnostic Manual (2006; rev. ed. due 2016). She has her writings translated into 20 languages, was the former president of the Division of Psychoanalysis (39) of the American Psychological Association (APA). She graduated from the National Psychological Association of Psychoanalysis and in 2011 the American Psychological Association chose her to represent psychoanalytic therapy with the remake of the classic film, "Three Approaches to Psychotherapy". In 2015, she was asked to be the plenary speaker at the American Psychological Association convention in Toronto, Canada. She is an affiliate member in the Center for  Psychotherapy and Psychoanalysis of New Jersey, National Training Program of the National Institute for the Psychotherapies in New York City, American Psychoanalytic Association, Moscow Psychoanalytic Society, and Warsaw Scientific Association for Psychodynamic Psychotherapy. In 1999, she was awarded the Gradiva Prize, in 2004 the Rosalee Weiss award for contributions to practice, in 2005 she was awarded the Division 29 awards for Leadership and in 2007 the Laughlin distinguished teacher award, In 2012 the Division 29 Scholarship award and the Goethe Scholarship award, and in 2014 Hans Strupp award for teaching, practice and writing. Her areas of specialty include, psychoanalysis, relationship between psych diagnosis and treatment, alternatives to DSM diagnostic conventions, integration of feminist theory and psychoanalytic knowledge, application of psychoanalytic understanding to the problems of diverse clinical populations, altruism, narcissism, trauma, and Dissociative Identity Disorder.  