Simon Reich is a scholar best known for his work in international relations, human security, and grand strategy.  He is a professor in the Division of Global Affairs at Rutgers University - Newark in Newark, New Jersey.  Reich is author, co-author, and editor of ten books and over fifty articles or book chapters. His most recent book is Good-bye Hegemony! Power and Influence in the Global System (co-authored with Richard Ned Lebow).   He is also the author of the book The Fruits of Fascism   and The German Predicament.  Reich's career has spanned across academia and public service.  His positions include: Reich is a frequent contributor on The Conversation and publishes online articles in Newsweek Magazine, Fortune Magazine, and Policy Forum.  He is also often interviewed about current events on international radio programs and his work has been quoted in international newspapers and periodicals such as The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Christian Science Monitor, and the Detroit Free Press. Reich was raised in London and pursued his education in the United States.  He earned his PhD in the Department of Government at Cornell University in 1988.  He is married to Ariane Chebel d'Appollonia, a French historian and political scientist who serves as a professor in the School of Public Affairs & Administration and the Division of Global Affairs at Rutgers University. Reich is the father of fiction writer, Jezebel reporter,  and former Tech Times staff writer  J.E. Reich.   In 2017, the Rutgers University Division of Global Affairs launched The Simon Reich Fellowship for Research in Global Governance to honor his legacy and support a new generation of research and discourse in the field of global governance.  The fellowship will be awarded to one PhD student annually who is engaged in research or fieldwork as it relates to US foreign policy. In 2016, the University of Pittsburgh's Ford Institute of Human Security launched the Simon Reich Human Security Writing Award.  This annual award is given to a student who writes the best paper in the field of human security. Reich himself has also been the subject of a number of awards, grants, and fellowships.  Select honors include the Council on Foreign Relations International Affairs Fellowship, as well as fellowships from the Kellogg Foundation, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, the American Institute for Contemporary German Studies, and numerous other organizations.  