Susanne Boll (Boll-Westermann)  is a full a professor in Media Informatics and Multimedia Systems  at the University of Oldenburg in Germany. She is also a member of the  board of the OFFIS–Institute for Information Technology in Oldenburg, an associated research institute of the University of Oldenburg. Within OFFIS, she acts as the scientific head of many international and national research projects in the field of human computer interaction and heads the Human Machine Cooperation Competence Center .  Susanne Boll is an active researcher in the field of multimedia and human computer interaction. In various collaborative scientific research projects, she systematically explored non-speech audio, vibro-tactile patterns, and ambient light as new modalities in smart user interfaces. Her scientific results have been published in extremely competitive peer-reviewed international conferences such as CHI, Pervasive, MobileHCI, and AutomotiveUI as well as internationally recognized journals. She has continuously developed her research profile in multimodal user interfaces, and she now heads one of the leading groups in Europe that works on pervasive and ubiquitous computing exploring different novel modalities for next generation interfaces. Her research projects also have a strong connection to industry partners and application partners and addresses highly relevant challenges in the applications field of automation in transportation systems as well as smart health technologies. She has been highly active since 2002 in acquiring and leading 42 research projects at the University of Oldenburg and the associated OFFIS–Institute for Information Technology, funded by national and international research foundations as well as industry partners. Her funding ID shows her ability to acquire and lead scientific research projects in the field of human-computer interaction. Many of the research projects are in cooperation with national and international scientific partners, industry partners, and user groups in which she enjoys working in interdisciplinary teams on challenging research questions. Her research projects  show a mix of networked projects funded by the European Union (EU), Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF), and Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy (BMWI), the Ministry for Science and Culture of Lower Saxony (MWK) with foundational projects funded by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy (DFG) as well as industry projects. Focus application domains of my research are in the Automotive and Health domains. I have been Her publication record and funding demonstrates her high potential as a successful and independent researcher in the field of next-generation human-computer-interaction. She has co-organized over 30 international events including conferences, conference tracks, panels, workshops, and research seminars. She is visible in steering and driving international events and currently Member of the steering committee of the MobileHCI Conference and  of the AutomotiveUI Conference Susanne Boll received her PhD in 2001 from the Vienna University of Technology with distinction. She graduated in Computer Science (Diploma with distinction) from the Technical University of Darmstadt.  She contributed to over 200 scientific papers and organized a number of international conferences and workshops. Susanne Boll is an active member of SIGMM of the ACM and IEEE CS.  