 Northwestern International University was one of the first colleges to offer self-directed online programs, which were based on review of prior-earned college credits, professional life-experiences, practical knowledge, research, portfolio work, and the passage of comprehensive examinations *Cite (Northwestern International University Registration Catalog).  N.I.U. was a member of the Long Distance Learning Council *Cite (Long Distance Learning Council Catalog).  Their admissions process consisted of the initial registration process, student selection, and the review of student work and experience.  Students had to show proof of passing content specific exams before being considered for school admission.  They were also required to pass comprehensive exams at the completion of their respective program.  Furthermore, students were expected to complete a Practicum Learning Portfolio Log.  The time-requirement for portfolio hours varied by subject matter.  Lastly, students had to successfully complete and present research, before N.I.U. would issue their degree *Cite(Northwestern International University Registration Catalog). Northwestern International University offered a long-distance, blended program that allowed students flexibility in working towards an advanced degree.  It enabled them to broaden their professional expertise, and stretch their academic knowledge all on the students own time, and in their own environment *Cite (Northwestern International University Registration Catalog). Northwestern International University was committed to developing the potential of each of its students.  It provided the opportunity for academic excellence and professional growth.  The university created a climate in which all members of the community could freely think, write, research, analyze, share, and criticize *Cite (Northwestern International University Registration Catalog).  It was committed to extending university resources to the entire student body.  According to their Registration Catalog, the Mission of N.I.U. was to: Based on this model, the program and experience offered high quality content and flexibility.  This enabled students to tailor their academic studies and coursework to fit in with the rest of their schedule *Cite (Northwestern International University Registration Catalog). Northwestern International University truly was an innovative educational and training organization.  At the time, its quality set it apart from others in adult long-distance/self-directed/online learning.  It was truly unique and a pioneer in its field. N.I.U. was initially accredited by the Euro-American Accreditation Agency.  This organization (and its trustees) ensured the highest possible standards of academic excellence in curriculum design and operational policies in all university programs *Cite (Euro-American Accreditation Agency). Unfortunately, the academic programs of Northwestern began to decline in 2007. They were no longer considered rigorous, and academic credit was being given erroneously, at best (solely based on Life Experience) *Cite (Google).  Furthermore, in 2007, the university’s accreditation had been cancelled.  In 2008, the Accreditation Agency itself had been disbanded.  After the university reconfigured itself, students also “lost” credit for some prior coursework.  N.I.U. was officially closed in 2009 *Cite (Consumer Protection).  Many states and nations do not accept their coursework, credit, and degrees if obtained after 2007 *Cite (Department of Education).  Those that were earned and granted (prior to 2007) are often accepted. 