Magnifi Group, Inc. is a medical technology company based out of San Diego, California. The company has patent-pending polygon construction, database design and integration to produce training and marketing solutions for the medical and pharmaceutical industries. The company creates educational and marketing programs, such as the Interactive Educational Program (IEP) for Spine for training and sales force needs in the medical industry. September 2008, Magnifi Group, Inc. launched the Interactive Educational Program (IEP) for Spine - a comprehensive reference guide available for Spine Fellows, residents and surgeons. The program provides online ACCME- accredited courses authored and edited by noted surgeons with over 50 AMA PRA Category 1 Credits. The program consists of over 1,000 pages specifically designed for spine surgeons. Other online program tools include an online notebook, interactive 3-D animations, a calendar of events, job board and forum. The IEP for Spine is edited by six IEP editors; Drs. Steven R. Garfin, Harry N. Herkowitz, Frank M. Phillips, Scott D. Boden, James D. Kang and Ken S. Yonemura. The IEP consists of interactive and rendered 3D surgical animations that feature product-specific surgical techniques approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The IEP surgical videos are accompanied by voice narration; the animations guide the viewer through surgical techniques at a step by step level. (1) IEP Notebook enables users to highlight text, create notes and post surgical videos, images and animations in a private online notebook. (2) IEP Knowledge Checks are surgeon-written multiple-choice questions at the conclusion of each chapter with product-specific presentations. (3) IEP Case Presentations allows Fellows to submit Case Presentations into the IEP and learn about other Case Presentations from Fellows at other centers. (4) IEP Case Simulations allows Fellows to make path-based decisions when treating online cases. (5) The IEP offers 50 online ACCME accredited courses- a total of 73 AMA PRA Category 1 CreditsTM. (6) IEP Job Board has a full list of Spine Orthopedic opportunities across the US. (7) IEP Forum allows Fellows and other users to communicate in realtime with other IEP Users. IEP for Spine Editorial Board oversees all spine curriculum published onto the IEP for Spine. Steven R. Garfin, M.D.- Lead Editor of the IEP for Spine, Professor and Chairman of the Department of Orthopaedics at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD). Harry N. Herkowitz, M.D.- Chairman and Director of the Section of Spine Surgery and the Fellowship Program in Spine Surgery at William Beaumont Hospital in the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery. Frank M. Phillips, M.D. -Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery and Head of the Section of Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery at Rush University Medical Center. Scott D. Boden, M.D.- Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery at The Emory Clinic and Director, Emory Orthopaedics & Spine Center. James D. Kang. M.D.- Vice Chairman of the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery at the University of Pittsburgh School Of Medicine. Ken S. Yonemura, M.D.- Assistant Professor of the Department of Neurosurgery at the University of Utah Health Science Center. Andrew C. Hecht, M.D.- Chief of Spine Surgery in the Leni and Peter W. May Department of Orthopaedics at the Mount Sinai Medical Center (contributing editor). The curriculum is written by over 65 surgeon authors and focuses on Spine Conditions and Treatments. More specifically General Overviews, Evaluation and Managemement Coding, Lumbar Degnerative Conditions, Cervical Degenerative Conditions, Deformity, Trauma, Tumors, Infections and Inflammatory Conditions. The IEP for Spine includes interactive and rendered 3-D surgical animations featuring the latest FDA-approved, product-specific, surgical techniques. Accompanied by voice narration, the animations guide the viewer through the surgical techniques at a “step-by-step” level.   (1) http://www.prnewswire.com/cgi-bin/stories.pl?ACCT=104&STORY=/www/story/10-24-2007/0004688699&EDATE= (2) http://usstock1.jrj.com.cn/news/2007-10-24/000002827778.html (3) https://www.reuters.com/article/pressRelease/idUS213450+17-Jun-2008+BW20080617 (4) http://www.spinearthroplasty.org/news/magnifi_group_interactive_educational_program.html (5) http://www.spinearthroplasty.org/news/spine_movement_winter_2009.html (6) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GAIboX_4EgM 