ORPHEUS, the Organisation for PhD Education in Biomedicine and Health Sciences in the European System, is an association of biomedical and health science faculties and institutions. ORPHEUS is dedicated to the development of standards for the PhD. ORPHEUS was established in April 2004 with a European Conference on Harmonisation of PhD Programmes in Biomedicine and Health Sciences held in Zagreb. It became clear that despite many similarities PhD programmes there are also important differences in content and the standard expected. Thus a PhD title (also known as Doctor of Philosophy) may have different meanings in different parts of Europe. While some countries did not have any clinical PhD programmes, others had even two. Thus, the delegates coming from 25 universities and from 16 European countries agreed that there was a need for European harmonisation and they accepted 'The Declaration of the European Conference on Harmonisation of PhD Programmes in Medicine and Health Sciences' ('Zagreb Declaration'), which contain the first European consensus statement what a PhD programme should consist of and aim for. Many of the ideas of the 'Zagreb Declaration' are also seen in the '10 Salzburg Principles'  and in the subsequent Salzburg II paper from the EUA-CDE. The Second European Conference held in Zagreb in 2005, included delegates from 33 universities, from 21 European countries, issued a document ‘Guidelines for Organisation of PhD Programmes in Biomedicine and Health Sciences’ and launched the idea for the necessity to establish a European association of PHD programmes, for which the name ORPHEUS was accepted. Third ORPHEUS 2007 conference was held in Helsinki. Participants from 43 universities from 26 European countries issued a document: ‘Helsinki Consensus Statement on PhD Training in Clinical Research’ (‘Helsinki Consensus Statement’) emphasizing the importance of PhD research in clinical medicine Fourth ORPHEUS 2009 conference was held in Aarhus with 165 participants from 33 European countries the main topic: Maintaining the quality of the PhD degree. A major outcome of the conference was the production of a position paper, "Towards standards for PhD education in biomedicine and health sciences".  Fifth ORPHEUS 2010 conference was held in Vienna with 196 participants from 39 European countries with the main topic  “The Advancement of European Biomedical and Health Science PhD Education by Cooperative Networking”. Sixth ORPHEUS 2011 conference was held in Izmir with 305 participants from 39 European countries with the main topic "PhD Quality Indicators for Biomedicine and Health Sciences”. Seventh ORPHEUS 2012 conference in Bergen with 200 participants from 30 European countries with the main topic "Establishing evaluation of PhD Training". The aims of ORPHEUS are: ORPHEUS has published Standards for PhD Education in Biomedicine and Health Sciences in Europe. Joint publication with Association of Medical Schools in Europe and World Federation for Medical Education. Published by Aarhus University Press, Aarhus 2012. ISBN 978 87 7934 600 0. Other important ORPHEUS documents: 