Indian Genetic Disease Database (IGDD) is the first patient based "genetic disease" database of India. It is being developed and maintained at  Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (IICB) a unit of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. The first version of the database has been published online. It has been divided into 19 disease categories in the 1st version of the database. It includes: Blood Related Disorders, Bone and Joints Related Growth Disorders, Eye Disorders, Gastro-Intestinal Disorders, Hearing Disorders, Lysosomal Disorders, Multi-system Disorders, Muscle Related Disorders, Neurological Disorders, Pigmentary Disorders, and Skin Related Disorders. India is a country with many communities where there is high load of genetic disorders. It is due to consanguineous marriage or marriages between close relatives practiced in the community. This database keeps track of mutations in the causal genes for that genetic diseases common in India. The database will be helpful to the Physicians, Geneticists and other professionals in India and abroad related to genetic disorders to retrieve and use the information for the benefit of mankind. The database had been launched and updated on August 2010. From this database one can obtain patient based data with respect to patient's Geographical location, Age, Sex, and Ethnic Group. One can also compare the occurrence of that disease with other parts of the world through this database. The mode of inheritance of a particular disease is also known from this database. One can also get an overall picture of a particular disease occurrence in India and all its details from this database. Each disease is represented with Gene name, Chromosome location, Mutations, Geospatial distribution for the disease. In 1st version of database there had been 52 diseases with information on 5,760 individuals in the database.  Now there are information about 73 diseases. The Publication has been selected as featured Article in Nucleic Acid research peer reviewed international journal( NAR ) in 2011. Patient specific mutation information can be updated  by simply filling up a form from  this link. 