  Bioinformatics and Drug Design Group (BIDD) Therapeutic Target Database  (TTD) is a database provided by Bioinformatics and Drug Design Group in National University of Singapore and Innovative Drug Research and Bioinformatics Group (IDRB) in Zhejiang University, which provides information about the known and explored therapeutic protein and nucleic acid targets,    the targeted disease, pathway information and the corresponding drugs directed at each of these targets. Also included in this database are links to relevant databases containing information about target function, sequence, 3D structure, ligand binding properties, enzyme nomenclature and drug structure, therapeutic class, clinical development status.  This database currently contains 2,025 targets, including 364 successful, 286 clinical trial, 44 discontinued and 1,331 research targets, 17,816 drugs, including 1,540 approved, 1,423 clinical trial, 14,853 experimental drugs and 3,681 multi-target agents (14,170 small molecules and 652 antisense drugs with available structure or oligonucleotide sequence). Targets and drugs in this database cover 61 protein biochemical class and 140 drug therapeutic classes respectively.  In the 2011 version of TTD, target validation information has been integrated. Target validation normally requires the determination that the target is expressed in the disease-relevant cells/tissues, it can be directly modulated by a drug or drug-like molecule with adequate potency in biochemical assay, and that target modulation in cell and/or animal models ameliorates the relevant disease phenotype.   Therefore, TTD collects three types of target validation data: experimentally determined potency of drugs against their primary target or targets, observed potency or effects of drugs against disease models (cell-lines, ex-vivo, in-vivo models) linked to their primary target or targets, and the observed effects of target knockout, knockdown, RNA interference, transgenetic, antibody or antisense treated in-vivo models. Currently, TTD provides complete or partial validation information for 932 targets (351 successful, 252 clinical trial, 34 discontinued and 295 research targets). All validation information can be retrieved from Target Validation Page. Knowledge of developed QSAR models for different molecular scaffolds active against different targets is highly useful for facilitating further drug development and lead optimisation efforts.    Current TTD has 841 ligand-based QSAR models for active compounds of 228 chemical types against 121 targets. These QSAR models can be accessed in Target-based QSAR Models Page. Multi-target agents directed at selected multiple targets have been increasingly explored for enhanced therapeutic efficacies, improved safety profiles, and reduced resistance activities by simultaneously modulating the activity of a primary target and the counteractive elements.    Multi-target agent against a target-pair refers to a compound active against both targets at potency values of ≤ 20 μM regardless of their possible activities against other targets. These multi-target agents can be retrieved from Multi-Target Agents Page. 