Heroes in Crisis is an upcoming American comic book limited series published by DC Comics. It is being written by Tom King and illustrated by Clay Mann. Heroes in Crisis follows the "Crisis" naming convention of prior DC crossovers, but is billed as a murder-mystery. The first issue will debut on September 26, 2018. Heroes in Crisis is a seven-issue limited series being written by Tom King, who has worked on DC Vertigo titles, Batman, and Mister Miracle, and illustrated by Clay Mann.  It will be published by DC Comics; cover art will be provided by Mann, J. G. Jones, Mark Brooks, and Francesco Mattina.  The series follows the "Crisis" naming conventions of prior DC crossovers, but unlike prior "Crisis" events, Heroes in Crisis will not focus on a cosmic threat. Instead, it expands on a concept King introduced in Batman, the rehabilitation center the Sanctuary, which is based on veterans' crisis centers.  According to King, the idea for Heroes in Crisis was conceived in 2016 after he suffered from a panic attack and went to the hospital, and his grandmother (who raised him) died on the same day. King had to go through therapy, after which he decided to use what he learned in a DC comic. The homestead of the Sanctuary on the cover of Heroes in Crisis #1 is modeled after his grandmother's house as a tribute to her.  Heroes in Crisis primarily deals with the emotional cost of being a superhero  and will explore "what violence does to a society", a common theme in King's work.  King, a former CIA counterterrorism officer, believed this was an important subject that needed to be discussed.  "Comic books, throughout the whole history of the medium, have been reflective of history. In World War II, there were comics about fighting in World War II. In the seventies, the comics were about psychedelic escape. Unfortunately, our moment right now is a moment of violence and living with violence and our comics have to address that," he said.  Rumors of a new DC event with the Crisis naming surfaced in May 2018.  The rumors were quickly denied by DC Comics co-publisher Jim Lee, who tweeted "Rumors of reboots are ridiculous. Just stop with the misinformation. Thanks and have a great weekend!"  DC announced the series on June 12, 2018, after King made an appearance on Late Night with Seth Meyers. The first issue will be released on September 26, 2018.  Billed as a murder-mystery, Heroes in Crisis will chronicle the aftermath of a mass shooting in the Sanctuary rehabilitation center set up by Batman, Superman, and Wonder Woman. Sanctuary is located in the middle of the United States, and was created as a means to help treat superheroes dealing with mental health issues from Earth-threatening events, such as post-traumatic stress disorder.  The three will be the protagonists of the story, alongside Harley Quinn and Booster Gold.   