The Compass Institute Inc. is a charity organisation for young Queenslanders with a disability. It is Australia's first accredited Disability Service based on the principles of Japanese Budo.    Compass is a registered member of the National Disability Services, providing post-school services for young people with an intellectual disability.   Compass has been operating as a not for profit organisation since the early 90's.    It began in 1991 as 'The Aikido Institute' providing alternative education and intervention programmes to school-aged children.  Between 1992 and 2006 over 7000 children participated in the intervention programmes.      In 2003 The Aikido Institute became The Compass Institute Inc., and began providing post-school education, training and vocational opportunities to young people with intellectual and/or physical disabilities.   In 2013 Compass is a registered charity employing 30 specialist staff and supporting over 70 young people with intellectual and/or physical disabilities through 6 centres from Gladstone to Gympie.   One of these centres is a working farm, which provides opportunities for around 20 young people to gain access to further training in animal husbandry, horticulture, nursery work, and property maintenance.  The Compass Institute Inc. provides further education in a broad range of subjects. The goal of the Institute is to provide real life skills with a focus on personal development and independent living.  This includes literacy, numeracy, communication, fitness, social skills, food preparation, personal grooming, transport and community participation.  Compass employs staff in roles such as teachers, trainers, coaches and mentors, similarly those that attend Compass are students or 'Trainees' and not referred to as 'clients'. The organisation works on making pathways for disabled young people to become increasingly independent.  Central to Compass training and vocation units is the provision of "real further education, skills-based training and vocational opportunities as part of a structured pathway to social and economic participation".  Through the vocational pathways Compass provides, people with a disability have successfully been placed into appropriate and rewarding work.    The Compass Institute Inc. is involved in setting up social enterprises as vocational pathways for its trainees. These are ‘real life’ businesses that are integrated into the local community, including lawn and garden maintenance, Vehicle detailing, business support services, art and craft markets and the Compass Farm.  The purchase of an 8 hectare property enabled the organisation to set up an innovative educational and vocational setting, known as the Compass Farm.  At this facility trainees can undertake vocational training, work experience and therapy.   In 2011, 20 people with disabilities, ranging in ages from 20 to 30 undertook training and work programs at the property.  Activities range from animal husbandry, mixed horticulture, nursery work and property maintenance work.   Underpinning the structure and organisation of both the service provision and management of Compass are the philosophies of Japanese Budo.  The early work of the Aikido Institute (now The Compass Institute Inc.) involved running intervention programs and life skills classes that used Aikido and Budō to help students with goal setting, anger management, time management, and self-defence.    These “unique experiential programs” employed the principles of traditional martial arts philosophy and practice to engage students.    From here Compass branched out into the disability service, but the role of Aikido and budo philosophy has never ceased to have an important role in the running of Compass. Compass CEO David Dangerfield has been using martial arts to help build physical skills and self-confidence in people for over 30 years. He saw the potential to do the same with people with both physical or intellectual disabilities.    "These individuals are always reminded of what they can't do, Martial arts is something they can do. It's a great physical outlet..."  