A musical instrument is an instrument created or adapted to make musical sounds. In principle, any object that produces sound can be considered a musical instrument—it is through purpose that the object becomes a musical instrument. The history of musical instruments dates to the beginnings of human culture. Early musical instruments may have been used for ritual, such as a trumpet to signal success on the hunt, or a drum in a religious ceremony. Cultures eventually developed composition and performance of melodies for entertainment. Musical instruments evolved in step with changing applications. The date and origin of the first device considered a musical instrument is disputed. The oldest object that some scholars refer to as a musical instrument, a simple flute, dates back as far as 67,000 years. Some consensus dates early flutes to about 37,000 years ago. However, most historians believe that determining a specific time of musical instrument invention is impossible due to the subjectivity of the definition and the relative instability of materials used to make them. Many early musical instruments were made from animal skins, bone, wood, and other non-durable materials. Do you have a question about Musical instruments that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. For editor resources and to collaborate with other editors on improving Wikipedia's Musical instruments-related articles, see WikiProject Musical instruments. Early Fender electric guitars Found in Slovenia, the Divje Babe Flute is considered the world's oldest known musical instrument The Duet, by Dutch painter Cornelis Saftleven, c. 1635 An Indonesian metallophone Guitar (molo) Ancient Egyptian tomb painting depicting lute players, 18th Dynasty (c. 1350 BC) African music instrument made from a food can Baroque mounted Jacob Stainer violin from 1658 A young Persian lady playing a ney, painted on Hasht Behesht walls in Esfahan, Safavid dynasty. Anne Vallayer-Coster, Attributes of Music, 1770. This still life painting depicts a variety of French Baroque musical instruments, such as a natural horn, transverse flute, musette, pardessus de viole, and lute. Two Aztec slit drums (teponaztli). The characteristic "H" slits can be seen on the top of the drum in the foreground. The Alboka has a double-reed that vibrates when blown on the small tube. The tubes regulates the melody and the big horn amplifies the sound. A Chinese wooden fish, used in Buddhist recitations The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 