Musikhaus Thomann is a German-based retailer of musical instruments, studio, lighting, and pro-audio equipment.  Thomann became widely known primarily due to its large online retail operation, Thomann Cyberstore.  According to a 2014 article in the largest Upper Franconian newspaper based in Bavaria, the Fränkischer Tag (de), Musikhaus Thomann is the largest online retailer of its category of merchandise, worldwide.  Hans Thomann, Sr., founded the company sixty-four years ago (in 1954) as a family business in Treppendorf — part of the village of Burgebrach, in Bavaria, Germany — where the Musikhaus Thomann headquarters endures today (2018).  And, as of 2018, the company is still family-owned.   The company has been managed by Hans Thomann, Jr, representative of the second Thomann generation, since 1990. Since 1997, Thomann have been selling products through their own web site. In the first year, online turnover ran to DM 800,000. Musikhaus Thomann is divided into three business units: Between 2004 and 2012, the number of customers has almost tripled and now slightly exceeds 3 million. In 2004, the company achieved a turnover of EUR 10m.  In 2006, the company disclosed a turnover of EUR 129m, making it one of the fifty fastest-growing companies in Bavaria once more.  In September 2010, Musikhaus Thomann received the Versender des Jahres (Mail Order Business of the Year) Award, which the German Association of Mail Order Companies' hands out annually. The panel of judges chose Musikhaus Thomann for its strong growth, commitment to innovation, and high level of customer satisfaction.  In 2011, Musikhaus Thomann was presented with the Global E-Commerce award (Gold) at the Global E-Commerse Summit in Barcelona. Eight national winners competed for the European prize. Thomann was the German nominee, having won the 2010 mail Order Business of the Year Award. The Jury noted that Thomann was "Demonstrating the ability to tap into a market segment that a few years ago nobody believed could be served through internet retail"    Thomann sells several store brands,  including: 