Historically in the context of slave societies of the Americas, a quadroon or quarteron was a person with one quarter African and three quarters European ancestry (or in the context of Australia, one quarter aboriginal ancestry). The terms are now archaic. Similar classifications were octoroon for one eighth black (Latin root octo-, means "eight") and hexadecaroon for one sixteenth black. Governments incorporated the terms in law defining rights and restrictions. The use of such terminology is a characteristic of hypodescent, which is the practice within a society of assigning children of mixed unions to the ethnic group which is perceived by the dominant group as being subordinate.  The racial designations refer specifically to the number of full-blooded African ancestors or equivalent, emphasizing the quantitative least, with quadroon signifying that a person has one-quarter black ancestry. The word quadroon was borrowed from the French quarteron and the Spanish cuarterón, both of which have their root in the Latin quartus, meaning "one quarter", i.e. one-fourth.  Similarly the Spanish cognate cuarterón is sometimes used to describe someone whose racial origin is three-quarters White and one-quarter Indian, especially in Caribbean South America.  Quadroon was used to designate a person of one-quarter African/Aboriginal ancestry, that is one biracial parent (African/Aboriginal and Caucasian) and one White or European parent; in other words, one African/Aboriginal grandparent and three White or European grandparents.  In Latin America, which had a variety of terms for racial groups, some terms for quadroons were morisco or chino, see casta. The term mulatto was used to designate a person who was biracial, with one pure black parent and one pure white parent, or a person whose parents are both Mulatto.  In some cases, it became a general term to refer to all persons of mixed race. The term octoroon referred to a person with one-eighth African/Aboriginal ancestry;  that is, someone with family heritage of one biracial grandparent; in other words, one African great-grandparent and seven European great-grandparents.  As with the use of quadroon, this word was applied to a limited extent in Australia for those of one-eighth Aboriginal ancestry, as the government implemented assimilation policies on the Stolen generation. Terceron was a term synonymous with octoroon, derived from being three generations of descent from an African ancestor (great-grandparent).  The term mustee was also used to refer to a person with one-eighth African ancestry. The term sacatra was used to refer to one who was seven-eighths black or African and one-eighth white or European (i.e. an individual with one black and one griffe parent or one white great-grandparent).   The term mustefino refers to a person with one-sixteenth African ancestry.  The terms quintroon or hexadecaroon were also used.In the French Antilles, the following terms were used    during the 18th century: In Latin America, the terms griffe or sambo were sometimes used for an individual of three-quarters black parentage, i.e. the child of a Mulatto parent and a fully black parent.  During the antebellum period, abolitionists featured mulattoes and other light-skinned former slaves in public lectures in the North, to arouse public sentiments against slavery by showing Northerners slaves who were visually indistinguishable from them, preventing them from putting the people in the category of "other".  The colonization of the West Indies by the British, and the establishment of an African slave population there, resulted in fictional characters described as "mulatto", "quadroon", or "octoroon", in several 19th century English novels: The figure of the "tragic octoroon" or "tragic mulatto" became a stock character of abolitionist literature in the antebellum era: Stereotypically, a light-skinned woman is raised as a white woman in her father's household, until his bankruptcy or death leaves her reduced to a menial position or even sold into slavery.  In some cases, she may be unaware of her full ancestry before being reduced to victimization, as in: In the period after the American Civil War, Southerners also began writing about people of mixed race, as a way to explore the many contradictions in a postwar society based on a binary division of race. The topic continues to be a means to explore race in society. Authors in the early 20th century were writing against a background of legal racial segregation and disfranchisement in the South; the successes of the civil rights movement have not solved all problems. Authors in the 21st century are writing historical novels set in the 19th century that explore racial permutations. 