Gen. Eduardo Manahan Año (Ret.) is a Filipino government official who is the acting secretary or Officer in Charge of the Department of Interior and Local Government. As a soldier, he was the Commanding General of the Philippine Army and the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines . Eduardo Manahan Año was born in San Mateo, Rizal on October 26, 1961. At an early age, he has already manifested his exceptional academic prowess when he graduated elementary as valedictorian. Straight from high school, he entered the Philippine Military Academy and became a member of the PMA Matikas Class of 1983, where he graduated as Cum Laude.  During his active military career, he consistently ranked number one in all his military courses either local or foreign. In 1993, Usec Año finished on top of his class in the International Officer Intelligence Course at Fort Huachuca, Arizona, USA, earning a perfect rating of 100%, a feat that remains unchallenged up to this date.  Because of his virtuous reputation, exceptional professionalism and unquestionable integrity, Usec Año was entrusted to hold vital military positions which includes being the Commander of the Intelligence and Security Group of the Philippine Army; the Chief of the Intelligence Service Armed Forces of the Philippines; the Commander of the 10th Infantry (Agila) Division ; the 57th Commanding General of the Philippine Army and eventually the 48th Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines. With an eagle-like focus in accomplishing his missions, Usec Año was instrumental in the neutralization of countless Terrorist and Communist High-Value Targets, which ultimately made him a legend the Intelligence Community.  Being a devout Catholic, Usec Año also fervently advocated the value of Servant Leadership and always gave premium to the importance of Teamwork. Under his able leadership, the AFP achieved its highest net-satisfaction rating from the populace. This was demonstrated when he was designated as the Martial Law Administrator in Mindanao during the five-month long Marawi Crisis where an influx of support to the AFP was witnessed and felt. In recognition of his outstanding service and work ethics, he has been a recipient of more or less 70 awards, medals and decorations both locally and abroad. He received the coveted Philippine Military Academy Cavalier Award in 1996 as an outstanding PMA Alumnus in the field of Army Operations. He is also a recipient of the Philippine Legion of Honor (Degree of Chief Commander) and the prestigious Panglima Gagah Angkatan Tentera (PGAT) that was awarded by no less than His Majesty, the King of Malaysia. http://www.rappler.com/nation/154663-new-armed-forces-chief-philippines http://www.rappler.com/nation/97763-npa-commander-killed-davao 