Eufranio "Franny" Chan Eriguel, M.D. (June 12, 1959 – May 12, 2018) was a Filipino medical doctor and politician from the Eriguel political clan of La Union,     who was gunned down in an ambush on 12 May 2018.  Eriguel served three terms as Mayor of Agoo, La Union  and two terms as Congressman for the Second District of La Union.  His wife Sandra Young Eriguel  (widow) currently serves as Congressman for the Second District of La Union, while his daughter Stefanie Ann Eriguel currently serves as Mayor of Agoo.  Eriguel is notable for his involvement in the landmark "Land Bank of the Philippines v. Cacayuran" case,   in which the construction of  a commercial building within the premises of the town plaza,   which the Philippine Supreme court later ruled to be "irregular,"   although the court later granted a motion for reconsideration regarding the case on May 15, 2015 because the Municipality of Agoo had not been impleaded in the original case.   He later received wide media attention in 2016 when he was included by Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte as one of the local government officials and legislators allegedly involved in illegal drug trade  in his August 16 "I am sorry for my country" speech   - an allegation which he and other La Union politicians denied.    On April 2017,  Eriguel's name was removed the drug list and the original inclusion was said to be politically colored because rival politicians allegedly provided the list to President Duterte.  Eriguel, who had been a founding force in former Vice President Jejomar Binay's United Nationalist Alliance, was sworn into the ruling PDP–Laban party by Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez. Eriguel and two others were gunned down in an ambush on 12 May 2018.  He had earlier survived a bombing incident  during the campaign period for the 2016 General Election.  Eriguel completed a pre-medical course at the University of Santo Tomas, which he completed in 1979, receiving a Bachelor of Science degree (BS General / Pre-med). He completed his studies in medicine at the University of Santo Tomas in 1983. Eriguel became Mayor of Agoo on 1 July 1998 and held this office until 30 June 2007.  Through his leadership, Agoo reaped regional and national awards: Hall of Fame Awardee as the Cleanest, Safest and Greenest Municipality - 1st to 3rd Class Municipality Category (Gawad Pangulo sa Kapaligiran)Regional and National Level , Best LGU (1st - 3rd Class Municipality Category) in Literacy Promotion (2-time National and Regional Champion)  , and other numerous local awards in different fields of local governance.   During his term as Mayor of Agoo, Eriguel was instrumental in the construction of a commercial building within the premises of the town plaza    - a redevelopment which the Philippine Supreme court later ruled to be "irregular"  in its landmark "Land Bank of the Philippines v. Cacayuran" ruling.    The decision "penalizes abusive municipal officials"  even beyond their terms, so it is considered a “landmark” case in Philippine Jurisprudence.  However, the court later granted a motion for reconsideration regarding the case on May 15, 2015 because the Municipality of Agoo had not been impleaded in the original case..    Another redevelopment which took place during Eriguel's term as Mayor of Agoo was the partial conversion of the Museo de Iloko into a franchise of fastfood giant Chowking.   The  Don Eufemio F. Eriguel Memorial National High School, named after Eriguel's father, was also established during his term. After a nine-year tenure, he had reached the maximum term limit 30 June 2007, and could no longer run for the position mayor of Agoo.   His wife Sandra Young Eriguel won as Mayor on May 15, 2007. Eriguel was then appointed as an adviser to the government of the province of La Union for municipal affairs - a post he held until June 30, 2010.  In the elections of May 10, 2010, Eriguel was elected as a member of the House of Representatives as a candidate for the Nationalist People’s Coalition (NPC), representing the 2nd District of La Union.   During his term as Congressman for the Second District of La Union, Eriguel served as chair of the House Committee on Health,  and was among the members of the bicameral committee that passed the Graphic Health Warning bill.  On June 11, 2014, Eriguel filed House Bill 4644 in an attempt to create a new city in the Second District of La Union by merging the municipalities of Agoo and Aringay.  The bill was co-authored by Eriguel's allies, La Union first district Rep. Victor Ortega and Abono party-list Rep. Francisco Emmanuelle Ortega III.   The bill would have created the "City of Agoo-Aringay",  would have two districts under a city mayor  and city vice mayor along with 14 councilors in the Sangguniang Panlungsod,  all of which were "new" positions for which the former municipal officials could run despite having finished the terms limits of their offices.  Eriguel's caravan was involved in a bombing incident, believed to be an assassination attempt,  on April 30, 2016 in Agoo, La Union.  The incident claimed the life of his driver-supporter, Mr. Jiovannie “Dalmas” Cacayuran and seriously injured eight (8) other individuals including his Aide, Mr. Samuel Ofiaza who lost his right eye. Mr. Cacayuran was only 31 years old and he is survived by his wife and an eight-year old son.    On August 16, 2016, Eriguel was included by Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte as one of the local government officials and legislators allegedly involved in illegal drug trade  in his "I am sorry for my country" speech.   Eriguel and other La Union politicians denied these allegations.  In the last part of March 2017, Eriguel and three other La Union politicians were removed from the narco-politician list.   A Manila Times news report quoted sources who said that the inclusion of Eriguel in narco-politician list was politically motivated as there are several personalities close to those in charge of providing the list to the President who have taken advantage of the situation to include the names of their rival politicians.  On June 17, 2018, Eriguel, who had been a founding force in former Vice President Jejomar Binay's United Nationalist Alliance, was sworn into the ruling PDP–Laban party by Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez. On 12 May 2018, Eriguel and two others were gunned down by unknown assailants in an ambush during an event for the 2018 Barangay elections.   