There are about 3,000 runestones in Scandinavia (out of a total of about 6,000 runic inscriptions).   The runestones are unevenly distributed in Scandinavia: The majority is found in Sweden, estimated at between 1,700  and 2,500 (depending on definition). Denmark has 250 runestones, and Norway has 50.   There are also runestones in other areas reached by the Viking expansion, especially in the British Isles (Manx runestones,  England runestones,  Scotland and Ireland)   and other islands of the North Atlantic (Faroer, Greenland, but not in Iceland), and scattered examples elsewhere (the Berezan' Runestone in Eastern Europe,  and runic graffiti on the Piraeus Lion in Venice, Italy).  The vast majority of runestones date to the Viking Age and the period immediately following the Christianisation of Scandinavia (9th to 12th centuries). A small number predates the 9th century; one of the last runestones was raised in memory of the archbishop Absalon (d. 1201).  A small number of runestones may date to the late medieval to early modern period, such as the Fámjin stone (Faroer Islands), dated to the Reformation period. Modern runestones (as imitations or forgeries of Viking Age runestones) began to be produced in the 19th century Viking Revival. The  Scandinavian Runic-text Data Base (Samnordisk runtextdatabas) is a project involving the creation and maintenance of a database of runestones in the   Rundata database.  The vast majority of runestones date to the Viking Age. There is only a handful Elder Futhark (pre-Viking-Age) runestones (about seven, counting the transitional specimens created just around the beginning of the Viking Age). The number of runestones in Sweden is   estimated at between 1,700  and 2,500 (depending on definition).  The Swedish district of Uppland has the highest concentration with as many as 1,196 inscriptions in stone, whereas Södermanland is second with 391).  Denmark has a total of 250 known runestones.  Norway has a total of 50 known runestones.  Germany has a total of 4 known runestones. A number of notable runestones of modern origin exist. Some of them are intended as hoaxes, their creators attempting to imitate a Viking Age artefact. Especially since the late 20th century, runestones in the style of the Viking Age were also made without pretense of authenticity, either as independent works of art or as replicas as museum exhibits or tourist attractions.  This concerns especially runestones found in North America. There is also a limited set of early modern runestones created after the end of the Viking Age but before the "Viking Revival". 