Amy T. Hebert  is a woman from Mathews, an unincorporated area in Lafourche Parish, Louisiana, who was convicted of murdering her two children in August 2007 in an act of revenge against her ex-husband; she also killed the family dog. She was sentenced to life in prison.  Amy Hebert, née Talbot,  was an Evangelical Christian and worked as a teacher's aide at Lockport Lower Elementary School in Lockport, Louisiana.  She originated from Lafourche Parish and at one time resided in Thibodaux.  In Hebert's criminal trial, experts summoned by the prosecution and the defense stated that Hebert had been severely depressed around the time of the crime.  Chad Hebert, her husband, sought a divorce in 2005, and the divorce action was concluded  in April 2006. Chad Hebert subsequently entered into a relationship with another woman, whom he married in 2008.  At the times of their deaths Braxton John Hebert, the boy, attended Lockport Lower, while his sister, Camille Catherine, attended Lockport Upper Elementary School.  Chad and Amy Hebert jointly held custody of them.  On August 20, 2007, Amy Hebert fatally stabbed her children and the family dog; Camille was 9 and Braxton was 7. Hebert told a psychiatrist that Camille had begged for her life.  The children had defensive wounds to their hands and arms.  Camille had about 30–35 stab wounds to the front of her torso while Braxton had about 50-55 stab wounds to his torso, with about 30 to the front and 20–25 to the back.  All of Camille's vital organs had been hit, and both victims had been stabbed in the heart.  Camille was also stabbed on her scalp about 30 times;  the blade did not penetrate her skull.  Amy Hebert also stabbed herself about 30 times.  She gave herself wounds in the abdomen, chest, neck, and wrist.  A coworker who noticed Hebert did not show up to work drove by her house and, after knocking on the door and receiving no response, contacted a member of her family.  The father dialed 9-1-1,  asking authorities to check on the welfare of the children. His father, R.J. "Buck" Hebert, came to the house and discovered the injured Amy Hebert and the dead victims.  Deputies of the Lafourche Parish Sheriff's Office subsequently entered the house,  and used a taser to subdue Hebert.  Hebert was treated in the intensive care unit at Ochsner St. Anne General Hospital in Raceland.  As a pretrial inmate, after her hospitalization, Hebert was held at the Louisiana Correctional Institute for Women (LCIW), the sole state prison for women in Louisiana, instead of the Lafourche Parish jails. This arrangement was made since the parish facilities could not accommodate a female pre-trial inmate accused of committing a felony who needed medical care.  Her bond was set to $1 million.  The prosecuting attorney was the district attorney of the parish, Camille "Cam" Morvant II.   The defense lawyers were George Parnham, Goorley Stroud, and Marty Stroud; the first had defended Andrea Yates and the latter two were from Capital Assistance Project of Louisiana. This was the first capital murder case tried by Morvant.  The prosecutor stated that Amy Hebert was resentful of her ex-husband, while her defense attorneys argued she was under a form of insanity. Dr. Alexandra Philips, the psychiatrist at Ochsner St. Anne, stated that Hebert had told her "Satan was in the room laughing at her".  Both the prosecution and defense had psychiatrists who supported their respective versions of the events. The prosecutor also presented two suicide notes written by the woman to her ex-husband and mother in law,  which stated that he had committed infidelity and that he would not get the children.   Sophia Ruffin of Houma Times characterized the notes as "vitriolic".  According to testimony done during the criminal trial, the mother-in-law encouraged the children to have a relationship with their stepmother, something Amy Hebert disapproved of.  Amy Hebert was convicted of the murders and received two life sentences, one for each child. Even though Goorley asked the judge to let her serve the sentences concurrently, on the grounds that she had no previous criminal record, District Judge Jerome Barbera instead chose to mandate that Hebert's life sentences be served consecutively on the basis that she had killed two people.  Jurors voted on whether to give her the death penalty, but the 9-3 vote in favor of death was insufficient to successfully sentence her to death, as the State of Louisiana requires a unanimous decision for the death penalty; therefore, the default punishment of life in prison applied. The trial had a cost of about $100,000.  As a sentenced felon, Hebert is incarcerated at LCIW.  In 2011 and 2015 Hebert's appeals were denied by the Louisiana Supreme Court.   Subsequently, Hebert entered an appeal in federal court.  The appeal accused the attorney of doing low quality work and the courts of improperly vetting the jury pool.  In May 2018, the U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals denied the appeal.  The visitations of the bodies of Braxton and Camille Hebert occurred at Falgout Funeral Home in Lockport,  and the funeral for the victims was held at the St. Hilary of Poitiers Catholic Church in Mathews.  Another memorial service occurred at Victory of Life Church in Lockport. The children were buried at Resurrection Memorial Park in Mathews.  The 501(C)(3) Camille and Braxton Hebert Memorial Fund Inc. was used to establish recreational areas/playgrounds at Lockport Lower and Lockport Upper.  The playground at Lockport Lower has the text "Braxton's Buddies".  Camille's Court, at Lockport Upper, was scheduled to be a basketball court decorated with a plaque and flowerbed.  Scholarships in the names of both children for education major students were established at Nicholls State University.  Cases of filicide attributed to revenge against an ex-spouse: 