General Assembly is a private, for-profit education organization founded by CEO Jake Schwartz, Adam Pritzker, Matthew Brimer, and Brad Hargreaves in early 2011. It maintains campuses in numerous countries throughout the world to teach entrepreneurs and business professionals practical technology skills.  It provides courses in mobile and web development, data science, product management, and other digital-related courses.  General Assembly began in early 2011 as a co-working space in Midtown Manhattan, and evolved into a private school.  It built its first campus in the Flatiron District with a grant from the New York City Economic Development Corporation.   In 2015 the company raised $70 million in venture capital funding.     As of  September 2016[update], General Assembly has 15 campus locations on 4 continents   and planned to expand in Silicon Valley or near San Jose  and possibly in Miami.  In April 2018, human resources services company Adecco Group announced they were acquiring General Assembly for $413 million.  General Assembly focuses on offering short courses, online classes (including overnight courses and free short online courses), and immersive 10- and 12- week 'boot-camp' style courses in computer programming, data science, and product management, with an emphasis on web development and user experience design.   Approximately 20% of its courses are offered through companies to their employees.  In 2016 it worked with accounting firms to develop a framework for assessing student outcomes that it itends to market to other private educational institutions.  General Assembly is not accredited but has been approved by the California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education.  The organization was last ranked on SwitchUp.org, a third-party verified review site, with an alumni score of 4.2 out of 5 stars . Local General Assembly branches have participated in training the homeless.  On Women's Equality Day in 2016 the company launched a hashtag campaign, #ilooklikeadeveloper, and scheduled events around the world focusing on women in computing.  