Product School is a for-profit tech business school founded by Carlos González de Villaumbrosia in 2014 . The organization provides courses in Product Management, Coding for Managers, Data Analytics for Managers, Blockchain & Cryptocurrencies and Digital Marketing for Managers.  The organization maintains six campuses, located in Silicon Valley, San Francisco, New York and Los Angeles . The company is well known for hosting weekly events and workshops with industry professionals at each campus, covering topics such as Product Management, Machine Learning, and how leading teach companies  manage their product teams. Product School began in early 2014 in San Francisco founded by Carlos González de Villaumbrosia. It opened its first campus in the Financial District and opened more campuses at the beginning of 2015, one in New York City and the other in Silicon Valley. In 2016, it expanded from three campuses to five, including Los Angeles and Santa Monica. It also added a new course that same year, Coding for Managers. In early 2017 the company opened an Orange County campus and in August of 2017, launched the Data Analytics for Managers course. More recently, the company opened further campuses in Austin, Bellevue, Boulder, Boston, Chicago, Denver, Seattle and outside of the United States, in London, UK and Toronto, Canada. In the summer of 2018, Product School launched its online campus and added two new courses, Blockchain & Cryptocurrencies and Digital Marketing for Managers. The company's founder, Carlos González de Villaumbrosia has created three companies in the education space and has worked in building digital products in Europe, Latin America and the U.S. Prior to founding Product School, he worked as Lead Instructor at General Assembly, teaching product management in San Francisco. Before General Assembly, he was  the Co-founder and CEO at Floqq, invested by 500Startups , a marketplace for online courses in Latin America. Prior to founding Floqq, he worked as a Product Marketing Manager at Involver, acquired by Oracle. In 2010, Villaumbrosia was awarded as one of the top 10 young entrepreneurs in Spain by Banco Santander with NetDay , the world's first Open Innovation Platform in schools and universities, devoted to inspire and connect students with thought leaders. The organization is 100% bootstrap-funded and has not received any private or public investments. In 2017 it was featured on the Breaking into Startups podcast . As of August 2018, Product School has 15 campus locations in New York, Silicon Valley, San Francisco, Downtown Los Angeles, Santa Monica, Orange County, Boston, Chicago, Denver, Boulder, Seattle, Bellevue, London (UK) and Toronto (Canada), plus an online campus, with all courses available live. Product School teaches 8-week part-time courses in Product Management, Data Analytics, Coding for Managers, Blockchain and Cryptocurrencies and Digital Marketing for Managers, taught by real-world tech instructors . The company offers on-site courses at their 15 campuses worldwide and off-site, live, online. The training is performed in small groups through hands-on exercises and case studies to learn how to manage different teams involved in building software products. The topics that are covered include technical interviews, company metrics or advanced queries in SQL, A/B tests, business intelligence reports or Machine Learning . 