Eric Stover is an American human rights researcher and advocate and faculty director of the Human Rights Center at the University of California at Berkeley. Stover officially began his human rights work as a researcher at Amnesty International in London, England from 1977-1980. During this time, the organization won the Nobel Peace Prize for its “campaign against torture,” and the United Nations Prize in the Field of Human Rights. Following Amnesty International, Stover became the Director of the Science and Human Rights Program of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. In 1992, Stover served as the Executive Director of Physicians for Human Rights where he worked on forensic missions to examine mass gravesites for the International Criminal Tribunals for the former Yugoslavia  and Rwanda.   While at PHR, Stover performed research on the sociomedical consequences of land mines in war-torn countries such as Cambodia. His research helped launch the International Campaign to Ban Landmines, which, along with the organization’s director, Jody Williams, received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1997.  He has published seven books and numerous reports and articles for press and scholarly publications. Stover became the Faculty Director of the Human Rights Center (HRC) at the UC Berkeley School of Law in 1996, two years after the center was established. The HRC is an interdisciplinary research center which uses science and law to pursue human rights issues.  The Human Rights center has conducted investigations or research focusing on sexual violence, human trafficking, torture, public health among vulnerable populations, accountability for war criminals, child soldiers, family reunification, and the applications of advanced technologies to human rights work. The Center's reports have examined human rights issues in sub-Saharan Africa, Central America and South America, Southeast Asia, the Balkans, the Middle East, and the United States. In February, 2015, the Human Rights Center was awarded a grant from the MacArthur foundation's program for Creative and Effective Institutions.  Faculty Award for Civic Engagement, 2013. University of California, Berkeley "Best Human Rights Book of 2005," for The Witness: War Crimes and the Promise of Justice in the Hague, American Political Science Association "Notable Book of the Year for 1999," New York Times Book Review for Witnesses from the Grave: The Stories Bones Tell Co-Producer, "Past Reckoning," Saybook Productions. PBS, In progress Writer and Associate Producer, Searching for Butch and Sundance NOVA/WGBH & Channel 4, London, 1992 Executive Producer, Crimes of War., 2001 Photographs have appeared in the New York Times, Newsweek, Parade, Miami Herald, The Boston Globe, Science, New Scientist, TV Guide, Visao, The Scientist, Technology Review, and several reports and books, including in Gerald Posner and John Ware, Mengele: A Complete Story (New York: McGraw Hill, 1985)  