Classroom pets are animals that are present in an educational classroom as a pet.   Research and literature over the past decade, has shown the main reasons for having classroom pets is to capture the attention of students, improve relationships, provide the opportunity for creative activities, be a resource for humane education, and act as a motivator for students.  In 1987, The National Institute of Health reported evidence on the health benefits of pets and further studies have shown positive effects from children’s relationships with pets.   It has thus been assumed that similar benefits would present themselves with classroom pets on students.  Teachers have expressed that the presence of classroom pets contributes to the socio-emotional development of students.  A study surveying 75 elementary teachers, revealed that most teachers believed students displayed an increase in compassion and empathy when pets were used in the classroom.   Additional findings have shown that classroom pets, not only improve compassion and empathy but also teach children to have respect for the living things in the world around them.  Classroom pets can also have a positive effect on the socio-emotional development of students with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD).  After engaging in animal-assisted activities for 8-weeks, children with ASD displayed an increase in social skills and a decrease in social withdrawal.  Teachers conveyed that classroom pets contribute to the academic development of students and have identified pets as important sources for students.  They have found them to expand learning and increase development.   Academic lessons, ranging from science to language arts, have been enriched by this valuable source and have improved academic competence among students.  Studies on elementary school children have shown that interactions with dogs at elementary schools can provide a significant improvement of mood.   Teachers also view classroom pets as providing opportunity for relaxation among stressed students and find them helpful in making students feel more comfortable and engaged in class.  Through the use of a Dog-Assisted Activity Program in a multi-cultural elementary classroom, researchers found that teachers are more aware of student difficulties and strengths after interacting with dogs.  After engaging with dogs, it was found that students expressed emotions and displayed behaviors more clearly, helping teachers recognize student qualities that were hidden prior to the dog-assisted activity.   This suggests that the presence of classroom pets does not only benefit students but also results in increased teacher awareness.  Despite these results, survey research shows that only about 17% of elementary teachers have classroom pets.  7. Meadan, H., & Jegatheesan, B. (2010). Classroom Pets and Young Children: Supporting Early Development. YC Young Children, 65(3), 70-77. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org.libezp.lib.lsu.edu/stable/42730602 