AltSchool is an educational startup, founded in 2014.  AltSchool's founder and CEO, Max Ventilla, left his previous career at Google in 2013.  He wanted to work in education and in 2014 raised $33M of venture capital funding to start AltSchool. The Series A financing was led by Founders Fund and Andreessen Horowitz, with follow-on investment from First Round Capital and Harrison Metal and participation from John Doerr, Jonathan Sackler, Learn Capital, and Omidyar Network.  In 2015, AltSchool raised a $100M Series B round of funding. The round was led by Founders Fund and Andreessen Horowitz , with Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan also participating through their Silicon Valley Community Foundation.   In 2016, the company hired Coddy Johnson, former executive of video game company Activision.  In October 2016, Berthold Academy in Reston, the Greene School in West Palm Beach, and Temple Beth Sholom in Miami Beach partnered with AltSchool.  The company has created a series of micro schools that focus on personalized learning, where children are involved in setting the projects they work on.  Students and teachers create individual "playlists" of tasks and projects for each student. Their progress is streamed to parents using a portal app.  By 2016, six schools had been opened in San Francisco, Palo Alto and Brooklyn.  In October 2017, AltSchool launched tiny private middle schools in Union Square.  In November 2017, Altschool shut down two schools, stating ". . .there was a more effective and efficient approach to achieving our ambition of enabling all children to reach their full potential."   Said approach is focusing on the four "core" schools: two locations in San Francisco and two more in Brooklyn.  AltSchool aims to create a software platform that both private and public schools can use to provide personalized learning in their classrooms. Teachers create "cards", which outline all the steps for an assignment. Students then fill out and submit them back to their teachers for approval. The platform, currently under development, includes both pedagogical and school management features.  