EduKart is an Indian higher education enrollment platform.  Indian and international course providers offer programs such as MBA, Executive MBA, MCA, MSc IT, MA, MCom, BA, BCom BBA, BCA and BSc IT on the company platform. The courses are available as distance learning and online courses. It also features certificate courses in areas of retail, finance, telecom, digital marketing, programming languages, project management, and IT. EduKart offers degrees, diploma and certificate courses from universities, institutions and industry bodies. It is part of a growing trend in the region  with institutions and companies like Tamil Virtual Academy,   Transweb and Bookmytrainings offering courses from Indian and international course providers.    There are some certifications which have been created by EduKart team along with some industry experts and are recognized by industry bodies. EduKart has partnerships with universities, both national Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies – School for Continuing Education Bharathi Vidyapeeth, Indian School of Business, University of Petroleum and Energy Studies and international  (Northwood University, London School of Business and Finance).  Concordia University Chicago. The degrees awarded by the Indian universities are recognized by the University Grants Commission and those awarded by the international universities hold the same value as the equivalent degrees earned in a traditional campus environment. The certificate course providers include Internet and Mobile Association of India,  Computer Society of India,  Retailers Association of India,  Vskills (Govt. of India),  Enhelion, GIIP and more. EduKart provides job placement assistance through its job portal on the website. The aim of EduKart was to bring more flexibility into the Indian education system. It was started by Ishan Gupta and Mayank Gupta in 2011.   In May 2013, EduKart secured $500,000 in funding from a consortium of early-stage institutional and angel investors. The group includes Kima Ventures, Amit Patni and Arihant Patni, AKM Systems (Shiven Malhotra), Vibhor Mehra and alumni from Stanford University.   In 2016, Edukart was acquired by Paytm and this deal was said to involve an employment contract.   