IXL Learning is an American educational technology company based in San Mateo, California. The company's main product is IXL.com, a website primarily offering educational practice for K-12 students. The company also provides analytical tools to track student and classroom performance and identify areas for academic improvement with each student. IXL Learning offers practice skills for math, English language arts, science, social studies, Spanish. As of July 2018, IXL is used by one in nine students in the United States, and by over 200,000 teachers worldwide.  IXL Learning was founded in 1998 by Paul Mishkin. The company's first product was Quia Web, a website that allowed teachers and learners to create and share customized study materials, and featured gamification mechanics. In 2007, the company introduced IXL as a math practice program with math topics at levels ranging from pre-kindergarten to high school, as well as data analysis tools. The program was expanded in 2013 with the addition of English language arts content, and again in 2015 with the addition of science and social studies. As of 2017, IXL offers math and language arts for preK-12, and science and social studies for grades 2-8 as well as Spanish for all grades preK-12.   In 2015, IXL Learning opened its second office, in Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina.  IXL is a cloud-based service provided by IXL Learning which can be accessed via Android and iOS, and through its web-based interface. The IXL web practice service provides more than 7,000 skills across math, English language arts, science, Spanish, and social studies for students in grades preK-12. Skills and practice questions are aligned with Common Core and state standards, and are often used in conjunction with classroom learning and assignments. IXL is subscription-based and offers users access to ten free questions per day without a subscription. iPad, Android, and Kindle apps are offered.    The service also includes IXL Analytics, which tracks classroom-wide as well as individual student performance. This provides teachers with a range of nine data reports, and can be tailored to a variety of different classroom formats and setups, including labs, flipped classrooms, and rotational models.    IXL also includes IXL's Continuous Diagnostic, which evaluates students on six mathematic strands as well as their overall working grade level. It also offers up-to-the-minute insights whenever students complete diagnostic questions each week and generates specific next-step instructions for students.  IXL is used by more than 6 million subscribers in all 50 U.S. states and more than 190 countries. It has served over 40 billion questions to date.  Quia Books is currently used by language textbook publishers to bring computer learning and traditional classroom instruction together. More than 450 secondary- and higher-education language textbooks have been published on the Quia Books platform. The platform supports 11 languages, including Spanish, French, Chinese, Latin, and Arabic. IXL won the SIIA CODiE Award in 2017 for Best Educational App for a Mobile Device   IXL was a THE Journal Readers' Choice Award winner in 2016.  IXL won the EDDIE Award for Best Multi-Subject Skills Website in 2016.  IXL has been the recipient of seven consecutive Gold Medals from the Mom’s Choice Awards.  In 2016, EdTech Digest selected IXL as the Best Content Provider.  The National Parenting Publications Award (NAPPA) recognized IXL with the Gold Award in 2015.  IXL received the Smart Media Award in the Spring 2015 Academics' Choice Awards.  IXL was named in the 2015 Tabby Awards as the User's Choice winner in the Android Education & Reference Apps category.  IXL received the 2014 Academics' Choice Smart Media Award.  Homeschool.com named IXL the Top Homeschooling Curriculum for 2014.  IXL was named Favorite Language Arts Supplement in the 2014 TOS Homeschool Crew Blue Ribbon Awards.  