The Stranger Things original soundtracks are composed by Michael Stein and Kyle Dixon of the electronic band Survive.  They make extensive use of synthesizers in homage to 1980s artists and film composers including Jean-Michel Jarre, Tangerine Dream, Vangelis, Goblin, John Carpenter, Giorgio Moroder, and Fabio Frizzi.  According to Stein and Dixon, the Duffer Brothers had been fans of Survive's music, and used their song "Dirge" for the mock trailer that was used to sell the show to Netflix.   Once the show was green-lit, the Duffers contacted Survive around July 2015 to ask if they were still doing music; the two provided the production team with dozens of songs from their band's past to gain their interest, helping to land them the role.  Once aboard, the two worked with producers to select some of their older music to rework for the show, while developing new music, principally with character motifs.  The two had been hired before the casting process, so their motif demos were used and played over the actors' audition tapes, aiding in the casting selection.    The show's theme is based on an unused piece Stein composed much earlier that ended up in a library of work that was available for potential commercial licensing.  The duo shared a "loose" version of the potential demo with the production staff, who thought that with some reworking it would be good for the opening credits.   Stein and Dixon proceeded to retool the demo, and on the staff's suggestion, made it "bigger, bolder and kind of build to a climax," a goal that was ultimately achieved with the inclusion of Prophet V, Roland SH-2, and Mellotron synthesizers, coupled with the usage of various filters.  They also produced additional versions that varied in length, so as to ease the integration of the theme into the as-of-then uncompleted, tentative opening sequence.  After the release of the show's first season and its meteoric rise in popularity that followed, Stein and Dixon's composition quickly gained a large amount of popularity as well. Various musical entertainers such as the band Blink-182 have used the song in their live productions, and a number of amateur musicians have posted cover versions to YouTube.  The song also won the award for Outstanding Main Title Theme Music at the 69th Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards.  Stranger Things' original soundtrack, consisting of 75 songs from Stein and Dixon split across two volumes, was released by Lakeshore Records. Digital release and streaming options were released on August 10 and 19, 2016 for the two volumes, respectively, while retail versions were available on September 16 and 23, 2016.   Limited editions of the soundtrack on vinyl, in both individual and a boxed set, were released in July 2017.  A cassette version of the soundtrack, sold exclusively by Urban Outfitters, was released on July 14, 2017. The cassette packaging features a cardboard cover that emulates an old VHS sleeves, while the cassette case is made to look like a VHS tape.  Both volumes were nominated individually for the Best Score Soundtrack Category for the 2017 Grammy Awards, though neither won.  The album garnered 14,000 "equivalent album units" in the United States in its first week of sale according to Nielsen Soundscan.  The soundtrack album for the second season of Stranger Things, titled Stranger Things 2, was released digitally on October 20, 2017, via Lakeshore and Invada Records.   The soundtrack was composed by Kyle Dixon and Michael Stein of the electronic band Survive. The soundtrack is intended to be released on physical formats, such as compact disc, vinyl, and cassette.  On the soundtrack's composition, Stein and Dixon together said that the score for the season introduces "new styles of composition, while still revisiting old themes when appropriate ... We've created new elements that are necessary to support the story, but still want to remain true to the sound of Season 1." The first track from the soundtrack, "Walkin' in Hawkins", was released on October 12.  In the United States, the album sold 6,000 units in its first week of release.  In addition to original music, Stranger Things features period music from artists including The Clash, Joy Division, Toto, New Order, The Bangles, Foreigner, Echo and the Bunnymen, Peter Gabriel, and Corey Hart, as well as excerpts from Tangerine Dream, John Carpenter, and Vangelis.   In particular, The Clash's "Should I Stay or Should I Go" was specifically picked to play at pivotal moments of the story, such as when Will is trying to communicate with Joyce from the Upside Down.  Stranger Things: Music from the Netflix Original Series is the non-original composition soundtrack companion to the second season of Stranger Things. The album, which interlaces popular eighties songs with sound bytes from the first and second seasons, was released on October 27, 2017 by Legacy Recordings to coincide with the release of the second season.  