The use of music was a key component in the fictional Buffyverse established by the TV shows Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Angel. Many actors of both series are gifted and professional singers/musicians (Anthony Head, James Marsters, Amber Benson, Andy Hallett and Christian Kane to just cite a few). The "Buffy theme" is the music played alongside the opening credits of the show. The theme itself has no lyrics; it begins with several notes played by an organ, a signifier for horror in movie culture from the 1930s onwards. This is quickly replaced by upbeat rock music; an electric guitar riff signifies youth culture and a post-modern twist on the horror genre. The theme was played by the pop punk band Nerf Herder. In an interview they explain how they came to produce the theme:  "They [the Buffy production staff] had hired some famous theme song composer to come up with a theme and they didn’t like the one he came up with so they were kind of on a low budget, and asked local bands to come up with theme song ideas."  In the DVD commentary for "Welcome to the Hellmouth," Whedon explained that part of his decision to go with Nerf Herder's theme was that Alyson Hannigan had made him listen to the band's music. Nerf Herder later recorded a second version of the theme which was used for the opening titles from season 3 on.   Back in 1999, Nerf Herder lead singer Parry Grip gave the background on the writing of the melody. The original melody was not written specifically for the show; it had been in place before Whedon contacted the band asking them to submit a demo for a theme tune:  "Codo" has a science fiction theme and the lyrics reference an alien and flying objects. Their performances of the song featured outer space themes. The next year, Angel invited bands to submit demos for the theme music to the show. They asked bands to use "dark superhero ideas" and "Cello-rock."  Darling Violetta watched pivotal Angel-related episodes of Buffy like "Passion" and "Becoming, Part One" & "Becoming, Part Two" for inspiration along with cowriter and music producer, Holly Knight. Eventually Joss Whedon accepted Holly Knight/Darling Violetta's interpretation of an Angel theme as that most suitable for the show. A number of CD releases have been released linked to the Buffyverse: Many people have worked on the scoring of Buffy and Angel. Some of the main composers were: Murphy was the main composer on Buffy's first season. Beck was the main composer on Buffy during seasons 2-4. He composed two more episodes after that: "The Gift" and "Once More, with Feeling" (which was a contractual obligation, having signed on before he left the series). An album dedicated to his compositions for the show, entitled Buffy the Vampire Slayer: The Score, was released on September 9, 2008 by Rounder Records.  In early February, 2018, La La Land Records released a limited edition 4CD set of scoring from the show including many of the suites from the two promotional score CDs as well as some new cues, and scoring by other composers and Carter Burwell's score to the film. Memorable tracks include: The main composer for the majority of the 5th and 6th seasons of Buffy. His work tended to be subtle, and he thrived in "unassuming mysterious underscore."  Some of his best work appears in "Shadow" and "Into the Woods," more specifically, the tragic melodies which are used in musical montages shown along with Buffy's and Dawn's coping with their mother's illness, and Riley's feelings of alienation from Buffy. Kral was the main composer for the series Angel, writing the music for 112 episodes for seasons 1 through 5. Initially hired by Christophe Beck for Season 1 with shared credit, Kral was employed by 20th Century Fox directly for Seasons 2 through 5. Kral worked for Beck on initial episodes, with Kral then writing most of the episodes for season one. Kral employed Zoran Boris and Douglas Romayne to write additional music for the final two seasons. The soundtrack Live Fast, Die Never mostly consists of his scores from throughout Angel. Fans were asked via internet and email for their favorite tracks and the resulting poll determined the bulk of the soundtrack released by Rounder, EMI and 20th Century Fox Television. Memorable music scenes and themes by Kral for Angel include: Duncan is credited as composer for Buffy episodes 7.02 and 7.04-7.22. Memorable tracks have included:  Douglas Romayne was hired by Joss Whedon to score episodes of Buffy season 7. He scored additional music for 33 episodes of Angel seasons four and five for Robert J. Kral. He was Associate Music Director on the Buffy musical "Once More, with Feeling," which was nominated for an Emmy for Outstanding Music Direction (C. Beck and J. Tobias nominated). He also arranged Joss Whedon's song "Mrs" in "Selfless." Memorable tracks have included: Music from Buffy, Angel and other television series and films can be heard at Romayne's official website. The Bronze is a nightclub in Sunnydale. It hosts live music and serves as a key place where the Scooby Gang spend time for leisure. In the opening episodes, Sprung Monkey and Dashboard Prophets establish that much of the music featured at the club is alternative rock and roll, though numerous styles of music are also later heard, such as trip hop, ballad and new wave/electronic music. The Bronze appears in 66 of the 144 episodes of Buffy. The Bronze acted as a way for the production team to showcase new bands from the Los Angeles area, as well as more well known artists and bands such as Aimee Mann, Cibo Matto and Michelle Branch. Some key musical moments at the Bronze: Oz's band Dingoes Ate My Baby appeared on the show many times. The name alludes to the widespread news coverage of the death of nine-week-old Azaria Chamberlain in Australia in 1980. The real band that provided the music for Dingoes Ate My Baby was Four Star Mary; the song titles below are Four Star Mary tracks. Lorne was born in a dimension called Pylea, a world without music. In 1996, he happened upon a dimensional portal and was sucked through it. He landed in Los Angeles and discovered music and culture. Soon after he opened up a karaoke bar, Caritas. He honed the ability to read people's auras when they sang and he could give those people direction. Some key musical moments include: After Veruca makes a brief solo appearance ("Living Conditions"), her band Shy appears in two episodes.   Shy performs "Overfire" at The Bronze in "Beer Bad," and plays two other songs, "Dip" and "Need to Destroy" (rehearsal), in "Wild at Heart."   Shy's music was actually done by THC, a Los Angeles-based trip hop duo consisting of singer/lyricist Sarah Folkman and producer/composer/musician George Sarah. The three songs featured on Buffy appear on THC's 1999 album Adagio.  The Buffy EP was released by Velvet Chain in February 1999, following their appearance in "Never Kill a Boy on the First Date." The title track, "Buffy" is a retelling of the relationship between Buffy and Angel during seasons 1 and 2 of the show. The album also features the songs, "Strong" and "Treason," the two songs the band played during their appearance on the show. Sarah McLachlan's music is used twice on Buffy at two key moments (finales of Season 2 and 6). 