 The music of The Hobbit film series is composed and produced by Howard Shore, who scored all three The Lord of the Rings films, to which The Hobbit trilogy is a prequel. The score continues the style of The Lord of the Rings score, and utlizies a vast ensemble, multiple musical forms and styles, a large number of leitmotives and various unusual instruments, adding to Shore's overarching music of the Middle Earth films. Shore composed over nine hours of music, featuring 65 new musical themes and reprising 50 themes from the Lord of the Rings. Shore sketched and orchestrated the music for an immense ensemble consisting of a large symphony orchestra, additional stage "bands" (featuring various non-orchestral instruments), multiple choirs and several vocal soloists.  While not quite as critically successful as his Lord of the Rings compositions, Shore's score remained a financial success, peaking in the top ten album charts in multiple countries, and garnered various award nominations, and his setting of the "Misty Mountains" tune becoming very popular. The score has since been performed as a Symphonic piece in four movements for orchestra and soloist. The score and its production were the subject of an hour-long documentary film created for the behind-the-scenes features of The Desolation of Smaug, and is also to be featured in dedicated book by musicologist Doug Adams, set to be completed in late 2017.  With these three scores added to the music of the Lord of the Rings, Howard Shore has composed over 160 leitmotifs for the Middle Earth films, creating by far the largest collection of themes in the history of cinema and one of the biggest collections for any cycle of musical compositions. Howard Shore continued his approach from the music of The Lord of the Rings films, and wrote 64-70 identified leitmotifs (not including ten or more newly reprised themes from the Lord of the Rings) that are used throughout the nine hours[note 1] of the three scores.      Combined with recurring themes from the Lord of the Rings, there are about sixty or more leitmotifs used through each of the three scores, which given their shorter length makes them somewhat more dense than even The Lord of the Rings scores. The main theme of the trilogy is The Shire theme. The main themes of the individual episodes are, in order, the Company theme, Smaug's theme and the Erebor theme. The opening of An Unexpected Journey also serves as an "overture" of the series, introducing many of the principal themes and the full orchestral forces and colors, while The Battle of the Five Armies serves as a bridge to the Lord of the Rings trilogy. Returning: Themes for Bilbo Themes for the Dwarves Themes for the Elves Themes for Smaug Themes for Nature Themes for the Wizards Themes for the Necromancer Themes for the Monsters of Middle Earth Themes for the Quest of Erebor Returning: Themes for Bilbo Themes for the Dwarves Themes for the Elves Themes for Smaug Themes for Nature Themes for Laketown Themes for the Necromancer Themes for the Quest of Erebor Returning: Themes for Smaug Themes for the Dwarves Themes for Laketown Themes for Dol Guldur New themes While revisiting the themes from the Lord of the Rings, Howard Shore also made a unique choice to return to hitherto singular musical expressions, such as the music heard when Bilbo gives Frodo the Mithril vest, thereby turning them into themes, after the fact. This technique allowed him to use The Hobbit scores in order to inform the music of the Lord of the Rings without rescoring and keeping both trilogies similarly dense with themes by using The Hobbit to "add" themes into The Lord of the Rings. Existing themes The first film is the most reliant on existing themes, and that reliance was expanded upon in the final film, including multiple cases of tracked music. Nevertheless, most themes are introduced in more devolved expression and evolve to their starting point from The Lord of the Rings. There are, nevertheless some puzzling thematic connections: There are various unconfirmed themes and non-thematic recurring figures that are nevertheless important to the storytelling in the score: As with The Lord of the Rings, many soloists performed music for the three films. To support the more Dwarf-centric story, the singers of the end-credit songs were all men, compared to the female ensemble on The Lord of the Rings.  This includes Neil Finn, who performed "Song of the Lonely Mountain" in An Unexpected Journey,   and Ed Sheeran and Billy Boyd for following installments. Richard Armitage appears as a cast performer in the film itself. James Nesbitt also performs a song (of his own composition) in the extended edition of An Unexpected Journey and Barry Humphries performs two songs (one only in the Extended Edition). Within the underscore, Howard Shore utilized soprano voices, featuring Clara Sanabras and Grace Davidson (who often serve as featured soloists in the live performances of his Lord of the Rings scores), often in conjunction with the music of nature or the Elves. Unlike The Lord of the Rings, no boy soprano or young girls were used in the score.  As with The Lord of the Rings, the scores from The Hobbit were also largely vocal works, including choirs and soloists, as well as diegetic music and songs for the end-credits of each film. Howard Shore composed "The Valley of Imladris" - a diegetic piece for lute, lyre, wood flute and harp that is performed in Rivendell, a recapitulation of a piece of music introduced in the underscore previously as Elrond rides into Rivendell to meet the Dwarves. Shore also composed the horn-call at the end of Battle of the Five Armies, which is in fact a statement of the Erebor theme. Other sound effects used in Mirkwood and the Treasure Hoard scene, while non-diegetic, were performed by the orchestra and feature on the album.[note 4] Other diegetic music was composed by The Elvish Impersonators, Stephen Gallaghar and members of the cast, including the aforementioned source songs and a "trumpet fanfare" that sends the Dwarves off to the Mountain. The melody of the "Misty Mountains" song goes on to feature in the underscore. As with The Lord of the Rings, Shore used an immense ensemble, including a large symphony orchestra of 94 to 96-piece; SATBB and boy choirs and featured vocal soloists; additional instruments to augment the orchestra in select passages, and onstage instrumental "bands" - overall over 300-pieces are used.  The scores call for: Shore composed the music for the announcment trailer to the first film, but further trailer music written for the film and the following two - which was written by Audiomachine in the vein of Shore's music - utilized a doubled brass section and added cello parts, as well as various percussion and string instruments (such as sitars and mountain dulcimers). An Unexpected Journey was recorded at Abbey Road Studios with the London Philharmonic Orchestra, with Howard Shore orchestrating and conducting. The Desolation of Smaug and The Battle of the Five Armies, however, were recorded by the New Zealand Symphony Orchestra in the Wellington Town Hall, as was the case of the early parts of The Fellowship of the Ring. The orchestra was conducted by Conrad Pope who, along with James Sizemore, did the orchestrations based on mock-ups and detailed sketches handed over from Shore. The London Voices and London Tiffin' Boys choir provided the choral and soloist parts for all films. Several of the end credits songs were orchestrated by Victoria Kelly (under Shore's supervision) and performed by the London Metropolitan Orchestra, conducted by Robert Ziegler. The London Voices, boy choir and Metropolitan Orchestra were recorded at Abbey Road and AIR Lyndhurst. In The Lord of the Rings original soundtrack releases, several pieces of music have been edited out of their film order so as to create a concert-like program, with concert suites of various themes. With The Hobbit, the original release has been expanded and features most of the music from the film in its chronological order. However, several pieces of music were edited or even conceived as concert suites: "The Hobbit in Four Movements" is a symphony program constructed from "A Very Respectable Hobbit", "Beyond the Forest", "Smaug" and "Ironfoot". Soundtracks for The Hobbit  have been released in an extended, two-disc form, offering over two hours of music each and liner notes by Doug Adams. The music is, for the most part, presented as it is in the film and by the film order, but some pieces were re-edited to augment the listening experience into something more akin of a concert program. The recording is nevertheless incomplete, especially given alternate music used in some of the film scenes,[note 8] although fans have since unearthed much of it and a rarities CD is attached to the upcoming book. The music for the trailer of An Unexpected Journey was released for free by New Line. The soundtrack album for An Unexpected Journey was released on 11 December 2012.  It has been released in both Standard Edition and Special Edition, with both coming in a 2-disc format.  The Geeks of Doom commented that Shore, who recorded the soundtrack at Abbey Road Studios and AIR Lyndhurst in London,  re-used some of the "magisterial musical motifs" from his music for The Lord of the Rings soundtrack, but that he "uses his established themes to launch into a completely original sonic adventure with turns both optimistic and dark, true to the mutual visions of Jackson and Tolkien".  The soundtrack was performed by the London Philharmonic orchestra, London Voices and Tiffin' boy choir, as well as featured vocal and instrumental soloists, namely soprano Clara Sanabras, Richard Armitage as a cast performer and Neil Finn for the end credits song. The two-disc special edition contains six bonus tracks and six extended tracks. The full score was nominated at the 11th Washington D.C. Area Film Critics Association Awards,  and "Song of the Lonely Mountain" received a nomination for the Houston Film Critics Society Awards.  Allmusic's reviewer wrote favourably about the album, but noted that the soundtrack was not as "sweeping and epic as that for [Jackson's] The Lord of the Rings", attributing this to the smaller scale of Bilbo's adventure as compared to the events of The Lord of the Rings.  Examiner.com, however, was very positive and observed that The Hobbit soundtrack fitted the style and tone of The Lord of the Rings, writing that the opening for An Unexpected Journey was much better than that of The Fellowship of the Ring.  In 2013, the score for An Unexpected Journey ranked ninth out of one hundred by Classic FM'S top film scores. The album charted in several countries, reaching the top ten album charts in Korea and the United States. It was also awarded a golden record certification in Canada. *sales figures based on certification alone^shipments figures based on certification alone The soundtrack album for The Desolation of Smaug was released on 10 December 2013 in both Standard Edition and Special Edition. The cover of the Special Edition features the design used for the special edition of the soundtrack for An Unexpected Journey on a purple background. The scoring process was documented in an hour-long feature of the behind-the-scenes footage of the film.. The soundtrack was orchestrated by Conrad Pope and James Sizemore, with Conrad conducting the orchestra.  It was performed by the New Zealand Symphony Orchestra, Wellington University Gamelan Orchestra, London Voices and Tiffin' boy choir, as well as featured vocal and instrumental soloists, namely soprano Grace Davidson and singer Ed Sheeran. The latter's Song, "I See Fire", was released as a single. The special edition contains one bonus track and twelve extended tracks. The soundtrack album for The Battle of the Five Armies was released on 8 December 2014.  Both a Standard Edition and a Special Edition were released. The score was performed by the New Zealand Symphony Orchestra and Wellington University Gamelan Orchestra as it was for The Desolation of Smaug. The London Voices and soprano Grace Davidson provided the vocal performances. For the song, Billy Boyd, who played Peregrin Took in The Lord of the Rings, wrote and recorded the song "The Last Goodbye".  The two-disc special edition contains two bonus tracks and five extended tracks. 