The music in the Civilization video game series has been composed by various composers. The soundtrack of the original Civilization game was available in digital MIDI format. Most of original tunes were composed by Jeff Briggs, while others were taken from traditional or classic compositions, referring to each national culture (civilization) represented in the game. The same music used for the Aztecs was also applied to the Barbarians whenever they invaded a city. Besides the main theme, sometimes known as "Civilization Opening Theme", other tunes used in the game were Ode to Joy from Beethoven's Ninth Symphony in the "leader's day" celebration in cities, as well as the Funeral March from Beethoven's Third Symphony. Civilization II's music is in the Red Book CD-audio format, the same as that found on normal music CDs. The songs are quite varied; some are from the 19th century classical era, such as the Blue Danube Waltz, while others have a tribal, tropical sound to them. The music can be played back through any CD-ROM drive. Over 200 MB of space on the Civilization II CD is taken up by the music, 280 MB is occupied by the videos (many of them are historical footages), whereas the actual program data takes up less than 30 MB. The five different releases of Civilization II have added and subtracted tracks from the mix, with Fantastic Worlds containing the largest number of tracks of all releases. Whenever a player builds a Wonder of the World, a short video with music is played. The music is often taken from other sources: Most videos, however, feature original compositions with often discernible inspiration,  either from Peter Gabriel's soundtrack to The Last Temptation of Christ: Trevor Jones' and Randy Edelman's soundtrack to The Last of the Mohicans (1992): Or various other sources: Civilization III is a 2001 strategy game from Firaxis Games. As the game progresses, the music changes to reflect the era. There are five different mixes that represent the five major cultural groupings of the Civs in the game (European, North American, Middle Eastern, Greco-Roman, and Asian). During diplomatic negotiations with leaders of other civilizations, there are both aggressive and passive tracks for each culture grouping that play depending on the mood of the civilization the player negotiates with. All the music in the game is stored in MP3 format.  The music of the computer game Civilization IV features a large variety of tracks both original and historical, from Gregorian chants to modern minimalism, and makes extensive use of classical music as well as both world music and folk music. Such a focus on the soundtrack and the inclusion of classical, world and folk music are rare among games, though relatively common for strategy games. Original music was created for the expansion Civilization IV: Warlords and includes specifically themed music for each of the several scenarios, and several new Leader pieces. Civilization IV: Warlords  also uses music from Civilization III to fill out some of the areas overlooked in the original Civilization IV, such as music for the "classical" period, and adds eastern music for the Asian scenarios. All tracks are stored on the hard drive in mp3 format, making them perfectly usable outside the game. Original music was composed by Jeff Briggs, Mark Cromer, Michael Curran, and Christopher Tin. Featured composers include John Adams, Gregorio Allegri, Johann Sebastian Bach, Ludwig van Beethoven, Johannes Brahms, Antoine Brumel, Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina, Francisco de la Torre, Josquin des Prez, Antonín Dvořák, Orlande de Lassus, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Johannes Ockeghem, Michael Praetorius, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, Camille Saint-Saëns and John Sheppard. Each of the game's time periods has its own set of background music appropriate for the period. The Ancient and Classical ages are limited to four original tracks that mostly focus on ambience and primitive instruments such as drums and the flute. The Middle Ages feature medieval and renaissance music, both instrumental and chants, such as Kyrie by Ockeghem. The renaissance era uses baroque and classical music by Mozart, Beethoven and Bach. The soundtrack to the industrial period focuses on romantic music by Brahms, Dvořák and Beethoven, with one track each from Saint-Saëns and Rimsky-Korsakov. The modern age's music is composed exclusively of music by American minimalist composer John Adams. Orchestral samples in the game are from the Vienna Symphonic Library, which features recordings of classical music by members of the Vienna Philharmonic.  Each leader has his or her own theme music as well, and each leitmotif has three variants, corresponding to different periods in the game. These are shorter and simpler pieces, from just under 40 seconds to three minutes. Each reflects the leader or country in question: Roosevelt's music is the Marines' Hymn, and Napoleon's is based on La Marseillaise. Some are renditions of famous pieces of classical music, such as Frederick's piece, which is a paraphrase of the fourth of the Goldberg Variations, or Bismarck's, which is the opening theme of the second movement of Beethoven's Symphony No. 3. Others, such as Mao Zedong and Alexander the Great have music that has been modified from earlier games, such as Civilization III. The theme song is "Coronation" composed by Christopher Tin, and the main menu music is "Baba Yetu", also composed by him. The latter features lyrics based on a Swahili adaptation of the Lord's Prayer by Chris Kiagiri. Vocals were performed by Stanford Talisman.  Stanford Talisman performs all the pieces written by Christopher Tin. The other tracks (especially the polyphony from the Medieval section) are performed by a variety of groups, who are not credited on the original soundtrack.  The soundtrack of Civilization V contains many hours of licensed music as well as an original score of primarily leader music written by Geoff Knorr and Michael Curran. The original score features new compositions as well as folk songs and famous compositions. Some of the songs in  the game were released as a 2-disc soundtrack as part of the Deluxe Edition.   The track listing of the soundtrack is:  However, some leader themes, city state themes, and the ambient music are omitted from the soundtrack. The full list of licensed music is as follows:  The following tracks are courtesy of APM Music, LLC: The following are courtesy of Dewolfe Music: The Civilization V expansion, Gods & Kings, includes the soundtrack within the game files. 1. Opening Movie Music 2. Gods & Kings Theme, based on Te Deum 3, 4. Gustavus Adolphus – Sweden – "Du Gamla, Du Fria" 5, 6. Boudicca – The Celts – "Lord Gregory, The Lass of Aughrim" 7, 8. William of Orange – The Netherlands – "In Naam van Oranje" 9, 10. Maria Theresa – Austria – "Requiem Mass" in D minor; "Still Still Still" 11, 12. Attila – The Huns – "Li Ling Si Han" 13, 14. Dido – Carthage – "Hymn to Nikkal" 15, 16. Theodora – Byzantium – "Phos Hilaron" 17, 18. Haile Selassie – Ethiopia – "Traditional melody"; Selassie's National Anthem 19, 20. Pacal – The Maya – "Traditional melody fragments" 21. Fall of Rome 22. The Medieval World – "Messe de Notre Dame" 23. Smoky Skies The second Civilization V expansion, Brave New World, contains the following original music:   The soundtrack for "Civilization: Beyond Earth" was composed entirely by Geoff Knorr, Michael Curran, Griffin Cohen and Grant Kirkhope. The soundtrack was critically acclaimed and won the 2014 IFMCA Best Original Score for a Video Game or Interactive Media, in addition to many other accolades.  Music in Civilization: Beyond Earth includes: Christopher Tin again wrote Civilization VI's main theme, "Sogno di Volare" (translated as "The Dream of Flight"). The theme was written to capture the spirit of exploration not only in "seeking new lands, but also the mental exploration of expanding the frontiers of science and philosophy". Tin has premiered the song at a London concert in July 2016.  The game's original score was written and orchestrated primarily by Geoff Knorr, who was assisted by Roland Rizzo and Phill Boucher.   The themes of each civilization are played as different variations of the same song throughout the eras. In every playable civilization, simple single instrument melodies in the Ancient era turn into orchestra versions of the same melodies in later eras, symbolizing the evolution and growth of one's civilization throughout the ages.  The score was nominated for 2016 Music of the Year by the Game Audio Network Guild.  The first Civilization VI expansion, Rise and Fall, contains the following original music:  