Robert's Rules of Order is the short title of a book, written by Henry Martyn Robert, that is intended to be a guide for conducting meetings and making decisions as a group. Originally published in 1876, it has been revised regularly through the years, including two major revisions, by Robert and his successors based on feedback from users. The earliest editions of his work are now in the public domain. Numerous titles have been published based on the public domain editions by those not associated with the original author nor his successors. As of its publication in 2011, the 11th edition of Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised (RONR) is the only current official version of the body of work known as "Robert's Rules of Order". The following edition "supersedes all previous editions and is intended automatically to become the parliamentary authority in organizations whose bylaws prescribe "Robert's Rules of Order," "Robert's Rules of Order Revised," "Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised," or "the current edition of" any of these titles, or the like, without specifying a particular edition."  The following editions were published by the original author or his successors and were the official editions at the time they were published. They have all been superseded by the current official edition.   For details on the changes between the editions, see Robert's Rules of Order#Changes between editions.  The first six editions were not explicitly numbered as editions in the series within the contents of those books. Explicit numbering of the editions began with the 7th edition and the inclusion of the edition number in the title began with later printings of the 9th edition.  The names for the 4th, 5th, and 6th editions are officially abbreviated ROR (Robert's Rules of Order Revised). The names for the 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and 11th editions are officially abbreviated RONR (Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised). The following book is the only authorized concise guide for the current (11th) edition of Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised and is intended as an introductory book for those unfamiliar with parliamentary procedure.   The following book is an older edition of the official concise guide. The name of the official concise guide is abbreviated RONRIB (Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised In Brief). The following books were not published by the original author nor his successors. Thus the rules in these books may or may not match those in the current official edition.   The following guides were prepared by professional parliamentarians (experts in meeting procedures) who were credentialed with the National Association of Parliamentarians and/or the American Institute of Parliamentarians. The earliest editions of the work by the original author, Henry M. Robert, are now in the public domain. These are the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th editions that were originally published in 1876, 1876, 1893, and 1915, respectively. There are other works with "Robert's Rules" in the title that are unrelated to meeting procedures and the body of work known as "Robert's Rules of Order". The authors of some of these other works had "Robert" as their first or last name. Usually the titles indicate the subject matter in these books. 