Open Space Technology (OST) is a method for organizing and running a meeting or multi-day conference, where participants have been invited in order to focus on a specific, important task or purpose. OST is a participant-driven process whose agenda is created by people attending. At the end of each OST meeting, a document is created summarizing the work of the group. The OST method is based upon work, beginning in the 1980s, by Owen Harrison. It was one of the top ten organization development tools cited between 2004 and 2013.  Harrison Owen, an Episcopal priest and Civil Rights activist, developed the idea of OST in the 1980s, based on his experience that coffee breaks and other unorganized encounters were the most productive parts of formal meetings.  At the time, Owen was considered by many large corporations to be one of several New Age consultants whose methods might encourage employee participation and interest in company problems.  "Open space" meetings are called "self-organizing" because, even though all participants have been invited by meeting sponsor and charged with addressing a pre-chosen theme, the agenda and organization of further discussions are created by the participants. An "open space" meeting usually will start with short introductions by the sponsor and a single facilitator.  The sponsor introduces the purpose; the facilitator explains the "self-organizing" process that is called "open space." Throughout the process, the ideal facilitator is described as being "fully present and totally invisible", "holding a space" for participants to self-organize, rather than managing or directing the conversations.  Because the agenda of an Open Space meeting is emergent, it is impossible to know exactly what is going to be addressed during the meeting.  That said, there are several important outcomes that are specifically built into the process, and some other outcomes that can be built in.  At the end of an open space meeting, notes on the proceedings are usually compiled into a document that is distributed physically or electronically to all participants. Good documentation design is vital for ideas, suggestions, discourse, and improvements; it is part of the pre-work to make a good design.  Several other approaches to meeting organization share one or more features with OST. For example, several approaches other than OST are often called "unconferences", e.g. FooCamp and BarCamp. Both FooCamp and BarCamp are participant-driven, like OST, but neither is organized around a pre-set theme or aimed at solving a problem. The first Foo Camp was organized by Tim O'Reilly and Sara Winge; because Sara had been a student of Harrison Owen, many elements similar to OST are used in Foo Camp.  A design sprint (a meeting technique related to design thinking and pioneered by Google Ventures) is similar to OST in that participants are invited by an organizer to work collaboratively on solving a problem, with the help of a facilitator who is trained in running such meetings. All participants are asked to contribute ideas toward what the problem is and how to solve it, but in a design sprint the facilitator is not invisible but in charge, guiding participants through a (typically) five-day process whose output includes a prototype part-solution and a user-test by some typical "customers."  Some meeting organizers use Open Space techniques in combination with other methods, to avoid what they see as "shortcomings" of OST, for example an atmosphere that is potentially unfriendly for introverts.   