A representative town meeting, also called "limited town meeting", is a form of municipal legislature particularly common in  Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Vermont, and permitted in Maine and New Hampshire. Representative town meetings function largely the same as open town meetings, except that not all registered voters can participate or vote.  The townspeople instead elect town meeting members by precinct to represent them and to vote on the issues for them, much like a U.S. Representative votes on behalf of their constituents in Congress. Representative town meetings (RTMs) vary from town to town, and can vary widely in terms of rules and bylaws. The town of Westport, Connecticut has non-partisan RTMs, where while a member may belong to a party, it may not be advertised as such, and the First Selectman may veto any legislation passed excepting for appropriations.  Wethersfield, Connecticut, however, requires "minority representation" so that no one party can control the RTM.  Groton, Connecticut specifically allows for a valid meeting to take place with no less than half the body present, that the meeting must be open to the public, and that senior town officials such as the town clerk or Superintendent of Schools have all the same rights as members except for voting or raising motions.  Greenwich, Connecticut, with a representative town meeting and a Select Board, is the largest town in Connecticut (61,171 population as of 2010 census) with a town meeting / Select Board style of government. As of January 1, 2013, when Sanford re-incorporated as a city and eliminated its representative town meetings, no Maine cities or towns operate under a representative town meeting form of government.  Open town meeting remains the most common form of local government, dominating in the 431 towns and 34 plantations, while council-manager dominates in the 23 cities. In 1934, the Representative Town Meeting was introduced in Massachusetts, joining open town meeting, mayor-council, council-manager, and city commission as accepted local governances for municipalities having at least 6,000 inhabitants.  Representative or “Limited” Town Meeting consists of Town Meeting Members elected from election districts or precincts and Members-at-Large. Representative Town Meetings may be formed through a special act of the state legislature, by petitioning the General Court to enact a special legislation which applies solely to the individual town, or by using the Home Rule Charter process.  Under the Special Act or charter change processes, even communities of less than 6,000 may adopt a representative town meeting if the residents vote to accept the Special Act or approve a charter-change process.  NH RSA 49-D-3 III. provides for Representative Town Meeting, though no town has adopted this form of government.  The representative town meeting is similar to that of the town council form of government, which acts under a charter and is the legislative and governing board of the town, but have different requirements for their respective charters.   The representative town meeting follows the procedures of a regular town meeting, and have the authority to address all matters which can be legally addressed at the annual or a special town meeting.  Those matters which the law or charter states must be placed on the official ballot of the town, cannot be decided by the representative meeting. To have a representative town meeting, the town must approve a charter which includes the following:  Each elected town official, and the board of selectmen, town clerk, and chairman of the town budget committee are members-at-large.  See Town meeting for more details on the practice in New Hampshire   