 United States w00tstock is a touring variety show billed as "3 Hours of Geeks & Music". It was created in 2009 by Wil Wheaton, Adam Savage and Paul and Storm.   The first shows took place in 2009 in San Francisco and Los Angeles, and as of July 2015, a total of 20 shows had been presented. The name is a play on words combining Woodstock, the notable 1969 counterculture music festival, and w00t, a piece of internet slang that expresses excitement. Though the headliners for the show are Adam Savage, Wil Wheaton, and Paul and Storm, each evening’s performance includes a different group of special guests and is subtitled with a different version number. Swedish American Music Hall, San Francisco, California Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Wil Wheaton. Special guests: Kasper Hauser, Kid Beyond, and Molly Lewis. Swedish American Music Hall, San Francisco, California  Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Wil Wheaton. Special guests: Kid Beyond, and Molly Lewis. Largo, Los Angeles, California  Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Wil Wheaton. Special guests: Josh A. Cagan, Hard 'n Phirm, Jeff Lewis, and Molly Lewis. Special appearances: Felicia Day and Sandeep Parikh. On November 3, 2009, Wil Wheaton stated in a post on his blog "When we sold out two shows in San Francisco, and only had 20 or so seats left vacant in Los Angeles — where it is notoriously difficult to get people to come out to see shows — we knew that in the future, there will be w00tstock v2.x."  Paul and Storm revealed via their Twitter feed on February 2, 2010, that “w00tstock 2.x is officially in play. Details very soon...”   Moore Theater, Seattle, Washington Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Wil Wheaton. Special guests: Jason Finn, Hank Green, Molly Lewis, LoadingReadyRun, MC Frontalot, and Stephen Toulouse. The Aladdin Theater, Portland, Oregon This show was originally billed as "2.0.1" before the extra 2.x cities were announced.  Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Wil Wheaton. Special guests: Back Fence PDX, Jason Finn, Matt Fraction, Hank Green, Molly Lewis, LoadingReadyRun, and Stephen Toulouse. Park West, Chicago, Illinois Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Wil Wheaton. Special guests: Bill Amend, Trace Beaulieu, Tim Cavanagh, Bill Corbett, Jason Finn, Molly Lewis, Kevin Murphy, Len Peralta, and Peter Sagal.  The Guthrie Theater, Minneapolis, Minnesota Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Wil Wheaton. Special guests: Trace Beaulieu,  Tim Bedore, Bill Corbett, Neil Gaiman, Kevin Murphy, Molly Lewis, Len Peralta, Jason Finn and John Scalzi. 4th & B, San Diego, California Scheduled to coincide with the 2010 San Diego Comic-Con International. Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Wil Wheaton. Special guests: Marian Call, Jason Finn, Matt Fraction, Chris Hardwick, Molly Lewis, Len Peralta, Phil Plait, RiffTrax, Jamy Ian Swiss. The Great American Music Hall, San Francisco, California  Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Wil Wheaton. Special guests: Bonnie Burton, Jamais Cascio, Jason Finn, Molly Lewis, Mike Phirman. The Great American Music Hall, San Francisco, California Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Wil Wheaton. Special guests: Molly Lewis, Mike Phirman, Phil Plait, Jamy Ian Swiss. Largo, The Coronet Theater, Los Angeles, California Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Chris Hardwick (substituting for Wil Wheaton). Special guests: Garfunkel & Oates, Molly Lewis, Mike Phirman, Eric Schwartz, Maurissa Tancharoen, Jed Whedon. Special appearances by Dr. Demento and Weird Al Yankovic. Best Buy Theater, New York City, New York Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Jonathan Coulton (substituting for Wil Wheaton). Special guests: Marian Call, Drew Curtis, Jason Finn, Grant Imahara, MC Frontalot. Wilbur Theatre, Boston, Massachusetts Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Bill Corbett & Kevin Murphy (both substituting for Wil Wheaton). Special guests: Marian Call, Grant Imahara, Marc Abrahams. Paramount Theater, Austin, Texas Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Neil Gaiman (substituting for Wil Wheaton). Special guests: Bill Amend, Molly Lewis, Jason Finn, Stephen Toulouse, Mary Jo Pehl, Rooster Teeth. Grenada Theater, Dallas, Texas Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Paul F. Tompkins (substituting for Wil Wheaton). Special guests: Bill Amend, Molly Lewis, Jason Finn, Stephen Toulouse. Balboa Theatre, San Diego, California  Scheduled to coincide with the 2011 San Diego Comic-Con International. Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Wil Wheaton. Special guests: Amy Berg, Ernest Cline, Molly Lewis, RiffTrax, John Roderick, Jason Finn, Mike Phirman Balboa Theater, San Diego, California  Scheduled to coincide with the 2012 San Diego Comic-Con International. Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Wil Wheaton. Special guests: Bonnie Burton, Marian Call, The Doubleclicks, Rob Reid, John Roderick, Patrick Rothfuss, John Scalzi, Joseph Scrimshaw.  Surprise guests: LeVar Burton, Molly Lewis, Grant Imahara. Balboa Theater, San Diego, California Scheduled to coincide with the 2013 San Diego Comic-Con International. Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Wil Wheaton. Special guests: Strong Bad, Homestar Runner, Nathan Sawaya, Patrick Rothfuss, Molly Lewis, Jonah Ray, Garfunkel & Oates, Aisha Tyler.  Surprise Guests: George RR Martin, Neil Gaiman, Grant Imahara. Balboa Theater, San Diego, California   Scheduled to coincide with the 2014 San Diego Comic-Con International. Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Wil Wheaton.  Special guests: Marian Call, Blind Joe Jeffers, Matthew Inman, Mega Ran, Rob Paulsen, April Winchell.  Surprise guests: Cecil Baldwin. Balboa Theater, San Diego California Scheduled to coincide with the 2015 San Diego Comic-Con International. Featuring: Paul and Storm, Adam Savage, and Wil Wheaton.  Special guests: Molly Quinn, Phil Plait, Uke Box Heroes (Miracle Laurie and Christopher May), Patrick Rothfuss,  Alton Brown. Surprise guests: Cecil Baldwin, Alison Haislip, Yuri Lowenthal, Laura Bailey. Finale guests: Greg Benson, Marian Call, The Doubleclicks, Molly Lewis, Hal Lublin, Joseph Scrimshaw, Anne Wheaton. Balboa Theater, San Diego California Scheduled to coincide with the 2016 San Diego Comic-Con International. Featuring: Paul and Storm and Adam Savage.  Special guests: Joel Hodgson, Cameron Esposito, Hank Green, Travis McElroy, Rebecca Watson. Surprise guests: Rhea Butcher, Marian Call, Andrea Datzman, Michael Giacchino, Hal Lublin, David Silverman. Finale guests: Drew Curtis, Patrick Rothfuss. 