GLSEN (formerly the Gay, Lesbian & Straight Education Network) is a United States-based education organization working to create safe and inclusive K-12 schools. Founded in 1990 in Boston, Massachusetts, GLSEN's mission states the organization seeks to end discrimination, harassment, and bullying based on sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression in K-12 schools. In recognition that a more inclusive name was needed, the organization no longer uses its former full name and is commonly known today as GLSEN. The organization is headquartered in New York City and an office of public policy based in Washington, D.C. GLSEN focuses its efforts on the support and opportunities provided by the four pillars of safety, respect, health, and leadership. Through programs, research, policy, training, and resource development work, GLSEN has built a network of 39 GLSEN Chapters in 26 states, 20,000 educators, and more than 8,000 registered student clubs. As of  2018[update], there are thirty-nine chapters across the twenty-six states that train 5,000 students, educators, and school personnel each year.  The chapters also support more than 4,000 registered school-based clubs, commonly known as gay–straight alliances (GSAs), which work to address anti-LGBTQ name-calling, bullying, and harassment in their schools.   GLSEN also sponsors and participates in a host of annual "Days of Action", including GLSEN's Day of Silence every April, GLSEN's Ally Week every September, and GLSEN's No Name-Calling Week every January. Guided by research such as GLSEN’s National School Climate Survey, GLSEN has developed resources, lesson plans, classroom materials, and professional development programs for teachers on how to support LGBTQ students, such as "Safe Schools" training.  Ready, Set, Respect!, Safe Space kits, and program guides for all the days of action. Safe Schools training and various other professional development opportunities have been facilitated by more than 200 GLSEN trainers to over 5,000 educators and school personnel each year.   Ready, Set, Respect! is an elementary school toolkit developed to help educators ensure that all students feel safe and respected.  GLSEN’s Safe Space Kit, which has been distributed to over 63,000 schools in the country, provides educators with a guide for supporting LGBTQ students, as well as Safe Space stickers and posters. Many LGBTQ students, in response to victimization, avoid school altogether, which can strain their performance and lead to academic failure.  GLSEN has advocated that one of the most effective ways for schools, districts and states to improve their school climates and to make their schools safer and more affirming is to enact LGBTQ-inclusive anti-bullying laws and policies. GLSEN has worked with the U.S. Departments of Education, Justice, and Health and Human Services to create model policies that support LGBTQ students and educators, including the first-ever Trans Model Policy, as well as implementation guides to ensure that these policies are considered, passed, and implemented. GLSEN has considered their signature legislation to be the Safe Schools Improvement Act and has been honored by the White House as a “Champion of Change.” GLSEN’s Day of Silence is a national day of action that began at the University of Virginia in 1996 in which students vow to take a form of silence to call attention to the silencing effect of anti-LGBTQ bullying and harassment in schools. GLSEN’s Day of Silence takes place in 8,000 U.S. schools every year and has spread to more than 60 countries. Every January thousands of elementary and middle schools participate in GLSEN’s No Name-Calling Week to end bullying and celebrate kindness. No Name-Calling Week was inspired by the popular young adult novel entitled The Misfits by popular author James Howe, and is supported by over 60 national partner organizations. Every fall, GLSEN’s Ally Week serves to educate allies about the role they play in creating safer and more inclusive spaces for LGBTQ youth. Ally Week was started in 2005 by GLSEN’s Jump-Start National Student Leadership team.  Ally Week is supported by over 20 endorsers and provides allies and educators with resources to become stronger allies to LGBTQ youth. On October 8, 2008, GLSEN and Ad Council released the Think Before You Speak Campaign, designed to end homophobic vocabulary and raise awareness about the prevalence and consequences of anti-LGBTQ bias and behavior in America’s schools among youth, through the use of television, radio, print, and outdoor ads.   The campaign also aimed to raise awareness among adults, school personnel, and parents.  It includes three television public service announcements (PSAs), six print PSAs and three radio PSAs. Television commercials for the campaign include singer Hilary Duff as well as comedian Wanda Sykes. In 2008 the campaign won the Ad Council's Gold Bell award for "Best Public Service Advertising Campaign" from the Ad Council. GLSEN organizes the annual GLSEN Respect Awards to honor leaders, personalities, and organizations who have made significant contributions to LGBTQ youth. Awards are given to organizations, celebrities, students, educators and gay–straight alliances. Since 2004, there have been over four dozen honorees and over $15 million raised in all.   The first Respect Awards were in New York in 2004 and honored Andrew Tobias, author and Treasurer of the Democratic National Committee; MTV Music Television; and student Marina Gatto. Since then, the Respect Awards are held annually in New York in late May and in Los Angeles in late October. Since 2004, there have been over four dozen honorees and over $17 million raised.   GLSEN has been conducting research and evaluation on LGBTQ issues in K-12 education since 1999. GLSEN became the only organization to regularly document the school experiences of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) middle and high school students in the U.S. using GLSEN’s National School Climate Survey.  Other research reports GLSEN has put out include From Statehouse to Schoolhouse: Anti-Bullying Policies in U.S. States and School Districts, Shared Differences: The Experiences of LGBTQ Students of Color in Our Nation's Schools,  Harsh Realities: The Experiences of Transgender Youth in Our Nation's Schools, as well as many other reports, articles, and book chapters.  The GLSEN National Student Council, formerly known as the Student Ambassadors program, is one of GLSEN’s student leadership teams.  Each year, GLSEN selects a small group of middle and high school students to serve as GLSEN youth representatives for the upcoming school year. Students of the National Student Council advise GLSEN on campaigns, bring GLSEN resources to their schools, represent GLSEN in the media, and have their own work published in local and national outlets. The students of the National Student Council receive interview coaching, media training, and attend workshops with GLSEN staff on public speaking, blogging, social media, policy, and understanding power and privilege. GLSEN Chapters, with the support and guidance of the national office, work to bring GLSEN programs to their specific communities on a local level. Chapter board members and volunteers are students, educators, parents and community members who volunteer their time to support students and Gay-Straight Alliances, train educators and provide opportunities for everyone to make change in their local schools. GLSEN has 38 volunteer-led GLSEN Chapters in 26 states that work with student leaders, provide professional development for educators, and encourage policymakers to enact LGBTQ inclusive policies.  In 2000, the leader of the conservative Parents' Rights Coalition of Massachusetts (now known as MassResistance) secretly taped one of the fifty workshops in "Teachout 2000", titled "What They Didn't Tell You About Queer Sex and Sexuality in Health Class: Workshop for Youth Only, Ages 14-21".  Students discussed sex in a workshop "billed as a safe place for youths to get their questions about their sexuality answered" in the session's Q&A section.  A question was asked about fisting and an explanation was provided.   Greg Carmack subsequently suggested that the question might have been planted by those making the recordings.   MassResistance dubbed the incident "Fistgate"   and the tapes generated controversy when they were broadcast over radio.    A state employee who participated in the discussion and was subsequently dismissed filed suit against Camenker and Scott Whiteman as a result of the distribution of the tape recordings,  while others pointed out the legal prohibition against recording people without their knowledge or permission.   According to Bay Windows, a "Massachusetts Superior Court judge ruled that the tape was illegally acquired and therefore an invasion of privacy against those individuals present, who were never told they were being recorded."  Category:LGBT culture 