Trans Student Educational Resources (TSER) is a United States-based organization that seeks to promote the wellbeing of transgender youth. It was founded in 2011 by activists Eli Erlick and Alex Sennello. It is the only national organization led by transgender youth.  TSER provides resources to the public on how to support trans students, such as "safe schools" trainings for teachers, online infographics, and workshops at conferences.   It is most notable for its members' work in media focused on transgender educational justice.     TSER's mission statement reads, Trans Student Educational Resources is a youth-led organization dedicated to transforming the educational environment for trans and gender nonconforming students through advocacy and empowerment. In addition to our focus on creating a more trans-friendly education system, our mission is to educate the public and teach trans activists how to be effective organizers. We believe that justice for trans and gender nonconforming youth is contingent on an intersectional framework of activism. Ending oppression is a long-term process that can only be achieved through collaborative action.  Founded in 2011 by two 16-year-old trans women, Trans Student Educational Resources began as an effort to start transgender policies in school districts in the United States and get more young trans people involved in activism. At that time, there were very few enumerated anti-discrimination policies in place around the country and there was a lack of visual resources on transgender issues. In 2012, TSER began its infographic series, which expanded its audience and member participation.  TSER is also involved in the organizing of the annual Transgender Day of Visibility - a worldwide effort to raise promote the wellbeing of transgender people and to celebrate their successes.    In 2012, TSER began publishing transgender-related infographics. Following its success, the organization released dozens more.  According to director Eli Erlick, TSER's graphics have been publicized by millions of blogs, web sites, and organizations and have been influential in educating the public on transgender issues.  TSER staff have focused on their mission statement of "advocacy and empowerment"  through speaking at conferences   and providing information to those that need it.  TSER also engages in trans youth leadership development, trainings for organizations, teachers, and students, media advocacy, and the creation of a scholarship program for trans students.    In 2014, multiple members of TSER advocated in media for trans-inclusivity at women's colleges.   TSER created the Gender Unicorn  in 2014 to describe the spectrums of gender and sexuality. It was quickly picked up by schools, colleges, and universities across the world and has been translated into over a dozen languages.  In 2016 it was heavily criticized by conservative Evangelical Christians for being used in K-12 schools, leading to protests in Charlotte, North Carolina.   In 2017, the Gender Unicorn was discussed in the Senate of Canada during debate regarding Bill C-16.   In 2014, the organization changed its name from Trans Student Equality Resources to Trans Student Educational Resources, citing that equality is "not enough" for the transgender community.  Category:LGBT culture 