Induction is used to refer to a period during which a Newly Qualified Teacher in England or Wales is both supported and assessed to ensure that regulatory standards are met. Although probation periods for new teachers had only been dropped in 1992, the Teaching and Higher Education Act 1998 introduced arrangements by which the Secretary of State for Education could bring about regulations requiring new teachers to serve a period of induction.  The following year, the then secretary of state, David Blunkett introduced an induction period under The Education (Induction Arrangements for School Teachers) (England) Regulations 1999.  These regulations made it a requirement that all teachers complete an induction period equivalent to one year upon qualification as a teacher. Under current regulations, teachers wishing to work in maintained state schools must satisfactorily complete a period of induction. During this period, a newly qualified teacher is entitled to additional support and subject to regular observation and assessment to ensure that he or she is meeting the required induction standards. Having achieved Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), teachers are expected to continue to meet the standards required for that qualification. In addition, they must meet the 6 criteria set out in the induction standards: In order to support newly qualified teachers in meeting the standards, a number of entitlements are guaranteed by regulations: In addition, all teachers undergoing a programme of induction are subject to assessment processes, including: Induction can only be completed in a restricted range of school types. Similarly, teachers who have not completed, and are not completing, induction can only be employed in such school types under special circumstances Induction can only be completed in eligible schools in the United Kingdom, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Gibraltar or at Service Children's Education (SCE) schools in Cyprus and Germany. Eligible schools are maintained schools, non-maintained special schools, independent schools (with support from either a local education authority or The Independent Schools' Council Teacher Induction Panel, or a sixth form college under certain circumstances. Teachers who have not completed a period of induction are limited in the work they can carry out in eligible schools. Where a teacher is employed in an eligible school for at least one term, he or she must be offered, and must undertake, a programme of induction lasting throughout that period. Teachers who have not completed a period of induction can only work in eligible schools for periods of less than one term during a restricted time-frame. This time-frame begins on the first day that such employment begins, and expires no later than four terms from that date (approximately 16 months). Teachers who have reached this point may seek an extension to this period from the relevant local education authority. Teachers who have not completed a period of induction are eligible to work in independent schools As stated in the statutory guidance on induction for newly qualified teachers in England, there is no set time limit for starting or completing an induction period. The previous ruling that an NQT needed to complete the induction period within 5 years was abolished in September 2008. 