Run Run Shaw Creative Media Centre (Abbreviation: CMC Chinese: 邵逸夫創意媒體中心) is an academic building on the campus of the City University of Hong Kong, which was built in 2011. It is located on Tat Hong Avenue, Kowloon Tong, Kowloon, to the north of City University’s main campus. It was designed by Daniel Libeskind cooperating with Leigh and Orange Ltd. The building received architectural awards from Emporis and International Property Awards.    The contractor responsible for the construction of the building was CR Construction Co. Ltd.,  a Hong Kong subsidiary of Zhejiang Construction Investment Group Corporation.  In 2010, the university received a donation of HK$100 million from the Shaw Foundation. To honor the support, the university named the Creative Media Centre after Sir Run Run Shaw, who is the founder of the Shaw Foundation. Sir Run Run was also a tycoon in movie and television industry and the Shaw Foundation had been donated to support education in Hong Kong and other parts of Asia.   The design of the building is considered as an architectural icon. The building is a typical crystalline design. Not only the appearance, but rough-cut diamond outline can also be found in the lines of structural beams, windows, doors and the linear lighting patterns of the ceilings. The structure is made up of steel and concrete with ceramic tile cladding. Some Chinese culture can also be seen inside the building. The nine-storey building was designed with a prominent range of spaces, light and material, which could create an inspiring environment for research and creativity. The centre also provides some comfortable and inspiring places for visitors, which can let the visitors to feel how cool is this place and how fantastic the design is. Private landscaped gardens, which are on the north of the building, are available for students and public to relax in this well-designed building.   The Creative Media Centre is operated and used by five academic departments at the City University of Hong Kong. This includes the School of Creative Media, Architectural Studies design studios of the Department of Architecture and Civil Engineering and Department of Computer Science under the College of Science and Engineering, Department of English and Department of Media and Communication under the College of Liberal Arts and Social Science. The Centre for Applied Computing and Interactive Media also locates in the building.   This is also where the City University MFA in Creative Writing used to be. The building provides creative media professional courses to the students who want to learn deeply in media. Also, it helps to develop new ideas as well as technologies for the creative industries in Hong Kong, mainland China and overseas. There are a number of theatres, studios, workshops and classrooms in the Creative Media Centre for the use of students from School of Creative Media and Department of Media and Communication. For the School of Creative Media, high standard studios are used for teaching and instructional purposes. The facilities in the studio includes video editing, audio recording, animation creating, photography and post production. Professional facilities such as 3D projection and motion capture can be found in the multimedia theatre which can accommodate 224 people. In addition, the theatre can also be the shooting or screening site that requires a large space. There are also galleries for exhibitions or used to display students’ works.   For the Department of Media and Communication, there is a digital Newsroom associated with control rooms and editing studios. The facilities could only be accessed by staffs from the two departments.  There were a series of world class performances, exhibitions and symposia at City University of Hong Kong which started from October 28, 2011 till April 30, 2012. The purpose was to celebrate the grand opening of this building as being the headquarters of education and training centre in creative media. The opening production included The Four Infinities: a music theatre performance featuring classical Chinese instruments, Movement B: a slow dance which included a 3D projection, and Night of 3Dimension: Hong Kong’s first 3D VJ dance party that combined digital art, 3D projections and electronic music. The first two were world premieres. There were 8 exhibitions presented during the festival, which included Lower Ngau Tao Kok Estate, Sustainable Cinema, White Walls Have Ears, The Burning Edge: Making Space and Activating Form, Microcosm, There Is Still Time..Brother, Pure Land and La Dispersion Du Fills. Five Symposias were organised: Art and Science Symposia-Conjunctions of Artistic and Scientific Practices, Bridging the New and Traditional Media A symposium on ways forward, One World Exposition Symposium, Symposium on Intelligent Computing for Creative Media and Mediated Celebrity: Interdisciplinary Perspectives. A 41 minutes animated piece was also shown on screen which was Adventures of Tom Tomiczky by Hungarian director, Tamas Waliczky.  The Creative Media Center has received several awards on its design. In 2014, the Emporis, an architectural data company, elected the center as one of “the world's most spectacular university building”. In 2013, the best Public Architecture in Hong Kong award was received by the design studio from the International Property Awards. The building was given a five star rating and was representing the Asia Pacific region in the 2013 International Property Awards with other five star winners. In 2012, the building was awarded a BEAM Platinum sustainability rating.     KMB38 - Lung Cheung Road, outside Block 7, Beacon Heights KMB2B (Cheung Sha Wan <> Chuk Yuen Estate) KMB2F (Cheung Sha Wan <> Tsz Wan Shan North) KMB86C (Cheung Sha Wan <> Lee On Estate) KMB86X (Cheung Sha Wan, Monday to Saturday: 6:15 p.m. <> Lee On Estate, Monday to Saturday: 7:45, 8:00 a.m.) Citybus E22 (AsiaWorld-Expo Bus Terminus <> Lam Tin North)  MTR Kwun Tong Line, East-rail line (Kowloon Tong) Coordinates: 22°20′25″N 114°10′06″E﻿ / ﻿22.340172°N 114.168461°E﻿ / 22.340172; 114.168461 