Arch Mission Foundation is a non-profit organization whose goal is to create multiple redundant repositories of human knowledge around the Solar System, including on Earth. It was founded by Nova Spivack and Nick Slavin in 2015 and incorporated in 2016.  The foundation plans "multiple ... Arch libraries intended to preserve and disseminate humanity's knowledge across time and space for the benefit of future generations".  The foundation is technology agnostic and will use whichever storage technology is best for its purposes including multiple technologies. The first method used is "5D laser optical data storage in quartz", which will reportedly remain readable for up to 14 billion years, resist cosmic radiation, and can withstand temperatures up to 1,000°C.   The foundation also plans on spinning off companies based on patents from research groups involved with the technologies it uses to fund itself in the future.  As a proof of concept of the 5D optical data storage technology, Arch made 5 disks each containing Isaac Asimov's Foundation trilogy comprising about 3 megabytes each (the disks can hold 360 terabytes).  The disks were created by Peter Kazansky at the University of Southampton's Optoelectronics Research Centre (ORC), the inventor of the 5D optical data storage technology and who is on Arch Mission Foundation's "Science and Technology Council".  The discs are considered the longest-lasting storage objects ever created by humans.  In December 2017, when Arch co-founder Novak Spivack heard that SpaceX was launching a Tesla into space, Spivack tweeted Musk who jumped at the opportunity to include one on the mission - Musk was a fan of the books. Musk was also given the 1.1 disk for his private library.   The 1.2 disk, named the 'Solar Library' by the Arch Mission Foundation also represents the first permanent space library,  and is projected to orbit around the sun for at least a few million years.   The Solar Library was launched on the SpaceX Falcon Heavy test flight on February 6, 2018, inside Musk's red Tesla Roadster.  The payload was placed in an elliptical orbit that extends nearly 243 million miles from the sun at its farthest point.  Arch hopes to seed the solar system with millions and possibly billions of archives into "all kinds of locations".  It wants to build a permanent library on the moon and on mars.   Arch envisions its small light-weight disks might be an alternative means of moving large amounts of data between Earth and Mars as opposed to radio signals.  Longer term they envision connecting the Arch Libraries through a decentralised read-write data sharing network that spans the Solar System.  Data in the libraries will include Wikipedia, Project Gutenberg, human genomes and other large open-data sets.   They will also allow donations of money to instruct that certain data be included, and will do so without censorship of what can be included.  The foundation cites the likelihood that a being developed enough to find and read the information would already possess significant technology as the reason for not prioritizing scientific data sets.  