The Temple Warning inscription, also known as the Temple Balustrade inscription or the Soreg inscription , is an inscription that hung along the balustrade outside the Sanctuary of the  Second Temple in Jerusalem. Two of these tablets have been found.  A complete tablet was discovered in 1871 by Charles Simon Clermont-Ganneau and published by the Palestine Exploration Fund.  Following the discovery of the inscription, it was taken by the Ottoman authorities, and it is currently in the Istanbul Archaeology Museums. A partial fragment of the inscription was found in 1936 by J. H. Iliffe in Jerusalem's Lions' Gate, and is held in the Israel Museum.   The inscription was a warning to pagan visitors to the temple not to proceed further. Both Greek and Latin inscriptions on the temple's balustrade served as warnings to pagan visitors not to proceed under penalty of death.   Two authentic tablets have been found, one complete, and the other a partial fragment with missing sections, but with letters showing signs of the red paint that had originally highlighted the text.  It was described by the Palestine Exploration Fund in 1872 as being "very nearly in the words of Josephus".    The inscription uses three terms referring to temple architecture:  The tablet bears the following inscription in Koine Greek: ΡΕΥΕΣΘΑΙΕΝΤΟΣΤΟΥΠΕ ΡΙΤΟΙΕΡΟΝΤΡΥΦΑΚΤΟΥΚΑΙ ΠΕΡΙΒΟΛΟΥΟΣΔΑΝΛΗ ΦΘΗΕΑΥΤΩΙΑΙΤΙΟΣΕΣ ΤΑΙΔΙΑΤΟΕΞΑΚΟΛΟΥ ΘΕΙΝΘΑΝΑΤΟΝ  ρεύεσθαι ἐντὸς τοῦ πε- ρὶ τὸ ἱερὸν τρυφάκτου καὶ  περιβόλου. Ὃς δ᾽ ἂν λη- φθῇ, ἑαυτῶι αἴτιος ἔσ- ται διὰ τὸ ἐξακολου- θεῖν θάνατον. reúesthai entós tou pe[-] rí tó hierón trypháktou kaí peribólou hós d'an lē[-] phthē heautōi aítios és[-] tai diá tó exakolou[-] thein thánaton within the balustrade round  the temple and  enclosure. Whoever is caught  will be responsible to  himself for his death,  which will ensue. Several forgeries were promptly prepared following the 1871 discovery.  Clermont-Ganneau was shown a similar artifact at the Monastery of St Saviour, which was later shown to be a forgery created by Martin Boulos.  