Board of Directors: Advisory Board: Student Space Ambassador Program Advisory Board: The Mars Generation is an American internationally active, non-governmental  nonprofit organization involved in public outreach and advocating for human space exploration and science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education. The mission of The Mars Generation is to educate and inspire people of all ages about science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) and human space exploration and the importance of space and STEM to the future of humankind.    The Mars Generation is volunteer-driven by executive and advisory boards with leaders from the space industry including astronauts, engineers and scientists as well as nonprofit, education and business sectors.since its founding in 2015.   In June 2017, The Mars Generation  was recognized with a business innovation award for their use of technology to build the organization and its programs.   This unique approach to creating a nonprofit is credited to the organization's founder and leader Abigail Harrison leveraging her own internet personality as Astronaut Abby to grow the organization. As of August 2017, The Mars Generation and Astronaut Abby  have over one million followers of their combined social media channels and have reached an estimated 25 million. The Mars Generation was founded in 2015 by 18-year-old Abigail Harrison, popularly known as "Astronaut Abby" and has the support of high-level advisory board members which includes astronauts, engineers and scientists as well as nonprofit, education and business professionals.   Harrison started STEM and space advocacy work at the age of 13 by initially setting up a Twitter account under her childhood nickname "Astronaut Abby."  She used her @AstronautAbby  Twitter account to connect with NASA employees to try and procure a quote for her National History Day project.  Her account biography stated that she was aspiring to be an astronaut and had a goal to be the first person to set foot on Mars. After she received the NASA quote, she began to share her journey to Mars which included tweets about space events, school and her personal life with the goal of not only exciting people about mars exploration but creating advocates for human space exploration.  In May 2013, at 15-years old, Harrison partnered with her mentor, Astronaut Luca Parmitano as his Earth Liaison and shared his experience living in space on the International Space Station during Expedition 36 and Expedition 37.   Harrison setup an international outreach program consisting of classroom web chats, an email pen pal program, classroom visits, blogging on AstronautAbby.com, writing for other publications, speaking at events, and sharing on social media.  Initially called the Soyuz Adventure, after Astronaut Parmitano returned to Earth, it was renamed "The Future of Space" and Harrison continued to run the program.   This program was the basis for the development of The Mars Generation nonprofit in 2015.   The Mars Generation offers 3 core programs that are focused on helping the organization reach its mission of exciting and educating people of all ages about STEM education and human space exploration.   The Future of Space Outreach program excites and educates people of all ages about human space exploration as well as STEM education and encourages the support of space exploration and STEM education.    The Student Space Ambassador Leadership Program (SSA) is a dual program in mentorship and leadership designed to provide school and career guidance to students ages 13–24.  The program also provides encouragement for students to share their passion and excitement about space exploration and STEM education as ambassadors within their communities.   This program provides full paid scholarships to include transportation, flight suits and a small spending stipend for students demonstrating financial need to attend U.S. Space Camp.    In order to apply for consideration  students need to be age 15–17, demonstrate interest in space exploration and an aptitude in STEM and complete the application, including obtaining a recommendation from a teacher and/or mentor.   In March 2017,  The Mars Generation announced the launch of the 24 Under 24 Leaders and Innovators In STEAM and Space Awards, a program designed to recognize and encourage  students and young adults who are making a significant impact in the world through space and/or STEAM (science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics).    The Train Like A Martian Challenge  is an annual event sponsored by The Mars Generation that raises awareness about human space exploration and STEM education while encouraging people of all ages to become more physically active. The event challenges participants to participate in a daily activity and share videos and photos of the activity on social media channels using the #TrainLikeAMartian hashtag.  In 2016, The Mars Generation launched its membership program providing a way for people to support the organization while receiving perks that are only available to members. These membership perks include invitations to special events, discounts, updates and offers.   The Mars Generation has several strategic partnerships with organizations to help promote advocacy and excitement for STEM and space exploration. An  outreach partnership was formed in 2016 between The Mars Generation and the Team America Rocketry Challenge (TARC), a nationwide American model rocketry competition that is sponsored by the Aerospace Industries Association and the National Association of Rocketry.    In 2016 an outreach partnership was formed with Explore Mars the organization that hosts the annual Humans to Mars Summit, a leading Mars advocacy and information conference.    An outreach partnership was formed in 2017 between The Mars Generation and National Geographic Kids to promote STEAM awareness through their Guinness World Records rocket project.    As an international outreach organization, The Mars Generation has been invited to attend multiple engagements to talk about the nonprofit and outreach work they do to excite and educate people about space exploration and science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education.  (2015) – The Mars Generation Advisory board member, Astronaut Dorothy Metcalf-Lindenburger gave a TEDx talk titled "The Mars Generation" where she shared her own journey to becoming an astronaut, the past and present of human spaceflight|human space exploration and how The Mars Generation nonprofit is playing a role in the future of human spaceflight|human space exploration.   (2016 & 2017) – The Mars Generation founder Abigail Harrison represented The Mars Generation as a speaker for the 2016 and 2017 Humans to Mars Summit hosted by Explore Mars in Washington D.C.       (2017) – The Mohammed bin Rashid Space Centre located in Dubai, United Arab Emirates invited The Mars Generation founder Abigail Harrison to tour their space agency and speak at their Project Space forum as an representative of The Mars Generation and an international space ambassador     (2017) – The Mars Generation founder, Abigail Harrison represented The Mars Generation as a guest on the live broadcast of the STEM in 30 show produced by National Air and Space Museum of the Smithsonian Institution and sponsored by NASA. The show is geared towards elementary and middle school classrooms.     (2017) – As part of the NASA Kennedy Space Center Visitors Center Summer Of Mars Initiative  The Mars Generation founder Abigail Harrison appeared to speak and for a photo opportunity to represent the nonprofit.   