The Institute on Collaborative Language Research or CoLang is a biannual training institute in field linguistics and language documentation for linguists, fieldworkers, students, members of indigenous language communities and other individuals interested in community-based language work.   CoLang has been described as part of a new collaborative model in community-based methodologies of language revitalization and documentation, where speakers of indigenous languages are valued as equal partners with linguists rather than as research subjects.       The institute happens in even-numbered summers (opposite the Linguistic Society of America Summer Institute) at various American universities,  but it has drawn participants and instructors from around the world, including Australia, Canada, Kenya, Morocco, Nigeria, Singapore and the United Kingdom.    The first part of the institute consists of two weeks of workshops on topics like community archiving, linguistics, audio and video recording, language teaching, and activism.     The workshops are followed by a three or four week practicum where participants work intensively with speakers of a language to document it.  While each individual institute is organized by one or two local director(s), CoLang as a whole is governed by its Advisory Circle, which includes linguistics professors, community linguists, students, and representatives from partner organizations.  The co-convenors of the Advisory Circle as of October 2015 are Ewa Czaykowska-Higgins and Susan Gehr.  Each institute has been funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation's Documenting Endangered Languages program.      The first InField in 2008 resulted in ongoing collaboration between Kennedy Bosire and Carlos Nash for the completion of the Ekegusii encyclopedia   and a dissertation on tone in Ekegusii,  while the fifth CoLang in 2016 resulted in the development of a thirty-year revitalization plan for Kristang in Singapore.  InField/CoLang has also resulted in ongoing community-based linguistics work in Kwak'wala  and Kari’nja,  among others. CoLang was founded in 2008 as InField, the Institute on Field Linguistics and Language Documentation, by Carol Genetti.   The institute was renamed to CoLang and adopted a charter and Advisory Circle in 2012.  CoLang announced a long-term partnership with the Linguistic Society of America (LSA) in 2015.  InField 2008 was held at the University of California Santa Barbara.  The director was Carol Genetti. The practicum languages were Ekegusii,  Kwak'wala,  and Mende.  InField 2010 was held at the University of Oregon.  The director was Spike Gildea. The practicum languages were Northern Paiute, Uyghur, and Wapishana.  CoLang 2012 was held at the University of Kansas. The directors were Arienne Dwyer and Carlos Nash.  The practicum languages were Amazigh, Cherokee, and Uda.  CoLang 2014 was held at the University of Texas Arlington.  The director was Colleen Fitzgerald.  The practicum languages were Alabama, Apoala Mixtec (course in Spanish), Innu, and Ngambai.  CoLang 2016 was held at the University of Alaska Fairbanks. The directors were Alice Taff and Siri Tuttle. The practicum languages were Han, Miyako, and Unangam Tunuu   CoLang 2018 will be held at the University of Florida. The director is George Aaron Broadwell. The practicum languages are  Timucua, Macuiltianguis Zapotec, and  Nyangbo (Tutrugbu). The CoLang Advisory Circle provides long-term stewardship of the Institute and guidance to the Local Organizing Committee for each individual Institute; it also seeks to develop public awareness of CoLang and the institute's commitment toward preserving and sustaining language diversity.  Current as of February 2017 