Brother's Keeper is a 1992 documentary directed by Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky.  The film is about an alleged 1990 murder in the village of Munnsville, New York. The film is in the "Direct Cinema" style of the Maysles brothers, who had formerly employed Berlinger and Sinofsky.  The film contrasts two groups of society; people from rural areas and those from larger cities. It also exhibits how the media flocked to the town to cover the story. This movie displays two completely opposite views of the Ward brothers. One opinion is that of the locals, who defend the Ward brothers as simple country folk. The other is that of the press, who stereotype the brothers as uneducated hicks. The Ward sister was not featured in this film because of her death in the 1980s. However, her daughter Pat makes an appearance in the DVD's special features. In a rural farming community near Syracuse, New York, four brothers lived in a dilapidated house.  The brothers were Roscoe (July 23, 1919 - June 23, 2007) , Lyman George (July 7, 1923 - August 15, 2007) , William Jay (July 10, 1926 - June 6, 1990) , and Adelbert Daniel (known as Delbert) (October 5, 1931 - August 6, 1998) .  The men were barely literate, had no formal education, and farmed land that had been in their family for generations. William Ward, who had been ill for years, was found dead one morning.  Delbert was accused of killing him, perhaps by smothering. The prosecution's theory at trial was that Delbert had performed a mercy killing in order to put William out of his misery after a period of severe headaches and declining health. As the film progresses, it is revealed that during the coroner's examination of William's body, semen was found on clothing and on William's leg, leading to the suggestion that Delbert had killed William in an episode of "sex gone bad." The film never follows up on this media sensation. Delbert Ward was acquitted at trial, largely because the lack of any physical evidence and that the New York State Police violated Delbert's rights by coercing a confession (which he later retracted) and by having him sign a written statement which he could not understand due to illiteracy. Delbert Ward died at age 68 at Bassett Hospital in Cooperstown, New York on August 6, 1998.  Roscoe Ward died at age 88 on June 23, 2007.   Lyman Ward died at age 85 in Utica, New York on August 15, 2007.   The title Brother's Keeper comes from the Book of Genesis in the Bible. When God asks Cain where his brother Abel is, Cain replies, "I know not; am I my brother's keeper?" (Genesis 4:9 KJV) 