Amalia Holst (née Amalia von Justi; 1758–1829) was a German writer, intellectual, and feminist. Her work examined traditional pedagogy and challenged Enlightenment writers such as Jean-Jacques Rousseau. She is often called the German counterpart to Mary Wollstonecraft.  There is still little known about Amalia Holst’s life. She rose to prominence in the late 1700s through her works as a teacher, although she became more widely recognized in the 1970s after her work was rediscovered and published.  Amalia Holst was born in 1758 in Mecklenburg. She is the daughter of Johanna Maria Magdalena Marchand and Johann Heinrich Gottlob von Justi  and the oldest of six children from her father’s second marriage.  Her father was a well-known political economist and the Prussian chief inspector of mines. He was also a feminist, who published pieces advocating for improved women’s education.  When Holst was 10 years old, he was accused of embezzling funds and imprisoned in Küstrin where he died several years later.  After her father’s death, the family was split up. Their possessions had to be dissolved. Holst’s mother went to live with her brother, who was a pastor in Brunswick. Her younger sisters were lodged into a monastery in Potsdam and her brother was admitted into a Danish cadet school. It is unknown what happened to Holst during this time.  In large part due to Justi’s progressive beliefs, Holst was one of only very few women to receive a college education during this time.  She is also said to have received a doctorate in philosophy  from the University of Kiel.  Her name appeared again 20 years later in 1791 when at the age of 33, she married Ludolf Holst, a lawyer as well as the director of the Pedagogical Institute in Hamburg-St Georg. They had three children together, one son and two daughters.  That same year she published her first work, Observations on the Errors of our Modern Education by a Practical Teacher (German: Bemerkungen über die Fehler unserer Modernen Erziehung von einer Praktischen Erzieherin)  after having supported herself through teaching from a young age.  From about 1792-1802, Holst was the headmistress of the preschool that her husband oversaw.  During this time, she also opened several small schools in Hamburg, Wittenberg and Boizenburg. These schools were short-lived however, and the reason for their closings is not known.  Holst published "Letters on Elisa, or Women as they Ought to be" (German: “Breife über Elisa, oder das Weib wie es seyn sollte"), the second of her three known works, in 1799. It was written in response to the novel, which according to Holst dangerously extolled the marital oppression of the title character. In it she also strongly advocated for marital equality and female autonomy. She argued that women should be defined as human beings first and wives second. This was the beginning of her involvement in a larger debate about feminism occurring during this time.  In 1802, Holst published her final work: On the Purpose of Women’s Advanced Intellectual Development (German: Über die Bestimmung des Weibes zur höhern Geistesbildung).  Holst passed away in Groß-Timkenberg on January 6, 1829.  She is memorialized in  Judy Chicago’s installation art piece The Dinner Party which features a triangular table with 39 place settings, each commemorating important women in history. While she is not given a place setting, her name, along with the names of 998 other feminist icons, is inscribed in gold on the white tile floor below the table.  Published in 1791, it criticizes widely accepted conservative pedagogical theories, specifically those of Campe and Basedow.  Holst analyzes their ideas from the perspective of an educator, and points out the flaws and contradictions within them. She also calls attention to the impractical nature of their ideas.  In 1799 Holst responded to the success of the novel Elisa, which appeared in its fifth edition. She wrote four letters to the title character criticizing the self-sacrificing and submissive role of women. This seems to be her first public push for gender equality.  According to Holst, a woman's attachment to her spouse did not detract from her autonomy. However, she also emphasized a woman's responsibility to her domestic duty and referred to her own marriage as "a domestic bliss." In this work, Holst makes the case for higher, ungendered education for males and females alike. This notion was very radical: unlike many of the prominent female-education advocates before her such as La Roche, Herder and Goethe, Holst rejected the idea of separate curriculums for each gender, believing that women could and should learn the same things men do. This was not an accepted idea at the time. Her ideas diverged from most her contemporary equal education advocates as well, including the likes of Hippel, Wollstonecraft and Condorcet: while they were in favor of an advanced public coeducation system, Holst insisted on a professional maternal educator who would instruct her children in all academic disciplines from early childhood through adolescence. Only women who were thoroughly educated themselves were fit to educate the next generation, and thus Holst reasoned that every woman was to be educated. She advocated for an in depth knowledge of history, the sciences, philosophy, geography and the arts. Holst stressed that the most important quality of an effective maternal educator was the ability to draw meaningful connections among all disciplines. She also placed an emphasis on individual perfection, urging women to continually engage in intellectual pursuits throughout the course of their lives.  She made several demands for female education: 