 Black Girl Magic (#BlackGirlMagic) is a concept and movement that was popularized by CaShawn Thompson in 2013.  The concept was born as a way to "celebrate the beauty, power and resilience of black women", as described by Julee Wilson from HuffPost,  and to congratulate black women on their accomplishments.  Referring to a speech made by Michelle Obama at the Black Girls Rock Awards,  Thompson explains that black women around the world persevering despite adversity inspired her to spread the concept of Black Girl Magic.  With these women in mind, Thompson created the social media hashtag, clothing campaign, and rallying cry "Black Girl Magic", in the hopes of counteracting negativity society places on black women.  Though born online, the movement has inspired many organizations across the world to host events using the title. The movement has also seen celebrity support, as singers Corinne Bailey Rae, Janelle Monáe and Solange Knowles have invoked the concept,   and ballerina Misty Copeland and President Barack Obama discussed the idea in an interview with Maya Rhodan for Time and Essence magazines.  Since being popularized, the concept has also gained traction in cultural criticism, invoked in analysis of music   and film.  As its usage has grown, the expression has drawn criticism as well as staunch defenders.   In 2016, poet Mahogany L. Browne created a slam poetry piece entitled "Black Girl Magic".  In 2013, Thompson coined the phrase via the hashtag #BlackGirlsAreMagic— now shortened to #BlackGirlMagic—to create an online dialogue centered around the achievements of black women, in a society that has historically recognized very few of these achievements.  Since being popularized, one can find the hashtag being used on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, and other social media and mainstream media platforms, celebrating positive messages and images of black women all across the globe. In January 2014, Thompson began selling t-shirts sporting the "Black Girls Are Magic" logo that she created with her friend.  At the time, Thompson only meant to sell these shirts to her friends and family, but has since sold over 3,000 T-shirts through her Teespring account.  While the popularity of the shirts started among active social media users, Thompson was quickly surprised to see that people were also buying them as gifts for granddaughters, daughters, and nieces, as they felt that the message was encouraging for young girls too. The shirts have also gained some celebrity recognition, with prominent young black women such as Willow Smith and Amandla Stenberg posting pictures of themselves on various social media platforms wearing their Black Girls Are Magic gear.  "I say 'magic' because it's something that people don't always understand," Thompson told The Los Angeles Times.  She went on to explain how "Sometimes our accomplishments might seem to come out of thin air, because a lot of times, the only people supporting us are other black women." At its core, the purpose of this movement is to create a platform where women of color can stand together against the stereotyping, colourism, misogynoir and racism that is often their lived experience.  As its usage has grown, the concept has also drawn criticism.  While many black women support the concept of Black Girl Magic, some[who?] feel it reinforces the "strong black woman" archetype that black women often confront. In an article for Elle Magazine, Linda Chavers argued that the movement suggests that black women are superhuman, or something other than human.  She goes on to explain how, historically, black women have been seen and treated as subhuman beings, and how the image of black women persevering despite her suffering, is the epitome of the strong black woman type that is often celebrated while simultaneously being criticized in today's culture.  In 2016, Black Girl Magic Ltd was established as an nonprofit organization in an attempt to create a legacy and continuity throughout the UK and Europe. 