Media involvement and tropical cyclones have been carried out in various ways over the past centuries. The passages of hurricanes, typhoons, cyclones, and tropical storms have been reported by newspaper, word of mouth and by telegraph. Since the early to mid-20th century and since 2000, advances in technology have included the radio, television, newsreel footage shown in theaters and mass media, and recently the internet which includes blogs and online news sites that report the coming, passing and effects of tropical cyclones. This article deals the various methods in which the media report tropical cyclones and its effects. Newspaper reports of tropical cyclones and its effects have been in existence in the days before advances in communication came in the mid–19th century. Local newspapers and national newspapers like the New York Times or Washington Post have reported the passage of tropical cyclones and their effects. News agencies such as the Associated Press, Reuters, and United Press International have reported the passage and effects of tropical cyclones. Magazines have had stories written about a specific tropical cyclone or tropical cyclones in general. In early years, magazines reports on tropical cyclones were written in news magazines like Time  and/or magazines pertaining to science and meteorology like Weatherwise or Monthly Weather Review and National Geographic  In the 21st, century however, coverage of tropical cyclones and its effects have been written in more magazines like Vanity Fair,  Forbes  and others. Books about tropical cyclones in general and history or specific tropical cyclones like the 1900 Galveston Hurricane or Hurricane Katrina. These books are ether written by professional meteorologists, scientists or ordinary people. Here's some notable examples of books about tropical cyclones: Before the invention of the radio, electronic media coverage of tropical cyclone was limited to the telegraph which was invented in 1839. A notable example of the telegraph coverage of tropical cyclones was during the 1900 Galveston Hurricane  Along with the telegraph, the radio which came to use for the media and other organizations in the early 1900s was also used to cover tropical cyclones. WX4NHC, an ametur radio station operated by the National Hurricane Center is an example.  