Glenn "G.T." Thompson (born July 27, 1959) is the U.S. Representative for Pennsylvania's 5th congressional district, serving since 2009. He is a member of the Republican Party. Thompson was born in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, grew up in Howard, Pennsylvania, and is the son of a Navy veteran. He holds a bachelor's degree from Pennsylvania State University and a master's degree from Temple University. Thompson worked for 28 years as a Therapist/Rehab Services Manager/Licensed Nursing Home Administrator in Lycoming County, and served for six years as chairman of the Centre County Republican Committee. He has spent twenty-five years as a member or president of the Howard Volunteer Fire Company 14, and also actively volunteers as a fire fighter, emergency medical technician, and rescue technician. Thompson was elected the U.S. Representative from Pennsylvania's 5th congressional district defeating Democrat Mark McCracken 58%–42%.  Thompson defeated Democrat Michael Pipe 69%–28%.  Thompson defeated Democrat Charles Dumas 63%–37%.  Thompson defeated Democrat Kerith Strano Taylor 64%–36%.  Thompson defeated Democrat Kerith Strano Taylor 67%–33%.  In May 2018, Susan Boser, a professor at Indiana University of Pennsylvania, won the Democratic nomination in Thompson's district, defeating Wade Johun in her party's primary.  When the 112th Congress convened January 5, 2011 to elect a Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, Thompson's vote was the 218th vote for John Boehner giving Boehner the majority needed to be named Speaker. During the 112th Congress, Thompson became chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Forestry, Conservation, and Energy. At the start of the 115th Congress, Thompson was named vice-chairman of the House Committee on Agriculture.  Thompson voted in December 2017 for H.R. 1, The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.  In January 2018, Thompson voted for the Fiscal Year 2018 continuing resolution (CR), a stopgap funding bill to fund the federal government at then-current levels through February 16, 2018. It also provided for six-year funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Thompson praised the measure for delaying what he called "three onerous and unpopular Obamacare taxes, which should be permanently repealed.”  In May 2018, Thompson voted for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019, which increased defense spending, military salaries, and the number of military personnel.  As a member of the U.S. House Education and Workforce Committee, Thompson has supported local control rather than federal mandates on issues like evaluating teachers, has opposed private school vouchers, and has voted to expand S-CHIP (children's health insurance). In August 2014, the National Education Association's political action committee endorsed Thompson for re-election.  In October 2017, Thompson and Joe Courtney (D-CT) introduced H.R. 4101, the School Milk Nutrition Act of 2017, a bill to promote milk consumption by schoolchildren.  In April 2018, Thompson supported new work and job training requirements for certain beneficiaries of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), or food stamps. Thompson spoke up for the federal Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), recalling that in the early 1980s, when he earned “less than $9,000,” he and his wife had relied upon WIC, “a short-term intervention program designed to help pregnant women and their children meet healthy nutritional needs.”  After the Parkland, Florida, school massacre in 2018, Thompson told an audience of students that he does not agree with the idea of arming teachers and that he had voted to fund an improved national background check system. Thompson called for more "uniformed law enforcement in our schools."  In May 2017, Thompson voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) and replace it the Republican American Health Care Act.   In April 2017, Thompson and Julia Brownley (D-CA) introduced H.R. 2123, the Veterans E-Health and Telemedicine Support (VETS) Act of 2017. In September Thompson praised the Department of Veterans Affairs for proposing a rule that was similar to his bill and that would allow VA-credentialed health care providers to practice telemedicine across state lines.  Thompson sponsored the Servicemembers' Telemedicine and E-Health Portability Act of 2011, which was enacted as part of part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012. The bill expanded the  use of telemedicine for active duty military, reserve and National Guard.  On the subject of climate change, he has said, “I think humans contribute,” but added that he was not sure of the degree to which they contribute.  In September 2017, Thompson and several other Members of Congress asked the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to rescind the Waters of the United States rule, calling the regulation an overreach that expanded "EPA's authority far beyond its congressional mandate."  In April 2018, Thompson fought efforts to eliminate federal funding for the rural air service.  Thompson is a member of the House Baltic Caucus,  the Congressional Arts Caucus  and the Congressional Western Caucus.  Thompson lives in Howard Township with his wife, Penny Ammerman-Thompson. They have three grown children.  Media related to Glenn "G.T." Thompson at Wikimedia Commons 