 Hiral Vyas Tipirneni /'hɪrəl tɪpɚ'nɛni/ (HEAR-uhl tip-er-NEH-knee) is an Indian-American physician who for 10 years worked in Phoenix, Arizona area Emergency Departments, is a cancer research advocate,  serves on the Board of Directors of the Maricopa Health Foundation,  and was the Democratic nominee for special election for Arizona’s 8th congressional district, which was called to fill the congressional seat after former GOP Representative Trent Franks resigned following a sexual misconduct scandal.  Tipirneni won a special primary election on February 27, 2018,  and was defeated by Republican nominee Debbie Lesko in the general election on April 24, 2018. However, she managed to lower the Republican margin of victory by over 16 percentage points.    Tipirneni is running again in the regular elections in November 2018.   Tipirneni was born in Mumbai, India, and in 1971,  aged 3, with her parents, immigrated to the United States,  and settled in Cleveland, Ohio.  Tipirneni earned her Doctor of Medicine degree from Northeast Ohio Medical University.  Following graduation from medical school, Tipirneni became chief resident in the University of Michigan Health System's Emergency Department,  and later became a member of the Board of Directors of Maricopa Health Foundation,  the fund-raising arm of the Maricopa Integrated Health System.  In August 2017, Tipirneni, a Democrat, announced her candidacy for the congressional seat representing the 8th district then held by Republican Trent Franks.  She later entered the race in the special election for Arizona’s 8th congressional district, following Franks' resignation amidst numerous claims of sexual misbehavior with female staffers.   Tipirneni defeated Brianna Westbrook in the special primary election on Tuesday, February 27, 2018.  She faced Debbie Lesko in the general election on Tuesday, April 24, 2018.   Tipirneni has garnered some national support including endorsements from End Citizens United and Gabby Giffords, the former congresswoman from Arizona.  However, she has received little support from national Democratic campaign groups.  Although a relative newcomer to politics, she has been successful in raising more campaign funds than her opponent and is also outspending Lesko in television ads.  A poll published by Emerson College on April 16 had Tipirneni with "a slight lead, 46 percent to 45 percent."   Another poll published by Lake Research Partners had the candidates tied at 44 to 44.  Tipirneni lost by a relatively small margin in a district that has historical leaned heavily towards her opponent's party. She earned 47.6% of the vote to Lesko's 52.4% in a district that voted for President Donald Trump by a 21% margin.   Tipirneni plans to run again in the regular elections in November 2018.    Her campaign has focused on issues related to health care, education, and retirement security, and emphasizes her "data-driven approach" to public policy.  Tipirneni also advocates for "commonsense" gun control measures, comprehensive immigration reform, and a public health insurance option.  Tipirneni also agrees that Americans have the Second Amendment right to purchase firearms legally in order "to protect their homes, themselves and their families, and for hunting and sport."  Hiral met her husband Kishore Tipirneni during the first year of medical school.  They have two daughters and a son.  