 Chris Hughes (born 18 April 1975) is a British born TV hypnotist, hypnotherapist, speaker, and entertainer.  He is known for attempting to set a world record for the biggest online hypnosis event. The Socialtrance  live event was exclusively for users of Facebook and Twitter and attracted over 1,000,000 listeners from over 130 countries.    Since this event he has become increasingly well known for his modern approach to hypnosis. He featured and appeared on BBC One, BBC Three, ITV , Sky Living, CNN Türk, BBC Radio 2, BBC Radio 5 Live and Talksport with Ian Collins. In the same year on the 31 May, over 13,500 people took part in the Socialtrance Stop Smoking Session for World No Tobacco Day   once again for users of Facebook and Twitter. On World Hypnotism Day, 4 January 2011, Socialtrance returned with a weight loss session for charity which over 30,000 people attended. The live 30 minute hypnosis webcast was designed to modify the eating habits of all participants. At the end of the session a weight loss MP3 was released on iTunes and all other major music sites with all proceeds from the download donated to Diabetes UK.  In September 2011 Hughes appeared on Sky Living's Slave to Food  with Steps singer Claire Richards. During the first episode Hughes is seen hypnotising Claire and trying to help change her relationship with food. Chris Hughes started life as a studio engineer at Chipping Norton Recording Studios working with the likes of Andy Bell from Oasis, Hurricane #1 to name a few. A few years later his interest in programing computers and web development led to his leaving the music world and becoming a full-time computer programmer. During this time he developed an interest in hypnosis, initially for self-development and helping friends with issues like weight control and smoking. He has now been practising as a full-time hypnotist and hypnotherapist for over 7 years and specialises in self-help therapies and hypnotherapy CDs. Chris Hughes attended Bicester Community College in Oxfordshire and then the University of Salford, where he obtained a diploma in sound engineering and acoustics. He then went on to graduate from the Omni Hypnosis Training Centre in Florida and is currently certified with the National Guild of Hypnotists. Chris Hughes has produced a range of self-help hypnosis based recordings including: ASIN B003MIWMZS, Socialtrance - The Stop Smoking Session (2010-05-31) ASIN B004IDKF46, Socialtrance - The Weight Loss Session (2011-01-04) Chris Hughes learned hypnosis from Gerald F. Kein from the Omni Hypnosis Training Centre  in Florida. Kein is an American hypnotist and the creator of Ultra-Height Hypnosis.  