The United Nations Millennium Campaign (UNMC) was a UN campaign unit that was set up in response to the Millennium Declaration signed by 189 member states. Established in October, 2002,  the UNMC aimed to increase support to achieve the Millennium Development Goals and seek a coalition of partners for action. The Millennium Campaign targets intergovernmental, government, civil society organizations and media at both global and regional levels. In 2000, leaders of 189 countries assembled in New York to outline a series of targets to address the most serious challenges in the developing world. The MDGs were an eight-point road map with measurable targets and clear deadlines for improving the lives of the world's poorest people. World leaders have agreed to achieve the MDGs by 2015. In October 2002, two years after the Millennium Declaration was signed, the Millennium Campaign was established by then-Secretary General Kofi Annan and UNDP Administrator Mark Malloch Brown as a response to the failing efforts of governments in keeping their promises and commitments to achieve the MDGs by the target year 2015. Consistent with the call in the Monterrey Consensus for a “global information campaign”, the Millennium Campaign aims to increase support for development assistance, trade opportunities, debt relief, technology transfer and other support needed to achieve the MDGs and, in the process, encourage the emergence of broad, self-sustaining and pragmatic coalitions of partners for action on the MDGs. The global Millennium Campaign targets intergovernmental and international bodies/forums at global and regional levels; national governments and legislatures; civil society organizations; the private sector; and the media. The Millennium Campaign Unit is headed by a Director, reporting to and working closely with the UNDP Administrator. While focusing primarily on building the external dimensions of the Millennium Campaign, the Director also ensures that the unit operates as a bridge to the analytical, communication and campaigning efforts of the UN system.  The director was Corinne Woods, who took office on August 2, 2010. The previous director, Salil Shetty, left office on July 1, 2010. On 15–16 October 2006, 23,542,614 millennials, in over eighty countries around the world set a new Guinness World Record for the largest number of people to "STAND UP AGAINST POVERTY". The United Nations decided to utilize the millennials based on the years of research concluding that for millennials, fulfilling their social worth is the ultimate reward they can get, life for them is an adventure, and so the campaign gives them the biggest movement they have yet to take.  It will capitalize on their eagerness to be a part of something big and meaningful that can create a significant change and empowerment. Since 2007, the UN Millennium Campaign has organized record breaking Stand Up events annually around the world.   The number of participants reached 173 million in 2009. Stand Up 2010 took place from September 17 to 19. 