The Hostmaster Pattern was manufactured by New Martinsville Glass Company (which later became Viking Glass Company) during the 1930s. Though the line was extensive, New Martinsville Hostmaster Pattern is one of the lesser known patterns of Elegant Glass.  There are no reproductions as the mold was melted down to make the Raindrops pattern (line #14).  The New Martinsville Glass Company opened in 1901 in New Martinsville, West Virginia. They were renowned for the use of color in their glassware.  They promoted liquor sets even through Prohibition. The company was renamed Viking Glass in 1944.   Colors for the Hostmaster pattern included Cobalt, Amethyst, Ruby, Amber, Evergreen (dark green), Crystal, and Pink.   Many of the pieces in this pattern are made from a 3 or 4 part mold. All pieces have been fire-polished after being pressed. The surface of the pieces are smooth and glossy. They have few air bubbles and when held up to the light, there are not many ripples or irregularities. The bases of the tumblers and plates have been hand ground down allowing them to lay flat. The creamer, sugars, tea cup, decanter, and ice bucket do not have a ground base.  Repeal: this pattern was released in 1933 to celebrate the repeal of prohibition. The release in included a decanter and other pieces of bar-ware. An advertisement has been found with the title "Repeal Set" over a liquor set, but it is doubtful that this was intended to be a name for the pattern.  Pattern #38: This is the company manufacturer number.  Tea Cups Tea Cup - Cobalt Tea Cup Bottom - Cobalt Tea Cup Side - Cobalt Tea Cup - Red Plates Large Serving Platter - Cobalt Platter Back - Cobalt Plate - Cobalt Plate Bottom - Cobalt Plate Side - Cobalt Saucer Bottom - Cobalt Saucer Side - Cobalt Stemware Water Glass, Wine Glass, Sherbet Tumblers Tumblers in 8oz, 6oz, 4oz, 2oz 7 OZ Tumbler - Cobalt 7 OZ Tumbler - Amber 7 OZ Tumbler - Red Cream & Sugar Cream and Sugar - Cobalt Sugar as viewed from below - Cobalt Sugar - Amethyst Sugar Bottom - Cobalt Sugar Top - Cobalt Bowl Flared Bowl - Amber Decanter Decanter - Red Decanter - Amber Elegant Glass Identification:  