  The Central Institute of Educational Technology (acronym CIET)  is an autonomous organization, formed as a nodal agency under the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) for promoting the use of mass media technology for expanding and improving the quality of education at the school level. The Institute is funded by the Ministry of Human Resources Development, Government of India. The Central Institute of Educational Technology(CIET) was established in 1984 by the Ministry of Human Resources Development of Government of India, under the umbrella of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT).  The Institute is located at NIE Campus, NCERT in New Delhi, the capital of India. The origin of the Institute was effected by merging two departments of NCERT, Center for Educational Technology and Department of Teaching Aids, with an aim to make the new age technologies in mass media available at the school level. The activities of the Institute are centered on the branches of media such as radio, television, movies, satellite communications and cyber media.  CIET is involved in various activities such as design, development and dissemination of alternative learning systems, promotion of Educational Technology, training of personnel in Educational Technology, coordination of activities of its subsidiaries like the State Institutes of Education Technology (SIET) and consultancy and media support to other constituents of NCERT. The Institute is housed in a spacious building with open courtyards, amphitheater, two television studios, two sound studios, technical control rooms, workshop, seminar rooms, rehearsal areas and projection facilities, library, canteen, administrative areas and artists' studios.   The Institute also provides courses in education at bachelors, masters and doctoral levels.  CIET is mandated to:  CIET functions with six vertical divisions, each attending to its own areas of responsibilities.  The Division caters to the two main aspects of media production of video and audio productions under two separate departments. Audio Production Department The department is the production hub of CIET for audio related programs for broadcast and non-broadcast uses. The department also provides educational content for Gyan Vani FM channel,  for broadcast through its stations in Delhi, Lucknow, Bhopal, Patna,  Indore, Mumbai, Jaipur and Allahabad. The programs are aimed at ongoing learning for children, by providing a class room ambience away from schools. It caters to the requirement of students from 3 to 16 years of age and also assists teachers for obtaining curricular study materials not elaborated in the text books. Video Production Department The department produces educational videos for children of 5 to 18 years and teachers at the primary and secondary levels. The programs are produced in both Hindi and English languages. Doordarshan and Gyan Darshan  channels regularly telecast these programs. They are also available in CD and DVD formats. The division is the liaison agency of CIET and prepares the program agenda for submission at Institutional Advisory Board (IAB) and Program Advisory Committee (PAC) meetings of NCERT and monitors the implementation of the approved programs. It also liaises with the Ministry of the Human Resources Development, the State Institutes of Educational Technology (SIETs) located in six States and Educational Technology (ET) cells of the State Councils Educational Research and Training (SCERT). The division is responsible for the documentation of SIET such as annual reports and attends to planning, conduct and dissemination of research. DICT is the information and communications hub of the Institute. It manages the information and communication resources and is engaged in the production of multimedia study materials, training of teachers, propagation of ICT resources among schools in the country and the upkeep and maintenance of CIET web site. CIET conducts regular training programs for teachers and teachers' trainers through direct and distance mode (using EDUSAT network). The training modules are available on such subjects as design of media scripts, production of TV, Radio and Multimedia programs, editing, communication and media research, design of computer graphics, puppets, moppets and low cost teaching and learning materials. The other areas of training are: MRDD division attends to the publicity and propaganda requirements of CIET through the sales of CIET audio and video materials, participation in book fairs and exhibitions, organization of meetings and conferences and preparation of information brochures and catalogues propagating them nationwide. The division is responsible for the procurement, upkeep and upgradation of the technical facilities of CIET such as the art production facilities, audio and video studios and the computer servers with the assistance of qualified technical staff. Library CIET maintains three libraries, each dedicated to audio, video and book collections. The library is stocked with contents on educational technologies, radio, television, communication, films, multimedia in the form of books, journals, CDS/DVDs and multimedia packages. The library is open to outside visitors, too.  Edusat Network CIET utilizes the Edusat, the first Indian satellite exclusively for educational sector. CIET utilizes a Ku-band Sub Hub along with 100 terminals at various locations in India for conventional radio and television broadcast, interactive radio and television (phone-in and video on demand), exchange of data, audio, video and computer conferencing and web based education.   In order to reach all corners of the country, CIET has set up local stations in six states, which operate in coordination with state governments, under the guidance of CIET. The local stations are located at: 