Televisión Educativa, known commonly by its network name Edusat, is an educational television network implemented by the General Directorate of Educational Television of the Secretariat of Public Education of Mexico in 1994 with origins dating to 1968. Edusat is a portmanteau of "education" and "satellite". The government of Mexico implemented Telesecundaria in 1968 to provide secondary education to students in rural areas through broadcast television channels, such as XHGC-TV in Mexico City. With the launching of the Morelos II satellite, Telesecundaria began transmitting on one of its analog channels in 1988. In 1994, Telesecundaria began broadcasting in digital format with the advent of the Solidaridad I satellite and Edusat was born and began transmitting on six channels. The signal was moved to Solidaridad II in 2000. In 2008 Edusat services migrated to Satmex 5, by this time with signal power five times what it was during the Morelos II era and the number of channels increased to 10 with capacity for six more and a larger area of coverage. Today, Televisión Educativa resources are received by more than 36,000 set-top boxes located in Mexico and 1,000 in other areas of the continent. The technological component is managed by the Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes (SCT) and Telecomunicaciones de México (Telecomm). Although the signal is available in all of the Americas (except for the eastern part of Brazil) Edusat services are only offered in Mexico, Central America and certain regions of the United States. Edusat transmits 16 television services, ten of which it programs, in addition to three public radio stations: Two additional services, Aprende and Ingenio TV, are available outside of the Edusat system; Aprende is on cable, while Ingenio TV is the fourth channel in the SPR multiplex. Four Edusat channels are operated by the Instituto Latinoamericano de la Comunicación Educativa (Wikidata) (Latin American Educational Communication Institute): Additionally, various educational television stations in Mexico, particularly university-run stations such as teveunam and XHMNU-TDT in Monterrey, also air a selection of programming from Televisión Educativa. 