Beakerhead is a year-round education and outreach initiative that combines the arts/culture sectors with the science/technology sectors to encourage collaboration, innovation, and science education through interactive art exhibits, engineered installations, entertainment, and workshops. The year-round program culminates in an annual five-day phenomenon consisting of over 60 citywide events every September in Calgary, Alberta, Canada – drawing international presenters and attendees. Through public art installations, science on the streets, and community and school competitions, Beakerhead promotes the progression of education at the intersection of arts, science, and engineering. Since its inception in 2013, Beakerhead has become one of Calgary's largest collaborations, bringing together students, artists, scientists, engineers, Calgarians, and tourists in indoor and outdoor public spaces and venues throughout Calgary. Presenters have included: former astronaut and musician Chris Hadfield,  ArcAttack, Zimoun, Bee Kingdom Glass, Wu Tang Clan's GZA, Dr. Chris Emdin, MondoSpider, El Pulpo Mecanico, Amanda Parer, and CompressorHead. In 2016, more than 130,000 people attended Beakerhead.  Notable Beakerhead partners and collaborators have included Alberta Ballet, Alberta College of Art + Design, Calgary Zoo, Canada Science and Technology Museum, Canadian Space Agency, Glenbow Museum, Mount Royal University, National Music Centre, Royal Tyrrell Museum, SMART Technologies, Southern Alberta Institute of Technology, TELUS Spark, Theatre Calgary, and University of Calgary. Beakerhead Big Bang is an interactive public art proposal and residency program that helps support the creation of new artwork, which will debut in Calgary during the five-day long Beakerhead event every September. The program invites artists, architects, scientists, and other creative professionals to propose an interactive public art installation that incorporates science, technology, and collective experience. The selected project will be funded by Beakerhead and built in Calgary over the course of a year, beginning with a weeklong planning residency hosted at Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity. The inaugural Big Bang Residency was awarded to the BASS SHIP by Beama.The BASS Ship, which stands for Beama Applied Sciences Sector Ship, is a 30-foot high interactive audio-visual spaceship that invites participants to explore ideas about non-verbal communication, culture, and civilization. Beakerhead works with the kindergarten to grade 12 education system to provide curriculum-related experiences that allow students to explore the combination of both artistic and scientific skills. In 2015, Beakerhead worked with 24,200 students in 104 participating schools. The current school programs include field trips, school visits, and an annual Ingenuity Challenge. For the past ten years, the co-founders of Beakerhead, Jay Ingram and Mary Anne Moser, have hosted a science and communications program at the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity where participants could learn to present science with a compelling, audience-focused approach. Previously, the SciComm labs have been intensive two-week summer courses, but, as of 2017, Beakerhead is extending the program and offering courses across Canada. Previous course sessions included "Elevator Pitch," "Personalizing the Impersonal," "Audience-Focused Communications," and "Improv." The first edition of Beakerhead took place September 11–15, 2013. The main events and attractions included: The second edition of Beakerhead took place September 10–14, 2014. The main events and attractions included: The third edition of Beakerhead took place September 16–20, 2015. The main events and attractions included: The third edition of Beakerhead took place September 14–18, 2016. The main events and attractions included: 