The Center for Advanced Materials (CAM) is an umbrella organization institute that hosts faculty members and researchers involved in materials research. It provides the opportunities for collaborative research projects between academic and industry experts as well between faculty members and students.  The Center for Advanced Materials (CAM) works under Qatar University’s Office of Vice President for Research. The Center continues to expand its research profile both nationally and internationally through the establishment of a variety of research programs. In order to facilitate this type of high-profile research, its   facilities, are constantly upgraded with the installation of major new equipment having the latest technology.  It intends to have brighter, border-less innovations in the fields of Material Science and Engineering to help build a sustainable society in accordance with Qatar National Vision 2030 and to contribute to economic progress  by  developing  advanced  materials for new technologies, lowering the cost and enhancing the performance of more established technologies. The center addresses the problems, challenges, and opportunities facing the state of Qatar's gas processing industry. The center is focused on two main themes which are Asset Management/Process Optimization and Sustainable Development. The services provided by the center have been designed to address the necessities and challenges of both Qatar University and the Qatari Industry. These services include: CAM’s research clusters are, broadly grouped into	the	following	areas :	Metallurgy, Sustainable	 Materials,	Corrosion,	Polymer Materials and Renewable Energy Resources. The Center for Advanced Materials recently installed unique equipment for the investigation and determination of mechanical properties of materials in dynamic mode.  Environmental Studies Center (ESC), Center of Advanced Materials (CAM) and Central Laboratories Unit (CLU) are accredited to International Standard ISO/IEC 17025:2005 (General requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories) by the American Association of Laboratory Accreditation (A2LA).  The researchers at CAM have different backgrounds including materials science, chemistry, physics, biology, engineering and other related fields.  'AL-Bairaq is a non-profit educational project carried out by Center for Advanced Materials (CAM) at Qatar University and located in Doha, Qatar.  AL-Bairaq serves secondary schools students with a curriculum that focuses on science, technology, engineering and math (STEM fields), along with a strong soft skills components.  AL-Bairaq students work in teams with university-level scientists on practical scientific problems in authentic contexts. Any student at Qatari secondary school (independent & international), regardless of gender, nationality, socio-economic status, or special needs is eligible to participate.  