Darlene Cavalier is an advocate for public participation in science and science policy, a writer, and an entrepreneur.  She is a Professor of Practice at Arizona State University, School for the Future of Innovation in Society and the Center for Engagement and Training in Science and Society.  She is the founder of SciStarter, an online citizen hotspot that connects people to citizen science projects around the world.  In 2016, Cavalier co-organized  Citizen Science Maker Summit, hosted by ASU.  In 2017, Cavalier was appointed to the National Academy of Sciences' Committee on Designing Citizen Science to Support Science Learning  to identify and describe existing citizen science projects that support science learning in both formal and informal settings.  The committee will develop a set of evidence-based principles to guide the design of citizen science. Cavalier is also the co-founder of the Expert and Citizen Assessment of Science and Technology (ECAST) network , co-editor of The Rightful Place of Science: Citizen Science,   author of The Science of Cheerleading , a member of the Environmental Protection Agency’s National Advisory Council for Environmental Policy and Technology  and a  founding member  of the Citizen Science Association, a membership organization dedicated to the dissemination of scholarship related to designing and implementing citizen science.  She is also the founder of Science Cheerleader, an organization of more than 300 current and former NFL and NBA cheerleaders pursuing careers in science, technology, engineering and math. They playfully challenge stereotypes, inspire young women to consider STEM careers, and help people from all walks of life get involved in science. The organization plays on her former position as a cheerleader for the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team.  In 2013, the Science Cheerleaders partnered with the Pop Warner organizations to lead the "world's largest cheerleading cheer," an event that was recognized by Guinness World Records.  The Science Cheerleaders have been featured on national and international media outlets and serve as principal investigators in research projects including Project MERCCURI, a study of microbes on the International Space Station.   Cavalier earned a bachelor's degree from Temple University and a master's degree from the University of Pennsylvania where she studied the role of citizens in science.  She is a Professor of Practice at Arizona State University's Consortium for Science, Policy, & Outcomes, and the Center for Engagement and Training in Science and Society. She lives in Philadelphia with her husband and four children. She is a senior advisor and contributor to Discover Magazine.    She served on the steering committee of Science Debate 2008. In addition to Discover, her writing has appeared in science publications such as the New York Academy of Sciences Magazine  and Science Progress .  Her work has been featured on the Today Show , CNN, Fox National Headline News, the Washington Post, Lab Out Loud,  and other media outlets. New York Academy of Sciences 