The College of Science (COS) of De La Salle University was originally part of the College of Arts and Sciences. In 1982, the departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics separated to form the College of Science while the liberal arts departments formed the College of Liberal Arts. Although the College of Science is the youngest and the second smallest college formed in the university, its contribution to the academe and to the country has had tremendous impact to scientific research development and nation-building. And thus in recognition of their efforts, all of the Science and Mathematics programs of the college have been granted the recognition of Center of Excellence in the Philippines by the Commission on Higher Education. The Department of Biology focuses itself in laboratory work, lectures, research, and field trips. The Department boasts of its advanced facilities, located in the either St. Joseph Building and in STRC Building. It is a Center for Excellence in Biology by CHED. The Department of Chemistry has been awarded as a center of excellence by the CHED.  It has since been teaming up with the various departments of the university to provide Engineering and Liberal Arts students with the important facts of Chemistry. The Department also encourages the use of computers in Chemical analyses. The Department has three programs, Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, Bachelor of Science in Chemistry Minor in Business and Bachelor of Science in Biochemistry. Established in 1946, the Department of Mathematics trains its students in logical thought, critical analysis, imagination, and problem solving. It also handles graduate and undergraduate courses in the College of Business and Economics, Liberal Arts and Education. It was awarded as a center of excellence by the CHED. The Department of Physics was recognized by the CHED as a Center of Excellence. The Department caters to a variety of interests in physics: solid-state physics and material science, medical instrumentation, laser physics, instrumentation physics, quantum field theory, and physics education. 