Don Buckley, M.Sc Zipporah Miller, M.A.Ed. Mike Padilla, Ph.D. Kathryn Thornton, Ph.D. Grant Wiggins, Ed.D. Interactive Science is an American K-8 science program that utilizes the practices in science instruction, featuring the Understanding by Design learning framework, the 5-E Instructional Model, and an emphasis on science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), as well as 21st Century skills.  It is organized into three pathways – Reading, Inquiry and Digital. A range of multimedia resources are available with the Interactive Science program, and student and teacher editions are now available on eText for iPad.  * Don Buckley, M.Sc Don Buckley, a founder of New York City Independent School Technologists (NYCIST) and chair of New York Association of Independent School’s annual IT conference, has taught students on two continents and created multimedia and Internet-based instructional systems for schools around the world. * Zipporah Miller, M.A.Ed. Zipporah Miller, is the former K–12 science supervisor and STEM coordinator for the Prince George’s County (MD) Public School District. Miller has overseen curriculum development and staff training for more than 150 district science coordinators. * Mike Padilla, Ph.D. Michael J. Padilla is a professor of science education and the former Director of the Eugene T. Moore School of Education at Clemson University in Clemson, South Carolina. He was formerly a professor, associate dean and department chair of Science Education at the University of Georgia. Dr. Padilla has taught science in the middle and secondary school, has expertise in middle grades teacher education and served as one of the writers of the U.S. National Science Education Standards, released in 1996. * Kathryn Thornton, Ph.D. Selected by NASA in May 1984, Dr. Thornton is a veteran of four space flights. She is currently the Associate Dean for Graduate Programs in the University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science. * Grant Wiggins, Ed.D. Co-author (Wiggins and McTighe) on the textbook Understanding by Design published by ASCD, Grant Wiggins is the President of Authentic Education in Hopewell, New Jersey. * Michael Wysession, Ph.D. An author on more than 50 scientific publications, Dr. Wysession was awarded a Packard Foundation Fellowship and Presidential Faculty Fellowship for his research in geophysics. He is an expert on Earth's inner structure and has mapped various regions of the Earth using seismic tomography, and an Associate Professor in Earth and Planetary Science at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri. 