 TMRO (pronounced tomorrow, formerly known as Spacevidcast), is a network of live and on-demand HD webcasts about technology, science, space, and human society. TMRO was established as Spacevidcast in 2008 by husband and wife team Benjamin and Cariann Higginbotham. TMRO's stated goal is  In contrast to most space-related podcasts, TMRO is produced independently and is not associated with any governmental or private organization, which sets it apart from other shows like NASA Edge or Hubblecast.   In 2011 the show hosts were hired by SpaceX, however there is no tie between SpaceX and TMRO. In addition to traditional episodes, TMRO also offers some audio and text content as well as content provided through the crowdfunding platform Patreon, including Google Hangouts and early access to TMRO After Dark. There is also a TMRO subreddit for viewers to discuss space and show topics. The program was awarded the Best Presentation of Space award during NewSpace 2010.  The show is divided into an opener and three main segments. The first segment is Space News, discussing launches, technology, and spaceflight events that have occurred since the previous episode. Podcaster Michael Clark often talks about SpaceX news and provides input on other space topics. The second segment includes that episode's featured topic, which may be an interview or a discussion on a particular topic. During the third segment, viewer comments relating to the previous episode are read and discussed. TMRO Space was the original TMRO (and Spacevidcast) show before new shows were added. In 2015 TMRO began producing Space Pods, which are short videos about various space-related topics. Space Pods are typically presented by either Michael Clark or Jared Head, with others occasionally presenting, including Benjamin Higginbotham and Tim Dodd. Lisa Stojanovski and Ariel Waldman formerly hosted Space Pods. TMRO Science was launched with once monthly shows hosted by Lisa Stojanovski, Athena Brensberger, and Jade Kim.  TMRO Cities premiered with one episode in 2017, but was immediately placed on hiatus. Spacevidcast has covered a number of live events such as Shuttle and Soyuz launches, the Phoenix Mars landing, the launch of Jules Verne ATV, the GLAST Space Telescope, Chandrayaan-1, Shenzhou 7, the Kepler Mission as well as commercial satellite launches. The website was one of many outlets to broadcast a live feed of the lunar impact by NASA's LCROSS spacecraft and participated in Guy Laliberté's Poetic Social Mission Event: Moving Stars and Earth for Water. These events are usually summed up in short daily clips dedicated to one or two events. Additionally, Spacevidcast streamed NASA TV with an accompanying chat room through UStream live 24/7 with an HD video feed during launches and other significant events. The Spacevidcast team was the official event webcaster for the X Prize Foundation's 2008 Northrop Grumman Lunar Lander Challenge. Spacevidcast streamed continuously from Las Cruces, New Mexico on October 24 and 25. The hosts were on site to interview team leaders and VIP guests. The podcast was also the only media outlet to cover the "Rocket Racing League at Spaceport America" announcement by the governor of New Mexico, Bill Richardson. Spacevidcast was the exclusive webcaster of the 2009 International Space Development Conference, an annual event hosted and organized by the National Space Society. As part of its coverage, the hosts provided live video webcasts of the main presentations as well as an option for viewers to send questions via the chat room. The videos were also made available on demand. In addition to direct coverage of the conference, Spacevidcast also broadcast a regular weekly show from the ISDC 2009 setting and the hosts participated in a panel discussion on May 29 entitled "Space Media 2.0". Spacevidcast was the exclusive webcaster of the 2010 SpaceUp San Diego unconference, the first major space BarCamp-like event hosted by the San Diego Space Society. As part of their coverage, the hosts provided live video webcasts of many of the presentations as well as much of the Ignite talks. The videos are now available on demand. The quality of these videos is low only because of a lack of internet connections at the conference and spotty cell phone coverage. Spacevidcast was the exclusive webcaster of the 2010 Space Frontier Foundation NewSpace Conference, a yearly conference for NewSpace leaders to meet and organize the future of the NewSpace movement. Benjamin and Cariann provided live coverage of each of the talks during the weekend. The videos are now available on demand (some are Epic subscriber-only). Spacevidcast was the exclusive webcaster of the 2010 SpaceUp Washington D.C. unconference, the second space BarCamp-like event hosted by Evadot founder Michael Doornbos. As part of their coverage, the hosts provided live video webcasts of many of the presentations and Ignite talks. The videos are now all available to watch on their YouTube channel. Spacevidcast is the exclusive webcaster of the 2011 SpaceUp San Diego unconference, the third space BarCamp-like event hosted by the San Diego Space Society and the first repeat SpaceUp, held on February 12–13, 2011. Cariann Higginbotham, co-host of Spacevidcast, is attending the event and, assisted by corporate and private sponsors, will be providing live video webcasts of many of the presentations and T-5 talks (similar to Ignite talks). The videos will be available to watch on their YouTube channel and will be viewable live on their website. Spacevidcast is the exclusive webcaster of the 2011 SpaceUp Houston unconference, the fourth space BarCamp-like event hosted by the Clear Lake NSS/Moon Society and the Lunar and Planetary Institute on February 12–13, 2011. Benjamin Higginbotham, co-host of Spacevidcast, is attending the event and will be providing live video webcasts of many of the presentations and demonstrations. The videos will be available to watch on their YouTube channel and will be viewable live on their website. Spacevidcast was one of the first sources to get High Definition Space Shuttle launches online. These shows progressed until Spacevidcast was granted media access to the Kennedy Space Center Press site for STS-132 through the end of the program. The Spacevidcast shuttle coverage was marked as Wired Magazine's three best ways to watch a shuttle launch online.  During season 7, TMRO left YouTube streaming and moved to Livestream for more stable live streaming. During season 7, TMRO transitioned from its previous donor on-demand service, called Epic, to the crowdfunding website Patreon.  