Aviva Method is a physical exercise system that claims to stimulate the related glands for optimal reproductive hormone secretion. The name of the method is given by its developer, Aviva Gabriella Steiner, a Hungarian origin Israeli ballet dancer and PE teacher. The Aviva Method is a registered trademark within the European Union: it cannot be used without the approval of the Aviva Foundation. The trademark registration can be checked on the European Union Intellectual Property Office Website: https://www.oami.europa.eu/eSearch/#basic/1+1+1+1/50+50+50+50/Aviva%20Method  Aviva Method teachers claim to have good results  with slack pelvic floor, incontinence, PCOS, irregular menstruation cycle and menstrual problems, fertility.  AVIVA Method was developed by the Hungarian origin Israeli AVIVA Gabriella Steiner after 28 years of research and experiment. She’s brought up by parents, whom, active in sport, taught her to rely on the curing effect of physical movements in case of any health problems. She always believed that as we can control bowel movement and release of urine, it is possible to control the female periodic cycle. She learnt everything about movements as a student of Gertrud Kraus, the world-famous Israeli ballet dancer, then as a ballerina in the Opera House of Tel Aviv, later as a physiotherapist at the Medical University and in the Hadassah University Clinic. Finally, between 1966 and 69 when teaching gymnastic and health restoring exercises for women of 40plus, she could successfully find the key for her exercise system. The discovery happened when her exercises resulted in menstruation for even those in the group who thought to pass menopause. Gabriella Steiner then crystallized her technique until she, together with the practicing person, could achieve these results consistently, and she built a series of exercises consisting out of 18 dance looking like steps. Toma Ŝik,  an Israeli pacifist, brought the method out from Israel around 1997. Later on, one of Aviva Gabriella Steiner’s students, a Hungarian yoga instructor and PE teacher, Livia Toth combined the method with diet and reached good results with several feminine health problems. Based on the Aviva Method Adelheid Ohlig developed Luna Yoga. 