Calisthenics (American English) or callisthenics (Commonwealth English) are exercises consisting of a variety of gross motor movements—running, standing, grasping, pushing, etc. — often performed rhythmically and with minimal equipment, so essentially, bodyweight exercises. They are intended to increase body strength, body fitness, and flexibility, through movements such as pulling or pushing oneself up, bending, jumping, or swinging, using only one's body weight for resistance; usually conducted in concert with  stretches. When performed vigorously and with variety, calisthenics can provide the benefits of muscular and aerobic conditioning, in addition to improving psychomotor skills such as balance, agility and coordination. Many consider calisthenics as "movement through space", meaning you can move freely without any restriction blocking your full strength. Urban calisthenics are a form of street workout; calisthenics groups perform exercise routines in urban areas. Individuals and groups train to be able to perform advanced calisthenics skills such as muscle-ups, barspins, and both front and back levers. Sports teams and military units often perform leader-directed group calisthenics as a form of synchronized physical training (often including a customized "call and response" routine) to increase group cohesion and discipline. Calisthenics are also popular as a component of physical education in primary and secondary schools over much of the globe. In addition to general fitness, calisthenic exercises are often used as baseline physical evaluations for many military organizations, such as the U.S. Army Physical Fitness Test and the U.S.M.C. Physical Fitness Test. The word callisthenics comes from the ancient Greek words kallos (κάλλος), which means "beauty" or "beautiful" (to emphasize the aesthetic pleasure that derives from the perfection of the human body), and sthenos (σθένος), meaning "strength" (great mental strength, courage, strength and determination). It is the art of using one's bodyweight as resistance in order to develop physique. According to the Encyclopædia Britannica it was named after one of its earliest proponents, the Greek historian Callisthenes, even if it has been adapted to English with wrong spelling.  Disciples of Friedrich Ludwig Jahn brought their version of gymnastics to the United States, while Catherine Beecher and Dio Lewis set up physical education programs for women in the 19th century.  Organized systems of calisthenics in America took a back seat to competitive sports after the Battle of the Systems, when the states mandated physical education systems.  Calisthenics is associated with the rapidly growing international sport called street workout. Street workout as a sport consists of athletes competing against one other by each showing their body-weight strength and control in timed routines to impress a panel of judges. The World Street Workout & Calisthenics Federation (WSWCF) based in Latvia orchestrates the annual National Championships in up to 50 different countries (as of  2015[update]) and hosts the World Championships for all the national champions to compete at one competition. The World Calisthenics Organization (WCO) based in Los Angeles, CA. promotes a series of  competitions known globally as, Battle of the Bars(R). The WCO created the first ever set of rules for  true 1 vs 1 competitions, including weight classes, timed round system, original judging criteria and a 10-point must system - giving the increasing number of athletes worldwide an opportunity to compete in these worldwide competitions. In addition to the various stretches, some of the more common calisthenic exercises include: Especially for calisthenics training there is a rising amount of centralized outdoor fitness training areas. These calisthenics parks  are central modules with equipment like pull up bars, monkey bar, parallel bar and wall bars at one location. The bars are connected to enable transfers between the elements. 