Kinesiological Stretching is a type of neuromuscular physical exercise  meant for stretching a particular muscle.    Named after Kinesiology,  this technique is used to get more flexibility, range of motion and strength at the same time with the view of  attaining new range of flexibility functional and applicable to leg lifts, kicks, split jumps, dance, gymnastic, yoga, cheerleading, ballet, martial art techniques etc.   This neuromuscular technique is widely used to minimize the risk of muscle injuries during stretching done to attain muscle flexibility.   Kinesiological stretching isolates muscles' actions one by one. It concentrates mainly on the muscles which are tighter than the others. This stretching method goes deeper and also helps in acquiring flexibility and strength faster than other methods of stretching.   The basic use of this technique is to train and stretch a particular muscle, whereas the traditional methods like dynamic stretching, static stretching, PNF stretching etc. are mostly concerned with more than just one muscle simultaneously.   Kinesiological stretching is used to train particular muscles to attain motion beyond the normal range. Generally there are various limiting factors for different muscles to attain a range of motion beyond the normal range, and these limiting factors are known as passive limiting factors. Kinesiological stretching eliminates these passive limiting factors.   Kinesiological stretching is used to avoid the stretch reflex, while increasing the range of motion of a specific muscle. This is strikingly different from previously known stretching techniques, which look to increase the ROM (or Range of motion) in a specific degree of freedom of a joint or group of joints.  The stretching method is also used in the treatment of abnormal scapulothoracic joint combined with the patient's awareness of his/her postural faults.   Just like other types of stretching exercises, Kinesiological stretching can lead to injuries especially when performed in a hurry. Engaging in the stretching method without completing the required motion properly can lead to muscle strains or tears.    