Netpulse is an American fitness technology company, and a provider of branded mobile apps for health clubs. Netpulse was founded in 2001 by Thomas Proulx, the co-founder of tech giant Intuit, and Bryan Arp. Tom and Bryan’s vision for the company was to put a screen in front of every treadmill and exercise bike to capture the untapped advertising potential in gyms. Netpulse quickly became the leader in connected cardio equipment, and thousands of facilities all over the world use Netpulse software in their treadmills, exercise bikes and ellipticals. Netpulse has received $40M funding from August Capital, Nokia Growth Ventures, DFJ Frontier. The company's board of directors includes, Mark Mastrov (founder of 24 Hour Fitness) and David Marquardt, the first institutional investor in Microsoft, who has been a member Microsoft's board of directors for the last 33 years.  Branded Mobile Apps Health clubs all over the world use Netpulse branded mobile apps as their hub for communication and engagement. Club operators use the app to drive revenue by boosting member referrals, PT sales and member engagement. Club members use the app to register for group exercise classes, track workouts, connect with their favorite fitness devices, redeem club rewards and deals, and access important information about their club.  Cardio Technology Netpulse amplifies the digital experience on cardio equipment from leading manufacturers. Clubs using Netpulse enabled equipment are able to engage more members, drive revenue and create an integrated experience—all within a club’s brand. Netpulse offers an extensive developer SDK and API for cardio manufacturers to add exciting engagement features to their cardio consoles. The Netpulse platform is backed by xID, a universal sign-in that members can use to track workout data on connected cardio equipment and their branded mobile club app. Thousands of clubs across the world use xID in their cardio equipment.  Many of the largest club chains use Netpulse branded mobile apps, including Gold’s Gym, Retro Fitness and UFC gym. Cardio OEM manufacturer customers include Life Fitness, Matrix, Cybex, Startrac, Octane, True and Woodway. Partners Netpulse partners with many of the largest organizations in the fitness industry, including IHRSA, FIT-C and REX. They also integrate with many club technology providers like ABC Financial, MyZone and Dotfit.  Netpulse acquired Virtual Active in 2011, a San Francisco-based media company that produces exercise-focused, virtual reality products. Former Virtual Active Founder John Ford has since been promoted to Co-CEO of Netpulse.  Netpulse acquired Club Apps in 2014, one of the largest providers of custom club mobile applications. The acquisition expanded the Netpulse platform to an additional 700 clubs in the U.S. It also resulted in, Kelly Sweeney, co-founder and former president of Club Apps, joining Netpulse as Vice President of Sales.  Netpulse is an assignee of United States Patent 7022047, Interface for controlling and accessing information on an exercise device, which was patented on April 4, 2006.   