In strength training and fitness, the squat is a compound, full body exercise that trains primarily the muscles of the thighs, hips and buttocks, quadriceps femoris muscle (vastus lateralis, vastus medialis, vastus intermedius and rectus femoris), hamstrings, as well as strengthening the bones, ligaments and insertion of the tendons throughout the lower body. Squats are considered a vital exercise for increasing the strength and size of the legs as well as developing core strength. Squats are typically used to hone back, thigh, and hip stability.  Isometrically, the lower back, the upper back, the abdominals, the trunk muscles, the costal muscles, and the shoulders and arms are all essential to the exercise and thus are trained when squatting with the proper form.  The squat is one of the three lifts in the strength sport of powerlifting, together with deadlifts and bench press. It is also considered a staple in many popular recreational exercise programs. When people discuss volume, the equation is sets performed times number of repetitions times external weight.  Adding resistance to squats has been shown to affect the power and speed of the exercise.  Though free-weight numbers fit nicely into the volume equation, adding resistance can complicate the equation and make volume less easy to calculate.  More specifically, people have found that they can increase resistance while exercising by utilizing chains or rubber bands.  One study discovered that the physical demand of exercises with resistance increases in a linear relationship with intensity.  Differences in energy expenditure during squatting can be attributed to the various forms of movements, intensities, weights, repetitions, and types of items (Smith machine or barbell).  Individuals who are interested in strength training can utilize barbell squat in training and rehabilitation programs.  If executed with proper form, the squat has the potential to develop knee stability.  On the other hand, if done incorrectly, injuries to the knees and back can occur.  The parallel squat is one way to increase knee flexion while activating the quadriceps and hamstrings.  In the standard squat, it is crucial to have the shin vertical to minimize stress on the knee.  Variations in squats include various knee placements and squat depths. For example, knees can be placed in knees in, knees out, and knees over toes; whereas squats can be performed at roughly 20°, 50°, and 80°.  The parallel squat is more preferred than the deep squat because the potential of injury on the cruciate and menisci ligaments is higher in the latter.  Gluteus maximus (glutes), quadriceps (quads)  The movement begins from a standing position. Weight is often added; typically in the form of a loaded barbell but dumbbells and kettlebells may also be used. When a barbell is used, it may be braced across the upper trapezius muscle (a high bar squat) or held lower across the upper back and rear deltoids (a low bar squat).  The movement is initiated by moving the hips back and bending the knees and hips to lower the torso and accompanying weight, then returning to the upright position. Squats can be performed to varying depths. The competition standard is for the crease of the hip (top surface of the leg at the hip joint) to fall below the top of the knee;  this is colloquially known as "parallel" depth.  Confusingly, many other definitions for "parallel" depth abound, none of which represents the standard in organized powerlifting. From shallowest to deepest, these other standards are: bottom of hamstring parallel to the ground;  the hip joint itself below the top of the knee, or femur parallel to the floor;  and the top of the upper thigh (i.e., top of the quadriceps) below the top of the knee.  Squatting below parallel qualifies a squat as deep while squatting above it qualifies as shallow.  Some authorities caution against deep squats;  though the forces on the ACL and PCL decrease at high flexion, compressive forces on the menisci and articular cartilages in the knee peak at these same high angles.  This makes the relative safety of deep versus shallow squats difficult to determine. As the body gradually descends, the hips and knees undergo flexion, the ankle extends ("dorsiflexes") and muscles around the joint contract eccentrically, reaching maximal contraction at the bottom of the movement while slowing and reversing descent. The muscles around the hips provide the power out of the bottom. If the knees slide forward or cave in then tension is taken from the hamstrings, hindering power on the ascent. Returning to vertical contracts the muscles concentrically, and the hips and knees undergo extension while the ankle plantarflexes.  Two common errors include descending too rapidly and flexing the torso too far forward. Rapid descent risks being unable to complete the lift or causing injury. This occurs when the descent causes the squatting muscles to relax and tightness at the bottom is lost as a result. Over-flexing the torso greatly increases the forces exerted on the lower back, risking a spinal disc herniation.  Another error where health of the knee joint is concerned is when the knee is not aligned with the direction of the toes. If the knee is not tracking over the toes during the movement this results in twisting/shearing of the joint and unwanted torque affecting the ligaments which can soon result in injury. The knee should always follow the toe. Have your toes slightly pointed out in order to track the knee properly. Some common squat posture mistakes include:   Various types of equipment can be used to perform squats. A power cage can be used to reduce risk of injury and eliminate the need for a spotting partner. By putting the bar on a track, the Smith machine reduces the role of hip movement in the squat and in this sense resembles a leg press.  The monolift rack allows an athlete to perform a squat without having to take a couple of steps back with weight on as opposed to conventional racks. Not many powerlifting federations allow monolift in competitions (WPO, GPC, IPO). Other equipment used can include a weight lifting belt to support the torso and boards to wedge beneath the ankles to improve stability and allow a deeper squat (weightlifting shoes also have wooden wedges built into the sole to achieve the same effect). Wrist straps are another piece of recommended equipment; they support the wrist and help to keep it in a straightened position. They should be wrapped around the wrist, above and below the joint, thus limiting movement of the joint. Heel wedges and related equipment are discouraged by some as they are thought to worsen form over the long term.  The barbell can also be cushioned with a special padded sleeve. On 8 October 2011, Jonas Rantanen of Finland performed a squat with a weight of 575 kg (1268 lb) at the Bullfarm Powerlifting Championships in Helsinki, beating the previous record by Donnie Thompson (USA) of 573 kg (1265 lb).  The single-ply squat record is held by Dustin Slepicka (USA) at 500 kg (1102 lb).  The raw world record with knee wraps is 500 kg (1102 lb) performed by Vlad Alhazov on 22 July 2017.  and on September 2017 Mojtaba Maleki equalized this record   The raw world record without knee wraps belongs to Ray Williams who lifted 485 kg (1053 lb) on 4 March 2018, at the Arnold Classic in Columbus, Ohio.  The women world record belongs to Olga Gemaletdinova who lifted 310.0 kg (684 lb) on 5 May 2011.  The most squats with 130 kg in two minutes was Netherlands woman Maria Strik. She squat-lifted a weight of 130 kg, 29 times within two minutes.  The most bodyweight squats performed in one hour is 4,708 by Paddy Doyle (UK) on November 2007.  The most bodyweight sumo squats in one hour is 5,135, and was achieved by Dr. Thienna Ho (Vietnamese) on December 2007.  Silvio Sabba from Italy has : The squat has a number of variants, some of which can be combined: Although the squat has long been a basic element of weight training, it has in recent years been the subject of considerable controversy.  Some trainers allege that squats are associated with injuries to the lumbar spine and knees.  Others, however, continue to advocate the squat as one of the best exercises for building muscle and strength. Some coaches maintain that incomplete squats (those terminating above parallel) are both less effective and more likely to cause injury  than a full squat (terminating with hips at or below knee level). A 2013 review concluded that deep squats performed with proper technique do not lead to increased rates of degenerative knee injuries and are an effective exercise. The same review also concluded that shallower squats may lead to degeneration in the lumbar spine and knees in the long-term.  Squats can be used for some rehabilitative activities because they hone stability without excessive compression on the tibiofemoral joint and anterior cruciate ligament.  It is important to note that deeper squats are associated with higher compressive loads on patellofemoral joint.  As a result, it is possible that people who suffer from pain in the patellofemoral joint cannot squat at increased depths. For some knee rehabilitation activities, patients might feel more comfortable with knee flexion between 0 and 50° because it places less force compared to deeper depths.  Another study shows that decline squats at angles higher than 16° may not be beneficial for the knee and fails to decrease calf tension.  Other studies have indicated that the best squat to hone quadriceps without inflaming the patellofemoral joint occurs between 0–50°.  Combining single-limb squats and decline angles have been used to rehabilitate knee extensors.  Conducting squats at a declined angle allows the knee to flex despite possible pain or lack of mobilization in the ankle.  If therapists are looking to focus on the knee during squats, one study shows that doing single-limb squats at a 16° decline angle has the greatest activation of the knee extensors without placing excessive pressure on the ankles.  This same study also found that a 24° decline angle can be used to strengthen ankles and knee extensors.   