Street workout is a physical activity performed mostly in outdoor parks or public facilities. It originated in Ancient Greece, but became a popular movement in Russia, Eastern Europe, and the United States, especially in New York City, Baltimore's urban neighborhoods and Myanmar.   It has now spread all over the world. It is a combination of athletics, calisthenics, and sports. [unreliable source?] Street workout is a modern name for bodyweight workouts in outdoor parks. Street workout teams and organized competitions exist. A typical street workout routine often consists of physical exercises such as pull-ups, chin-ups, push-ups, dips, muscle-ups, sit-ups and squats. Street workout also involves some static (isometric) holds such as the human flag, front lever, back lever and planche. [unreliable source?] Street workout is divided in two main branches, the first one being strength training and the second dynamics. Strength training includes the isometric holds like: planche, front lever, back lever, etc. Also, strength training includes single arm pull ups, hefestos, muscle-ups and many others. Dynamics includes movements like 360s and its variations, switchblades, and an incredible variety of tricks developed by the athletes which are connected with other moves in order to create routines or sets. Some of the main benefits of street workout activities are:  At the beginning of the 21st century, classic exercises were modified and combined with elements from other sports. The starting point of the whole was New York. Through the sports parks there, people could do their workout without fitness studios. Sport or workout parks consist mostly of different pull-up bars, bars and hammocks, so that training is mainly with one's own body weight. Different groups developed their own style by combining classical calisthenics with exercises from gymnastics, break dance, hip hop and freerunning, or to develop new movements themselves. These groups presented videos of the novel form of calisthenics on the internet and thus triggered a regular boom, especially in Eastern Europe. In 2011 the first World Championship for Calisthenics / Street Workout in Riga was held. The WSWCF is the World Street Workout and Calisthenics Federation. Since then, a world championship has been held every year. Among the best-known representatives of the modern calisthenics are the groups Barentaz, Baristi, Barstarzz, Bar-Barians and Street Workout Ukraine, and individuals such as Hannibal for King and Frank Medrano. A typical street workout routine  consists of: Street workouts are usually performed outdoor or in specifically designed street workout parks. A typical street workout park looks like a playground with a soft underground and consists of several bars, poles and other objects used for body weight exercises.  In street workout, people often create teams. 2011 The first World Championship took place in Riga, Latvia, August 27–28, 2011.  Winners of Street Workout World Championship 2011 Freestyle category: 1st place: Evgeny Kozyr (Ukraine)  Winners of Street Workout World Championship 2011 Power category: 1st place: Artjom Shipilo (Latvia) 2nd place: Janis Losevs (Latvia) 3rd place: Deividas Smailys (Lithuania) 2012 In 2012 the World Championship took place in Riga, Latvia, August 4, 2012.  1st place: Yevgeny Kocherha (Ukraine) 2nd place: Yevgeny Kozyr (Ukraine) 3rd place: Nikolay Labanov (Russia) 2013 The third World Champion ship was held in Riga, Latvia, August 3, 2013.  1st place: Andzej Zilo (Lithuania) 2nd place: Vadym Oleynik (Ukraine) 3rd place: Akos Szarka (Hungary) 2014 The fourth World Championship took place in Moscow, Russia, July 26, 2014.  1st place: Eryc Ortiz (France) 2nd place:. Christopher James Luera  (USA) 3rd place: Robert Polonski  (Lithuania) 2015 The fifth World Championship took place in Riga, Latvia, April 22, 2015.  1st place: Eryc Ortiz (France) 2nd place: Robert Polonski (Lithuania) 3rd place: Daniel Laizans (Latvia) 2016 The sixth World Championship took place in Moscow, Russia, July 23, 2016. 1st place: Hassannejad Payam (Iran) 2nd place: Daniels Laizans (Latvia) 3rd place: Viktor Kamenov (Bulgaria) 2017 The seventh World Championship took place in Moscow, Russia 1st place: Daniels Laizans (Latvia) 2ste place: Viktor Kamenov (Bulgaria) 3ste place: Enghu Mohd Ikhwan (Malaysia) The World Street Workout and Calisthenics Federation (WSWCF) is a non-governmental and non-profit organisation operating worldwide. It was founded April 8, 2011. WSWCF's main office is located in Riga, Latvia.  The current president of the WSWCF is Maris Slezins.  The objectives of the WSWCF are:  1.     worldwide development of street workout sport as a social movement and as a professional sport; 2.      ensuring that street workout is officially recognized worldwide as a type of sport; 3.      worldwide attraction of new members to the street workout; 4.      creation of new street workout training places worldwide. 5.      worldwide promotion of street workout sport, including distribution of information about street workout on international level, organization of international educational and qualification-raising events, cooperation with national and international governmental and non-governmental entities and organizations; 6.      aligning and coordinating the activity of national and regional street workout unions and organizations; 7.      organization of international street workout contests, including regional and world street workout championships, development and approval of rules of such contests; 8.      development and implementation of internationally recognized procedures for obtaining and maintaining of qualification of street workout instructors, including procedures for training and certification of instructors; 9.      by means of its activity to facilitate the improvement of the society members' overall health condition and quality of life, to facilitate the social integration among different society layers and hence to contribute to development of a better civic society in national and international level. 