The TriBalance Yoga Method is a form of hot yoga that integrates aspects of several styles, including Ashtanga Yoga, Iyengar Yoga, Yin yoga, and therapeutic yoga. The style emphasizes mind-body-spirit union and action meditation. One concept behind the TriBalance Method is self-discipline and modernization of an ancient tradition. One aspect of early yoga was as a martial art, which warriors would practice to be strong and limber for battles. Another is Tapas, which is a Sanskrit word that translates literally to heat. In yogic discipline it means ecstasy, burning out negativity on the journey to enlightenment. It is an egalitarian method of yoga emphasizing modifications of poses and use of props, designed to help students gradually grow strong enough to perform the full posture on their own.  It emphasizes mindfulness and action-meditation. From the moment they enter the room until the moment they leave, students are asked to observe silence between classes to quiet their minds. Lastly, the TriBalance Method emphasizes helping students to uncover their practice, rather than teaching it to them. Though TriBalance yoga is hot yoga, it differs from Bikram in many ways. Corey Kelly and Shawnda Falvo opened TriBalance Yoga in 2007. Kelly had worked as a personal trainer for 10 years, as well as training in martial arts, before discovering yoga. He then had an intensive, year-long study with a live-in yoga instructor Shiva Kumar Madayya, the world-class yoga champion who won many competitions in India. There he was first introduced to Iyengar and therapuetic yoga. Kelly trained in Bikram, but wasn't totally satisfied with the one sequence and monologue. He was inspired by class and conversations with Mac McHugh at Niyama Yoga,  Gabriel Halpern from Yoga Circle,  and Paul Grilley of Yin yoga. He determined that heat is a benefit but there could be many styles of hot yoga. He gradually created the TriBalance Method, integrating different aspects of his yoga practices with his background as a personal trainer and experience with sports injuries. He and his partner Shawnda run the first TriBalance studio in Schaumburg, IL. 