Dror Benshetrit is an artist, designer and inventor based in New York City. He opened his studio Dror in 2002 in New York, and has since amassed an award-winning portfolio of product, interior, installation and architectural design. His major works include a structural support system named Quadror, the masterplan of Galataport in Istanbul, Turkey, and the Cappellini Peacock chair. His studio partners with top tier companies, developers, and institutions including but not limited to Alessi, Bentley, Tumi, Levi’s, Boffi, Louis Vuitton, and Target  . Having gained a strong international foothold, Dror’s work is in the permanent collections of major museums in North America, Europe and the Middle East,  including the Metropolitan Museum of Art.  With main headquarters located in Chelsea, New York, the Dror studios work on projects of every scale that aim to rethink design typologies, promote well-being, and foster the connection between people and nature.  Projects are characterised by their innovation, boundless imagination, and experimental spirit.  The firm’s first architectural project consisted of a high-end residential masterplan for Nurai, a private island off the coast of Abu Dhabi.  Out of profound admiration for the Persian Gulf’s carpet making, Dror designed 24 beachfront villas covered by a carpet of grass.  The 49 properties sold in 72 hours before construction had even begun, and the project was dubbed the “Most Luxurious in the World” by Newsweek Magazine.   During his academic career, he grew interested in and inspired by the work of Isamo Noguchi, Achille Castiglioni, and Buckminster Fuller.  At age 25, he moved to New York City and opened his studio.  His first commercial product, The Vase of Phases, is a vase that appears to be shattered and then put back together, symbolizing the processes and experiences humans go through which shape them into who they are. Manufactured by Rosenthal, the product went on to become the recipient of the 2006 IF product design award.  Miami Lift Award Red Dot Award in Product Design Good Design Award IF Product Design Award     