Mitra personal mover  is a personal mobility battery-operated vehicle which is suitable for narrow lane and excessive walking areas like factories, warehouses, airports, apartments, etc. The vehicle is capable of carrying a single person which is considered to be useful particularly in airport corridors, institutional campuses and in speciality buildings such as hospitals where low noise pollution is required. The vehicle is twin motor based and works on unique hybrid steering mechanism developed by inventors Rishabh Sinha and Subhav Sinha. Mitra was used at Commonwealth Games 2010 held at New Delhi. It was also featured in CII- I3 National Fair Exhibition, organised jointly by CII, Agilent Technologies and DST( Department of Science and Technol0gy, India).  Mitra was displayed at the 10th Auto Expo held at Pragati Maidan in New Delhi, India.  It is also considered to have the  potential to be developed as a personalized transport for the 2010 Commonwealth Games, especially within the large stadium complexes.  Subhav Sinha, one of inventors, was selected as the 'International Climate Champion' for year 2010, a program run by British Council.  The creation has been covered by CII (Confederation of Indian Industries) in Journal of Small Business and Enterprise as "Mitra shows path of Innovation".   The Economic Times has featured their exhibition at The Auto Expo with the article 'Personalised mover' draws eyes at Auto Expo'   Entrepreneur India magazine has also featured Mitra in its start-up section in the article 'Mobility Gets Personal'.  Techpedia, a portal of technology projects by students, an initiative of SRISTI (society for research and initiatives for sustainable technologies and institutions) has featured this vehicle in the list of its top-ranking projects.  The vehicle has been covered by leading daily locals like The Hindu,  and Deccan Chronicle.  Rishabh Sinha and Subhav Sinha have developed the Personalised Mover - Mitra. This vehicle is self balanced and has both stand and sit provisions for a single person. Its unique alignment of wheels gives the vehicle additional stability by controlling the position of centre of gravity, and prevents the person from falling while accelerating, braking or during sharp turns. Being battery operated, this vehicle is eco friendly    as it does not emit any effluents and consumes less energy compared to existing petrol and diesel vehicles. It will greatly help in accumulating carbon credits in future. Mitra, takes in a space of around a person and can be useful in reducing the traffic congestion 