Manav Rachna College of Engineering, Faridabad Gifted Citizen Prize 2016,  MIT TR35 by Technology Review, Nominet Trust 100,   Roopam Sharma,  FRSA (born 24 May 1995) is an Indian Scientist and innovator creating Social impact through disruptive technological inventions and solves perennial problems. Roopam is best known for his work on Manovue, the technology which enables the visually impaired to read printed text and is meant to replace the braille language. His research interests include Wearable Computing, Mobile Application Development, Human Centered Design, Computer Vision, AI and Cognitive Science. Roopam was recently awarded the Gifted Citizen Prize 2016   and has been listed as one of the top 8 Innovators Under 35 by the MIT Technology Review for the year 2016 in India.    Roopam believes that people with passion can change the world for the better and is always inspiring others to bring a positive change and think differently. Roopam was born on May 24, 1995 in Faridabad, Haryana, India to Nirmal and Krishna Dutt Sharma. He has a brother Rahul and a sister Priyanka. Roopam comes from a very humble, middle-class family. He is an alumnus of Ryan International School, Faridabad and Modern Vidya Niketan, Faridabad and went on to study Bachelors of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering at Manav Rachna University in Faridabad, Haryana. It wasn’t out of any of his creative desires that he chose Engineering. He and his parents thought that engineering was one career where he would not starve. Roopam began his research and innovation journey during his sophomore year of undergraduate school at Manav Rachna University with a belief that students who worked in research and development in college got better job opportunities but destiny had other plans for him. Roopam's contributions to the society proves that he innovates for the betterment of the society.  Roopam's project Manovue , which is the world's first intelligent personal assisting system for the visually impaired.    It's an inexpensive technology that does 3 main things: Manovue brings employ ability, Independence and Empowerment to the visually impaired and is meant to replace the braille language, the cane and will open up the smartphone market to the visually impaired. Manovue was awarded as the winner of  the Microsoft Imagine Cup 2015  and Yahoo Accenture Innovation Jockeys season 4.    He was listed on the MIT Tech Review 35 under 35 list in 2016.  Roopam was recently awarded the Gifted Citizen Prize 2016.  Each year the Gifted Citizen Prize is given to the best social entrepreneurship project that has the ability to benefit 10 million people over the next six years. This international prize honors the passions of those that seek to develop real solutions to humanity’s most pressing issues. He has also been listed as an innovator under 35 in 2016 by the Technology Review. Each year Technology Review discovers and presents new generations of Innovators Under 35, the young leaders developing hard technologies to solve the major global challenges of today in remarkably different ways and impacting the lives of millions of people around the globe. Roopam was also named as a judge for the  Living Talent Masterpiece 2017      and  Accenture Innovation Jockeys Season 6  . The following is the list of notable awards and achievements received:  Media related to Roopam Sharma at Wikimedia Commons 