Trungram Gyalwa Rinpoche (Trungram Gyaltrul Rinpoche) (born 1968) is the head of the Trungram lineage and one of the highest tulkus of the Kagyu lineage of Tibetan Buddhism. He has received extensive transmissions of the Nyingma lineages, and teaches in the spirit of the nonsectarian Rimé movement. He is also the first incarnate lama to earn a Ph.D. in the West, having completed a doctoral program in Indo-Tibetan Buddhist Studies at Harvard University. Widely recognized for his ability to modernize ancient Buddhist teachings for today’s challenges, he is dedicated to the value of education in bringing wisdom to life. To realize this vision, he has founded organizations throughout Asia and the United States. Born into a Nepalese Sherpa family, Trungram Gyalwa was recognized by Rangjung Rigpe Dorje, 16th Karmapa, as the 4th Trungram Gyalwa Rinpoche, the reincarnation of the 3rd Trungram Gyalwa.  Trungram Gyalwa was born on the mountain of Tsari, near Daporijo, Arunachal Pradesh, India in 1968, into a Sherpa family from Nepal. As a very young boy, Trungram Gyalwa had a transparent abdomen, which eventually led his parents to take him to Nepal at the age of 18 months to seek out the 16th Karmapa, supreme head of the Kagyu lineage. In a public audience at Swayambhunath, Kathmandu, before his parents had a chance to speak with the Karmapa, the 16th Karmapa recognized the child on sight as the “intentionally reborn” manifestation (tulku) of the 3rd Trungram Gyalwa. The 16th Karmapa explained Trungram Gyalwa's marking as a symbol of his predecessor’s realization of Mahamudra practice. The 16th Karmapa proclaimed the boy as the 4th Trungram Gyalwa, with the formal name of “Trungram Karma Tenpai Gyaltsen Trinlay Kunkyab Pal Sangpo” and bestowed him with dharma robes at Dabsang monastery near Baudha, Kathmandu in 1970. He gave him Buddhist refuge vows, and wrote a long-life prayer for him. Trungram Gyalwa was enthroned at the age of four at Rumtek Monastery, the main seat of the Karmapa, in Sikkim, India.   Gyalwa Trulku was the name of the first incarnation of the Trungram Gyalwa lineage. Gyalwa was his personal name; Trulku refers to incarnation. Since this first Trugram Gyalwa belonged to the Trungram teaching lineage and was well respected by people, his full name was Trungram Gyalwa Trulku Rinpoche. This name is quite long, so he often used Gyaltrul, the shortened form of Gyalwa Trulku, making the name Trungram Gyaltrul Rinpoche.  The 4th Trungram Gyalwa Rinpoche is also known as Trungram Gyaltrul Rinpoche, and, to a lesser degree, Drungram Gyaltrul, Tenpai Gyaltsen, Gyalwa Lama, and Gyalwa Trulku. He himself prefers to write Trungram Gyalwa, although his official name is either H. E. Trungram Gyalwa Rinpoche or H. E. Trungram Gyaltrul Rinpoche. In the west, he often uses Trungram Gyalwa Rinpoche, PhD; worldwide, his students simply call him Rinpoche. Trungram Gyalwa’s studies began at Rumtek Monastery at age four. He spent six years there receiving a traditional monastic education, followed by studies on Tibetan and Buddhist literature and philosophy at Jamyang Khang school.  At age nine he took the vows of a novice monk (getsul), but did not later take full ordination, and returned his novice vows before attending university. In 1981, Trungram Gyalwa entered the Karma Shri Nalanda Institute for Higher Buddhist Studies, in Rumtek. There, for nine years, he studied the traditional fields of Buddhist philosophy, logic, epistemology, soteriology, cosmology, codes, debates, history, poetry, Sanskrit, literature, medicine, and meditation. During his time at Nalanda, he, with others, helped to set up and run the Students' Welfare Union of Nalanda. He also served as one of the three main teaching assistants of Nalanda Institute. In 1990, he earned the title of Ka-rabjampa ("one with unobstructed knowledge of scriptures," the Kagyu equivalent of the Geluk Geshe degree) from Nalanda, and also received the degree of Acharya, or Master of Buddhist Philosophy, with First Class Honors, from Sampurnanant Sanskrit University, in Varanasi, India.   Reflecting the non-sectarian approach of his predecessor, Trungram Gyalwa’s teachers come from all four main schools of Tibetan Buddhism (Nyingma, Kagyu, Sakya, Geluk). He studied with some of the greatest masters of recent years, particularly the 16th Karmapa and Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche. He received most of his teachings and empowerments from these two Rinpoches and from Khenchen Trinley Paljor Rinpoche (appointed by the 16th Karmapa to be Trungram Gyalwa’s tutor). His other Buddhist teachers include the Dalai Lama, Sakya Trizin, the late Ugyen Tulku Rinpoche, the late Khamtrul Rinpoche, Trulshik Rinpoche, the late Kalu Rinpoche, the late Salje Rinpoche and the late Gendun Rinpoche. He studied extensively under Khenpo Tsultrim Gyamtso Rinpoche and Khenpo Choedrak Rinpoche.Besides traditional Buddhist education, Trungram Gyalwa studied liberal arts at Kirkwood College in Iowa, USA, and later at Newbury College in Massachusetts, USA. He worked with Professor Donald Lopez as a visiting scholar at the University of Michigan, and was involved in a teaching exchange program and sutra translation there in 1992. In 1994, he studied Chinese for six months in Taiwan at the Language Learning Center of National Taiwan Normal University. He is fluent in Tibetan, English, Nepali, Sherpa, Chinese, and has a good knowledge of Sanskrit, Hindi and French. In 1997, Trungram Gyalwa entered the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences as a doctoral student in the Department of Sanskrit and Indian Studies. His concentration was on Indo-Tibetan Buddhist Studies with special emphasis on comparative studies. He was awarded a Ph.D. in 2004, with a dissertation on Gampopa, the most prominent disciple of Milarepa, focusing on Gampopa's seminal role in the development of the Kagyu School of Tibetan Buddhism.    Trungram Gyalwa gave his first public teaching at the age of eleven, to visitors from European countries. He taught the essence of Naropa's Mahamudra and the practice of Avalokiteshvara. The next year he gave a teaching on the Thirty-seven Practices of Bodhisattvas to the monks of Rumtek, praised by the 16th Karmapa and all the khenpos and rinpoches present. At 13, he performed his first initiation, transmitting the essence of the Kagyupa Long Life Buddha practice. In 1987, Trungram Gyalwa took his first trip overseas to teach the Dharma. Since then, he has given teachings and initiations and helped create groups and centers for Buddhist studies in many countries, including Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bhutan, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Macau, Malaysia, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Poland, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan and the United States.   In 2016 Trungram Gyalwa returned to academia, serving as the Numata Visiting Professor at McGill University , where he taught a course in Issues in Buddhist Studies (RELG 556). In 1991, Trungram Gyalwa visited the Trungram Monastery in Tibet and the nearby cave where the 3rd Trungram Gyalwa had practiced, and met with thousands of disciples of his prior incarnation. During this short visit, he took measures to preserve the Nyengyu tradition - a special oral lineage of Trungram Monastery that was down to only a few transmission holders at that time. From 1995 to 1998, Trungram Gyalwa served as the President of Dharmodaya, the National Buddhist Association of Nepal. In that capacity, he represented Nepal at the 1998 International Buddhist Conference near Sydney, Australia. He is a lifetime advisor to the organization.  In 2004, with his support, monks of the Trungram tradition founded Dharmakaya, a US-based Buddhist church, for the express purpose of preserving and sharing the wisdom teachings. In 2017, an affiliated center opened, offering long- and short-term retreats and the study of Dharma; it is known as the Dharmakaya Center for Wellbeing in Cragsmoor, New York. The Center is based on the fundamental principle that emotional and physical wellbeing are interconnected and equally essential, and serves to foster both through meditative practices. After returning from Trungram Monastery, Trungram Gyalwa founded the United Trungram Buddhist Foundation, first in Nepal in 1992, followed by several other countries, and later, the United Trungram Buddhist Fellowship (UTBF). These organizations share three goals: To preserve the wisdom teachings; to be a vehicle for educational activities; and to help those who most need it, with special emphasis on supporting disadvantaged children in Nepal and other underdeveloped countries. In the wake of the 2015 earthquake that devastated Nepal, Trungram Gyalwa immediately organized aid for the villagers of Barpak VDC, Gorkha,  the epicenter of the earthquake, providing food, medicine and temporary shelters. He then founded Buddhist Relief Services, with the mission to bring relief to the victims of disaster.  Another of Trungram Gyalwa’s projects, the World Center for Peace and Unity, at Buddha Shakyamuni’s birthplace in Lumbini, Nepal, is intended as a locus for the growth of an all-encompassing non-sectarian spirit, and an example of 21st century Buddhism contributing to a greener world and reviving ancient art and culture. Inaugurated in 2011, it is located in a special development zone connected to the Lumbini UNESCO World Heritage Site. Unlike the other monasteries, it was specifically conceived to be a non-sectarian center for any Buddhist, or non-Buddhist, visitors to Lumbini, regardless of tradition or lineage, and especially for those who were not represented by the nations who built the other monasteries.  Although it is the largest building inside the Lumbini United Nations Development Project Site, it is the most environmentally friendly, with cavity walls, natural air circulation, and solar power. Trungram Gyalwa, who designed the building himself, feels this “green” approach highlights the importance of our interconnectedness, thus physically promoting peace and unity.  The center’s design is based on the ancient stupa at the original Nalanda University. It includes elements of early Nepalese architecture, drawn from the style of the 7th-13th centuries, known as the premier era of Buddhist architecture.  A model secondary school, Trungram International Academy (TIA), has been in operation since 1995. TIA is a highly regarded private English Medium day and boarding school near Kathmandu, Nepal. Its more than 500 students span kindergarten through twelfth grade; many graduate with distinction every year.  In 2003, Trungram Gyalwa initiated work on the Trungram Gyalwa Foundation, which was formally established in 2015. The goal of the organization is to foster knowledge and wisdom through multiple channels, supporting the intellectual and emotional development of people the world over. Projects include traditional schools—expanding TIA to provide schools for Nepal’s earthquake victims; developing a Compassion curricula; preserving ancient teachings; and conducting scientific research into the tangible benefits of values such as compassion, care and tolerance.Trungram Gyalwa is a widely sought after speaker, giving teachings and participating in conferences around the United States. A sample of engagements include: He is also a regular contributor to the HuffPost.  In 2015, Trungram Gylawa began collaborating on a computer implemented system that monitors the user’s current state of mind and provides biofeedback and auto-antidotes to help achieve a targeted state of mind. He and his co-inventor received patent approval in 2017. The initial use will be for meditators, but ultimately the system is applicable for all daily living.   The Trungram Gyalwa is a lineage of tulkus of the Karma Kagyu school of Tibetan Buddhism. The first Trungram Gyalwa was born in Lhathog, Eastern Tibet, remained a yogi his entire life, known for his meditational attainment, and was given the name "Gyalwa Tulku". Under his guidance, the Trungram Monastery located at the border of Sichuan and Tibet flourished and "Trungram" was added to his name. His younger brother and disciple Trinley Rabgye became the first Aten Rinpoche. The second Trungram Gyalwa, Gowa Gyalwa, was both a scholar and an accomplished practitioner, displaying a Ushnisha (crown proturbance).  The 3rd Trungram Gyalwa, Gotsa Gyalwa Luntok Thrinlay (1894–1959), was born in the Wood Horse year in Derge, East Tibet and was recognized by the 15th Gyalwa Karmapa Khakyab Dorje (1871–1922). He was a heart disciple of Karmapa, respected and remembered among the Tibetans as one of the leading meditation masters of the twentieth century. His knowledge of the Tripitaka and attainment in his meditation and Bodhisattva practice made him a model master. Tens of thousands of people in the thinly populated Tibet - laymen, monks, nuns, scholars, abbots and well known masters of the Kagyu, Nyingma, Sakya and Gelug schools, and the Bon tradition came to receive teachings from him. The broad range of students demonstrated the result of his Rimé (non-sectarian) practices which enabled him to teach students from different schools in a style most suitable to each one of them. Among these students were Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche,  family members of the 16th Karmapa, Chagmey Rinpoche, Dzigar Choktrul Rinpoche, Dzigar Thuksey Rinpoche, Zozi Jetrung Rinpoche, Surmang Rolpai Dorje and many more. As a child, the 3rd Trungram Gyalwa was a very active boy who liked to play with dogs. At the age of eighteen, he suddenly became quiet and began to meditate in caves. The rest of his life was spent practicing meditation and helping others. He built many short-term and long-term retreat houses beside the Trungram Monastery. He incorporated Rechungpa's Whispered Lineage (Nyengyu) practice into the Trungram Tradition.  Most of the time Trungram Gyalwa stayed in Ngonmo Namzong (Azure Sky Castle), a mountain cave not far from the monastery, doing intensive meditation practice. It is said that he loved to eat the nettles naturally growing around the cave. Khandro Lhamo, Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche's wife, describes their visit to Azure Sky Castle: "One of Khyenste Rinpoche's main teachers was Drungram Gyaltrul Rinpoche, who lived his entire life in a cave near Ngoma Nagsum. I had never met him before, but one time I accompanied Rinpoche to Drungram Monastery, and we stayed near his cave. His cave was in the middle of a large rock outcropping shaped like a vajra and surrounded by meadows. Five or six hundred of his disciples lived in the surrounding caves and practiced the Guru Rinpoche sadhana. So many people circumambulated the rock that the earth was worn away down to waist level. When I met him, his hair hadn't turned gray yet, so he must have been in his fifties. He would eat only once a week and almost never slept."  Khyentse, Dilgo; Ani Jinpa Palmo (trans) (2008). Brilliant Moon: The Autobiography of Dilgo Khyentse. Shambhala. ISBN 978-1-59030-284-2. 