Other sandboxes: Main sandbox | Tutorial sandbox 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 | Template sandboxThomas Alva Edison was widely known as the America's most prolific inventor, even after his death in 1931.   He held a total of 1,093 U.S. patents (1,084 utility patents and 9 design patents).  In 2003, he was passed by Japanese inventor Shunpei Yamazaki.  On February 26, 2008, Yamazaki was passed by Australian inventor Kia Silverbrook.  Yamazaki passed Silverbrook in 2017. Inventors with 200 or more worldwide utility patents are shown in the following table. While in many cases this is the number of utility patents granted by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, it may include utility patents granted by other countries, as noted by the source references for an inventor. This table was current as of  August 28, 2018[update]. The columns are defined as follows: As the average number of patents per inventor is around 3, some sources define prolific inventors as five times above the average (in terms of patents), leading to a threshold of 15 patents.  However, this table currently has an arbitrary cut-off limit for inclusion of 200 patents. This is purely for practical reasons – there are tens of thousands of inventors with more than 15 patents. The threshold of 200 patents means that some famous prolific inventors such as Nikola Tesla are not included in this list, as Tesla had 111 patents.   This table is a sortable list of the most prolific inventors as measured by utility patents granted. It does not include other types of invention, such as inventions that were never applied for nor granted, for which there is no known source. Nor does the table attempt to measure the significance of an inventor and their inventions. The significance of inventions is often not apparent until many decades after the invention has been made. For recent inventors, it is not yet possible to determine their place in history. The common symbol for inventiveness, the light bulb, is an example. The first incandescent light bulb was invented by British chemist Sir Humphry Davy in 1802. Many subsequent inventors improved Davy's invention prior to the successful commercialization of electric lighting by Thomas Edison in 1880, 78 years later. Electric lighting continued to be developed. Edison's carbon filament light bulb was made obsolete by the tungsten filament light bulb, invented in 1904 by Sándor Just and Franjo Hanaman. It is this that forms the popular conception of a light bulb, though there are other major forms of lighting. The principle of fluorescent lights was known since 1845, and various inventors, including Edison and Nikola Tesla worked on them without commercial success. Various improvements were made by many other inventors, until General Electric introduced "fluorescent lumiline lamps" commercially in 1938, first available to the public at the 1939 World's Fair. LED lamps also have a long history, with the first light-emitting diode (LED) invented in 1927 by Oleg Losev. LEDs were initially of low brightness, and have been used as indicator lamps and seven-segment displays since 1968. It wasn't until the development of high efficiency blue LEDs by Shuji Nakamura in the 1980s that white LEDs for lighting applications became practical. Although higher cost than incandescent light bulbs, LEDs have higher efficiency and longer life and may finally displace light bulbs in general lighting applications. In each case, more than 50 years passed between the initial invention and commercial success in general lighting applications. Rankings of prolific inventors have been published at various times. However, until the patent records were digitized, these lists were very tedious to prepare, as many thousands of patent records had to be checked manually. Even after digitization, it is still not a simple process. While the USPTO keeps statistics for annual rankings of inventions assigned to companies, it no longer publishes rankings of individual inventors. The last such list was published by the USPTO in 1998.  Also, patents predating 1976 have not yet been digitized in the USPTO records. This means that patents before 1976 will not be included in a USPTO search by inventor name, and the number of patents granted before 1976 must be added to current searches. In January 1936, Popular Science published a list of the "most prolific living inventors to be found in America today".  Thomas Edison was not included in the list, as he died in 1931, five years earlier. On December 4, 2000, Time Magazine published a list of the "top five inventors".  This list only included U.S. inventors, so omitted Canadian inventor George Albert Lyon, with 993 U.S. patents at the time of publication, Japanese inventor Shunpei Yamazaki, with 745 U.S. patents, and Béla Barényi, with 595 German patents. Also omitted were John F. O'Connor with 949 U.S. patents, and Carleton Ellis, with 753 U.S. patents at the time of publication. On December 13, 2005 USA Today published a list of "the top 10 living U.S. patent holders":  This research was performed by ipIQ of Chicago (now "The Patent Board" ) and 1790 Analytics  of New Jersey. This list only considered living inventors, and thus did not include such prolific inventors as Thomas Edison, Melvin De Groote, and Elihu Thomson.  This list included design patents, which are not patents for inventions. On October 15, 2007 Condé Nast Portfolio Magazine published a list  of "the world's most prolific inventors alive": This research was performed by The Patent Board,  a Chicago patent research and advisory firm. As with the USA Today list, the Portfolio list only considered living inventors, and thus did not include such prolific inventors as Thomas Edison. This list also included design patents, which are not patents for inventions. On 6 May 2011 Business Insider published an article titled: "The Ten Greatest Inventors In The Modern Era"  containing the following list: This list included living and dead inventors, and only included granted utility patents (patents for inventions). Strutpatent.com  publishes a list of the "Top 10 Inventors"   listing inventors ranked by US patents (of all types) issued since 1990: This list included only patents granted since 1990, and includes design patents as well as utility patents. Strutpatent.com publishes weekly, monthly, and annual lists of the top ten categories, inventors and assignees of US patents since 2007. These lists include all patent types, not just patents for inventions (utility patents). The top ten inventors of US patents for 2007:  The top ten inventors of US patents for 2008:  The top ten inventors of US patents for 2009:  The top ten inventors of US patents for 2010:  The top ten inventors of US patents for 2011:  The top ten inventors of US patents for 2012:  This table omitted Rick Allen Hamilton II. The USPTO database shows Hamilton was an inventor or co-inventor of 128 US patents granted in 2012,  which would place Hamilton at 6th rank for 2012. Differences in patent numbers between the various lists are due to several reasons: 