 Incorporated is an American television drama series. The show premiered November 30, 2016, on Syfy.   Before its official premiere, Syfy released an advance preview of the first episode online on November 16, 2016.  The show's first season concluded on January 25, 2017.  On February 27, 2017, the series was cancelled after one season.  The series takes place in a dystopian Milwaukee in the year 2074, where many countries have gone bankrupt due to a number of crises and climate change. In the absence of effective government, powerful multinational corporations have become de facto governments, controlling areas called Green Zones. The remaining territories are called Red Zones, where governance is weak or non-existent. Ben Larson is a manager at Spiga Biotech, the largest corporation in the world. He works for Elizabeth, the estranged mother of his wife, Laura. In reality, he is a climate refugee from the Red Zone outside Milwaukee whose real name is Aaron. Aaron has infiltrated the Green Zone, assuming the identity of Ben Larson to search for his childhood love Elena, who through a series of unfortunate circumstances has become an executive club companion—a high-end, indentured prostitute who works at a Spiga "executive club" called Arcadia. Arcadia is an exclusive brothel for senior Spiga executives. Aaron resolves to work his way up to a senior position in order to access Arcadia and rescue her. After framing his boss Chad for stealing classified information and ensuring his dismissal from the company, Aaron endeavours to obtain the promotion to the now-vacant position and rescue Elena, all while maintaining his Ben Larson cover in the face of increasingly paranoid Spiga security scrutiny and competitive coworkers. He is assisted by Theo, Elena's brother who is still living in the Red Zone, and Reed, another Red Zone denizen who managed to assume a Green Zone persona years before Aaron managed the same feat. On June 20, 2017 CBS DVD (distributed by Paramount) released the entire series on DVD in Region 1.  The series premiered November 30, 2016, on Syfy and in Canada on Showcase.  Georgina Haig played the female lead in the pilot but left and Allison Miller was cast in her place.  The series has received a 75% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, the site's critical consensus reading: "Incorporated's impressive production values, solid performances, and engaging vision of a bleak future outweigh a predictable, clichéd narrative."  