This is a summary of notable incidents that have taken place at various independently owned amusement parks, water parks or theme parks.  This list is not intended to be a comprehensive list of every such event, but only those that have a significant impact on the parks or park operations, or are otherwise significantly newsworthy. The term incidents refers to major accidents, injuries, deaths and significant crimes. While these incidents are required to be reported to regulatory authorities for investigation, attraction-related incidents usually fall into one of the following categories:  On June 14, 1986, the fourth car of the yellow train derailed before encountering the third and final loop. The train failed to clear the loop and slid backwards fishtailing wildly and crashing into a concrete pillar. Damage from the derailment caused the lap bars to disengage at some point during the ride, throwing its four passengers at least 25 feet (7.6 m) to the floor below. Three passengers died in the incident, while a fourth was critically injured . About 19 others were treated for less severe injuries at the nearby Misericordia Community Hospital. An investigation determined that bolts on the left wheel assembly worked loose causing the accident, and that design flaws by Schwarzkopf along with a lack of maintenance by the mall were likely to blame. When Mindbender reopened in January 1987, the trains were redesigned. Existing four-car trains were converted to three-car trains (reducing seating capacity from 16 to 12), and anti-roll back features were installed. The lap bar restraint was retained, but seat belts and shoulder headrests were added.  Between 2011 and 2012, 8 people complained of injuries from the ride. 6 people complained of neck injuries and 2 complained of back injuries.  On March 6, 2013, a 20-year-old seasonal employee at Schlitterbahn South Padre was fatally injured when an overhead gate slammed down and pinned him. He was left on life support for organ donation and later died from the injuries on March 11, 2013.    OSHA investigated and fined Schlitterbahn for six safety violations related to the fatal incident.   On August 7, 2016, a 10-year-old boy was killed in the park while riding Verrückt, a water raft slide touted as the tallest in the world at the time of the incident. The boy was decapitated and died before reaching the bottom, and two other unrelated riders in the same raft sustained injuries. The ride was decommissioned and scheduled for dismantling. Although the park settled civil claims with all parties in 2016, a Wyandotte County grand jury filed criminal indictments against the park and three current or former executive in 2018. The indictment accused the park and its employees of negligence, as well as concealing design flaws and other issues with the ride.      