List of Mount Everest death statistics is a list of statistics about death on Mount Everest. For a list of mountaineer deaths on Mount Everest, see List of people who died climbing Mount Everest Examples of known cases    See also Dr. Beck Weathers, a medical doctor who is famous for narrowly surviving the 1996 Everest Disaster.  Examples of those who, after summiting, died on the descent down or soon after (not counting other climbs, on the same expedition but does not have to be their first summit) examples only The history of mountaineering expeditions on Mount Everest has evolved since the first official mountaineering expedition trekked up its slopes in 1921. In the subsequent decades from this point until the 1960s, many expeditions were funded by major organizations and launched in a "siege"-style with large climbing parties. These early campaigns helped overcome the relatively remote nature and uncharted territory of Everest. Additionally, these journeys paved the way for the "lightweight"-style expeditions that would follow (a prime example is the successful 1980 solo ascent by Reinhold Messner, the first without supplemental oxygen). The 80s and 90s saw the emergence and rise in the commercialization of the ascent to Everest's summit. These commercial expeditions range from logistics only (i.e. a permit and some basic base camp supplies) to expensive, professionally-guided expeditions promising even laypeople an increased chance of successfully reaching the summit. The increased access now afforded to scaling the world's tallest mountain, while leading to more people successfully reaching the summit than ever before, has also seen a concomitant and exponential rise in casualties. Another very deadly event was in 1995, when 42 died near Everest in a large avalanche.   *with at least two deaths One of the people claimed by Everest mountaineering was the U.S. astronaut Karl Gordon Henize. He was on a mission to study radiation but came down with a fatal case of HAPE in October 1993 and died at north base camp.  At the time he was the oldest astronaut to have flown in space and also had a doctorate in astronomy.  He died on October 5, 1993 and was buried on Mount Everest.  