Arie Rimmerman (Hebrew: אריק רימרמן‎‎; born March 24, 1950) is an Israeli academic in disability policy research. As of 2018, he is the Richard Crossman Professor of Social Welfare and Social Planning at the University of Haifa, Israel and was the founder Dean of the Social Welfare and Health Sciences faculty.  He has been a distinguished Professor at the Newhouse School of Public Communication, Syracuse University, and has also lectured at Harvard University,   University of Pennsylvania, and Charles University, Prague.  In Israel, Rimmerman has initiated and established the first rehabilitation graduate program in social work at Bar-Ilan University (1981), the Israeli Association for the Scientific Study of Intellectual Disability (1983). He was a consultant to the committee that drafted the 'Equal Rights for Persons with Disabilities Law' 5758-1998. He led the Committee of Experts on Transition from Institutional to Community Care for Persons with Intellectual Disabilities (2011) and chaired the committee that proposed new policy to veterans with disabilities (2017). His scholarly contribution to disability has been significant in social inclusion, family policy and community living   .  Rimmerman's scholarly work focuses on social inclusion. He has published 11 books and more than 200 peer-reviewed articles and research reports in Israel, Australia, Europe and the United States.  He is the author of three recent books by Cambridge University Press: Social Inclusion and People with Disabilities: National and International Perspectives (2013);  Family Policy and Disability (2015);  and Disability and Community Living Policies   (2017). Social Inclusion and People with Disabilities was translated recently to Arabic by King Saud University, Saudi Arabia  .  Rimmerman is the recipient of the Lehman Award (1987), Fulbright Doctoral Student Fellowship (1979),  the William Trump Award (1998), the International Award of the American Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (1999) and the Burton Blatt Institute Distinguished Leadership Award (2006).  He is married to Shula Rimmerman, an artist specializing in fused glass. They have two children. 