  On 16 June 2012, during the setup at Toronto's Downsview Park for the final concert of Radiohead's North American tour, the roof of the temporary stage collapsed, killing drum technician Scott Johnson and injuring three others. Radiohead and artists including Keane, White Lies, Caribou, and Elton John offered tributes and condolences. In June 2013, Live Nation Canada Inc, two other organisations and an engineer were charged with 13 charges under Ontario health and safety laws. The hearing began in June 2015, but a mistrial was declared after the judge was appointed to Ontario Superior Court and lost jurisdiction. The case was dropped in September 2017 under the Jordan ruling, which puts time limits on cases. Radiohead condemned the decision. The chief coroner of Ontario is due to hold an inquest into Johnson's death. On 16 June 2012, the English alternative rock band Radiohead were due to perform the final concert of their 2012 North American tour in support of their eighth album, The King of Limbs, in Downsview Park, Toronto.  The tour had extensive visual components and required 11 trucks to transport its equipment.   Radiohead were due to have been on stage for the soundcheck, but construction of the temporary stage was behind schedule;  the band was sequestered nearby while their road crew prepared equipment.  The weather was calm, with light winds forecast.  At 2pm, Radiohead’s business manager Ade Bullock noticed that scaffolding on the stage appeared to be drooping, and took a photograph, but thought: "What do I know about engineering?"  At 4pm, an hour before the gates were due to open to concertgoers, the roof of the stage collapsed. Drummer Philip Selway recalled a sound "like an enormous cabinet of glasses falling over".  Drum technician Scott Johnson was killed instantly by a falling video monitor weighing 2,270 kilograms.  Three other members of Radiohead's crew were injured, one seriously.  The band's light show and much of their musical equipment was also destroyed. The concert was cancelled and Radiohead's tour dates in Europe were postponed.    Radiohead considered abandoning live performance after the collapse. Selway said: "When we came away, it was, 'God, do we want to do this ever again?’ If it causes this, can we do it?"  They decided to continue the tour as a way of "working through the trauma".  At a vigil before their next performance three weeks later, Radiohead offered their crew the chance to leave without judgment; all chose to stay.  Johnson, 33, from Doncaster, South Yorkshire, had worked with acts including Robyn, the Killers, Keane and White Lies.   Shortly after the collapse, Selway wrote on Radiohead's website: "We have all been shattered by the loss of Scott Johnson, our friend and colleague. He was a lovely man, always positive, supportive and funny; a highly skilled and valued member of our great road crew. We will miss him very much. Our thoughts and love are with Scott's family and all those close to him."  Tributes came from artists including Keane,  White Lies, and Caribou, the Canadian band set to open for Radiohead.  Elton John called Johnson's family to offer his condolences.  All of Radiohead and their road crew attended Johnson's funeral.  In July, Radiohead paid tribute to Johnson at their first concert after the collapse, in Nîmes, France, performing their single "Reckoner" as an encore while screens showed images of Johnson.  Selway's second solo album, Weatherhouse (2014), and Radiohead's ninth album, A Moon Shaped Pool (2016), are dedicated to Johnson.  Johnson's parents used royalties from Keane's charity EP Upstairs At United - Vol. 5,  along with almost £3500 raised by Radiohead fans and £1200 of church and family donations, to create the Scott Johnson Bursary Fund. The fund distributes drum kits to schools and teachers with help from Yamaha and the music shop where Johnson once worked. In 2015, Selway, Stephen Morris of New Order and Guy Garvey of Elbow presented a drum kit in Johnson's honour to the Manchester Central Library.  Pitchfork described the collapse as part of a "sad streak of stage-related accidents", such as the 2011 Indiana State Fair stage collapse, that had prompted "industry soul-searching".  In June 2013, after a year-long investigation, the Ontario Ministry of Labour charged Live Nation Canada Inc, Live Nation Ontario Concerts GP Inc, Optex Staging & Services Inc and the engineer who designed the stage, Domenic Cugliari, with 13 charges under Ontario health and safety laws.   Prosecutor Dave McCaskill sought to prove that Cugliari "miscalculated the total gross weight of the stage roof and its attachments" by approximately 7,260 kilograms.  Live Nation issued a statement denying any wrongdoing and vowing to "vigourously defend" itself.   The hearing was set to begin in June 2015, but was postponed to November as Optex had no lawyer; Optex president Dale Martin eventually represented himself.  All defendants pleaded not guilty.  After 15 days of hearings, during which Radiohead's managers and crew gave evidence,  the court ordered another 15 days throughout 2016. Shortly before June, following the defence's request for more time to present its case, the court scheduled further dates in December and January.  In June 2016, the defence persuaded the judge, Shaun Nakatsuru, to drop two of the charges against Live Nation and one charge against Optex for lack of evidence.  In June 2017, Nakatsuru declared a mistrial as he had been appointed to the Ontario Superior Court and had lost jurisdiction.  As a new trial would not have begun until May 2018, the new judge, Ann Nelson, ruled in favour of the defendants' application to have the case dropped under the Jordan ruling, which rules that any person charged with an offence has the right to be tried within a "reasonable" timeframe. Nakatsuru had declined a previous application from the defence.  Radiohead released a statement saying: "We are appalled by the decision … This is an insult to the memory of Scott Johnson, his parents and our crew. It offers no consolation, closure or assurance that this kind of accident will not happen again."  Radiohead's management and Johnsons's parents met British members of parliament, who wrote to the Canadian High Commission demanding the case be reopened.  In November 2017, it was announced that the chief coroner of Ontario, Dirk Huyer, will hold an inquest into Johnson's death.  In a statement, Radiohead said: "While this is welcomed it does not bring those responsible for Scott's death to account, and it provides no justice for Scott and his family. We urge the Canadian authorities to look more closely into the treatment of the Downsview stage collapse and indeed all workplace deaths to ensure that accidents such as this can be prevented in the future."  As of July 2018 no date had been set for the inquest.   On 19 July 2018, Radiohead performed at Toronto's Scotiabank Arena, their first performance in Toronto since the collapse. On stage, Yorke condemned the lack of progress in the case and Radiohead held a minute of silence before performing their final song, the 1997 single "Karma Police". Vice journalist Jill Krajewski noted the new meaning in the lyrics "Karma police / arrest this man".  