The "Boar's Head Carol" is a macaronic 15th century   English Christmas carol that describes the ancient tradition of sacrificing a boar and presenting its head at a Yuletide feast. Of the several extant versions of the carol, the one most usually performed today is based on a version published in 1521 in Wynkyn de Worde's Christmasse Carolles.  According to folklorists, the boar's head tradition was: initiated in all probability on the Isle of Britain by the Anglo-Saxons, although our knowledge of it comes substantially from medieval times. ... [In ancient Norse tradition] sacrifice carried the intent of imploring Freyr to show favor to the new year. The boar's head with apple in mouth was carried into the banquet hall on a gold or silver dish to the sounds of trumpets and the songs of minstrels.  In Scandinavia and England, Saint Stephen may have inherited some of Freyr's legacy. St. Stephen's feast day is 26 December, and thus he came to play a part in the Yuletide celebrations which were previously associated with Freyr (or Ingwi to the Anglo-Saxons). In old Swedish art, Stephen is shown as tending to horses and bringing a boar's head to a Yuletide banquet.  Both elements are extra-canonical and may be pagan survivals. Christmas ham is an old tradition in Sweden and may have originated as a winter solstice boar sacrifice to Freyr.  The boar's head in hand bring I, (Or:  The boar's head in hand bear I,) Bedeck'd with bays and rosemary. And I pray you, my masters, be merry (Or: And I pray you, my masters, merry be) Quot estis in convivio (Translation: As many as are in the feast)  CHORUS Caput apri defero (Translation: The boar's head I bear) Reddens laudes Domino  (Translation: Giving praises to the Lord)  The boar's head, as I understand, Is the rarest dish in all this land, Which thus bedeck'd with a gay garland Let us servire cantico. (Translation: Let us serve with a song)  CHORUS  Our steward hath provided this In honour of the King of Bliss; Which on this day to be served is In Reginensi atrio.  (Translation: In the hall of Queen’s [College, Oxford])  CHORUS There is also an alternative version of the same song with lyrics modified to fit poultry being served, replacing "The boar's head in hand bring I" with "The fowl on the platter see", and "The boar's head, as I understand/Is the rarest dish in all this land" with "This large bird, as I understand/Is the finest dish in all this land". As of 2008, the tradition of processing with the Boar's Head whilst singing the carol was believed still to be observed at the following locations: Where an amusing tradition formerly current in Oxford concerning the boar's head custom, which represented that usage as a commemoration of an act of valour performed by a student of the college, who, while walking in the neighbouring forest of Shotover and reading Aristotle, was suddenly attacked by a wild boar. The furious beast came open-mouthed upon the youth, who, however, very courageously, and with a happy presence of mind, thrust the volume he was reading down the boar's throat, crying, "Græcum est,"  and fairly choked the savage with the sage. Queen's College celebrates the tradition by three chefs' bringing a boar's head into hall, with a procession of a solo singer who sings the first verse, accompanied by torch bearers and followed by a choir. The procession stops during verses and walks during the chorus. The head is placed on the high table, and the Provost distributes the herbs to the choir and the orange from the Boar's mouth to the solo singer.  In the United States, the "Boar's Head Carol" and procession are often a part of madrigal dinner performances, even though the main dish is usually chicken.  