Dog Latin, also known as Cod Latin, macaronic Latin, mock Latin, or Canis Latinicus,  refers to the creation of a phrase or jargon in imitation of Latin,  often by "translating" English words (or those of other languages) into Latin by conjugating or declining them as if they were Latin words.  Unlike the similarly named language game Pig Latin (a form of playful spoken code), Dog Latin is more of a humorous device for invoking scholarly seriousness. Sometimes "dog Latin" can mean a poor-quality attempt at writing genuine Latin.  Examples of this predate even Shakespeare, whose 1598 play, Love's Labour's Lost, includes a reference to dog Latin: Costard: Go to; thou hast it ad dungill, at the fingers' ends, as they say.  Holofernes: O, I smell false Latine; dunghill for unguem.  Thomas Jefferson mentioned dog Latin by name in 1815: Fifty-two volumes in folio, of the acta sanctorum, in dog-latin, would be a formidable enterprise to the most laborious German.  A once-common schoolboy doggerel which, though very poor Latin, would have done a tolerable job of reinforcing the rhythms of Latin hexameters: Patres conscripti took a boat, and went to Philippi; Boatum est upsettum, magno cum grandine venti. Omnes drownderunt qui swim away non potuerunt. Trumpeter unus erat, qui coatum scarlet habebat; Et magnum periwig, tied about with the tail of a dead pig.  Insofar as this specimen can be translated, it is as follows: The conscript fathers [i.e. Senators] took a boat and went to Philippi. The boat was upset by a great hailstorm of wind. All drowned who could not swim away. There was a trumpeter, who had a scarlet coat, and a great periwig, tied about with the tail of a dead pig. The meter uses Latin vowel quantities for the Latin parts, and to some extent follows English stress in the English parts. Another variant has similar lines in a different order, with the following variants: Stormum surgebat et boatum oversetebat Excipe John Periwig tied up to the tail of a dead pig.  The meaning here is "The storm rose up and overturned the boat" and "Except for John Periwig", etc. Another verse in similar vein, from Ronald Searle's Down with Skool, is:  Caesar adsum jam forte Brutus aderat Caesar sic in omnibus Brutus sic in at which, when read aloud using traditional English pronunciation of Latin, sounds like the following: Caesar 'ad(had) some jam for tea Brutus 'ad a rat Caesar sick  in omnibus Brutus sick in 'at (hat) but which means in Latin Caesar I am already here by chance Brutus was present Caesar thus in all things Brutus thus in but The following spoof of legal Latin, in the fictional case of Daniel v Dishclout (from George Alexander Stevens' "Lecture on Heads", 1765),  describes a kitchen: camera necessaria pro usus cookare, cum saucepannis, stewpannis, scullero, dressero, coalholo, stovis, smoak-jacko; pro roastandum, boilandum, fryandum, et plumpudding mixandum, pro turtle soupos, calve's-head-hashibus, cum calipee et calepashibus. In English, this is: A necessary room for the purpose of cooking, with saucepans, stewpans, scullery, dresser, coalhole, stoves, smoke-jack; for roasting, boiling, frying, and mixing plum pudding, for turtle soups, calves'-head hashes, with calipee and calipashes. From time to time the satirical magazine Private Eye will publish a mock degree citation in dog Latin in order to lampoon a public figure. 