Archaeology, or archeology, is the study of human activity through the recovery and analysis of material culture. The archaeological record consists of artifacts, architecture, biofacts or ecofacts and cultural landscapes. Archaeology can be considered both a social science and a branch of the humanities.  In North America archaeology is a sub-field of anthropology, while in Europe it is often viewed as either a discipline in its own right or a sub-field of other disciplines. Archaeologists study human prehistory and history, from the development of the first stone tools at Lomekwi in East Africa 3.3 million years ago up until recent decades. Archaeology is distinct from palaeontology, the study of fossil remains. It is particularly important for learning about prehistoric societies, for whom there may be no written records to study. Prehistory includes over 99% of the human past, from the Paleolithic until the advent of literacy in societies across the world. Archaeology has various goals, which range from understanding culture history to reconstructing past lifeways to documenting and explaining changes in human societies through time. Do you have a question about Archaeology that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. For editor resources and to collaborate with other editors on improving Wikipedia's Archaeology-related articles, see WikiProject Archaeology. Mortimer Wheeler pioneered systematic excavation in the early 20th century. Pictured, are his excavations at Maiden Castle, Dorset, in October 1937. Extensive excavations at Beit She'an, Israel A looter's pit on the morning following its excavation, taken at Rontoy, Huaura Valley, Peru in June 2007. Several small holes left by looters' prospecting probes can be seen, as well as their footprints. Monte Alban archaeological site Archaeological excavation that discovered prehistoric caves in Vill (Innsbruck), Austria Artifacts discovered at the 1808 Bush Barrow excavation by Sir Richard Colt Hoare and William Cunnington. An early photograph of Stonehenge taken July 1877 An archaeologist sifting for POW remains on Wake Island. Inverted kite aerial photo of an excavation of a Roman building at Nesley near Tetbury in Gloucestershire. Permanent exhibition in a German multi-storey car park, explaining the archaeological discoveries made during the construction of this building Excavations at the site of Gran Dolina, in the Atapuerca Mountains, Spain, 2008 Stela of a king named Adad-Nirari. Object stolen from the Iraq National Museum in the looting in connection with the Iraq War of 2003. Sign at Lubbock Lake Landmark in Lubbock, Texas Cast of the skull of the Taung child, uncovered in South Africa. The Child was an infant of the Australopithecus africanus species, an early form of hominin Excavations at the 3800-year-old Edgewater Park Site, Iowa The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 