The Renaissance (UK: /rɪˈneɪsəns/, US: /rɛnəˈsɑːns/) is a period in European history, covering the span between the 14th and 17th centuries. It is an extension of the Middle Ages, and is bridged by the Age of Enlightenment to modern history. It grew in fragments, with the very first traces found seemingly in Italy, coming to cover much of Europe, for some scholars marking the beginning of the modern age. The intellectual basis of the Renaissance was its own invented version of humanism, derived from the concept of Roman Humanitas and the rediscovery of classical Greek philosophy, such as that of Protagoras, who said that "Man is the measure of all things." This new thinking became manifest in art, architecture, politics, science and literature. Early examples were the development of perspective in oil painting and the recycled knowledge of how to make concrete. Although the invention of metal movable type sped the dissemination of ideas from the later 15th century, the changes of the Renaissance were not uniformly experienced across Europe: the very first traces appear in Italy as early as the late 13th century, in particular with the writings of Dante and the paintings of Giotto. Do you have a question about Renaissance that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. The tomb of Michelangelo in the Basilica of Santa Croce, Florence Alexander VI, a Borgia Pope infamous for his corruption "What a piece of work is a man, how noble in reason, how infinite in faculties, in form and movinghow express and admirable, in action how like an angel, in apprehensionhow like a god!" — from William Shakespeare's Hamlet. The Palace of Facets on the Cathedral Square of the Moscow Kremlin Poznań Town Hall rebuilt from the Gothic style by Giovanni Batista di Quadro (1550–1555) São Pedro Papa, 1530-1535, by Grão Vasco Fernandes. A pinnacle piece from when the Portuguese Renaissance had considerable external influence. Portrait of Luca Pacioli, father of accounting, painted by Jacopo de' Barbari, 1495, (Museo di Capodimonte). Pico della Mirandola wrote the famous Oration on the Dignity of Man, which has been called the "Manifesto of the Renaissance". Portrait of a Young Woman (c. 1480-85) (Simonetta Vespucci) by Sandro Botticelli View of Florence, birthplace of the Renaissance Leonardo Bruni Coluccio Salutati Painting of the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre, an event in the French Wars of Religion, by François Dubois 1543' Vesalius' studies inspired interest in human anatomy. A political map of the Italian Peninsula circa 1494 Pieter Bruegel's The Triumph of Death (c. 1562) reflects the social upheaval and terror that followed the plague that devastated medieval Europe. Lorenzo de' Medici, ruler of Florence and patron of arts (Portrait by Girolamo Macchietti) David, by Michelangelo (Accademia di Belle Arti, Florence, Italy) is a masterpiece of Renaissance and world art. Adoration of the Magi and Solomon adored by the Queen of Sheba from the Farnese Hours by Giulio Clovio marks the end of the Italian Renaissance of illuminated manuscript together with the Index Librorum Prohibitorum. Theotokos and The Child, the late-17th-century Russian icon by Karp Zolotaryov, with notably realistic depiction of faces and clothing. A cover of the Lives of the Artists by Giorgio Vasari Erasmus of Rotterdam in 1523, as depicted by Hans Holbein the Younger The Arnolfini Portrait, by Jan van Eyck, 1434 Leonardo da Vinci's Vitruvian Man (c. 1490) demonstrates the effect writers of Antiquity had on Renaissance thinkers. Based on the specifications in Vitruvius' De architectura (1st century BC), Leonardo tried to draw the perfectly proportioned man. Galileo Galilei. Portrait in ink by Renaissance sculptor Leone Leoni Château de Chambord (1519–1547), one of the most famous examples of Renaissance architecture The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 