 The AOL search data leak was the release, in August 2006, of detailed search logs by AOL of a large number of AOL users. The release was intentional and intended for research purposes; however, the public release meant that the entire Internet could see the results rather than a select number of academics. AOL did not identify users in the report, but personally identifiable information was present in many of the queries. On August 4, 2006, AOL Research, headed by Dr. Abdur Chowdhury, released a compressed text file on one of its websites containing twenty million search keywords for over 650,000 users over a 3-month period intended for research purposes. AOL deleted the search data on their site by August 7, but not before it had been mirrored and distributed on the Internet. AOL did not identify users in the report; however, personally identifiable information was present in many of the queries. As the queries were attributed by AOL to particular user numerically identified accounts, an individual could be identified and matched to their account and search history by such information.  The New York Times was able to locate an individual from the released and anonymized search records by cross referencing them with phonebook listings.  Consequently, the ethical implications of using this data for research are under debate.   AOL acknowledged it was a mistake and removed the data; however, the removal was too late. The data was redistributed by others and can still be downloaded from mirror sites.   In January 2007, Business 2.0 Magazine on CNNMoney ranked the release of the search data #57 in a segment called "101 Dumbest Moments in Business."  In September 2006, a class action lawsuit was filed against AOL in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The lawsuit accuses AOL of violating the Electronic Communications Privacy Act and of fraudulent and deceptive business practices, among other claims, and seeks at least $5,000 for every person whose search data was exposed.  Although the searchers were only identified by a numeric ID, some people's search results have become notable for various reasons. Through clues revealed in the search queries, The New York Times successfully uncovered the identities of several searchers. With her permission, they exposed user #4417749 as Thelma Arnold, a 62-year-old widow from Lilburn, Georgia.  This privacy breach was widely reported, and led to the resignation of AOL's CTO, Maureen Govern, on August 21, 2006. The media quoted an insider as saying that two employees had been fired: the researcher who released the data, and his immediate supervisor, who reported to Govern.   One product of the AOL scandal was the proliferation of blog entries examining the exposed data. Certain users' search logs were identified as humorous, disturbing, or even dangerous.   Consumer watchdog website The Consumerist posted a blog entry by editor Ben Popken identifying the anonymous user number 927  as having an especially bizarre and macabre search history.  The blog posting has since been viewed nearly 4,000 times and referenced on a number of other high-profile sites.  In addition to sparking the interest of the Internet community, User 927 inspired a theatrical production, written by Katharine Clark Gray in Philadelphia. The play, also named User 927, has since been cited on several of the same blogs that originally discovered the real user's existence.  As time has passed, more artistic renderings of individual user logs have appeared. A series of movies on the web site Minimovies called "I Love Alaska" puts voice and imagery to User 711391 which the authors have labeled as "an episodic documentary".  