EUFIC, the European Food Information Council, is a non-profit organisation that provides science-based facts on food and health in an accessible, appealing and actionable way. Since 1995, EUFIC has strived to inspire and empower people to make better decisions about diet and lifestyle.  EUFIC’s passionate science and communication experts who believe in the power of informed consumers. EUFIC communicates science-based information on a range of food and health topics, like nutrition and lifestyle, food safety and quality, food labelling, and risk communication. The science on specific topics and public debate around it are considered, to make sure the materials are relevant, and reflect the scientific consensus. EUFIC’s qualified staff then put the scientific facts into plain language, making them understandable to the general public, and practical for use by health professionals and educators. EUFIC also carries out consumer research, to discover people’s perceptions, views and preferences. EUFIC works with Scientific Advisory and Editorial Boards, and with independent experts on specific projects, who advise on the scientific direction, and ensure the accuracy and impartiality of the work. The main objective is to present a balanced view of the scientific evidence, to allow the readers to make their own informed decisions. The website in 12 languages has the Health On the Net certification, which verifies that content complies with a multi-stakeholder consensus on standards, to protect citizens from misleading health information. The organisation also hosts Cool Food Planet, a website for 6–12 years old to learn about healthy diet and lifestyle and food safety. With its offices in Brussels, EUFIC liaises with a European network to enhance its impact and outreach in other countries. EUFIC is funded by individual food and drink companies, the European Commission, foundations, umbrella organisations, and from sales of publications. EUFIC participates in research projects funded by the European Commission’s Framework Programmes (FP6, FP7, and H2020). Since 2004, EUFIC has taken part in a number of projects with a main role as a communication and outreach lead, but also contributing with consumer research, and stakeholder engagement. Led by the European Commission, the EU platform for action on diet, physical activity and health is a forum for the food industry, professional associations, and consumer protection NGOs, willing to commit to tackling current trends in diet and physical activity. EUFIC is actively involved via several commitments, some of which joint with the European Federation of Associations of Dietitians (EFAD), and the European Association for the Study of Obesity (EASO). JPI HDHL focuses on coordinating European research in food, nutrition, and health. EUFIC participates in its Stakeholder Advisory Board, offering advice on information exchange with other bodies and stakeholders in the field. European Technology Platforms (ETPs) are industry-led stakeholder fora, recognised by the European Commission as key actors in driving innovation, knowledge transfer, and competitiveness. EUFIC has participated in establishing research priorities in the area of food and consumers. ENLP is a network of 800 leaders in nutrition in Europe, founded to educate and inspire the new leaders, ensuring an impact on nutrition and health in Europe. EUFIC’s team members contribute to its work, among others, by serving as a board member, by leading the fundraising team, and acting as director of the advanced leadership training programme. EUFIC participates in an informal global network of food information organisations and partner organisations that share the common goal of communicating science-based information on healthy lifestyle, nutrition and food safety. 