The Good Food Institute (GFI) is a U.S.-based 501(c)(3) nonprofit that promotes plant-based meat, dairy, and egg substitutes as well as clean meat (also known as cultured meat) alternatives to the products of conventional animal agriculture.  The organization launched in February 2016 with the vision of creating a healthy, humane, and sustainable food supply. GFI targets scientists, policymakers,  and entrepreneurs to promote plant-based products and cellular agriculture.  The group has conducted activities in Washington D.C., which include filing lawsuits against the FDA and the USDA.     GFI’s promotion of plant-based and "clean meat" has been featured on various news outlets including the Washington Post Magazine and VICE.   According to Co-Founder and Executive Director Bruce Friedrich, “it’s likely that, in a few generations, animal slaughter for food will be extremely rare in the developed world.”  Among GFI's 25 advisors  are entrepreneurs, food industry experts, CEOs, scientists, authors, and financial advisors, including: In June 2016, GFI filed a lawsuit in a D.C. federal court demanding that the FDA turn over all records related to its regulation of the term "soy milk," after the agency failed to respond to several Freedom of Information Act requests GFI submitted in April 2016. According to Politico's Morning Agriculture report, GFI wants the FDA to formally "allow the use of the term 'soy milk,' and says the agency's inconsistency on the matter has led to 'consumer confusion and an uneven competitive landscape.'"  After filing three Freedom of Information Act requests to obtain documents from the USDA related to its open investigation of the American Egg Board's allegedly anti-competitive actions  against egg-free Mayo company, Hampton Creek, GFI sued the agency on Monday, August 8, 2016, for failing to respond to the requests in full.  According to an article on Vice Motherboard, GFI filed FOIA requests in December for meeting minutes and budgetary documents from the Egg Board, but was only given access to documents that had already been made public. In September 2016, the Open Philanthropy Project (OPP) awarded GFI a $1,000,000 grant for general support.   The grant was made under OPP’s farm animal welfare effort, which is one of their major focus areas given the large number of farmed animals subject to considerable suffering.  GFI has ties with the effective altruism (EA) movement, as helping farmed animals is one of EA's major cause areas.    GFI was founded as a sister project of Mercy for Animals,  one of EA organization Animal Charity Evaluators' top charities,  and GFI Executive Director Bruce Friedrich spoke on EA Global 2016's panel on "Rethinking Meat and the End of Factory Farming".   In 2016, effective altruist Michael Dickens wrote an essay explaining his decision to donate $20,000 to GFI, arguing it was among the most promising targets for donors interested in maximizing impact.  In November 2016, Animal Charity Evaluators (ACE) named GFI as one of its Top Charities in its annual animal charity recommendations.   The ACE review lists GFI's strengths as its potential to decrease demand for animal products—possibly much more rapidly than moral arguments—and the focus of GFI's leadership on effectiveness.  Their weaknesses, according to ACE, include its short track record, the difficulty of developing cost-competitive "clean meat", and the possible difficulties with finding and hiring the right staff.  ACE estimates that GFI could use $500,000 to $1 million more in 2017 than it did in 2016.  These funds would likely go to filling their operating reserve and hiring new staff.  