 Brian Worley (born September 8, 1972) is an American reality television host, event planner, and wedding designer. Worley is the co-owner of Your BASH! Event Production where he has produced numerous events within the entertainment industry.    Worley was born in Baton Rouge, Louisiana before he moved to Denver, Colorado at age 2 and Austin, Texas at age 12, where he and his younger sister were raised. While in high school, Worley worked as camp counselor for Lost Creek Country Club.  By spring of 1992, Worley had gained work experience from 3 different jobs including a sales associate position with The Gap, a tour guide position with Disney World’s Great Movie Ride, where he also played the role of Sleeping Beauty's Prince Phillip and Disney’s character Goofy. Worley graduated cum laude from the University of North Texas with a degree in Radio, Television, and Film.  Worley launched his first business in fashion with B Worley Designs, a clothing design company that expanded its business to stores throughout Texas. Although thriving as a new clothing company at the time, he pursued his true passion in wedding and event planning. Worley began his career working with “Entertainment Tonight,” MTV, numerous award shows, and high-profile personalities. Worley was soon donned the “event guru” and budget specialist, known to turn any ordinary event into an extraordinary event.   Worley’s background in event production and design has led him to creating events such as the recent polo match featuring Prince William and Kate Middleton during their visit in the United States on July 8.     Other events Brian has worked on include:  Brian has been featured on the following shows and publications: Worley is known for being a green and eco-friendly advocate by implementing the philosophy to “reduce, reuse, and, recycle” through organic and pesticide-free food, bio-diesel generators, rented furniture, recycled fabric, drapes, and linens, and low watt/LED lighting.  In 2011, Worley applied this idea through events like the Emmy Awards with 50% recycled material used on the red carpet and conserved 20% of the energy used in lighting.  Brian Worley currently runs an ongoing blog sharing eco-friendly tips, do it yourself ideas, wedding and event planning guides, and links to his work.  