PLACES "The Magazine for the Modern Nomad", which eventually evolved into Modern Nomad magazine, was a travel/lifestyle magazine aimed at independent 18- to 35-year-old travelers. The magazine was published out of Chapel Hill, North Carolina, and lasted for three years (2001–2004). Its moniker was "Travel Through Life." Modern Nomad magazine was a collaboration between Paul W. Jacob and Lindsay Bentz: Paul W. Jacob was the Publishing and Editorial Director of the magazine, while Lindsay Bentz assumed the role of Creative Director. The magazine was the initial voice of and the inspiration for the current global "Modern Nomad Movement." Modern Nomad magazine developed a cult following due to its innovative travel writing style and clean and modern design. It published essays, poetry, photo essays and full-length features on destinations around the globe, including in-depth looks at food and music subcultures. MODERN NOMAD magazine was critically recognized for literary travel writing paired with a clean, modern design. Publishing work that was often experimental in form and content, the magazine represented a new movement in the way travel and the experience of place is expressed - presenting readers with work that not only challenged the intellect, but moved the soul. MODERN NOMAD magazine sought to unite those people who consciously travel a different road in life. In considering Modern Nomad, it is important to note that the magazine's 1st issue had the unfortunate fate of hitting newsstands on Sept 21, 2001 - just a week and a half after the 9/11 tragedy. Despite the economic climate and the enormous decline in the travel industry, Modern Nomad continued publishing for 3 years. While the magazine sold well on newsstands, ultimately, the loss of potential advertising revenue caused by the downturn in the travel industry from 9/11 proved insurmountable. Paul W. Jacob was interviewed for CNN.com, featured as a guest on several regional NPR shows, including Conversations with Jean Feraca on Wisconsin Public Radio and was quoted in Canadian Elle magazine during his time as Publishing and Editorial Director. The Modern Nomad Festival, which was held at the Henry Miller Library in Big Sur in June 2003, was fostered by Paul W. Jacob and attracted an array of artists and patrons from throughout the United States and Canada. It was a three-day festival of music, poetry, food and dance that celebrated the open and loving spirit of the nomadic travel culture that exists throughout the world. 