 Sidetrip Travel Magazine is a free quarterly travel magazine that features destinations in the Philippines. It is noticeably smaller than mainstream and travel magazines, measuring 4.75 in. x 8.5 in. only. Sidetrip is distributed at the Department of Tourism Information Center (T.M. Kalaw, Manila), Victory Liner terminals (for deluxe passengers), travel agencies, and select cafes and restaurants in Metro Manila. It is published by Pico Integrated Marketing Agency. Sidetrip began as the onboard magazine of Victory Liner, one of the oldest and biggest bus transit companies operating in North Luzon. Its maiden issue came out in December 2007 and was presented as the bimonthly (once every two months) alternative travel guide to northern Philippines. However, it was only after three issues before the magazine was formally presented to the press during its official launch party held on April 24, 2008 at Eastwood City, Libis, Quezon City. The first issue featured tourist attractions of Baguio City, the country's summer capital and trade capital of Cordillera Administrative Region. Also included were tourism activities such as ukay-ukay (sidewalk vendors selling second-hand clothes, bags, and other items), along with short but informative features and directory listing of Baguio's hotels, resorts and art-inspired restaurants. The second issue, the Pampanga issue was released in February 2008 and focused on Pampanga's cuisine, deemed to be the best in the Philippines. Notable features were the exotic fare such as camaru and halo-halo, one of Filipino's favorite summer treat and dessert which literally translates to "mixed-mixed" and is made with sweetened fruits, yam, leche flan, milk and shaved ice. More importantly, it gave a rundown of Pampanga's best restaurants. Sidetrip also further delved into history and culture, with articles on Pampanga's prehispanic or pre-Spanish) history. In its third issue, Sidetrip introduced several changes in its look and content. From a bimonthly magazine, Sidetrip changed its frequency to quarterly (April to June). It also noticeably improved its content by including brief and informative travel stories and a fashion section. The hotel and directory listing too was given a face lift, with its new reader-friendly reviews and layout. But the best improvement would be its map, a detailed adventure map to Zambales, complete with hotel and attraction listings, restaurants, bus stations and gasoline stations. In celebration of travel, adventure and sports, Sidetrip organized an annual adventure race series that aims to bring together travelers and adventurers together to experience the unique sights and culture of a chosen venue. For its debut, Conquer Philippines brings 100 teams of two to the beautiful coastal province of Zambales with Conquer Zambales: The Sidetrip Adventure Race. 1. Conquer Zambales. Conquer Zambales: The Sidetrip Adventure Race is an exciting two-day race that will take 100 teams of two across the breathtaking and rugged terrains of Zambales. Teams of two shall complete various tasks to get a chance to win a total of P300,000 cash and prizes. Prizes 1st prize - P100,000 cash and products 2nd prize - P60,000 cash and products 3rd prize - P40,000 cash and products The race is covered by three media outfits, Solar Sports, Living Asia and Dream Satellite TV. Aside from the two-day race, Sidetrip is bringing The Dawn band to Zambales as a post-race treat for the Conquer Zambales Victory Party. 1. Wanderlust – Tales of travels across the Philippines 2. Tasty Travels – Includes food and restaurant reviews, recipes and 3. Arts and Culture – Features on the peoples and stories behind every destination 4. City Scenes - Rundown of the metro's hotspots and the places to dine, wine and unwind. 5. Road signs - Travel advisories, facts and Q&As 6. Escape - Reviews of hotels, resorts and other accommodation options 7. All for Raffle – Promos and raffle for the readers Primary International Airports Diosdado Macapagal International Airport Mactan-Cebu International Airport Davao International Airport Ninoy Aquino International Airport Subic Bay International Airport Secondary International Airports General Santos Int'l Airport(Tambler Airport) Iloilo International Airport Laoag International Airport Zamboanga International Airport Major Commercial Domestic Airports Baguio Airport Dumaguete Airport Legazpi Airport Puerto Princesa Airport Roxas Airport Mc Guire Field (San Jose Airport) Daniel Z. Romualdez Airport (Tacloban Airport) Bus and shipping lines Victory Liner DeLuxe Buses Super Ferry (Cabins and staterooms) Restaurants and Coffee shops Fuzion Café Greenbelt, Makati City Fuzion Café, The Podium, Ortigas Center, Pasig City Fuzion Café, Promenade, Greenhills Fuzion Café, SM The Block, Quezon City Fuzion Café, SM Fairview, Quezon City Fuzion Café, SM Baguio Fuzion Café, Trinoma Mall, Quezon City Select Coffee Shops and resto in Metro Manila Bars Bedspace, Greenbelt, Makati Bedscene, Mall of Asia Bedroom, Eastwood City, QC Others Select Travel Agencies DOT Info Center, Ermita, Manila December 2007 - January 2008: Baguio City (Summer Capital of the Philippines) February 2008 - March 2008 : Pampanga (Culinary Capital of the Philippines) April 2008 - June 2008: Zambales (Beach Capital of Luzon) July 2008 - September 2008: Water special 