The American Academy of Health Physics (AAHP) is a non-profit organization based in McLean, VA which serves to advance the profession of health physics through networking opportunities for members, certification of health physicists, and advisement to professionals to increase the application of health physics. The   Academy   has selective criteria for membership in the organization. The American Academy of Health Physics is a registered 501(c)3 non-profit organization which seeks to advance the goals of the Health Physics profession, advises the highest moral integrity in the practice of Health Physics, and improves the connections between health physicists, providing an avenue for Certified Health Physicists to obtain certification in the profession. The mission of the AAHP is accomplished with a specific Strategic Plan. Those eligible for full membership for the American Academy of Health Physics are all individuals who have been granted certification in Comprehensive Health Physics by the American Board of Health Physics (ABHP). Those completing the first part of the two-part exam are eligible for associate membership. As of May 2012, the AAHP has 1,336 members.    The President is.John R. Frazier, who has over 32 years of experience workinking  as a health physicist for the U.S. FDA Bureau of Radiological Health (1977-1980), Oak Ridge Associated Universities (1980-1986), IT Corporation (1986-1993), and Auxier & Associates (1993-2004)   The Academy has several awards   The   William McAdams Outstanding Service Award,  is  named after one of the founders of the Certification process for  health physicists, William A. McAdams,  It is given to those certified Health Physicists  who have made a significant contribution toward the advancement of professionalism in Health Physics and to the Certification process. The award may be given posthumously. It has been awarded to: The Joyce P. Davis Memorial Award  is given in memory and honor of Joyce P. Davis to those distinguished for excellence in professional achievement ,  outstanding ethical behavior,  and interpersonal skills. It has been awarded to: The Academy of Service Award is awarded for exceptional service to the AAHP during the immediate Past President’s term of office. Recipients have been:  Certified Health Physicist is a title regulated by the American Board of Health Physics. It  designates a  health physicist  certified in the application of health physics through competency and holistic review by the American Board of Health Physics. There are a number of requirements to obtain such certification. 