 Meh (/mɛ/) is an interjection used as an expression of indifference or boredom. It is often regarded as a verbal equivalent of a shrug of the shoulders. The use of the term "meh" shows that the speaker is apathetic, uninterested, or indifferent to the question or subject at hand. It is occasionally used as an adjective, meaning something is mediocre or unremarkable.  Meh is popularly used as a catchall answer to any question. It is acceptably interchangeable with most responses.  "What time do you want to go out tonight?" "Meh." Also considered a non-committal response, "meh" can be used when disregarding a question or to refer to something they have no opinion or emotions about. In expressing an opinion, it means the speaker's opinion is that of apathy. However, some may respond with "meh" simply to avoid creating an opinion on the matter at all.  "Do you want to go to the party with me?" "Meh." "What did you think about the book we had to read?" "Meh."The origin is unknown. Some have speculated that the term's origin is Yiddish because of its similarity to the interjection "feh",   which appears in the 1936 Yiddish song Yidl Mitn Fidl. In Alexander Harkavy's "Yiddish-English-Hebrew Dictionary" the word is treated as a bleating or baa sound. Hooray for Yiddish, by Leo Rosten uses the word "mnyeh", which is speculated to be an early variant of "meh".  As early as 1992, "meh" appeared in a Usenet posting in a discussion referring to the television series Melrose Place.  Meh's popularity surged after its use on the American animated television series The Simpsons.   It was first used in the 1994 episode "Sideshow Bob Roberts",  when a librarian reacts to Lisa's surprise that voting records are not classified. It also appeared later in "Lisa's Wedding" after Marge weaves the words "Hi Bart" on a loom to try to pique her son's interest in weaving, to which he responds "meh". In the 2001 episode "Hungry, Hungry Homer", Lisa spells out the word for emphasis ("M-E-H"), after Homer tries to interest her (Lisa) and Bart into going to the theme park "Blockoland".   American lexicographer Benjamin Zimmer wrote in 2006, "Whatever Yiddish origins the interjection might have had, they have been lost in post-Simpsons usage."  Zimmer contacted Simpsons writer John Swartzwelder, who was responsible for "Hungry Hungry Homer," who said  "I had originally heard the word from an advertising writer named Howie Krakow back in 1970 or 1971 who insisted it was the funniest word in the world."  Zimmer also contacted the writers of the other two episodes but they could not remember where they had heard the word.  Lexicographer Grant Barrett wrote about meh and d'oh, another Simpsons catchphrase: "I suspect they're both just transcribed versions of oral speech, which has any number of single-syllable sounds that mean a variety of things."  Even mainstream publications have adopted usage of "meh". The word's first mainstream print usage occurred in Canadian newspaper the Edmonton Sun in 2003: "Ryan Opray got voted off Survivor. Meh".  In December 2009, meh was included in the BBC News Online list of 20 words which defined the decade.  On October 14, 2013 ABC News posted on their website under headlines: US Government Shuts Down, World Says, 'Meh.'  The New York Times's The One Page Magazine now features a "meh" list.  A daily deals website from Matt Rutledge called meh.com debuted on July 9, 2014.  Rutledge paid $100,000 for the meh.com domain in June 2014.  In November 2008, the word was added to the Collins English Dictionary, a British publication published by HarperCollins.   Cormac McKeown, senior editor for Collins dictionaries, said: "This is a new interjection from the US that seems to have inveigled its way into common speech over here"."It was actually spelled out in The Simpsons when Homer is trying to pry the kids away from the TV with a suggestion for a day trip. They both just reply 'meh' and keep watching TV; he asks again and Lisa says 'We said MEH! M-E-H, meh?!' "Sam Leith, writing in The Daily Telegraph, described the addition of the word, following suggestions received from the public, as a "gimmick", before concluding it was a "useful" word.  Harper Collins' definition of "meh" included a "real example" of usage: "As in 'the Canadian election was so meh'."  When complaints arose over this choice of example, Harper Collins' lexicographer Cormac McKeown, who chose the election reference, insisted that he meant "no slight to Canada".  