William Maskrey (1770 - 1831) was an English cotton manufacturer, dealer, chapman and entrepreneur active in Cheshire and Lancashire during the Golden Age of cotton mills in the late 18th and early 19th centuries.   Founder of  Maskrey Mill in Ardwick, Manchester.   (The establishment was later known as Marlborough Mill, now demolished.)  Born 1770 in Edlaston, Derbyshire, to parents Joseph Maskrey and Esther (born Pearson).  An entrepreneur in the early stages of the Industrial Revolution, William took part in ventures across Cheshire and Lancashire, managing and founding several spinning mills, but ultimately failed to find success in the burgeoning cotton industry.   On 14 July 1791 he married Mary Washington in Astbury, thereby connecting himself with a well to do family in Congleton, Cheshire. Resident in Astbury, he went into business with his Washington in-laws and was involved in a cotton mill at Timbersbrook. He then moved  to Rushton Spencer where he manufactured cotton in a mill,   only to be declared bankrupt in 1797.   At the beginning of the 19th century, the city of Manchester was making a name for itself as Cottonopolis, where fortunes were to be made my lucky entrepreneurs, and so we find Maskrey recorded in several business directories of the city as a cotton spinner. By 1806 he was becoming ambitious enough to commission a portrait painted by H. Parker. In the 1810s, he was resident in Lymm, Cheshire.     In the 1820s he founded  Maskrey Mill on the corner of Union Street and William Street, Ardwick.  To provide water for the mill's machinery, he had a tunnel built to connect the site to the River Medlock, which passed under and gave its name to Water Street. The tunnel is the only part of the mill still extant.     Mentions in trade directories for Manchester: 1820, Spinner, 6 Gas Place. 1822, Cotton Spinner, 8 Chancery Lane, Ardwick. 1824, Cotton Twist Spinner, 1 Ogden St.  In 1828 he was bankrupted again. Declared an Insolvent Debtor, his entire estate was conveyed to Joseph Peel (Iron Founder) & John Wakefield (Cotton Merchant). His family was subsequently reduced to near poverty.   Maskrey Mill was subsequently run by Thomas Barton and Company until its dissolution on 30 June 1838.  Though the mill passed out of Maskrey's hands, it retained his name well into the 1850s, as seen from Ordnance Survey maps, though it was known as Marlborough Mills by the time the 1915 map of Manchester was made.   William's brother Samuel (1778) was a successful machine maker, active in Manchester. He was buried in a special crypt at Every Street Chapel in the city.  Died 31 March 1831, aged 59. He was buried in Astbury churchyard with his wife and Washington in-laws.  