Thailand is the 20th most populous country in the world.   Located in South-eastern Asia, the country has a large population located in a variety of different areas. Thailand has a population of around 69 million people, with the country divided into 77 provinces and 928 administrative districts.  There are large inequalities in healthcare between people inhabiting rural as opposed to urban areas.  In the past several decades government initiatives have been made to reduce the inequality felt by rural citizens. Healthcare in Thailand is primarily found through three paths: government health services, private medical sectors, and non-profit health organizations. The Universal Coverage Scheme came into effect in Thailand in 2002, allowing for wider healthcare availability country wide.  It is an insurance scheme which covers around 47 million of the Thai population.  This program is run by the Department of Medical Services at the Minister of Public Health. Since its inception, the program has been credited with growing the medical infrastructure in Thailand, with emphasis on rural and previously underserved areas. The hospitals have been cited as having possibly long lines or lesser treatment than private hospitals. For Thai citizens holding a Universal Coverage Health card there are no charges. There are a variety of private medical centers that are run without the government's financial support.  With over 1,000 and 400 private hospitals operating in compliance with international standards and equipped with trained physicians.  Thailand has first-class quality at affordable prices.  The Thai medical care industry actually attracts almost 2 million foreign medical tourists annually.  Many foreigners go there to get surgery because of the top-quality medical care.  The most common ones are for dental care, hip replacement, kidney and heart surgeries, and laser eye surgery.  The price range of surgery services in Thailand compared to the US can be up to 90% less expensive, however still quite expensive. Non-profit health care is available to help the poorest and most underserved people. Organizations currently active in the region include the Red Cross, World Vision, and Medecins Sans Frontieres.   These non-profit organizations aim to develop the quantity of life of marginalized and disadvantaged individuals. On top of that, most of the doctors are located in the capital city of Thailand, Bangkok,  because it is where most industrialization is centered. The main sources for higher education is also limited to Bangkok which is where most doctors end up working at. Because they studied for several years in Bangkok, most tend to stay around that area once they’ve become doctors. A study has shown that doctors have the desire to work around their hometown instead of going afar.  Since most upper classes and highly educated families live in Bangkok, the doctors produced tend to work in hospitals around Bangkok. This is one of the reasons that explain why although there are around 50,000 doctors in Thailand, small number when compared to the whole population, almost half are concentrated in Bangkok.  Most doctors choose to work in hospitals and health facilities that have adequate equipment and opportunities for them to learn and grow as a doctor.  With most patients, both national and international, seeking the best medical care and the top hospitals located in Bangkok, it should come to no surprise that more than half of the total number of doctors are located in the Bangkok area. Patients living in Bangkok already have an advantage over those in other provinces, let alone in rural areas. Moreover, wealthy families are surrounded by connections and societies of physicians, whether a family member or an acquaintance. With such close distance and close relations, it becomes much easier for wealthy families to receive any treatments needed. On the other hand, poorer families and those living in rural areas aren’t exposed to as many families and connections of physicians as wealthy families and thus, they don’t have the same opportunity which may lead to different outcomes as well. The high patient to staff ratio in rural areas leads to doctors having little time to thoroughly diagnose illnesses or have meaningful interactions with patients. The rural hospitals struggle everyday with the severe shortage of doctors and funds to maintain significant care to the all the patients in need. The ratio of doctors to patients in Bangkok is 1:720, in the North it’s 1:2,300, and in the Northeast it’s 1:3,200.  These numbers are generally higher in public hospitals than in private hospitals due to the lack of doctors in public hospitals, which is another issue to be discussed in the next section. These massive numbers explain why there are thousands of deaths in Thailand due to misdiagnoses, why many doctors die from accidents like car crashes after driving back from a straight 12-hour of treating patients, and why so many doctors are moving to private sectors rather than public hospitals. Another issue is the migration of doctors into private hospitals. Due to the large number of patients entering public hospitals every day, many doctors have turned away to make their own private clinics or to private hospitals because of the higher salary, shorter working hours, better benefits, and less tension with the bureaucratic system.  This does not have as much effect on wealthy families than on poorer families because wealthy families can just follow the doctor to their private clinics while others don’t have sufficient money for treatments in the private clinics. Public hospitals earn an average of 1.5 times more than the minimum wage, but private hospitals earn around 12 times more.  Although patients get more meaningful times and interactions with the doctors in private hospitals because of the less patients, not all patients can receive such care. If a patient has money, they can get the care they want. If not, then they will have to deal with the consequences of waiting several hours for a couple minutes of seeing the doctor. It is worse in rural areas where there are less hospitals and less number of doctors. There are always doctors rotating from hospital to hospital in rural areas, but they are only there temporary. No doctor wants to stay permanently in rural hospitals because of the lower salary and less opportunities for them to grow. Because of this, people living in rural areas have an unequal opportunity of receiving the care they need which leads to the unequal outcome of getting misdiagnosed or not getting treated at all. The problem is not only because of insufficient money, but also because of the distance. Some families might have enough money to see a doctor in Bangkok but because of the long distance, they do not have enough time to actually see one and must settle for hospitals nearby. Consequently, living in rural areas give less opportunities for patients in need and this inequality may lead to life or death. Unequal distribution does not specify only physicians; however, it includes others such as nurses, hospitals, and patient beds. Out of the total number of physicians in Thailand, 39.6% is concentrated in Bangkok. Out of the total number of nurses, 25.8% is located in Bangkok. And out of all patient beds, 20.6% are in Bangkok alone.  These numbers show that there are more to health inequality in Thailand than just being wealthy or poor. This unequal distribution is the reason why many public hospitals are losing doctors, why rural hospitals are suffering from the overcrowding of patients, why hospitals are short on funds, and why there is an unequal percentage of deaths in different regions of Thailand. There is an increase in concern about the efficiency and quality of health care delivery along with the lowering number of choices for consumers to choose from. No matter what, every patient wants what is best for them, they all want to be treated from the doctor’s full potential and ideally to be cured. It is an obstacle when society rewards those who are wealthy with whatever they want while giving less to those who are actually in need. Since the introduction of the Universal Coverage Scheme there has been rapid growth in the number of hospitals in Thailand. There are 1,002 public hospitals and 316 private hospitals. A complete list can be found here (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_hospitals_in_Thailand) Due to the healthcare crisis faced by Thailand throughout the 20th century, in the year 2001 Thailand’s government introduced the Universal Coverage Scheme.  This government run program was created to address the disparities in medical services available to the Thai people. The program was funded by the government and paid hospitals and provided financial incentive to practice medicine in rural or previously underserved areas. By the year 2011, the program had scaled and reached 98% of the population  The program was created under the Thai Rak Thai political party and directed by Thailand’s deputy secretary of the ministry of health, Dr. Suwit Wibulpolprasert. 