  The Ministry of Education (Abbreviation: MOE; Malay: Kementerian Pendidikan; Chinese: 教育部; Tamil: கல்வி அமைச்சு) is a ministry of the Government of Singapore that directs the formulation and implementation of policies related to education in Singapore. It is currently headed by Minister Ong Ye Kung who oversees education from Primary 1 to tertiary institutions. The Government of Singapore invests heavily in education to equip citizens with the necessary knowledge and skills to compete in the global marketplace.  Singapore currently spends around 1/5 of its national budget on education.   To boost its economic standing, the Government of Singapore created a mandate that most Singaporeans learn English. As a result, the country rose from one of the most impoverished Asian countries to one with the strongest economies and highest standards of living.    The ministry currently oversees 10 statutory boards: In 2016, a new statutory board under the Ministry of Education (MOE), SkillsFuture Singapore (SSG), was formed to drive and coordinate the implementation of SkillsFuture. It took over some of the functions currently performed by the Singapore Workforce Development Agency (WDA) and absorbed the Council for Private Education (CPE). The SkillsFuture initiative was introduced in 2016 to support Singapore’s next stage of economic advancement by providing lifelong learning and skills development opportunities for Singaporeans.  SkillsFuture aims at unlocking the full potential of all Singaporeans, regardless of background.  The program contains several key initiatives, such as SkillsFuture Credit and SkillsFuture Earn and Lean. SkillsFuture caters to many stakeholders, with initiatives centered on students, adult learners, employers, and training providers.  There are four key objectives of the SkillsFuture initiative: Every Singapore citizen from the age of 25 is given S$500 (approximately $370) by the Singapore government for the SkillsFuture Credit to invest in their personal learning.  This sum can be used for continuing education courses in local tertiary institutions, as well as short courses provided by training providers and MOOC providers such as Udemy, Coursera, and edX. By the end of 2017, the SkillsFuture Credit has been utilized by over 285,000 Singaporeans.  There were more than 18,000 SkillsFuture credit-approved courses available at that time.  As of 2016, there were also a total of 40 Earn and Learn Programmes.  There are six autonomous universities in Singapore.   Civil servants employed by the Ministry of Education are organised into several Unions, including the Singapore Teachers' Union, Singapore Chinese Teachers' Union, Singapore Malay Teachers' Union and Singapore Tamil Teachers' Union for Education Officers; and the Amalgamated Union of Public Employees for the non-Education Officers. All these unions are affiliates of the National Trades Union Congress.  This article incorporates text from a free content work.  Licensed under CC BY-SA License statement: Lifelong Learning in Transformation: Promising Practices in Southeast Asia, 1-62, Yorozu, Rika, UNESCO. UNESCO. To learn how to add open license text to Wikipedia articles, please see Wikipedia:Adding open license text to Wikipedia. For information on reusing text from Wikipedia, please see the terms of use.  