The Ministry of Education and Science (Bulgarian: Министерство на образованието и науката, Ministerstvo na obrazovanieto i naukata) of Bulgaria is the ministry charged with regulating and promoting the educational and scientific work in the country. It was founded as the Ministry of Popular Enlightenment in 1879 and existed under this name until 1947, after which it changed its name numerous times. In 2009 the name changed from "Ministry of Education and Science" to "Ministry of Education, Youth and Science". In 2013, this change was reversed. The national publishing house "Az-buki" under the Bulgarian Ministry of Education and Science currently publishes the weekly newspaper "Az-buki" („Аз-буки” in Bulgarian) and 9 scientific journals. Its publications are intended for students, tutors, Bulgarian cultural centers and communities in and outside Bulgaria.    Nadia Kantareva-Baruh PhD is the director of the publishing house. The first edition of the national newspaper “Az-buki” came out on April 10, 1991.  The weekly publication continues the tradition of a newspaper, which started to come out in 1896.  "Az-buki" is distributed by means of subscription and each individual issue is read by an average of 22,8 people. The journals of "Az-buki" publishing house include scientific texts in Bulgarian and English, research papers and critiques of academic scientists and teachers. They can be used in research papers for publishing, they are mandatory for the purposes of educational qualifications and have been ordered almost 31 000 times including abroad. The oldest journals have history of almost 100 years since the first date of publication. The list below includes nine scientific journals, which are indexed and referenced in Scopus, ERIH PLUS, CEEOL, Google Scholar, Primo (Ex Libris), Summon (ProQuest), Sociological Abstracts, ИНИОН – РАН, EBSCOhost, Philosophy Documentation Center. Some of the "Az-buki" partners are state and international institutions,  as well as Bulgarian and foreign universities. "Az-buki" and its partners collaborate to manage projects, such as “Open line”  (Проект „Открытая линия“),  “Un-known in Sofia” (Не-Познати в София), which resulted in the renovation and maintenance of the national monument on Polovrak peak.  The publishing house is an active participant in public initiatives, which are associated with development of educational practices, popularization of the achievements of Bulgarian science as well as activities associated with the development of young people.  "Az-buki" has a portfolio   in Béhance.   The national publishing house "Az-buki" has received a lot of certificates and prizes from the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, other governmental and public organizations and has received numerous greetings from the Bulgarian Prime Minister.  