The  Ministry of National Education (Turkish: Milli Eğitim Bakanlığı) is a government ministry of the Republic of Turkey, responsible for the supervision of public and private educational system, agreements and authorizations under a national curriculum. The ministry is headed by Ziya Selçuk.  After 1910, a Higher Education Office and a Libraries Inspection Office were established. During the War of National Liberation, there were two ministries of education. The Ministry of Education of the Turkish Grand National Assembly was in Ankara, the Ministry of Education of the Ottoman Government in Istanbul. After the Turkish Grand National Assembly was opened on 23 April 1920 a "Ministry of Education" was established by Law no. 3 of 2 May 1920 as one of the eleven ministries working under the Council of Ministers.  In 1920 the Ministry of Education consisted of the following five units: In 1923, the Ministry of Education in Istanbul was closed and the Ministry of Education in Ankara was expanded and reorganized to include eleven units. In the Republican period, organization of the Ministry of Education gradually developed and was reorganized with the Law no 2287 issued in 1933.  The Ministry of National Education; has been organized under the following names: According to Law no. 3797 on the organization and duties of the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry today consists of three divisions called: central, provincial and overseas organization. The Ministry of National Education has provincial organizations in 81 cities and 850 towns, 58 of them being the central towns of metropolitan cities. The Ministry of National Education has representation offices in 22 countries with 21 education undersecretaries and 17 education attaches. The office of the Ministry consists of the Training Council, main service units, counselling and inspection units and auxiliary units. Chairmanship of the Occupational and Technical Training Research and Development Center and Chairmanship of the Project Coordination Board Center are also included in the central organization.  Ankara Provincial Director of National Education has allegedly asked his colleagues to fire atheist and communist teachers from their jobs.    