The Steel City Clown Brigade is a ministry involved in evangelism and humor therapy. The Brigade was founded at the Steel Valley Corps of The Salvation Army in Homestead, Pennsylvania. The Brigade trains clowns in traditional clownly skills. The Brigade was founded in the evangelical tradition of The Salvation Army. For this reason the Brigade's focus is spreading the word of God. This is accomplished through Christ centered stage shows and assisting other churches with their functions. The White Shield is the main logo of The Steel City Clown Brigade. The white stands for purity and red for the Blood of Christ. The wheel represents the scriptures as the navigator of our lives. The anchor represent Christ as the anchor of our lives. "Illusi et Divinues" is Latin for "To be ridiculed is divine". This is the Governing Board of the Steel City Clown Brigade.  The Brigade Council I currently made up of the Chief Clown, Senior Sergeant, Music Director, Pastor and Sergeants. When the Brigade became and independent ministry in 2009 the Brigade Council became the de facto Board of Directors. The Chief Clown is elected from the Master and Sr. Standard Clown in the Brigade. The Chief Clown is responsible for the education of clowns and appointment of some Sergeants. The Chief Clown is also responsible for the Day to Day operation of the Brigade. The Pastor is responsible for administering the religious proficiencies in the Brigade. They also preach of Brigade meetings. The current Chief Clown is Steven Ramsey Gailey. This is the senior most Sergeant of the Brigade. This person is second in command of the Brigade. The current Senior Sergeant is Walt Kisielnicki. This person is responsible for administering all the music proficiencies. They direct the music during the show and teach at practices. This is a Sergeant in charge of more than one proficiency or a complex proficiency (a proficiency with more than two levels). There are currently two Sergeants who serve on the Brigade Council. This is a probationary rank for people with no previous experience.  All Cadets must have a sponsoring member of the Brigade Council. A cadet must also be seven years of age. Uniform:      Kelly green shirt with the Brigade Logo on the upper left front. Responsibilities: To prove that they are responsible enough to be a member of the Brigade. Must learn basic protocol, procedures and the rank system of the Brigade. They must also develop an acceptable clown persona. Must attend Practice for four weeks, an aptitude for clowning, complete a face and persona, must perform in one show, must have half the requirements for "Pickled herring". Uniform:      Yellow shirt with the Brigade Logo on the upper left front. Responsibilities: To earn basic clowning skills and complete "Pickled Herring".  Must set a good example for other clowns and show they are good steward of their equipment. Must complete 3 proficiencies including "Pickled Herring", ten performing hours, fifty practice hours, be good stewards of their equipment, complete a board of review, and have a good attitude. Uniform:      Royal blue shirt with a Brigade Logo on the upper left front Responsibilities: To learn clowning skills and decide on an area of specialization. Must set a good example for other clown and be good stewards of their equipment. They must also assist in training Apprentice Clown and Cadets. Must complete 4 additional prof., including 1 production prof., complete 20 addition performing hours, complete 50 additional practice hours, be a good steward of their equipment and complete a board of review. Uniform:      True red shirt with the Brigade Logo on the upper left front. Responsibilities: To learn clowning skills and to teach other clowns. Must set a good example for other clowns and be good stewards of their equipment. Must assist in the daily operation of the Brigade. They must also assist in the training of Junior Clowns, Apprentice Clowns and Cadets. Must complete 13 additional Prof., including 2 production prof., complete 75 additional performing hours, must complete 300 additional practice hours, must be a good steward of their equipment and complete a board of review. Uniform:      Royal purple shirt with the Brigade Logo on the upper left front. Responsibilities: To learn clowning skills and teach other clowns. Must set a good example for others and be good stewards of their equipment. Must assist in the daily operation of the Brigade. They must also assist in the training of Standard Clown, Junior Clown, Apprentice Clowns and Cadet. The Brigade uses the circus crafts to entertain and evangelise. This incluces juggling, balloon sculpture, pantomime, music, ledgermaine and other skills. 