  This is the List of World War I memorials and cemeteries in Champagne-Ardennes. The modern-day Champagne-Ardenne, bordering Belgium in northeast France, covers four departments: Aube, Ardennes, Haute-Marne, and Marne. This region saw much fighting in World War I (1914–1918) and many battles, of which arguably the most important were the First Battle of the Marne and the Second Battle of the Marne.  The First Battle of the Marne, also known as the Miracle of the Marne, was fought between 5 and 12 September 1914. The battle effectively ended the month-long German offensive that had opened the war and the counterattack of six French field armies and the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) along the Marne River forced the German Imperial Army to abandon its push on Paris and retreat northeast to the Aisne river, setting the stage for four years of trench warfare on the Western Front The Second Battle of the Marne (a.k.a. the Battle of Reims), fought from 15 July to 6 August 1918, was the last major German attack of their five-phase Spring Offensive. The German attack failed when an Allied counterattack led by French forces and including several hundred tanks overwhelmed the Germans on their right flank, inflicting severe casualties. The German defeat marked the start of the relentless Allied advance of the Hundred Days Offensive which culminated in the Armistice. Needing to come to terms with the loss of so many lives in the conflict, particularly those whose remains went unidentified, war memorials – known in France as monuments aux morts, literally "monuments to the dead" – became a focal point and replaced individual graves and gravestones.  Between 1919 and 1926, many thousands of memorials were erected throughout France, including large national monuments, civic memorials, war cemeteries, private memorials, halls and parks.  Ceremonies are often held at the memorials, including those on Armistice Day and the Fêtes de la Victoire. In 1929, the Beaux-Arts administration organised a competition to select a suitable design for the memorial. Eventually, the commission went to the architect Paul Bigot who proposed Henri Bouchard for the main sculptural work.  The monument was to take the form of a huge column to symbolise the significance of the German advance being halted, and at the top there would be a sculpture in relief of an "Angel of Victory" which would be assigned to Bouchard while bas-reliefs at the base would be assigned to established sculptors Alfred Bottiau, Albert Patrisse and René André Duparc. In December 1933, the monument was completed, but there had been difficulty in raising funds to complete the sculpture. The monument remained covered in scaffolding until 1938 when its sculptural work was completed. The inauguration was set for 19 September 1939, but the outbreak of World War II delayed this until 23 September 1951. The monument rises to a height of 35.5 metres (116 ft) and its concrete is pink in colour. The whole monument with its metal base and deep foundations weighed 2000 tonnes. The monument's scale evokes both power and defiance, as the designer had intended. At the base, bas-reliefs featured depictions of all the main Generals involved in the battle, with Joseph Joffre in the centre, his arm around a French soldier. Around him, Joffre's generals are positioned in the geographical order (from Verdun to Senlis) that they held in the battle. From left to right they are Generals Sarrail (Third Army), Langle de Cary (Fourth Army), Foch (Ninth Army), Franchet d'Espèrey (Fifth Army), Field Marshal French (BEF), Manoury (Sixth Army) and Gallieni (The Army of Paris). "A la voix de Joffre, l'armée française en pleine retraite s'arrêta et fit face à l'ennemi. alors se déchaîna la bataille de la Marne sur un front de soixante dix lieues de Verdun aux portes de Paris. Après plusieurs jours de luttes héroïques, l'ennemi de toutes parts battait en retraite et sur toute l'étendue du front, la VICTOIRE PASSAIT" "Au moment où s'engage une bataille dont dépend le salut du pays, il importe de rappeler à tous que le moment n'est plus de regarder en arrière. Tous les efforts doivent être employés à attaquer et repousser l'ennemi. Toute troupe qui ne peut plus avancer devra coûte que coûte garder le terrain conquis et se faire tuer sur place plutôt que de reculer. Dans les circonstances actuelles, aucune défaillance ne peut être tolérée" Other inscriptions cover the make-up of the different armies that were involved in the Allied formation and each face to the point where they were positioned at the start of the offensive. These were: Below each of these are listed the different Corps involved. A tous ceux qui sur notre terre du plus lointain des âges dressèrent la borne contre l'envahisseur During the occupation from 1940 to 1944, the Germans left the monument untouched. The local people call it the "Carrot". "The VICTORY of the MARNE"   The head of Joffre carved into the Mondement column. Top of the column with Bouchard's "Victory Angel" Joffre with French soldier surrounded by his Generals as carved at the base of the Mondemont memorial. The column at Mondemont. Next to the chapel is a covered area and on the walls are recorded the names of the various regiments that were involved in both battles, and relief carvings of Joseph Joffre and Ferdinand Foch, Allied Army leaders of the 1914 and 1918 battles, respectively.  Their achievements are recorded, stressing the significance of the battles.  On the lower slope of the hill is a sculpture of a woman in a simple cloak carrying a shield on her left arm; she represents France and is walking forward and looking to the east. Behind her, are four long steps, representing the four years of the 1914–1918 war. These lead some 150 yards up the slope to the sculpture les fantômes. Its eight figures represent a young recruit, an engineer, a machine-gunner, a grenadier, a colonial soldier, an infantryman and a pilot, surrounding death who is leaving his shroud. The figures have their eyes closed; they are seeking their missing comrades. To the left and right of the memorial are two carved stone tablets. That on the left records the events of the battle and that on the right lists the Allied Generals who took part in the battle under Commander in Chief of the Allied Armies, Ferdinand Foch. "Le 15 juillet 1918, l'ennemi engage la bataille en Champagne contre les IVème, Vème et VIème armées – Le 17, ses efforts sont brisés de Château-Thierry à l'Argonne. A l'aube du 18 juillet, entre Nouvron et la Marne, les Xème et Vème armées s'élancent à l'assaut sur le flanc de l'ennemi, atteignent le soir le front Pernant-Torcy, progressent sans arrêt les jours suivants et enlèvent la butte de Chalmont (25 et 26 juillet), succès décisif qui repousse l'ennemi sur les plateaux du tardenois. Il tente en vain de résister au nord de l'Ourcq – combats du Grand-Rozoy – il est rejeté sur la Vesle. Soissons est délivré, 30.000 prisonniers et un matériel considérable sont capturés. Le front est raccourci de 50 km, la voie Paris-Chalons rétablie, la menace contre Paris levée. Après trois semaines de durs combats, auxquels participèrent des divisions américaines, britanniques et italiennes, la seconde bataille de la Marne se terminait victorieusement. L'initiative des opérations passait aux mains des alliés"   These battles involved the deaths of many men and there are two major British "Memorials to the Missing" for the men lost whose remains could not be identified. The memorials at La Ferté-sous-Jouarre links to the First Battle of the Marne, and that at Soissons which links to the 1918 battle. To the glory of God and the lasting memory of 3888 British officers and men whose graves are not known who landed in France in the month of August 1914 and between then and October fought at Mons and Le Cateau and on the Marne and the Aisne. The La Ferté-sous-Jouarre memorial was unveiled on 4 November 1928. The English and French military officers present at the dedication ceremony included Ferdinand Foch, Maxime Weygand, George Milne and William Pulteney Pulteney. The ceremony also commemorated the contributions of Joseph Joffre, John French, and Michel-Joseph Maunoury, the commanders of the armies who had fought in the area.  Near the main memorial at La Ferté-sous-Jouarre, and on each bank of the river and on either side of the nearby bridge, are two identical memorials commemorating the efforts of Royal Engineers who built, while under fire from the Germans, a floating bridge at this location in 1914.  The memorial was designed by George H. Goldsmith, a decorated veteran of the Western Front.  The sculptor has not been identified, but much has been written about the fact that a tin helmet was wrongly included in the sculpture given that the tin helmet was not worn in 1914 and was not then standard issue.  When the French Armies held and drove back the enemy from the Aisne and the Marne between May and July 1918 the 8th, 15th, 19th, 21st, 25th, 34th, 50th, 51st and 62nd divisions of the British Armies served in the line with them and shared the common sacrifice. Here are recorded the names of 3,987 officers and men of those divisions to whom the fortune of war denied the known and honoured burial given to their comrades in death. Reims was a front-line city throughout the four years of the war and suffered bombardment from German artillery. The Reims Cathedral was bombed and damaged on many occasions, and images of it became a rallying icon in the non-German world. Sixty percent of Reims was destroyed during the 1914–1918 war, and 4,567 Reims men were killed in the conflict, with a further 740 civilian casualties. "Pensée accomplissant son effort de résurrection" There are reliefs on either side of this central figure. The relief on the left is entitled "1914 le sacrifice" and is dedicated to the families of the dead ("Aux familles des morts pour exalter la grandeur de leur sacrifice.") while that on the right bears the legend "1918 la leçon du passé" and speaks to future generations reminding them not to forget the sacrifices of their parents ("Aux generations nouvelles pour qu'elles sachent et se souviennent"). A list of the names of the dead was sealed up with one of the memorial's bricks and there is a book in the Reims town hall which also contains this information.  "Enfants de Reims tombes au champ d'honneur que ce monument edifie par votre ville meurtrie exprime à jamais son deuil et sa fierte" Aux morts des 132e et 332e Régiments d'infanterie et du 46e Régiment territorial d'infanterie The monument to the 24th, 28th and 133rd was inaugurated on 14 October 1923. This monument has deteriorated over the years, and a number of the inscriptions are now no longer legible.  The German cemetery at Loivre contains the remains of 4,149 men of whom 1,913 could not be identified and their remains are in an ossuary.   This monument is located at Cauroy-lès-Hermonville near Reims. Many men of the 119th had fallen in the Battle of Charleroi on 22 August 1914, one of the battles fought at the beginning of the war and known as the Battles of the Frontiers. One inscription is from Belgium and pays homage to the men of the 119th (aux frères – their brothers in arms)  The Chemin des Dames (literally, "path of ladies") runs 30 kilometres (19 mi) along a ridge between the valleys of the rivers Aisne and Ailette in the département of Aisne. After their retreat from the Marne, it was a logical place for the German Army to choose to turn and attempt to check the Allied advances.  The German army held the ridge for most of the war, but the French made numerous attempts to remove them from it; this resulted in an enormous loss of life. 20–40 metres (66–131 ft) beneath the ridge is an almost 1 square kilometre (0.39 sq mi) cave network called "The Dragon's Lair" (La Caverne du Dragon). The subterranean caverns were originally a tunnel system created from excavations of limestone for building purposes in the 17th century, and during the war they were used by both French and German forces for field hospitals and command posts. The Chemin des Dames has along its length many visible reminders of the war. The Fort of Malmaison held a strategic position and at La Royere the part which colonial troops played in the war is recorded.  At Cerny-en-Laonnois, a little chapel is the official remembrance site for the Chemin des Dames. The Caverne du Dragon Museum is on the spot where the Germans used the old quarry as an underground barracks.  The Monument to the Basques is in memory of the 36th Division, most of whom were from the south-west of France. The Plateau de Californie affords views of the Aisne valley, and was the scene of the offensive launched by General Nivelle on 16 April 1917. The village of Craonne, rebuilt in the 1920s, has the Arboretum de Craonne memorial and the National Tank Monument. All these memorials are interspersed with cemeteries and smaller monuments to the dead. Over 130,000 men lost their lives in this area. In the French, German, British and Italian cemeteries only half of the men who died could be identified, and many were laid to rest in ossuaries. While there were always almost daily skirmishes along the Chemin des Dames during the war there were three major battles fought. These were: The First Battle of the Aisne was the Allied follow-up offensive against the right wing of the German First Army (led by Alexander von Kluck) and Second Army (led by Karl von Bülow) as they retreated from the Marne in September 1914. The Aisne battle began on the evening of 13 September but it was inconclusive and the two armies concluded that a head-on breakthrough was not possible and started the Race to the Sea with one attempt after another to take the opposition's flank. Once they reached the North Sea Coast, the "war of movement" ended and trench warfare took its place. After the First Battle of the Aisne, no major battles were fought in the area until March 1917 but during this time several thousand soldiers died in local surprise attacks or coup de main operations and on 25 January 1915, German forces captured the Creute farm (today La Caverne du Dragon or the Dragon's Lair), the last remaining French position on the plateau. This was what is known as the "Battle of the Creute". The Germans then dominated the ridge. The Second Battle of the Aisne took place between 16 and 25 April 1917. This was to become known as the "Nivelle Offensive".  General Robert Nivelle was an artilleryman by training and started the battle with a six-day-long artillery bombardment involving some 5,300 guns but this arguably did no more than alert the Germans to the fact that an attack was coming. On 16 April, seven French army corps attacked the German line along the Chemin des Dames ridge but Nivelle had underestimated the enemy's defensive preparations (the Germans had created a network of deep shelters in old underground stone quarries below the ridge, where their troops had been able to take shelter during the French barrage) and the well-prepared German positions dominated the southerly slope over which the French attackers were advancing, the Germans making maximum use of their new MG08/15 machine guns. The French took 40,000 casualties on the first day alone, and during the following 12 days of the battle French losses continued to rise to 120,000 casualties (dead, wounded, and missing). The final count, when the offensive was over, was 271,000 French and 163,000 German casualties; although the German defenders suffered less, they lost some 20,000 prisoners, 40 cannons, and 200 machine guns. The high French casualty count in such a small space of time, and with such minimal gains, was perceived at headquarters and by the French public as a disaster. There was also much criticism of the agonizingly slow evacuation of the French wounded which it was thought demonstrated a lack of logistical preparations. Nivelle had to resign, and the French Army morale suffered, with growing instances where soldiers refused to accept orders. This situation developed into a threat of complete disintegration and General Pétain, who had opposed the offensive, replaced Nivelle to reestablish order. He instituted positive changes, such as longer home leaves and better food and medical assistance for the troops. By the autumn of 1917, the British army took over the defenses at the western end of the ridge. During the summer of 1917, the area saw the Battle of the Observatories which was a series of local attacks and counterattacks to gain control of high positions commanding the views between Craonne and Laffaux and in October, after the allied victory at the Battle of Malmaison the German forces left the Chemin des Dames and moved to the north of the Ailette River valley. The Third Battle of the Aisne was part of the German "Spring Offensive" in which the Germans sought to recapture the Chemin des Dames ridge before the American Expeditionary Force (AEF) arrived in any great numbers.  It was one of a series of offensives, known as the Kaiserschlacht, launched by the Germans in the spring and summer of 1918. The American Buffalo Soldiers of the 92nd Infantry Division (United States) and the 93rd Infantry Division (United States) were the first Americans to fight in France, albeit detached from the American Expeditionary Force and under French command. The massive surprise attack (named Blücher-Yorck after two Prussian generals of the Napoleonic Wars) lasted from 27 May until 6 June 1918. Operation Blücher-Yorck was planned primarily by Erich Ludendorff, who was certain that success at the Aisne would lead the German armies to within striking distance of Paris. Ludendorff, who saw the BEF as the main threat, believed that this, in turn, would cause the Allies to move forces from Flanders to help defend the French capital, allowing the Germans to continue their Flanders offensive with greater ease. Thus, the Aisne drive was essentially planned as a large diversionary attack. The defence of the Aisne area was in the hands of General Denis Auguste Duchêne, commander of the French Sixth Army.  In addition, four divisions of the British IX Corps, led by Lieutenant-General Sir Alexander Hamilton-Gordon, held the Chemin des Dames Ridge; they had been posted there to rest and refit after surviving the "Michael" battle. On the morning of 27 May 1918, the Germans began a 4,000 gun bombardment of the Allied front lines and the British suffered heavy losses, because Duchêne (reluctant to abandon the Chemin des Dames Ridge after it had been captured at such cost the previous year had ordered them to mass together in the front trenches, in defiance of instructions from the French Commander-in-Chief Henri-Philippe Pétain. Huddled together they were to make for easy artillery targets.  The bombardment was followed by a poison gas drop and once the gas had lifted the main infantry assault by 17 German Sturmtruppen divisions commenced. Taken completely by surprise and with their defences spread thin, the Allies were unable to stop the attack and the German army advanced through a gap of 40 kilometres (25 mi) in the Allied lines and reached the Aisne in under six hours. In fact the Germans were to smash through eight Allied divisions on a line between Reims and Soissons, pushing the Allies back to the river Vesle and gaining an extra 15 kilometres (9.3 mi) of territory by nightfall. Victory seemed near for the Germans, who had captured just over 50,000 Allied soldiers and well over 800 guns by 30 May 1918 but, after having advanced within 56 kilometres (35 mi) of Paris on 3 June, the German armies were beset by numerous problems, including supply shortages, fatigue, lack of reserves and many casualties along with counter-attacks by and stiff resistance from newly arrived American divisions, who engaged them in the Battles of Chateau-Thierry and Belleau Wood and on 6 June 1918, the German advance halted on the Marne. The French had suffered over 98,000 casualties and the British around 29,000. German losses were nearly as great if not slightly heavier. Duchêne was recalled by French Commander-in-Chief Philippe Pétain for his poor handling of the British and French troops but on a positive note the Americans had arrived and proven themselves in combat for the first time in the war. During the Second Battle of the Marne,  the last fight on the Chemin des Dames occurred between 2 August and 10 October 1918 and the Germans finally abandoned the ridge and were pushed northwards.  The 14 French Military cemeteries located in the Chemin des Dames area are: There are 9 German cemeteries in the area. Some of these cemeteries were laid out by the German Army during the war (Veslud, Laon-Bousson and Montaigu in particular) and the others were built by the French authorities in the beginning of the 1920s in accordance with the Treaty of Versailles, which had stated that the victorious countries had the exclusive right to organise the German graves. Bodies in individual graves scattered around the area were concentrated into these 9 cemeteries. In 1966, management and care of the cemeteries was passed to the "Service d'Entretien des Sépultures militaries", the French subsidiary of the German Volksbund Deutsche Krieggräberfürsorge.  These cemeteries are: There are 5 British military cemeteries in the Chemin des Dames area, although many British graves remain within Chemin des Dames communal cemeteries, and some of the British dead from the Chemin des Dames are buried in Grand-Seraucourt British military cemetery, near St-Quentin, and in Montcornet British cemetery. The graves of many British and Irish soldiers can also be found in French military cemeteries, in particular in Vauxbuin French military cemetery, Berry-au-Bac military cemetery and in Crouy French military cemetery, The British Cemeteries are: There is also a Danish cemetery at Braine, near the French military cemetery, which contains the graves of 79 Danish soldiers. They were from Schleswig, a territory annexed by Prussia in 1886, and had no choice but to serve in the German ranks. To commemorate their loss, a monument designed by Danish architect Gundlach-Petersen was unveiled in the cemetery on 7 May 1934.  Calvaire érigé le 14 septembre 1924 par souscription nationale pour perpétuer la mémoire de nos vaillants soldats tombés au Chemin des Dames et dans les combats de la Malmaison There is also a plaque on the calvary dedicated to those who served in the 165th and 365th French Infantry as well as plaques remembering Claudius Champromis and Lieutenant René de Wismes.   Regiment d'élite sous l'énergique commandement du lieutenant-colonel Debailleul a, le 23 octobre 1917, par une manoeuvre audacieuse difficile et remarquablement exécutée, encerclé et enlevé de haute lutte les carrières de la Bohéry, s'est emparé ensuite des lignes de tranchées du Chemin des Dames que la garde prussienne avait l'ordre de défendre à tout prix, puis progressant encore sous un feu violent d'artillerie et de mitrailleuses sur une profondeur de plus de deux kilomètres et demi malgré des pertes sensibles, a atteint avec un entrain admirable tous les objectifs, infligeant à l'ennemi de lourdes pertes, capturant 950 prisonniers dont 14 officiers, 10 canons, de 8 de gros calibre, et un nombreux matériel de guerre Le 31ème R.I. a enlevé très brillamment les 16, 17 et 18 avril 1917 tous les objectifs qui lui avaient été assignés, et, par un combat opiniâtre, est parvenu à réaliser un gain de terrain de 3 kilomètres en profondeur faisant à lui seul 1.500 prisonniers dont 34 officiers et 170 sous-officiers, et capturant 6 canons, plusieurs minenwerfer, 50 mitrailleuses et un important matériel de toute nature. Régiment d'élite de la plus haute valeur offensive. Ordre général n°172du 1er mai 1917 du général commandant la Vè Armée   A Basque complete with béret basque "Landes" mention on Basque Memorial. "Hautes Pyrenees" mention on Basque Memorial "Basses Pyrenees" mention on Basque Memorial "Le 23 octobre 1917, la 38ème Division comprenant le 4ème Régiment Zouaves, le R.I.C.M. (Régiment d'Infanterie Coloniale du Maroc), le 4ème Régiment mixte Zouaves-Tirailleurs, le 8ème Régiment Tirailleurs Tunisiens, le 32ème Régiment d'Artillerie de campagne, part à l'attaque. D'un seul élan, le 4ème Zouaves s'empare du Fort de la Malmaison et de tous ses objectifs, faisant les 23-24-25 octobre 600 prisonniers, capturant 17 canons et de nombreuses mitrailleuses, obtenant sa 6ème citation à l'ordre de l'Armée"   Ils prennent le vol comme des aigles. Ils courent et ne se lassent point. (Isaïe) Ils marchent et ne se fatiguent point. Que chacun de vous mette au service des autres le don qu'il a reçu (Pierre IV, 20) English:  They fly like eagles. They run and never grow tired (Isaiah). They walk and don't tire themselves. Let each of you put at the others' disposal the gift you have received (Peter 4:20).  On 8 July 1962, during a private visit to the German Cemetery, Chancellor Konrad Adenauer was met by President Charles de Gaulle in what became a precursor to the Franco-German Treaty of 1963.  "Aux Morts de l'Artillerie de Tranchee – Les Crapouillots" Ce monument érigé en 1933 pour honorer la mémoire des 12 000 crapouillots artilleurs de tranchée tombés de 1914 à 1918 sur les fronts de France et d'Orient, mutilé par le feu de la batille de juin 1940, a été reconstruit afin de perpétuer le souvenir de ceux qui sont morts pour le salut de la France. 22 juin 1958 The inscription refers to the fighting which took place on 6 September 1914.  The survivors dug-in on the slopes of the Chemin des Dames and held these positions until relieved by 1st East Yorks on 19 September 1914. The 1st Loyals remained on the Aisne until mid-October, when they were moved north to take part in the fighting in Flanders. They lost their third commanding officer, Major A.J. Carter DSO, at Ypres in November 1914. In memory of the Officers, Warrant and non-commissioned Officers and men of the 1st Battalion of the Loyal North Lancashire Regiment who laid down their lives on active service 1914–1919    The 1st Loyal North Lancashire formed part in September 1914 of the 2nd Brigade, First Division commanded by Brigadier General Bulfin which acted as the advance-guard of Sir Douglas Haig's First Corps in the battle of September 14th 1914. The battalion, together with the whole of the 2nd Brigade, distinguished itself greatly by its attack on the portion of the Chemin des Dames, north of Vendress, Troyon and the services of the Brigade were warmly acknowledged both in the Divisional reports and in the published dispatches. There would be ample justification of the erection of a monument by the 1st Loyal North Lancashires at this spot... The Germans struck either side of Reims, in what was to be their last offensive of the war. The attack on the eastern side of Reims against General Gouraud's First Army came to a grinding halt on its first day. The western prong against Degoutte's Sixth Army made better progress and established some semblance of a breakthrough. Reinforcements from the French Ninth Army plus British, American, and the two Italian Divisions were all used to shore up the front. The German offensive was brought to a halt and then pushed back. On 20 July 1918, the Germans ordered a retreat and by 3 August 1918 they were back at their initial positions. Following their participation in this success, the 2nd Italian Corps was positioned on the river Aisne, just south of Soupir below the Chemin des Dames, on 22 September 1918. On 1 October, they took Soupir and spent the remainder of the month fighting along the Chemin des Dames as the Germans were slowly pushed north. During the course of the war, the 2nd Italian Corps lost 4,375 killed and 10,000 wounded. The cemetery at Soupir contains the bodies of 593 Italian soldiers, the majority of whom fell in fighting along the Chemin des Dames. From April to November 1918, the 2nd Italian Army Corps, made up of the 3rd and 8th Divisions (The Brescia and Alpi Infantry Brigades), fought in the Reims sector between Vrigny and Jaulgonne in the Ardennes sector, and in the Aisne to the east of Soissons, fighting under the 5th, 10th and the 3rd French Armies. The Italian forces commanded by General Alberico Albricci suffered more than 9,000 soldiers killed during its victorious campaigns. 592 of them rest in this Military Cemetery created and maintained by the Italian Ministry of Defence. The entrance to the cemetery at Soupir in shown here.  Château-Thierry is a commune in northern France, about 90 kilometres (56 mi) east-northeast of Paris, a sub-prefecture of the Aisne department in Picardy. There are monuments and a cemetery to American Expeditionary Forces (AEF) which fought in this region in the summer of 1918, when they arrived to aid the Allies in the Second Battle of the Marne and the Hundred Days Offensive at the war's conclusion. Inaugurated in 1930, the monument was constructed by the American Battle Monuments Commission (ABMC), designed by architect Paul Philippe Cret with sculptures by Alfred-Alphonse Bottiau. It comprises a double colonnade standing on a long terrace, with two figures on the west face representing France and the United States. An enormous eagle and shield stand in front of the east face of the monument. The monument also includes a map showing the battle area.  The Memorial Chapel is in the French Romanesque architecture style, with sculptural work by Alfred-Alphonse Bottiau on designs by William F. Ross and Company  (with memorial features designed by Cram and Ferguson). It was constructed on the site of front-line battle trenches. A crusader in armour is central in a relief on the tympanum above the chapel entrance, flanked by shields of the US and France intertwined with branches of oak, a symbol of unity between the two countries. Scenes from the trenches are carved on the columns to either side of the entrance. Above the inside door is the inscription: "The [1,060] names recorded on these walls are those of American soldiers who fought in this region and who sleep in unknown graves." On the belfry columns are 11 carvings representing various units involved in the war, which are repeated on each side of the chapel. The arches of the belfry openings carry additional carvings, of small arms ammunition and other objects of war. Below the belfry openings and on each side of the chapel are sculpted heads: a French soldier, a French nurse, a US aviator, a Scottish soldier, a Russian soldier, a Portuguese soldier, a Canadian aviator, and a British Women's Army Corps driver. The exterior steps, walls, and tartar are of native limestone.  In the present French military camp of Moronvilliers, there is a small chapel commemorating the destroyed villages of Nauroy and Moronvilliers. Erected in 1920 and positioned on the site of Nauroy, the chapel has been restored by "L'Amicale des Diables bleus d'Épernay". Five ruined villages lie in the camps at Moronvillers, Mourmelon and Suippes, and the French Army allows public access in September of every second year, organising tours known as "La Journée des Villages Détruits". At Souhain there is a monument and ossuary dedicated to the French Foreign Legion.  Near this memorial is another dedicated to the martyrs of the Resistance. It is a Cross of Lorraine (a symbol of French patriotism) upon which are carved the faces of three of those deported by the Germans and the names of 8 people who died while deported.  The Polish cemetery at Aubérive is situated southeast of Reims and is a part of the French cemetery at Le Bois du Puits. It contains the graves of 129 Polish soldiers killed in World War I (and 256 killed in World War II). Many of these volunteered for the French Foreign Legion. At the cemetery is a memorial to these 129 men, composed of an obelisk surmounted by a cross. There is also a monument to the 1st and 2nd divisions of Polish Infantry, formed in 1917 and known as the Blue Army.  The German cemetery at Aubérive lies to the rear of the French cemetery at Le Bois du Puits. 5,359 German soldiers were buried here; 3,124 could not be identified and their bodies were laid in an ossuary. Many of the soldiers were Thüringian. Aux Héros du 103e RI qui sont tombés glorieusement pour la france en Septembre–Octobre 1915 In memoriam Guerre 1914–18 103ème Régiment d'infanterie 80 officiers 7,000 sous-officiers et soldats morts pour la France. There is also the monument Borne No. 77, one of the series created by Paul Moreau-Vauthier to mark the furthest points of German advance along the Western Front. Those bornes (stone markers) in France were made from pink granite from Andlau in Alsace. This borne bears the inscription: "Ici fut repoussé l’envahisseur Juillet 1918", corresponding to the liberation of Château-Thierry.  Ici le 17 avril 1917 au trente-troisième mois d'une guerre impitoyable des soldats français sont tombés par milliers pour la reprise des Monts de Champagne. Eux aussi, ils aimaient la vie. Ils ont souffert et ils sont morts dans l'espoir que leur sacrifice assurerait la paix entre les hommes-PASSANT N'OUBLIE PAS En mémoire des soldats tombés héroïquement pour la défense du secteur Septembre 1914 – Octobre 1918   The monument itself was the work of two Parisiens: sculptor Paul Moreau-Vauthier and architect Auguste Bluysen. It comprised a pedestal 4 metres (13 ft) in height upon which were carved the names of the principal battles in which African troops participated. On top of the pedestal was a 3-metre (10 ft) bronze sculpture depicting a group of four soldiers of the colonial armies gathered around a white officer holding the French National flag. During WWII, German occupiers pulled the monument down and took it from Reims in a railway wagon, possibly to melt down the bronze for armaments. With the end of the Algerian war, thoughts turned to building a replacement and a competition was organised to choose a design. On 6 October 1963, the new monument was unveiled by Minister of War Pierre Messmer. It is modern in design and two columns in limestone represent the union of African and French soldiers and the block upon which these columns stand was intended to represent Reims' resistance in WWI. Erected by the United States of America to commemorate the achievements of her soldiers and those of France who fought in this region during World War I The monument is in the form of a tower. Visible within, through the grill in the door, is a brief summary of US operations in the area. When open to visitors, it is possible to climb to an observation platform at the top of the tower.  The French Military cemetery of Sommepy-Tahure contains the remains of 2,201 French soldiers, of whom 704 lie in an ossuary shown here. The cemetery was created in 1920 for bodies exhumed in the area east of Reims.  The inscription reminds visitors that many men of the 60th French Infantry Regiment fell fighting in the woods of Courmont, Bonval and Cohette and the area around Ville-en-Tardenois in the attacks against the Germans from 26 July to 2 August 1918. Near to the village of Souhain is a Celtic cross marking the memorial to the French 28th Infantry Brigade and also the imposing monument of the "Ferme de Navarin". It is a combined monument and ossuary, within which lie the remains of 10,000 soldiers who fell on the plains of Champagne. The monument is a pyramid-like structure surmounted by a sculpture by Maxime Real del Sarte of three soldiers. The middle figure is meant to portray Gouraud; the soldier on the right represents Quentin Roosevelt who was killed in Cambrai on 14 July 1918; and the figure on the left represents del Sarte's brother who was killed in Champagne. At the base of the monument are listed the numerous divisions who fought in Champagne. Among the 10,000 soldiers in the crypt are the four sons of Paul Doumer. When General Gouraud died in 1946, he had asked to be buried with his men in the "Ferme de Navarin" and his tomb has pride of place in the crypt.  In honour of their fallen, the survivors opened this Russian cemetery and later added a chapel, built in the Russian Orthodox style. The cemetery contains the bodies of 915 Russian soldiers either buried in ossuaries or individual graves (included in the gallery at the end of this article is a picture of a typical headstone and the marker for one of the ossuaries in the cemetery).  From 25 to 30 September 1915, the 28th Brigade fought in this area and lost 1,133 men including 39 officers. After the war, the chaplain of the 28th Brigade and several volunteers returned to the battlefield to locate and bury the rest of their comrades, and the monument and cemetery were inaugurated on 25 September 1919. This cemetery is officially named the "Nécropole nationale de Souain – 28e Brigade". There is a smaller memorial next to the "Wacques Cross" dedicated to the men of the 44th Infantry, which carries the inscription:  "Aux camarades tombés pendant les journées du 25-26-27-28-29 Septembre 1915. Etat-Major". Nearby, a memorial to the 60th Infantry is inscribed: "Aux morts du 60e RI Attaques des 25 au 29 - 09 - 1915"  For many years, Maupas' wife, Blanche Maupas, and others fought to have the men pardoned. In 1923, Blanche succeeded in having her husband's remains taken from the grave in Suippes and moved to the communal cemetery of Sartilly in La Manche. In 1925, a monument by Paul Moreau-Vauthier was erected over Maupas' grave at Sartilly, commemorating the four corporals of Souhain. In 1934, the four corporals were given a formal pardon by a special tribunal which came to the conclusion that the order they received was unreasonable. The Souain corporals affair was considered most controversial in France; the 1957 Stanley Kubrick film Paths of Glory, based on the events at Souhain, was banned in France until 1975 and was not shown on television until 1982. In 1962, Blanche Maupas died and was buried alongside her husband. A monument honouring the four corporals stands in Suippes, facing the town hall where the military tribunal sentenced them to execution. It was inaugurated on 1 December 2007, with the inscription reading: "À la mémoire des caporaux de Souain Theophile Maupas, Louis Girard, Lucien Lechat et Louis Lefoulon Fusillés pour l'exemple, à Suippes, le 17 mars 1915".  Memorial at Confrecourt Part of the La Ferté-sous-Jouarre memorial Foch depicted at Dormans on plaque which includes a description of the Second Battle of the Marne. Kennington's sculpture at Soisson's "Memorial to the Missing" French Cartoon of Reims Cathedral bombarded by the German Army during World War I Poster showing Reims Cathedral asks French Canadians to enrol. German graves at Aubérive Russian soldiers in France Sculpture on Ferme de Navarin monument Plaque remembering the four sons of the French president at the Ferme de Navarin Ossuary in the Russian Cemetery at Saint-Hilaire-le-Grand Russian headstone in the cemetery at Saint-Hilaire-le-Grand Relief of Jean-Baptiste Estienne at the Tank Memorial, Berry-Au-Bac Joffre depicted at Dormans Inscription on Soissons Memorial to the Missing Eric Kennington's sculptural work on the Soissons Memorial to the Missing Royal Engineers Memorial at La Ferté-sous-Jouarre The Chateau Thierry Monument 