Many segments of the Berlin Wall have been given to various institutions since its fall on November 9, 1989. Segments are occasionally moved, so locations shown may not be current in all cases. Unveiled in 2013 in the Blloku district, as part of a memorial to victims of Albania's Communist Regime.  Two segments of the wall are on display outside the EU Parliament in Brussels, Belgium. Two segments of the wall are on display in front of the NATO Headquarters building inaugurated in 2017 in Brussels, Belgium. A segment of the wall is on display outside the building. It originally stood on Potsdamer Platz.   One section is part of a memorial in the park in front of the National Palace of Culture in the center of Sofia. Since 2011 a section of the wall has been on display in the Cold War Museum Langelandsfort on the island of Langeland (Great Belt). The segment was a gift from the City of Berlin and was originally located at the Potsdamer Platz (Berlin Mitte). A segment of the wall was installed outside the Museum of Occupations in November 2014. The segment was a gift to Estonia from the Senate of Berlin, and originally formed part of the wall along Potsdamer Platz.  A segment of the wall is on display inside Le Quai (fr) contemporary theatre in Angers, France. It will take a central part in the 2011 edition of "Les Accroche-coeurs" festival.  A segment of the wall is on display inside the Mémorial pour la Paix in Caen, France. A segment of the wall can be found next to one of the office buildings. A segment of the wall was installed for the 20th Anniversary Celebrations in the plaza of the Porte de Versailles metro station. A segment of the wall is on display outside the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, France. A section of four slabs is on display with the external exhibits of the Allied Museum along with a border guard tower and the Checkpoint Charlie guard house. A segment of the Berlin Wall was installed in the courtyard of the U.S. Embassy Berlin on 13 February 2008, "to serve as a reminder of the past and a symbol of hope for the future".  Three segments of the Berlin Wall are on permanent display on the Deutsches Eck area as a memorial for the division of Germany. A segment of the wall can be seen next to the Mauermuseum, 40m south of Checkpoint Charlie on the eastern side of Friedrichstrasse A growing collection of painted sections of the wall are on permanent display in Stralauer Allee 3 in Berlin. On the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Wall in November 2009, two wall segments were set up in front the John F. Kennedy high school building. The two segments were cemented back-to-back, whereby the respective short foot extensions of the bases were cut off. The "West" side is painted with colorful graffiti whereas the "East" side is colored historical plain white.  A segment of the wall is situated near the Übersee Museum Bremen, in front of the Bremen Hauptbahnhof A segment of the wall is in the Joint Headquarters (JHQ) compound just inside the front gate but is obscured by a guard hut from the road. A segment of the wall can be found at Harringholzstr. 37, Hamm. A segment of the wall is on Patch Barracks in front of European Command Headquarters. A segment of the wall is on Kelley Barracks just past the old entrance in front of the Kelley club. A segment of the wall is in front of the Passenger Terminal on base. A segment of the wall is on display in outside collection at the Technik Museum Speyer. Two segments of the wall stand near the entrance of the amusement park Europa-Park in theme area Germany. A section of two slabs is placed next to the Weimar Atrium shopping Center. A segment of the wall is placed in front of the Landeshaus, the seat of the Landtag of Schleswig-Holstein. A segment of the wall is in the garden of the Willy Brandt House in Lübeck The piece of Berlin wall, which is inside the garden of Goethe Institut in Thessaloniki today, was formerly located in a square of the citadel of Lagadas, given as a gift by city of Steglitz-Zehlendorf (the sixth borough of Berlin), within the framework of becoming twin cities in 2012. Two sections of the Berlin Wall were originally placed on Krisztina Blvd, in the Tabán district of Budapest, Hungary. These were later moved, after someone painted them completely red, to the garden of the Maltese Charity Service in Budapest, where they still stand.  An original section of the Berlin Wall was erected in front of Budapest's House of Terror Museum on Thursday, November 11, 2010, in the presence of Hungarian and German politicians. The ceremony marked the 21st anniversary of the fall of the wall.  A segment of the Berlin Wall has been placed in Kronvalds park in Riga, Latvia; in front of the former Communist Party Central Committee building. A fragment stands at Schengen, Luxembourg, some 100 m from the place where the Schengen Agreement was signed in 1985. Reykjavík a small part of the wall was gifted to the City of Reykjavík from Neu West Berlin Art Gallery in Berlin on October 3, 2015, the Day of German Unity, is the national day of Germany, which this year marked the 25th anniversary of German unification in 1990. On Valentine's Day 2008, ten segments of the Berlin Wall were delivered to the town of Spilamberto. The fragments were sent by one of the town's citizens working abroad. 3 segments are in public display in the garden of the Rocca Rangoni. Each segment is 3.6 meters high, 1.2 meters wide and weighs about 3 tons. By displaying the pieces the town of Spilamberto hopes to affirm its self-proclaimed identity as a town of diversity. Trondheim Displayed with the word 'SALE' on four pieces, it is Located beside Solsiden Mall and Portalen in Trondheim. A complete section is displayed at the entrance to Roads to Freedom exhibition at the Solidarity Museum, adjacent to a section of the wall Lech Walesa climbed to lead the shipyard workers campaign.  At the entrance of the Sanctuary of Our Lady of Fátima, in Cova da Iria, on the south side of the Rectory, one may visit a monument of the Berlin Wall, consisting of a concrete segment that was part of it. This segment was offered by means of Virgilio Casimiro Ferreira, a Portuguese immigrant to Germany and is here placed as a grateful memorial of God's intervention for the fall of Communism as promised at Fátima. The segment weighs 2,600 kilos (5,732 lbs.) and measures 3.60 meters (11 ft. 9 in.) high by 1.20 meters (3 ft. in.) wide. The present monument was designed by the architect J. Carlos Loureiro and was inaugurated on the 13th August 1994.  In 1990 the fragment of the wall was presented by Berlin museum "Checkpoint-Charlie" to Russian "Saharov Museum and Public centre". This fragment is decorated by artists (just like other parts of the wall) and it rises above at the lawn near the Museum building (address: Moscow, Zemljanoj val, 57/6).  Three sections of the Berlin Wall are placed within the "Parque de Berlín" (Berlin Park), in the district of Chamartín in Madrid, Spain; they are located in the center of a fountain/pond, in the north-eastern corner of the park. As stated in an accompanying plaque they are a present from the City of Berlin to the City of Madrid and were inaugurated on November 9, 1990 (first anniversary of the fall).  In the "Parque Europa" (Europe's Park) where several European monuments are replicated, there is a true section of the Berlin Wall.  In theme park Isla Mágica just outside the city center stands a section of the Wall. Along the Astrid Lindgren Allé, outside Trelleborg Museum/library. A segment of the wall is on display outside the German embassy building in Kiev, Ukraine A small piece is located in the barracks. A large piece of the Berlin wall (believed to be one of the largest in the UK after the Imperial war museum London) is on display at the Cornwall Regimental Museum in Bodmin. A segment of the Berlin Wall stands in the Checkpoint Charlie exhibit at the Royal Air Force museum in Cosford, Shropshire. A segment of the Berlin Wall forms part of a large monumental plaque, next to the memorial to Ronald Reagan in Grosvenor Square in Mayfair, London.  A segment of the Berlin Wall stands in the American Air Museum Hangar at the Imperial War Museum in Duxford, Cambridgeshire. Three sections were displayed outside of the museum, in 2011 the sections were moved inside and now take centre stage in the BAOR section. A segment of the wall stands in the Geraldine Mary Harmsworth Park in the London borough of Southwark, just outside the main entrance of the Imperial War Museum.  Another segment is on display inside the museum.  Three sections are on display to the side of the museum behind the front railings with an additional, smaller piece inside the museum. A section stands near the sports hall. A small part of one of the wall's slabs is on display at Imperial War Museum North.  A major display dealing with the British role in the Four Power control of Berlin is centred upon a dramatised section of the wall. The piece of Berlin wall, which is inside the Vatican Gardens today, is a gift from the Italian Marco Piccininni to the Vatican in 1994. Mr. Piccininni acquired this piece of wall in an auction of wall segments in Monte Carlo 1990.  The wall segments show those part of Sanct-Michaels-church from Berlin as a painting, which were hidden through the wall. The segments were originally part of the wall at Waldemarstreet, located on Waldemarbridge. The illusionary painting ("Mauerdurchblick") on the segments was made 1986 by Yadegar Asisi,  initiated by the architect Bernhard Strecker.    Hints on these wall segments in Vatican Gardens were also given by Paul Hofmann in 1997.  Eight 4 meter tall pieces of the wall, measuring ten meters in length, with the logo of the Toronto punk band Bunchofuckingoofs were put up for auction at Sotheby's in 2007 after an exhibition in Basel, Switzerland and then New York City. Their location at present is unknown.  One section is at Seven Springs Resort in Pennsylvania.  Another section is in the sculpture garden at Kentuck Knob (Frank Lloyd Wright house) in Pennsylvania. A piece of the Berlin Wall is displayed in St George's Mall.    A section of the Berlin Wall has been placed in front of the clubhouse of the Harmonie German Club in the suburb of Narrabundah in the Australian capital, Canberra.  A segment of the wall was put on display 23 May 2010 in the Bengal Gallery of Fine Arts,  Dhanmondi, Dhaka Four sections of the wall was inaugurated on 3 October 2017 in the Kalijodo Park, Jakarta during a commemoration of German Unity Day.  Ein Hod Artists' Village, Israel.   At the Dada Museum, village center. The fragment sent to the Philippines, called "Mauerteil," is the 22nd of the wall's 40 sections given on October 8, 2015, in Manila. It is currently housed at the Museum of the Filipino People building at the National Museum of the Philippines compound. It was given by the German state commemorating the 25th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall and the Philippines' influence to Germany during the People Power Revolution in 1986.  A segment of the Berlin Wall was on display at the Bedok Reservoir Park, but has been removed and replaced by new artwork. The art on the Berlin Wall segment was not graffiti but the work of an artist depicting two different types of rulers.  Then in October 2016, two panels of the Berlin Wall were unveiled at National University of Singapore (NUS). The panels are a gift to Singapore's Ministry of Foreign Affairs to mark 50 years of diplomatic relations between Germany and Singapore. They are on loan to NUS through the Foreign Ministry for at least five years and are on display at a garden behind the Tembusu College at NUS University Town.  Three sections of the wall are displayed along the recently restored Cheonggyecheon (청계천) stream in central Seoul and were presented in conjunction with the restoration project.  The sections are adjacent to the Samilgyo (삼일교) bridge across the stream. A segment of the Berlin Wall was unveiled in the garden of the Taiwan Foundation for Democracy in Taipei, Da'an District (大安區) during a special ceremony to mark the 20th anniversary of the Fall of the Berlin Wall in 2009. The segment was donated to Taiwan the Taiwan Foundation for Democracy by the German Oberhavel district.  A segment of the wall was placed on November 9, 2005 beside an entrance of Global Technology Assessment Center building of TÜV Rheinland Japan Ltd. in Tuzuki, Yokohama, Japan. Thierry Noir was invited to the unveiling ceremony who re-painted the wall art before the ceremony.  The highest count of Berlin Wall segments outside Germany can be found at the entrance hall of Editorial Perfil in Buenos Aires, Argentina.  Editorial Perfil, one of the largest publishing houses in Argentina, claims parts of the Wall were obtained in exchange for funds to build a school in Germany.  A piece of the Berlin Wall is on display at the World Peace Pavilion in the Halifax Regional Municipality on the Dartmouth waterfront. It is encased in a display case, along with other items of importance from around the world.  There is a large piece situated on Falkland St across from the Old Lunenburg Foundry Six large pieces  of the Berlin Wall are in the possession of the Town of Truro, currently on display at Dalhousie's Agricultural Campus in Bible Hill. There are plans to move them to the nearby Diefenbunker museum in Debert in the near future. A section of the Berlin Wall is on permanent display on the grounds of the Mennonite Heritage Village in Steinbach, Manitoba. A section of the Berlin Wall is on permanent display in the Canadian War Museum. A segment of the Berlin Wall has been given by the city of Berlin to the city of Montréal in 1992 for its 350th birthday. The segment comes from a location near Brandenburg Gate and is now displayed in the Centre de Commerce Mondial. A fragment of the Berlin Wall is on display at the northeast side of the Costa Rica Ministry of External Relations.  A large segment of the Berlin Wall is located in the Colegio Alemán Alexander von Humboldt in Xochimilco, Mexico City. A chunk of wall with the rebars still in it is in the Student's Union with a new exhibit around it telling the history of the Berlin Wall at Northern Arizona University. A section of the wall is displayed in the museum at Fort Huachuca highlighting the role of Military Intelligence in the cold war. An original ten-foot by ten-foot section of the Berlin Wall was erected next to the Church in the Grove. An East Berliner painted these words from the 23rd Psalm in German on the wall, "Though I walk through the dark valley, I will not fear." When the wall came down, The Great Passion Play acquired this piece as a tribute to the spirit of all people who risk their lives to believe and practice their Christian faith.  The Wende Museum and Archive of the Cold War features a wall segment that stands at the Museum's entrance, which was painted by the French-born, Berlin-based artist Thierry Noir.  The exhibition Facing the Wall: Living with the Berlin Wall, currently on display at the Wende Museum explores how the Wall became part of the urban fabric of Berlin, and the place where the realities of political ideology and personal experience came face to face.  The museum's Berlin Wall segment was recently augmented by 10 additional sections, which constitute the longest stretch outside of Berlin. They are currently on display in front of the 5900 Wilshire Boulevard building, painted and installed as part of the Wende's project organized to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall.  A segment of the Berlin Wall is kept on the main campus of Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles, California. Ten segments of the Berlin Wall are located at the Variety Building on 5900 Wilshire, in Los Angeles, California. Three segments of the wall are displayed behind the Middle Eastern language building on W Rifle Range Road Two segments of the wall are displayed outside of the Mountain View Public Library. A plaque memorializes the fall of the wall as "a tribute to American resolve." The piece on the right has a cartoon Elvis painted on it and the one on the left says "Wir lieben Dich" (We love you). The segments and plaque were relocated to this location after they were donated to the city by the descendants of a German-born American business man, Frank Golzen, who originally displayed them at an office park he owned on Marine Way in Mountain View.  Chapman University's main campus displays the second largest piece of the Berlin Wall owned by an American university.  A section of the Berlin Wall greets visitors as they arrive at the Reagan Ranch Center,  reminding of Ronald Reagan's role in calling for the Wall to be torn down. A segment of the Berlin Wall is on display in Ronald Reagan Presidential Library located in Simi Valley, California. A segment of the Berlin Wall is located inside the museum area of the Richard Nixon Library & Birthplace in Yorba Linda, California just outside Los Angeles.  The Nixon Library's segment of the wall is similar in size to the segment of the wall displayed at the Reagan Library. Captain Herbert Light brought a piece of the Berlin Wall to Colorado, where it is paired with a sculpture by Veryl Goodnight called "The Day the Wall Came Down."  A segment of the wall stands outside of the Hard Rock Cafe located at Universal CityWalk. Ironside, Miami, Florida Four segments of the wall are now in the public art collection of Ironside in Miami, Fl. They were temporarily displayed in South Beach during Art Basel 2013 fair before becoming the symbol of the district. Three sections of the Wall are part of the U.S. Army's collection on display at the National Infantry Museum in the "Cold War" gallery. Two sections of the Berlin Wall are incorporated in a display that includes a plaque inscribed to "recognize the sacrifices that the United States military made in guaranteeing a free, stable and democratic Europe" in Freedom Park on this US Army installation near Augusta, GA.  There is also a segment of the wall at the Signal Corps Museum located within Fort Gordon. A piece of the Berlin Wall was given to Kennesaw State University in Kennesaw, Georgia on loan, which is being displayed outside of the Social Science building. A segment of the Berlin Wall, protected by plexiglass, is located on the Hope Peninsula east of Sandpoint.  A segment of the wall is inside the Western Ave. CTA Station in Chicago. The Lincoln Square Neighborhood has been historically German. A segment of the Berlin Wall is on display in the Reagan Peace Garden at Eureka College located in Eureka, Illinois. In a May 9, 1982 speech at Eureka College, President Reagan challenged the Soviet Union to a new era of negotiations to reduce nuclear arms—called START. A section of the wall is in the Cosmosphere's Hall of Space exhibit at the Kansas Cosmosphere and Space Center. Three sections were donated to Fort Leavenworth and are displayed in a "falling position" just east of the fort's lake near the Buffalo Soldiers Monument. A section of the wall is on loan to the Museum of World Treasures  from the American Overseas Schools Historical Society.  The section was originally purchased by the Berlin Brats Alumni Association.  A section of the Berlin Wall containing graffiti with the words "democracy," "freedom," and the phrase "Tear the wall down" written on it can be found at the Patton Museum of Cavalry and Armor in Fort Knox, Kentucky as a permanent exhibit. A segment of the Berlin Wall is located in the Old Port, Portland, Maine close to N 43° 39.329 W 070° 15.123 on Long Wharf near DiMillo's Floating Restaurant. A section of the Wall was donated in 1989 by the German government and brought to the John F. Kennedy Library located in Boston, Massachusetts with the help of Jean Kennedy Smith, the President's sister. A segment of the wall is located outside the main entrance to Hult International Business School, which is located at One Education Street. A section of the Wall stands in the Meijer Lobby of the Gerald R. Ford Museum, donated by Frederik Meijer on its 10th anniversary and dedicated by President Ford on September 6, 1991.   A section of the Wall stands in the lobby of the Grand Rapids Public Museum, between the museum entrance and the gift shop.  While there is no question of the authenticity of the wall segment, the graffiti on it seems to differ slightly from that seen in a photograph of the segment in situ, indicating that the graffiti may have been reproduced.  A fragment of the Wall sits on campus at Grand Valley State University, donated by Frederik Meijer at the time as the other pieces. A segment of the Berlin Wall is located on the US Army Engineer Museum at Fort Leonard Wood. A small segment of the Wall can be seen at Westminster College in Fulton, Missouri.  Westminster College is known for drawing important world leaders, from Winston Churchill (he gave his famous Iron Curtain speech at Westminster College), to Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush, and Margaret Thatcher, among others.  The piece of the Wall became part of the Winston Churchill Memorial Library.  One year after the fall of the Berlin Wall, artist Edwina Sandys, granddaughter of Winston Churchill, proposed the idea of placing a piece of the Wall at the Westminster College campus. With the support of Westminster College, Sandys and her husband, Richard Kaplan, met with officials in East Berlin in February 1990. Upon arrival in Berlin, the couple realized their plans to secure large sections of the wall would be costly, as 4-foot (1.2 m)-wide sections were selling at a cost of $60,000 to $200,000. This obstacle, however, was solved when officials, impressed by the idea of a Berlin Wall monument being erected near the site of Churchill's 1946 "Iron Curtain" speech, allowed Sandys to choose eight sections as a gift to the College. Sandys chose her sections from an area near the Brandenburg Gate, frequented by artists, because of the dramatic color of the graffiti. The repeated use of the word "unwahr," within the sections, which in German means "untrue", also appealed to her. On November 9, 1990, after a nine-month effort, the "Breakthrough" sculpture stood appropriately in the foreground of the College's Winston Churchill Memorial and Library. Joined by former President Ronald Reagan, then Governor John Ashcroft and German Minister Plenipotentiary Fritjof von Nordenskjöld (de), Sandys introduced her sculpture to the assembled crowd. Forty-four years after her grandfather warned of an "iron curtain," the wide open doors of "Breakthrough" provided a concrete image of the newly realized freedom in Eastern Europe. A fragment of the wall is located in the permanent exhibition of the National Atomic Testing Museum in  Las Vegas, Nevada.  A slab of the wall rests secretly behind the book store on campus A section of the Berlin Wall is located in the Main Street Station Hotel and Casino and Brewery men's bathroom in downtown Las Vegas, Nevada. Two wall sections were used for the "BreakFree" sculpture by Edwina Sandys at "Freedom Court" outside the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum in Hyde Park, New York. It stands on a base inscribed with Franklin D. Roosevelt's Four Freedoms (freedom of speech, freedom of worship, freedom from want, freedom from fear), and is flanked by busts of FDR and Winston Churchill. Stony Point Justice Court, Stony Point, New York A section of the wall is located outside of the Stony Point Justice Court. At least four segments of the wall are located in New York City. One can be found between Gateway Plaza and the North Cove marina in the World Financial Center near the World Trade Center site. A second segment can be found in the gardens at the United Nations headquarters,  among the sculptures. A third segment exists on 53rd Street between Fifth and Madison Avenues. A fourth segment can be found at the Ripley's Believe It or Not! Museum in Times Square. Thierry Noir and Kiddy Citny are the two painters of those five pieces of the Berlin Wall, painted in September 1985 along the Waldemarstrasse in Berlin Kreuzberg.  The segment of the Berlin Wall shown at the right was originally located at Waldemarstrasse in Berlin. This graffiti among others along Waldemarstreet were well documented in 1985 through ten poster photos made by photographers Liselotte and Armin Orgel-Köhne.  Every Wall Falls Eventually is the name of a piece of the Berlin Wall on display in the food court area of the Bausch and Lomb Headquarters. It was installed there in 1995.  This no longer resides in Rochester, NY because in 2013 Bausch and Lomb was purchased by Valeant Pharmaceuticals. The wall was given to a CEO in Switzerland as part of the business deal in August 2014. A section of the wall stands behind the Milton J. Rubenstein Museum of Science and Technology in Armory Square. The segment of Berlin wall from Waldemarstrasse found at Marbles Kids Museum today, was made by Kiddy Citny in 1985, and is one of the two famous graffiti "hearts" made by this artist. Capital University's Blackmore Library once housed the largest sections of the Berlin Wall in the United States.  When Blackmore Library was renovated, this section was moved outside and sprayed with a protective layer to preserve the concrete and keep it from eroding. A section of the Berlin Wall is on display outside of the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center in downtown Cincinnati, Ohio. This section is said to be a gift from the city of Berlin, Germany and depicts in red paint what appears to be half of a woman's face. A section of the wall was installed by Warminster's local German-American club in 1991. It is the first segment that was sent to America after the fall of the wall and was presented in the 1990 Steuben parade in Philadelphia.  Two segments of the Berlin Wall are located on the front lawn of a German business, Menzel Inc. They are easily seen from Business Interstate 85, the interstate passing directly in front of the German-owned business.  A small section of the wall is contained in the "Honoring Native American Veterans" exhibit in one of Mt. Rushmore's visitor centers. A section of the Berlin Wall is located near the downtown area of Rapid City, South Dakota. A section of the Wall is on display inside the George Bush Presidential Library located in College Station, Texas, as well as outside the museum as part of a sculpture entitled "The Day the Wall Came Down," by Veryl Goodnight, which depicts five horses running through rubble of the wall. . A second similar sculpture, also containing pieces of the Berlin Wall, is located at the Allied Museum in Berlin.  This was given as a gift from the United States of America to Germany. Two segments of the wall are on display in the sculpture garden of the Hilton Anatole hotel in Dallas, Texas. The two sections are each 12 feet (3.7 m) tall. A segment of the wall is on display outside the James Baker Institute for Public Policy at Rice University in Houston, Texas. Baker was U.S. Secretary of State during the reunification of Germany. A segment of the wall is on display outside of Alderman Library at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, Virginia.  The University of Virginia is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and was founded by Thomas Jefferson. A 10' x 10' section of the Wall is on display at the Virginia War Museum in Newport News, Virginia. The Microsoft Art Collection in Redmond, Washington contains a section of the wall donated by Daimler-Benz AG.  A piece of the wall rests in the Center House at Seattle Center. A section of the wall is also on display in the Sculpture Garden at History House of Greater Seattle, a museum located in the Fremont neighborhood. A segment of the wall was given to the university from the Senate of Berlin in 1997. It was given to the Nitze School and the American Institute for Contemporary German Studies of the Johns Hopkins University. It stands in tribute to the success of the German-American partnership and as a symbol of the peaceful end of the Cold War. It is on display outside of the building entrance just south of Dupont Circle on Massachusetts Avenue, NW.  The largest section of the Berlin Wall outside of Germany,  previously on display at Freedom Park in the Rosslyn neighborhood of Arlington County, Virginia, just outside Washington, D.C., is now located at the Newseum in Washington, DC.  The exhibit includes eight sections of the wall and an East German guard tower from Checkpoint Charlie. A segment of the Berlin Wall is located in the main lobby of the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center at 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., in Washington, D.C. A segment of the wall stands on the campus of the Atlanta International School in Atlanta, Georgia. Two segments of the wall are on the property of the Frank Lloyd Wright designed I.N. Hagan house.  Lord Peter Palumbo, after purchasing the house in 1986, put one section of the wall in the sculpture meadow, and the other along the drive leading up to the house.  Media related to Berlin Wall segments around the world at Wikimedia Commons 