This is a list of Confederate monuments and memorials that were established as public displays and symbols of the Confederate States of America (CSA), Confederate leaders, or Confederate soldiers of the American Civil War. Part of the commemoration of the American Civil War, these symbols include monuments and statues, flags, holidays and other observances, and the names of schools, roads, parks, bridges, counties, cities, lakes, dams, military bases, and other public works.   Monuments and memorials are listed below alphabetically by state, and by city within each state. States not listed have no known qualifying items for the list. Cemeteries and museums are not included in this list.  For monuments and memorials which have been removed, consult Removal of Confederate monuments and memorials. Some but by no means all are included below. This list does not include the removal of figures connected with the origins of the Civil War but not with the Confederacy, including Supreme Court Justice Roger B. Taney in Annapolis, Baltimore, and Frederick, Maryland, and numerous memorials to Southern politician John C. Calhoun (commemorated on the Confederacy's 1¢ stamp). It also does not include post-Civil War white supremacists, such as North Carolina Governor Charles Aycock, some of whose monuments are also being removed. A small number of memorializations were made during the war, mainly as ship and place names. After the war, Robert E. Lee said on several occasions that he was opposed to any monuments, as they would, in his opinion, "keep open the sores of war".  Nevertheless, monuments and memorials continued to be dedicated shortly after the American Civil War. [better source needed] Many more monuments were dedicated in the years after 1890, when Congress established the first National Military Park at Chickamauga and Chattanooga, and by the turn of the twentieth century, five battlefields from the Civil War had been preserved: Chickamauga-Chattanooga, Antietam, Gettysburg, Shiloh, and Vicksburg. At Vicksburg National Military Park, more than 95 percent of the park's monuments were erected in the first eighteen years after the park was established in 1899.   Memorials have been erected on public spaces (including on courthouse grounds) either at public expense or funded by private organizations and donors. Numerous private memorials have also been erected.  Confederate monument-building has often been part of widespread campaigns to promote and justify Jim Crow laws in the South, and assert white supremacy.    According to the American Historical Association (AHA), the erection of Confederate monuments during the early twentieth century was "part and parcel of the initiation of legally mandated segregation and widespread disenfranchisement across the South." According to the AHA, memorials to the Confederacy erected during this period "were intended, in part, to obscure the terrorism required to overthrow Reconstruction, and to intimidate African Americans politically and isolate them from the mainstream of public life." A later wave of monument building coincided with the civil rights movement, and according to the AHA "these symbols of white supremacy are still being invoked for similar purposes."  According to historian Jane Dailey from the University of Chicago, in many cases, the purpose of the monuments was not to celebrate the past but rather to promote a "white supremacist future".  Another historian, Karen Cox, from the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, has written that the monuments are "a legacy of the brutally racist Jim Crow era", and that "the whole point of Confederate monuments is to celebrate white supremacy".  Another historian from UNC, James Leloudis, stated that "The funders and backers of these monuments are very explicit that they are requiring a political education and a legitimacy for the Jim Crow era and the right of white men to rule."  They were erected without the consent or even input of Southern African-Americans, who remembered the Civil War far differently, and who had no interest in honoring those who fought to keep them enslaved.  According to Civil War historian Judith Giesberg, professor of history at Villanova University, "White supremacy is really what these statues represent."  Some monuments were also meant to beautify cities as part of the City Beautiful movement, although this was secondary.  Many Confederate monuments were dedicated in the former Confederate states and border states in the decades following the Civil War, in many instances by Ladies Memorial Associations, United Daughters of the Confederacy (UDC), United Confederate Veterans (UCV), Sons of Confederate Veterans (SCV), the Heritage Preservation Association, and other memorial organizations.    Other Confederate monuments are located on Civil War battlefields. Many Confederate monuments are listed on the National Register of Historic Places, either separately or as contributing objects within listings of courthouses or historic districts. Art historians Cynthia Mills and Pamela Simpson argued, in Monuments to the Lost Cause, that the majority of Confederate monuments, of the type they define, were "commissioned by white women, in hope of preserving a positive vision of antebellum life."   In the late nineteenth century, technological innovations in the granite and bronze industries helped reduce costs and made monuments more affordable for small towns. Companies looking to capitalize on this opportunity often sold nearly identical copies of monuments to both the North and South.  Another wave of monument construction coincided with the Civil Rights Movement and the American Civil War Centennial.  At least thirty-two Confederate monuments were dedicated between 2000 and 2017, including at least 7 re-dedications.      Scholarly studies of the monuments began in the 1980s. In 1983 John J. Winberry published a study which was based on data from the work of R.W. Widener.   He estimated that the main building period for monuments was from 1889 to 1929 and that of the monuments erected in courthouse squares over half were built between 1902 and 1912. He determined four main locations for monuments; battlefields, cemeteries, county courthouse grounds, and state capitol grounds. Over a third of the courthouse monuments were dedicated to the dead. The majority of the cemetery monuments in his study were built in the pre-1900 period, while most of the courthouse monuments were erected after 1900. Of the 666 monuments in his study 55% were of Confederate soldiers, while 28% were obelisks. Soldiers dominated courthouse grounds, while obelisks account for nearly half of cemetery monuments. The idea that the soldier statues always faced north was found to be untrue and that the soldiers usually faced the same direction as the courthouse. He noted that the monuments were "remarkably diverse" with "only a few instances of repetition of inscriptions".  He categorized the monuments into four types. Type 1 was a Confederate soldier on a column with his weapon at parade rest, or weaponless and gazing into the distance. These accounted for approximately half the monuments studied. They are however the most popular among the courthouse monuments. Type 2 was a Confederate soldier on a column with rifle ready, or carrying a flag or bugle. Type 3 was an obelisk, often covered with drapery and bearing cannon balls or an urn. This type was 28% of the monuments studied, but 48% of the monuments in cemeteries and 18% of courthouse monuments. Type 4 was a miscellaneous group, including arches, standing stones, plaques, fountains, etc. These account for 17% of the monuments studied.  Over a third of the courthouse monuments were specifically dedicated to the Confederate dead. The first courthouse monument was erected in Bolivar, Tennessee, in 1867. By 1880 nine courthouse monuments had been erected. Winberry noted two centers of courthouse monuments; the Potomac counties of Virginia, from which the tradition spread to North Carolina, and a larger area covering Georgia, South Carolina and northern Florida. The diffusion of courthouse monuments was aided by organizations such as the United Confederate Veterans and their publications, though other factors may also have been effective.  Winberry listed four reasons for the shift from cemeteries to courthouses. First was the need to preserve the memory of the Confederate dead and also recognize the veterans who returned. Second was to celebrate the rebuilding of the south after the war. Third was the romanticizing of the Lost Cause, and the fourth was to unify the white population in a common heritage against the interests of African American southerners. He concluded "No one of these four possible explanations for the Confederate monument is adequate or complete in itself. The monument is a symbol, but whether it was a memory of the past, a celebration of the present, or a portent of the future remains a difficult question to answer; monuments and symbols can be complicated and sometimes indecipherable."  As of April 2017, at least 60 symbols of the Confederacy had been removed or renamed since 2015, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC).  At the same time, laws in various states place restrictions on the removal of statutes and memorials and in some cases[which?] prohibit renaming of parks, roads, and schools.       A 2017 Reuters poll found that 54% of adults stated that the monuments should remain in all public spaces, and 27% said they should be removed, while 19% said they were unsure. The results were split along racial and political lines, with Republicans and whites preferring to keep the monuments in place, while Democrats and minorities preferring their removal.   A similar 2017 poll by HuffPost/YouGov found that one-third of respondents favored removal, while 49% were opposed.   Confederate monuments are widely distributed across the Southern United States.  The distribution pattern follows the general political boundaries of the Confederacy.  Of the more than 1503 public monuments and memorials to the Confederacy, more than 718 are monuments and statues. Nearly 300 monuments and statues are in Georgia, Virginia, or North Carolina. According to one researcher, "the absence of monuments in eastern Tennessee and western North Carolina indicates those regions' Union sentiment, and the few monuments in Maryland, West Virginia, and Kentucky reflect those states' ambivalent war-time politics." The Northern States that remained part of the Union, as well as the Western States that were largely settled after the Civil War, have few or no memorials to the Confederacy. There are 10 major U.S. military bases named in honor of Confederate military leaders, all in former Confederate States.  In 2015 the Pentagon declared it would not be renaming these facilities,  and declined to make further comment in 2017.  There are at least 107 public spaces with Confederate monuments in Alabama.  The 2017 Alabama Memorial Preservation Act was passed to require local governments to obtain state permission before removing Confederate monuments and memorials.       There are at least six public spaces with Confederate monuments in Arizona.  There are at least 57 public spaces with Confederate monuments in Arkansas.  There are at least eight public spaces with Confederate monuments in California.  There are no public spaces with Confederate monuments in Delaware.  There are at least 61 public spaces with Confederate monuments in Florida.  An August 2017 meeting of the Florida League of Mayors was devoted to the topic of what to do with Civil War monuments.  There are at least 174 public spaces with Confederate monuments in Georgia.  A law from the early twentieth century, last amended in 2004, says that no publicly-owned military monuments can be relocated, removed, concealed, obscured, or altered unless it is to preserve, protect, or help interpretation.   The current (2018) Georgia flag is based on the first national flag of the Confederacy, which was nicknamed the "Stars and Bars". Paid for and owned by the state of Georgia. When Georgia purchased the site, "it was designated as a memorial to the Confederacy".  The Stone Mountain Park officially opened on April 14, 1965 – 100 years to the day after Lincoln's assassination.  Site of the rebirth of the Ku Klux Klan (the Second Clan), on the top of the mountain, with cross burning, in 1915. Stone Mountain was the location of an annual Labor Day cross-burning ceremony for the next 50 years.   Confederate Memorial Park, Albany Nuclear missile - a roadside attraction named "Confederate Air Force Pad No. 1", Cordele, Georgia  Nathan Bedford Forrest Monument, Myrtle Hill Cemetery, Rome Augusta Columbus Savannah Stone Mountain Baxley Nashville Irwin County Fort Pulaski (Immortal Six Hundred) Douglas Jeffersonville Cartersville Hawkinsville McDonough Hinesville Dublin Eastman Millen Valdosta Waycross Butler Talbotton Crawfordville Thomaston Thomaston Oglethorpe Gray Mount Vernon Quitman Statesboro Patrick R. Cleburne statue, Ringgold Kennesaw Mountain – 14 generals Hamilton Brunswick Montezuma Waynesville Lumpkin Wrightsville There are several places named for the Confederacy in Idaho.  The settlement of Idaho coincided with the Civil War and settlers from Southern states memorialized the Confederacy with the names of several towns and natural features.    She tells WRTV-TV that the department hasn't ruled out moving the monument There are at least three public spaces with Confederate monuments in Iowa.  There is one public space dedicated to the Confederacy in Kansas.  There are at least 56 public spaces with Confederate monuments in Kentucky.  John B. Castleman Monument, Louisville, Kentucky Lloyd Tilghman, Paducah, Kentucky There are at least 91 public spaces with Confederate monuments in Louisiana.  To enforce a 2015 City Council decision, unsuccessfully challenged in court, in April and May 2017 the city of New Orleans removed the statues of Jefferson Davis, Robert E. Lee, Pierre G.T. Beauregard, and the Battle of Liberty Place Monument.    A committee appointed by the mayor recommended that the statue of Davis be moved to his home Beauvoir, now a museum, in Biloxi, Mississippi.  There were at least four public spaces with Confederate monuments in Maryland  prior to the removal of several monuments in August 2017. Point Lookout Confederate Cemetery Monument (center) and Confederate Soldiers and Sailors Monument Samuel Garland, Jr. Monument Confederate Memorial in Silver Spring to 17 unknown soldiers buried at Grace Episcopal Church Cemetery after the Battle of Fort Stevens Confederate Women's Monument, Baltimore Stonewall Jackson and Robert E. Lee Monument, Baltimore There are no public spaces dedicated to the Confederacy in Massachusetts.  There are at least 131 public spaces with Confederate monuments in Mississippi.  Speech of John F. Harris, Mississippi House of Representatives, February 11, 1890: Amory Biloxi Brandon Charleston Corinth Gulfport Hattiesburg Jackson Kosciusko Lexington Liberty Oxford Philadelphia Pontotoc Port Gibson Quitman Raymond Tupelo University of Mississippi Vicksburg Kentucky Memorial, Vicksburg NMP The Missouri Memorial, Vicksburg NMP Texas Memorial, Vicksburg NMP West Point There are at least 20 public spaces with Confederate monuments in Missouri.  There is at least one public space[clarification needed] dedicated to the Confederacy in Montana. [dead link] There are no public spaces with Confederate monuments in Nevada.  There is at least one public space dedicated to the Confederacy in New Jersey.  There are at least four public spaces with Confederate monuments in New York.   There are at least 140 public spaces with Confederate monuments in North Carolina.  Governor Roy Cooper "has called for the removal of monuments honoring Confederate soldiers and generals", including the Chapel Hill Silent Sam statue. He has called for the repeal of a 2015 law requiring legislative approval to remove Confederate monuments.  There are at least 13 public spaces with Confederate monuments in Oklahoma.  There are at least three public spaces with Confederate monuments in Pennsylvania.  There are at least 112 public spaces with Confederate monuments in South Carolina.  The state restricted the removal of memorials and statues with the South Carolina Heritage Act (2000), which states that "no historical monument can altered or moved without a two-thirds vote in both chambers of the state's General Assembly".  There are at least 80 public spaces with Confederate monuments in Tennessee.  The Tennessee Heritage Protection Act (2016) and a 2013 law restrict the removal of statues and memorials.  The Tennessee legislature designated Confederate Decoration Day, the origin of Memorial Day, as June 3, and in 1969  designated January 19 and July 13, their birthdays, as Robert E. Lee Day and Nathan Bedford Forrest day respectively. The 2016 Tennessee Heritage Protection Act puts "the brakes on cities' and counties' ability to remove monuments or change names of streets and parks."  There are at least 178 public spaces with Confederate monuments in Texas.   "Nowhere has the national re-examination of Confederate emblems been more riven with controversy than the Lone Star State."  Because we desire to perpetuate, in love and honor, the heroic deeds of those who enlisted in the Confederate Services, and upheld its flag through four years of war, we, the children of the South, have united in an Organization called the “Children of the Confederacy,” in which our strength, enthusiasm and love of justice can exert its influence.Many monuments were donated by pro-Confederacy groups like Daughters of the Confederacy. County governments at the time voted to accept the gifts and take ownership of the statues.   Site of Confederate Park // Local businessman Khleber M. Van Zandt organized the Robert E. Lee Camp of the United Confederate Veterans in 1889. By 1900 it boasted more than 700 members. The Club received a 25-year charter to create the Confederate Park Association in 1901, then purchased 373 acres (151 ha) near this site for the “recreation, refuge and relief of Confederate soldiers" and their families. Opening events included a picnic for veterans and families on June 20, 1902, and a statewide reunion September 8–12, 1902, with 3,500 attendees. The park thrived as a center for the civil and social activities on Texas Confederate organizations.  By 1924 the numbers [ sic ] of surviving veterans had greatly diminished, and the Confederate Park Association dissolved when its charter expired in 1926. Note: "There are similarly named streets in towns and cities across east Texas, notably Port Arthur and Beaumont, as well as memorials to Dowling and the Davis Guards, not least at Sabine Pass, where the battleground is now preserved as a state park" There are at least 223 public spaces with Confederate monuments in Virginia,  more than in any other state.   There is at least one building in Washington state named for an officer who served the Confederacy.  At least two private properties contain a Confederate memorial or fly a CSA flag:  There are at least 17 public spaces with Confederate monuments in West Virginia.  Yellowstone National Park: The Lamar River (named 1884–85) is named for L.Q.C. Lamar, a secessionist who drafted the instrument of Mississippi's secession and raised a regiment for the Confederates with his own money. He served as a Confederate ambassador to Russia. The river was named while he served as the United States Secretary of the Interior after the war. The Lamar Valley and other park features or administrative names which contain Lamar are derived from this original naming.  