  The Statue of Equality, also known as Grand Memorial of Bharat Ratna Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar is a proposed 350-foot (110 m) tall statue of B. R. Ambedkar  to be located in the Indian city of Mumbai.   The Ambedkar Memorial in Mumbai was announced by then Prime Minister of India, Manmohan Singh, on 18 August 2012.  It is to be situated on property formerly owned by National Textile Corporation known as Indu Mills (India United Mill No. 6) in Dadar.  The land is now owned by the government of Maharashtra.  The foundation stone was laid on 11 October 2015 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  Construction proper was to start in November 2015,  but as of  November 2017[update] the project has not been assigned to a construction contractor, due to only one one bid being submitted.  The main entrance to the structure would be from the adjacent Cadell Road with SKS Marg as secondary access point. The memorial will be linked with Chaitya Bhoomi for easy movement of crowds. The memorial will cost ₹425 crore (US$59 million) at 12-acre erstwhile Indu Mill land. Its main attraction will be a 25,000 sq ft stupa around a pond. A dome-like structure with 24 stone ribs will be in the middle of plot. There will be an Ashoka Chakra covering the memorial structure. There will also be a proposed 39,622 square feet interactive museum displaying several aspects of Baba Saheb Dr. Ambedkar’s life. The memorial will have a facility to park around 400 vehicles.  The stupa would be the most expensive part at ₹110.95 crore (US$15 million). It will be 140 feet (43 m) tall with a circumference of 110 metres (360 ft).  It will have a ribbed ceiling thus resembling the Buddhist Chaityas. An eight-tier bronze canopy representing the Buddha’s eight-fold path at the top of the stupa in a built-up area of 2,400 square metres with a lotus pond at the foot of the dome.  There is also a proposed Vipassanā (meditation) Hall at the memorial with a seating capacity for 13,000 people.  The Gallery of Struggle will depict momentous events associated with the life and work of Ambedkar, alongside 50,000 square feet library.  After the foundation stone was laid, some members of Ambedkar's family—his grandsons Prakash Yashwant Ambedkar and Anandraj Ambedkar—together with Ambedkarites leaders from Maharashtra said they were unhappy with the design of the memorial. Some had concerns over the practical details of the design while others thought the memorial was not befitting the stature of Ambedkar.  Prakash Yashwant Ambedkar pressed for the memorial to have a "think tank institution", an intellectual centre of international standards for scholars across the globe come for intellectual activity as his grandfather was an intellectual giant who contributed to many fields different many ways. Anandraj Ambedkar also suggested a design to the state government which was not considered as his design consisted of a 360-feet tall statue of his grandfather, Statue of Equality. The design right now looks more like a joggers’ park than a memorial. Leaders demanded government to set up a technical committee of experts on Buddhism, reputed architects from different Buddhist countries, and well-known people from the construction industry before finalizing the memorial’s design with inclusion of a State of Equality (a larger-than-life sculpture of Ambedkar facing the ocean like New York City's Statue of Liberty) so to form an impressive part of Mumbai's skyline and should be the first thing that visitors see when landing in Mumbai.   