The Stolpersteine in Mikulov, Slavkov u Brna and Znojmo lists the Stolpersteine in three towns of the South Moravian Region (Czech: Jihomoravský kraj). Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide.  Generally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: Kameny zmizelých, stones of the disappeared. The lists are sortable; the basic order follows the alphabet according to the last name of the victim. In 1947, her son, Lubomír Hlavenka, was born. He came back to his hometown after 37 years for the collocation of the Stolpersteine for his mother, his grandmother and his great grandmother. He recalled that the family had been anchored in Mikulov since at least 1648. From this year stems the death certificate of his ancestor Jakob Pisa.   Her mother also died in the course of the Shoah. Her daughter Hana, however, was able to survive concentration camps and todermask, and in 1947 she received a son, Lubomír Hlavenka, who in 2012 ordered the stumbling blocks for mother, grandmother and great grandmother. The latter regretted that he did not have the means to order Stolpersteine also for all other 400 victims from Mikulov.  Son Otmar Strach survived, became a gynecologist, married and became father of three children. Before the attack of the Nazi regime in 1938, there lived about 700 Jews in Znojmo, about 2.5 percent of the population. The small Jewish community had grown from 357 persons in 1869 to 749 in 1921. The Jews were well integrated, they had their own synagogue and a small cemetery built in 1868 north of the town on the Kühberg. In the so-called Reichspogromnacht on 9 November 1938, the synagogue was burnt down by the German National Socialists. In 1940 the remaining remains of the synagogue were demolished.  In the case of the Weinberger family, two stumbling blocks were laid for each victim, one in Czech and one in German. The Stolpersteine in the three towns were collocated by the artist himself on the following dates: The Czech Stolperstein project was initiated in 2008 by the Česká unie židovské mládeže (Czech Union of Jewish Youth) and was realized with the patronage of the Mayor of Prague.   