The Stolpersteine in Prague-Malá Strana lists the Stolpersteine in the town quarter Malá Strana (Czech for "Little Side (of the River)", German: Prager Kleinseite) of Prague. Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide.  Generally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: Kameny zmizelých. The list is sortable; the basic order follows the alphabet according to the last name of the victim. His wife and his daughter were both deported in July 1942, first to Theresienstadt, then to Maly Trostenets extermination camp. They were both murdered. His son Otto, who was only eight years old when his father was deported, could survive the Shoah. He married, became a father and later-on a grand father. He and his family are still living in Prague. Only in 2010 he was informed by the Jewish community about the fate of his father. In 2011, he was present at the laying of the Stolperstein for his father.  Despite his advanced age, after 15 March 1939 he became one of leading anti-Nazi resistance fighters and the head of an illegal political organization. On 26 January 1940 he was arrested by the Gestapo, went through four months of severe interrogations and was then deported to Moabit prison in Berlin. His health was already in critical condition when he was released at a high bail. Thereafter, he lived under house arrest at a private nursing home. Soon, on 9 March 1941, he deceased.  The entire family had to suffer due to Sippenhaft. His son Jaromir, a professor of entomology, was shot dead in the aftermath of the Heydrich assassination. His wife was sent to Auschwitz. Two grandchildren were first deported to an internment camp in Poland and later-on submitted to ″re-education″ in German families.  The Stolpersteine of Prague-Malá Strana were posed by the artist himself on the following days: The Czech Stolperstein project was initiated in 2008 by the Česká unie židovské mládeže (Czech Union of Jewish Youth) and was realized with the patronage of the Mayor of Prague.   