The Stolpersteine in Finland lists the Stolpersteine of Finland. Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide. Generally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self-chosen residence. Until now in Finland there has been only one collocation of Stolpersteine — on 24 June 2018 in Helsinki. The Stolpersteine were collocated by the artist himself. In the Finnish language they are called: kompastuskivet.   For the five other Jews who were handed over to the National Socialists by the Finnish government during World War II, there are no stumbling blocks yet.  Jewish Finns were absolutely secure during the Nazism in Germany and the Holocaust. Although Himmler twice travelled to Finland to convince the Finish government to hand over their Jews, this endeavor was invane. About 2.000 Jews lived in Finnland at that time. In independent Finland they were never exposed to systematic anti-Semitism. Many of the Finish Jews, about 300, fought for their country, many of them as medics. Three of them were even offered the German Iron Cross, but all three refused to accept it. Although the Jewish population of Finland was safe, about 47 Jewish POV were amongst the 2,800 exchanged with the Germans. Even though they were not extradicted because of their race, most of them ended up in concentration camps and were killed. Knowingly, the Finnish authorities handed over only five foreign Jewish men to the Gestapo during the World War II.  All five had come into conflict with the laws of Finland or the immigration regulations. Three family members are said to have accompanied them of their own free will. The expelled persons and their relatives were: With the exception of Kopelovsiky, all were of Austrian origin. Georg Kollmann was the only one of the eight who could survive the Holocaust. The transfer took place on November 6, 1942 in the Estonian capital Tallinn, 80 kilometers south of Helsinki. The list is sortable; the basic order follows the alphabet according to the last name of the victim. Also murdered were the maternal grandparents, an aunt of the baby and her husband. Georg Kollmann survived Auschwitz. His second wife was Olivia and the couple had at least one daughter, Orna. He died on 3 October 1992 in Israel. His half-brother also survived the Holocaust. She married Georg Kollmann, a Viennese. The couple fled to Finland. There, in May of 1941, their common son Franz Olof was born. Eighteen months later, parents and child were arrested and handed over to the Gestapo on 6 November 1942. On 19 February 1943, the family was deported with Transport No. 29 from Berlin to Auschwitz concentration camp. Mother and child were murdered immediately after their arrival on 20 February 1943 by the Nazi regime in a gas chamber. Father, mother, sister Margit and her husband were also murdered in the course of the Holocaust, all of them in Auschwitz. The husband of Janka Kollmann and the her siblings could survive the Shoah.    The husband of Janka Kollmann and her two siblings could survive Holocaust. 