The Stolpersteine in Prague-Josefov lists the Stolpersteine in the town quarter Josefov of Prague, the former Jewish quarter of the city. Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide. Generally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self-chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: Kameny zmizelých, stones of the disappeareds. Josefov (German: Josefstadt) is a town quarter and the smallest cadastral area of Prague, formerly the Jewish quarter of the town. It is completely surrounded by the Old Town (Czech: Staré Město pražské). Jews supposedly settled in Prague as early as the 10th century. In 1096 the first pogrom (the first crusade) took place. Eventually all Jews were concentrated within the Ghetto, shut off from the outside world by fortified walls with gates (1230–1530). As early as in the 11th, 12th and 13th century, Prague developed into a center of rabbinical scholarship and formed a school of Tosafists.  In 1262 Přemysl Otakar II issued a Statuta Judaeorum which granted the community a certain degree of self-administration. On Easter Sunday of 1389 one of the worst pogroms took place, the probable number of victims during the massacre range from about 500 to more than 3,000. The ghetto was most prosperous towards the end of the 16th century and at the beginning of the 17th century when Judah Loew ben Bezalel served as Rabbi, when a Yeshiva was founded and when the Jewish Mayor, Mordecai Maisel, became the Minister of Finance. The very wealthy man helped develop the ghetto.  By then, Prague was seen as a Hebrew metropolis in Central Europe. By 1638 the Jewish population of Prague had increased to more than 7.800.  In 1744 Empress Maria Theresa ordered all Jews to leave the city. Four years later they were allowed to return. In 1848 Jews were granted permission to settle also outside the ghetto. The small district supposedly housed about 18,000 inhabitants at a certain time. Soon the wealthy Jews moved to less crowded areas. In 1850 the quarter was renamed "Josefstadt" (Joseph's City) after Emperor Joseph II who emancipated Jews with the Toleration Edict in 1781. Gradually the share of the Jewish population in Josefov decreased, with mainly orthodox and poor Jews remaining there. Between 1893 and 1913 most of the quarter was demolished as part of a restoration of the city following the model of Paris. Due to protests of inhabitants six synagogues could be saved, furthermore the old cemetery and the Old Jewish Town Hall. They are now all part of the Jewish Museum in Prague. A new boulevard with luxurious buildings and shops was created, the Paris Street (Czech: Parížská). Only rich Jews could afford housing in the newly built blocks, the poorer ones moved away. Josefov lost its traditional identity and the quarter was integrated in the Old Town. In the 19th century, Jews got caught up in the culture wars between Czech-speaking middle class and German-speaking members of the Austro-Hungarian empire. Beginning in the 1830s many Jews began to adopt the German language and tried hard to assimilate. In the 1870s, however, Czech nationalism increased substantially and by the last quarter of the 19th Century, a network of Czech-Jewish institutions was created. Not all Jews supported this trend, many remained faithful to German language and culture while others favored the upcoming Zionism. Conflict between the Zionists and the Czech Jewish nationalists evolved and the Jewish community was deeply divided. German speaking and writing Jews as Franz Kafka, Max Brod and Franz Werfel became world-famous novelists of the early 20th century.  Immediately after the destruction of Czechoslovakia by Hitler and the unlawful invasion of Nazi troupes in Prague all Czech Jews became victims of several sanctions. In June 1939, Adolf Eichmann arrived in Prague, confiscated a Jewish villa in Stresovice and established The Central Office for Jewish Emigration. He forced the Jewish representatives Emil Kafka and Jakob Edelstein to comply with all his orders. At that time approximately 56,000 Jews lived in Prague. They were step by step excluded from economic life, deprived of their property, segregated in Prague restaurants and prohibited from using public baths and swimming pools. They were excluded from the movie and theatre industries, restricted to the back of the second car on Prague trams and excluded from all hotels except the Fiser and the Star. They had to wear the Judenstern and were banned from public service and all social, cultural and economic organizations. In August 1940 Jewish children were excluded from Czech schools and in October Jews were denied access to a wide range of rationed goods.  On 10 October 1941 Reinhard Heydrich, Karl Hermann Frank and Eichmann developed the plan to deport all Jews from the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia to Łódź Ghetto, Minsk and Riga, and to establish Theresienstadt concentration camp. The Holocaust had begun. The quarter is often represented by the flag of Prague's Jewish community, a yellow Magen David (Star of David) on a red field. A scientifically correct list of all Stolpersteine in Prague does not exist. Neither the artist, nor the organizers of the collocations do know exactly how many Stolpersteine have been posed in Prague and where they have been collocated. The website stolpersteine.cz all of a sudden disappeared in late 2016. Therefore, this list constitutes a work-in-progress. Step by step all Prague districts will be visited and all available addresses will be checked. Nevertheless, at this point we cannot guarantee that the list below contains all Stolpersteine of Josefov. You can help by adding reliable sources and additional information — either on this page or on the talk page. If you have general remarks please use the talk page of the WikiProject Stolpersteine. The lists are sortable; the basic order follows the alphabet according to the last name of the victim. His son Jiří could survive the Holocaust. In 1940 he was sent to Palastine. He was one of the survivors of the Patria disaster. After 1945 he returned to Prague and became the father of two children (Milan and Jiřina, later married as Matoušková). Both kids had two children each.  Her son Jiří could survive the Holocaust. In 1940 he was sent to Palastine. He was one of the survivors of the Patria disaster. After 1945 he returned to Prague and became the father of two children (Milan and Jiřina, later married as Matoušková). Thus Hermína Böhmová became twice grand mother after her cruel death and later on four times grand grand mother.  At least four of his brothers and sisters as well as two nices and two nephews were also killed during the Shoah. in 1929, the family moved to Prague. On 3 August 1942 Rudolf Freudenfeld was deported from Prague to Theresienstadt concentration camp with Transport AAw. His transport number was 66 of 1001. On 28 September 1944 he was deported to Auschwitz concentration camp with Transport Ek. His transport number was 1782 of 2500. He was killed by the Nazi regime.   His mother and at least three of his siblings were also murdered during the Shoah. The fate of his wife is unknown, all of their seven children could survive.  On 2 July 1942 Adéla Freudenfeldová was deported with Transport AAl from Prague to Theresienstadt concentration camp. Her transport number was 200. On 26 October 1942 she was deported with Transport By to Auschwitz concentration camp. Her transport number was 761. There she was murdered by the Nazi regime.  Her sons Rudolf, Gustav and Emil, her youngest daughter Charlota, and Charlota's five-year-old son Mirek were also murdered during the Shoah. Gustav died on 16 August 1942 in Theresienstadt concentration camp, Emil in late 1942 in Treblinka extermination camp, Charlota and Mirek on 23 January 1943 in Auschwitz concentration camp and Rudolf on 28 September 1944 also in Auschwitz.     The fate of the other children is unknown. Seven grandchildren of Adéla Freudenfeldová, the children of her son Rudolf, could survive. His mother had been deported to Treblinka extermination camp in October 1942 and was thereafter murdered by the Nazis. His friend Rudolf Reich was deported to Auschwitz in 1943 and murdered there in the course of the same year. Sister Irma could survive the Shoah. At the time she reported the death of her mother and her brother to Yad Vashem, in 1987, she lived in Chicago, was married to Max Czerner and carried his name.  Irma hat four children. Among them was Raya Czerner Schapiro (born 1934 in Prague, deceased 2007 in Chicago), the mother of Andrew H. Schapiro.  Son Ervín was also deported within a short period after the death of his mother and was murdered by the Nazi regime in Auschwitz concentration camp. In 1987, Irma reported the deportation and death of her mother and her brother to the Central Database of Shoah's victims' names in Yad Vashem. She lived then in Chicago, was married to Max Czerner and had given birth to two more kids. One of her daughters, Raya Czerner Schapiro, described her story and the story of her family in a book called Letters from Prague: 1939–1941.   Raya's son, Andrew H. Schapiro, became an attorney and diplomat. From 2014 to 2017 he served as the United States Ambassador to the Czech Republic. His mother-in-law, Berta Skallová née Morgenstern, was brought to death by the Nazi regime on 11 May 1943 in Theresienstadt. His daughter Zuzana, married Holitscherová, survived several  Nazi concentration camps including the Auschwitz-Birkenau Family Camp. She lived in Prague until her death in 2017. Otto's wife also survived.  Her father had already been deported to the Łódź Ghetto in 1941 where he was brought to death by the Nazi regime in 1942. The fate of her mother is unknown. The report to the Central Database of Shoah's victims' names in Yad Vashem was submitted by her sister, Elisabeth Schaffer born Hertzka, in 2009, a Holocaust survivor, then living in Berlin.  A Stolperstein was also created for her father. It has been collocated in another quarter of Prague, in Korunní 1961/109 in Vinohrady. The report to the Central Database of Shoah's victims' names in Yad Vashem was submitted by his uncle, Oto Raubichek, in 1957.  Also his wife and children did not survive the Shoah. Also her parents and her younger sister were murdered by the Nazis.  Also her parents and her older sister were murderedby the Nazis.  Her husband was also murdered, in Dachau in 1945.  The fate of her sister Hana is not known. Her daughter Eva was brought to Auschwitz concentration camp in September 1943 and thereafter murdered by the Nazi regime. The fate of Hana Pollaková is unknown. Emil married Helena. The couple had one son: Vittislav. On 8 July 1943 he was deported from Prague to Theresienstadt concentration camp with Transport Dh. His transport number was 397 of 486. On 29 September 1944 he was deported to Auschwitz concentration camp with Transport El. His transport number was 1335 of 1500. In Auschwitz, he was murdered by the Nazi regime.   The fate of his wife is unknown. His mother, at least four of his siblings and two nieces were also murdered by the Nazi regime. Pavel was killed on 15 October 1942 and Max on 11 March 1943, both in Łódź Ghetto.    Robert, his wife and their daughter Renee died on 26 January 1943 on a transport to Auschwitz concentration camp, the second daughter, Vera, was gased in Auschwitz the day after.       His sister Berta and her husband were both killed in Auschwitz. The only son of Emil and Helena survived the Shoah. He died in 1992, peacefully. It is unknown how his father survived the Nazi regime. Also his grandmother and several other relatives were killed during the Shoah. The fate of her husband is unknown. Her mother, at least three of her siblings and several other family members were also murdered during the Shoah. The following memorial plaques have not been created by Gunter Demnig, they constitute imitations. Their inscriptions are not in Czech language but in English and the engravings were not done by hand but mechanically. The collocation dates are unknown, but as there is a picture from 25 January 2010 with the memorial plaques already in place the collocations must have happened before that date. His sister Sylvia could survive the Shoah. She was married with Otto Adler. The couple had at least one daughter.  Her daughter Sylvia could survive the Shoah. She was married with Otto Adler. The couple had at least one daughter.  The now defunct website stolpersteine.cz included in their list also stumbling blocks for Gabriele Hermannová and Otílie Davidová, two of the three sisters of  novelist Franz Kafka.  These Stolpersteine were listed with the address Bílkova 132/4. Several tourists were misled and could not find the memorial plaques.  The three Stolpersteine for two of the Kafka sisters and their maid were produced but never collocated.  For unknown reasons the family had withdrawn its consent shortly before the collocation. According to the website of Gunter Demnig the Stolpersteine of Prague were posed by the artist himself on the following days:  A further collocation occurred on 28 October 2012, but is not mentioned on Demnig's page.  The Czech Stolperstein project was initiated in 2008 by the Česká unie židovské mládeže (Czech Union of Jewish Youth) and was realized with the patronage of the Mayor of Prague.   