The Stolpersteine in the Pardubický lists the Stolpersteine in the Pardubice Region (Czech: Pardubický kraj; Polish: Kraj pardubicki) in the east of Bohemia. Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide. Generally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: Kameny zmizelých, stones of the disappeareds. The lists are sortable; the basic order follows the alphabet according to the last name of the victim. The Stolpersteine of Chrudim were collocated by Gunter Demnig on ... In 1944, her son Jaromir took his life in Chrudim in order to avoid deportation. Four of her siblings were also murdered in the course of the Shoah: her sister Olga Cervinka and her brothers Artur, Milan and Karel.  On 15 August 2018 Gunter Demnig collocated six Stolpersteine in Slatiňany.  The Stolpersteine in Svitavy were collocated by the artist himself on 15 September 2014. Also his father became a victim of the Shoah, his sister could survive. Also his son, his daughter-in-law and his grandson of 4 years were killed by the Nazi regime. His daughter could survive. Her father, her brother, her sister-in-law and her nephew were all murdered by the Nazi regime in the course of the Shoah. In autumn of 1946 she worked in a reception center for survivors, mainly Polish Jews, who wanted to leave for Palestine. There she met the physician Alexander Hermann, an Auschwitz survivor. They became a couple and married on 16 March 1947. They moved to Broumov, where her husband opened a practice. She supported her husband in his daily work. They became parents of two children, Jana and Otto. She volunteered for Holocaust survivors and was member of associations of former Jewish concentration camp prisoners. She also collaborated with the German National Center for Political Education, the Bergen-Belsen Memorial. On 2 February 2013 Louise Hermanová died in České Budějovice.     