The Stolpersteine in the Moravskoslezský kraj lists the Stolpersteine in the Moravian-Silesian Region (Czech: Moravskoslezský kraj, before 2001 "Ostrava Region") in the easternmost part of Moravia. Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide.  Generally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: Kameny zmizelých, stones of the disappeareds. The lists are sortable; the basic order follows the alphabet according to the last name of the victim. Also her daughter Ida, her son-in-law and her little grandson were murdered at Auschwitz. Her daughter Růžena and her granddaughter Signe Sevec née Löwy could survive the Shoah. Růžena Löwy became a widow and later married JUDr. Joseph Michalek. In 2010, the café was rebuilt in its original form.     Both his Auerbach uncles David and Arnošt, their wives, David's two children, his aunt Anna Weiss and her husband were extinct in concentration camps. Also his grand mother from the mother's side, Emilia Stamberger, and several other family members were killed by the Nazi regime. Leo Auerbach's father and his brothers could survive. Josef Auerbach died in 1958 in Moravská Ostrava. Eric Auber, how he called himself in England, died in 2002 in Romford, Essex. Bedřich died in 1988 in the United States. Also her mother, two sisters-in-law, Meta and Irma, and several other family members were killed in the course of the Shoah.  Her husband and their two older sons could survive. Josef Auerbach died in 1958 in Moravská Ostrava. Eric Auber, how he called himself in England, died in 2002 in Romford, Essex. Bedřich died in 1988 in the United States. A report of his death was submitted to Yad Vashem by his youngest son, Dr. Frederick Baar, in 1992. He then lived in Canada, was married and had two children.   A report of her death was submitted to Yad Vashem by her youngest son, Dr. Frederick Baar, in 1992. Frederick Baar then lived in Canada, was married and had two children.  He died in 1999. Their son Walter could survive the Shoah. He went to Palestine, called himself Avner Bar On and founded a family. He reported the death of his parents and of further eight family members to Yad Vashem.  Their son should survive. He married Ella and they had two children.  Her son Paul was caught by the Nazis in France, deported and murdered.  Her daughter Frieda and her husband Wilhelm Rosenfeld were caught by the Nazis in Hungary, were deported to a concentration camp, but could survive.  Her daughter Anna and her sons Wilhelm and Erich were also caught, deported and murdered, but it is unknown where and when.    Two of his children and four of his grandchildren could survive the Shoah: Four children of Fanny and Moritz Jokl were murdered by the Nazi regime: Paul escaped to Paris and lived there until 1943. Attempts of the family to get him to London failed. The Germans arrested him and deported him to a concentration camp. He was killed by the Nazi regime at an unknown place and at an unknown day. Annie, Wilhelm and Erich had left Krnov already in August 1938 toward to the Czech inland. Erich worked as a dentist in Opava. They all also lost their lives during the Shoah. Their son could escape and survive. Their son could escape and survive. Four of his siblings were also murdered in the course of the Shoah, Sophie in Treblinka and Theresie in Theresienstadt, both in 1942, Emilie in an unknown location and Juli in Warsaw, both in 1943. Only his sister Betty could survive, she died in 1978 in Gloucester, Massachusetts. Nothing is known about the fate of her sisters. The fate of his siblings, of his wife and his children is unknown. His grandson Tomáš was murdered by the Nazi regime in 1944 at Auschwitz. On 27 July 1942 her husband was deported from Prague to Theresienstadt. On 23 January 1943 he was deported to Auschwitz and killed immediately after arrival.  The fate of their daughters Liesel and Rosel is unknown. Their daughter Marianne could escape, she died 1990 in New York. Four of the five siblings who were still alive at the beginning of the Nazi occupation were murdered: Ida in Jasenovac concentration camp and Bruno in Trawniki, both in 1942, Karl Jakob in Auschwitz and Julius in Theresienstadt, both in 1943. Only her sister Klara could escape to the USA. Both her parents were murdered by the Nazi regime in Auschwitz. The fate of her sisters Liesel and Rosel is unknown. Marianne could escape, she died 1990 in New York. Her son could emigrate to England and survive the Shoah.  Her brother could emigrate to England and survive the Shoah.  At last, also he lost his life on 18 April 1945 in Dachau.   His father lost his life on 18 April 1945 in Dachau, eleven days before the liberation of the camp. Her husband lost his life in Dachau on 18 April 1945. On 1 October 1944 their son-in-law Robert Engel was deported to Auschwitz concentration camp by transport Em. On 6 October 1944, their daughter Herta Engelová and 6-year-old grandson Tomáš were deported to Auschwitz and murdered in a gas chamber immediately after arrival. Also Ferdinand Goldberger's youngest siblings, Ludwig and Augusta, became victims of the Shoah. Robert Engel he lost his life on 18 April 1945 in Dachau concentration camp.  Son Henry and daughter Else could survive. They both married and had one child each. Else died in 1986 in New York, Henry in 1993 in Fort Lauderdale.   On 26 September 1942, Helena Goldbergerová and her husband, their daughter Herta, her husband and her son were all deported to Theresienstadt concentration camp by transport Bl. Her transport number was 758 of 862. There the family was separated after ten days. While the younger couple and their son remained in Theresienstadt, Ferdinand Goldberger and Helena Goldbergerová were deported on 5 October 1942 to Treblinka extermination camp. Her transport number was 617 of 1,000. They were both murdered by the Nazi regime as were all other Jews on this transport.   On 1 October 1944 son-in-law Robert Engel was deported to Auschwitz concentration camp by transport Em. On 6 October 1944, their daughter Herta Engelová and 6-year-old grandson Tomáš were deported to Auschwitz and murdered immediately after arrival in a gas chamber. Robert Engel was thereafter transferred to Dachau concentration camp, where he was killed on 18 April 1945. At least two of Helena Goldbergerová's siblings, Adolf Tramer and Fany Weinstock, were also murdered in Treblinka in the course of the Shoah. Son Henry and daughter Else could survive. Henry called himself Gordy, married Hilda née Glück. The couple had one child. Else married Fred Brichta. The couple had a son, named Paul. Else died in January 1986 in New York, Henry on 3 May 1993 in Fort Lauderdale. The report to Yad Vashem was submitted by their son, Richard Kingsley, as he was named in 1991. He lived in England then.  The report to Yad Vashem was submitted by their son, Richard Kingsley, as he was named in 1991. He lived in England then.  Also his grandparents for the paternal side, Yosef Lieser and Atara née Krik, lost their lives in Auschwitz. Also his grandparents for the paternal side, Yosef Lieser and Atara née Krik, lost their lives in Auschwitz. In 1944, also her parents-in-law became victims of the Shoah. Their daughter Eva was able to flee to the United Kingdom. After the collapse of the Nazi regime, she returned to Ostrava and took over the family business. When the Communist took over power in Czechoslovakia in February 1948, she emigrated again. Their son Otto Rix was able to flee to London in 1939 and could survive the Shoah. He became the father of Sir Bernard Rix, a judge, and of Evelyn McGilloway née Rix, a concert pianist. Their son Otto Rix could emigrate to London and survive the Shoah.  Also his parents were killed at Auschwitz. Also their son František lost his life in Auschwitz. Also their son František lost his life in Auschwitz. Except son Hanuš, who could emigrate to England, and Josef's wife Erna, who could survive Theresienstadt, all family members were murdered in the course of the Shoah. His father had already been deported to Nisko in 1939 where he had died. His wife and his children were murdered in 1942 in Treblinka. Her father had already been deported to Nisko in 1939 and was murdered there. Her brother, his wife Anna née Fantová (born 1894) and their son Jiři (born 1925) were all deported to Theresienstand in 1943 and to Auschwitz in 1944. All three lost their lives in the course of the Shoah.    Her daughter Etelka was married to Alfred Vogel. The couple could emigrate to England. They had one child. Both died in the 1980s in Weybridge, Surrey. Her son Hugo was married to Edith, the couple had two children. Nothing is known about their fate. The report on her death and one of her two daughters was sent to Yad Vashem by her son Alfred in July 2005. He then lived in England. Also her mother and her sister were murdered by the Nazi regime. Also her mother and her sister were murdered by the Nazi regime. The Stolpersteine in the Kraj Vysočina were collocated by the artist himself on the following dates: A collocation was also announced for 16 September 2014 in Doubrava u Orlové but could not be verified till now. 