The Stolpersteine in the Královéhradecký kraj lists the Stolpersteine in the region Královéhradecký kraj in the north-east of Bohemia. Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide.  Generally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: Kameny zmizelých, stones of the disappeareds. The list is sortable; the basic order follows the alphabet according to the last name of the victim. The history of the family Goldschmid in Náchod dates back to 1636, when Moses Jacob Goldschmid was born there. In 1846 Samuel Golschmid founded a textile plant. The company was thereafter led by his son Max Michael Goldschmid (1847 in Náchod — 1911 in Náchod) and subsequently by his grandson Hanuš Goldschmid (1891 in Náchod — 1966 in São Paulo, Brazil). In 1930s the factory had 150 looms and about 300 employees. Today, the building does not exist any longer. Hanuš Goldschmid had five sisters, all born in Náchod, all murdered by the Nazi regime in concentration camps.  Her son Max, born in 1912, was deported in 1941 from Prague to Łódź Ghetto in Poland. He survived the Shoah, was liberated in Mühldorf, but after the war ended his own life. Her son Míša, also called Michael, survived the Shoah, returned to Náchod as an orphan, emigrated later-on and described in a diary, which he wrote after the war, his concentration camp experiences. Her grandson Peter Schur and his wife Helene attended the collocation of the Stolperstein for Jenny Schurová. Her daughter Liselotte, later-on married and named Horáčková, was also imprisoned in Theresienstadt, but could survive. Mariana Steinerová's great grandson Tomáš Horáček attended the collocation of the Stolperstein for Mariana Steinerová. According to the website of Gunter Demnig the Stolperstein of Kostelec nad Orlicí was posed on 29 October 2012, those in Náchod were placed on 2 August 2016. The Czech Stolperstein project was initiated in 2008 by the Česká unie židovské mládeže (Czech Union of Jewish Youth) and was realized with the patronage of the Mayor of Prague. 