Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the victims of Nazi Germany being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide. The first Stolpersteine of the Trnavský kraj (pronounced [ˈtr̩nawskiː ˈkraj]), the Trnava Region of present-day Slovakia (formerly Czechoslovakia), were collocated in August 2016. Generally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Slovak is: pamätných kameňov, memorial stones. The lists are sortable; the basic order follows the alphabet according to the last name of the victim. On 13 August 2018, three Stolpersteine were collocated in Dunajská Streda. The inscriptions are both in Slovak and in Hungarian language.  1.065 inhabitants of Piešťany with Jewish roots were murdered in the course of the Shoah. The Stolperstein of Piešťany was posed by Gunter Demnig himself on 6 August 2016. Her children, her father, her brother and sister could all survive the Shoah. Her father had been deported, first to Sereď concentration camp, then to Theresienstadt concentration camp. After his return to Piešťany, he took care of Maria's children and raised them. Maria's daughter was married to Zoltán Žuzič, had a daughter, Katarína (b. 1954), and a granddaughter, Deniska (b. 1974). Her son became a teacher, was married to Alžbeta née Lorinczová (b. 1926) and had a daughter, Andrea (b. 1966). It was her who initiated the collocation of the Stolperstein for Mária Schulzová. At the ceremony, Piešťany's mayor, Miloš Tamajka, paid tribute to the great services of the Winter family for city and spa.   The Stolpersteine in Smolenice were posed by Gunter Demnig himself on 6 August 2016. Reports on the death of Jakub Sidon, Blanka and Julia Sidonová were submitted to Yad Vashem in 2008 by a relative of his wife, Eva Duricková, who lived in Trenčín at that time. Also her grandparents from the maternal side and her uncle Shmel lost their lives in the course of the Shoah. Her parents and five of her siblings were also murdered in the course of the Shoah.  Rozalia's last residence before deportation was in Smolenice, where she lived with her son, her daughter-in-law and their children. She and her family were deported on 11 April 1942 from Trnava to Lublin Ghetto and lost her life in the course of the Shoah.   