The Stolpersteine in the Ústecký kraj lists the Stolpersteine in the Ústí nad Labem Region (Czech: Ústecký kraj) in the north-west of Bohemia. Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide. Generally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: Kameny zmizelých, stones of the disappeareds. The lists are sortable; the basic order follows the alphabet according to the last name of the victim. In late 1938, when the Nazis occupied the so-called Sudetenland, all members of the Stern and Pächter family could flee to Prague in time. But thereafter, in March 1939, the Nazis also conquered Prague. George Stern could escape to Palestine. At the end of November 1939, also Anna and their son — with the support of Jakob Edelstein — could follow the same route. Vilhelmina Pächter was deported to Theresienstadt concentration camp on 16 July 1942 where she wrote a cook book that survived the Nazi regime. Most elderly persons in Theresienstadt suffered of hunger due to the reduced portions of food given to them.  She collected recipes from 13 inmates who remembered better times when they still could cook and eat well. Minna also composed humorous rhymes about her room-partners and a poem for a wedding in the camp. The cook book was later-on published in English, French and Italian. When her health deteriorated in 1943 she was taken care of Liesel Reich, a granddaughter of her deceased husband, who worked as nurse in the camp's hospital. Nevertheless, she died of long-time starvation on 25 September 1944, at Yom Kippur.   Her grandson David Stern, who archived a doctorate in physics in Israel, moved to the USA in 1959. He wrote several texts about her life and how the cook book came into the hands of the family.   Their children could both survive the Shoah. Daughter Lilly also became a jurist and in 1940 she married Erich Liban from Vyhne. From 1 July 1940 to 29 August 1944 she was interred in the Vyhne concentration camp. The couple emigrated to Israel in the 1950s.  Son Herbert married Grete née Justiz in 1939 and, together with his wife, emigrated to British Palestine. It was him who reported the death of his parents to Yad Vashem in 1990. At that time Herbert Bloch lived in Haifa, Israel. Her mother Margarete and her sister Klementina were also murdered by nazi authorities.    Her sister Marianne was able to flee to England, where she married a man named Norton. Later-on she reported the death of mother and sister to Yad Vashem. His son Heinz survived, married and became a father. He died in 1997.  Viktor's house in Teplice was restored to his step daughter. At that time, there was a museum on the ground floor of the building, which remained there for a small rent. Marietta Smolková later sold this house because she could not afford renovation. Two further houses, originally belonging to the Hahn family, had not been restored by 2005.  Katerina's daughters both have survived the Shoah. Hannerl died in 1983, Marietta still lived in 2005. Also murdered by the Nazi regime were the daughters Grete und Gertrude and their families. Gertrud and Robert Bermeiser and their adopted daughter Eva (born 1936) were all deported to Łódź Ghetto in 1941.     Grete and Josef Schück were deported first to Theresienstadt and then to Riga in 1942. The fate of the other children is not known. Also her daughters Grete and Gertrude and their husbands Josef Schück and Robert Bermeiser did not survive the Shoah. Even the little girl Eva, the adopted daughter of Gertrude and Robert, born in 1936, was killed by the Nazi authorities. The fate of Bedřiška's other children is not known. His half sister Frieda (born 1895), her husband Hugo Robitschek (born 1887) and their daughter Helga (born 1929) were all murdered in Auschwitz in 1944. His wife Anna and the three children also could not survive the Shoah: Bertold and his wife died in Lublin. Arnošt was deported in 1941 and killed in Auschwitz. Renata was also brought to death in Auschwitz.      Son Otto Šling fought in the Spanish Civil War, found exile in London and returned to Czechoslovakia in 1945. He became a politician, was brought to court in the Slánský trial, sentenced to death and executed in 1952.   Also her husband and her parents could not survive. Josef Schück was deported to Theresienstadt in 1941 and then to Riga in January 1942.  Her parents were deported to Theresienstadt in 1942 and finally to Treblinka. His wife Klara also died in Theresienstadt on 4 May 1943.  His son Walter Urbach died already in 1924.  Nothing is known about the other children, except that they were still alive at the time of Alfred Urbach's death. The Stolpersteine in the Ústecký kraj were collocated by the artist himself on the following dates: The Czech Stolperstein project was initiated in 2008 by the Česká unie židovské mládeže (Czech Union of Jewish Youth) and was realized with the patronage of the Mayor of Prague.   