Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the victims of Nazi Germany being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide. The first Stolperstein collocactions in the Banskobystrický kraj  (pronounced [ˈbanskobistritskiː ˈkraj]), the Banská Bystrica Region of present-day Slovakia (formerly Czechoslovakia), took place in Banská Bystrica and in Brezno on 31 October 2012. The inscriptions in Fiľakovo and Tornaľa are in both Hungarian and Slovak as there both languages are spoken. Generally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Slovak is pamätných kameňov, memorial stones, in Hungarian botlatókő, stumbling stones. The lists are sortable; the basic order follows the alphabet according to the last name of the victim. His eldest son Ivan, a lecturer in medicine, died on 2 April 1945 during a raid, he was probably the last Nazi victim of Banská Bystrica. The youngest son, Pavel, became a professor at the Medical School of Bratislava's Comenius University. A street in Banská Bystrica is named after him. Another report on her death to Yad Vashem was submitted by her cousin Daniel Rottenberg from Philadelphia, PA. He could survive the Shoah.  Their son could survive. He became a well known playwright, prose and theater theorist as well as a diplomat. He died in 1999 in Bratislava.  Her brother, who had designed several banks, insurance companies and residential buildings, was murdered at an unknown place near Banská Bystrica in late 1944.  Her son could survive. He became a well known playwright, prose and theater theorist as well as a diplomat. He died in 1999 in Bratislava.  The fate of his wife is unknown. His son could survive. In 1957 and in 1978 he submitted reports on the death of his father to Yad Vashem. At that time he lived in a Kibbutz in Israel.  His daughter Edita could escape and survive the Shoah. After her marriage, her last name was Belanová. It was she who submitted the report on her father's death in 1996 to Yad Vashem. She then lived in Jerusalem.  Her sister could survive and submitted the report on Alica's death to Yad Vashem.  Her mother was murdered by the Nazi regime as well.  Her daughter Edita could escape and survive the Shoah. After her marriage, her last name was Belanová. It was she who submitted the report on her father's death in 1996 to Yad Vashem. She then lived in Jerusalem.  His son Ernest could survive the Shoah. In 2007, he sent the reports on the death of his father and his brother to Yad Vashem. At that time, he lived in Montreal, Canada.   Both his brothers, his sister-in-law Malka, his nephew Menachem (born 1920), his nieces Miriam (born 1922) and Dvora (born 1925) were murdered in the course of the Shoah.  His wife and his son Samuel could survive. The report on his death was submitted to Yad Vashem in 2007 by his daughter-in-law, Gertruda Sternlichtová.  In the 1950s two granddaughters of Ernest Steinlicht were born. Mother and sister were sent to Ravensbrück, Bergen-Belsen und Thersienstadt, where they were liberated by the Soviet army on 8 May 1945. But Veruška Sternlichtová lost her life in September 1945 due to the hardship and suffering during her time in concentration camps. His brother Samuel could survive the Shoah. He married and had two daughters. Samuel Sternlicht became a butcher and married Gertruda née Pollak, who also had lost brother and sister during the Shoah. The couple had two daughters, Judith (born 1950) and another girl (born 1951).   According to his daughter Judith, her father "was not very religious, but a good Jew." In 1969, both girls left Czechoslovakia and emigrated to Israel. Later-on Judith married a man named Landshut. The couple went to Germany and had three children. Gertruda Sternlichtová became head of the Jewish community in Lučenec and fought for to rebuild the synagogue of this city .  In 2007, she reported the murder of her siblings, the siblings of her husband and her father-in-law to Yad Vashem.  Judith Landshut became a volunteer in the Jewisch community of Hamburg. Her son Samuel could survive. He became a butcher, married Gertruda née Pollak and they had two daughters. Her mother and her older brother could survive the Shoah. Samuel Sternlicht married and had two daughters. Their daughter married Eugen Jakubovits,  the couple had three children.  Their daughter married Eugen Jakubovits,  the couple had three children.  His sisters Szeren Lemberger and Ilona Salvendy were both murdered in Auschwitz,   also several relatives of his wife. His wife was murdered in Auschwitz concentration camp in September 1944.   His brothers-in-law Herman and Vilmosh Rosenberg, their children Ester and Janos, his sister-in-law Erzsebet Lissauer and other family members also lost their lives in 1944 in Auschwitz. His daughter could survive the Shoah. She married Ladislav Bednar (1917-1982), the couple had one child.   These lists make no claims to be complete. According to the website of Gunter Demnig the Stolpersteine the Banskobystrický kraj were posed by the artist himself on the following days:  