The Stolpersteine in Kolín lists the Stolpersteine in the town of Kolín in the Central Bohemian Region (Czech: Středočeský kraj). Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide.  Generally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self-chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: Kameny zmizelých, stones of the disappeared. The list is sortable; the basic order follows the alphabet according to the last name of the victim. A website lists 466 names of Jews from Kolín and, if known, what happened with them. Additional fourteen persons could not be identified.  The Stolpersteine from Kolín thus memorize only a small fraction of the Jewish losses during the Shoah. On 28 October 1944, at last, his sister, her husband Pavel Heller and their 15 years old son Walter were deported to Auschwitz and gassed immediately after arrival.   Richard Feder survived the Shoah,  returned to Kolín and reestablished the Jewish community there. In 1947, he wrote a book about The Jewish Tragedy, dedicated to his murdered fellow citizens. In 1953 he was named chief land rabbi in Brno. In 1970 he died at the age of 95.  All her children and grandchildren were murdered in the course of the Shoah. Only her husband could survive. He died in 1970, age 95. Their son Karel survived the Shoah. He later called himself Karel Avi Ophir. He died in 1996 in Israel.  The fate of Alfred Fischer's parents and that of his brother Karel remains unknown. Only their brother could survive the Shoah. Only their brother could survive the Shoah. All her siblings were killed during the Shoah: Adolf in 1942 in Trawniki, Josef in 1943 in Riga, Růžena and František both in 1944 in Auschwitz. Her son Karel survived the Shoah. He later-on called himself Karel Avi Ophir. He died in 1996 in Israel.  The last residence of Gustav Mandelík and his wife before deportation was in Kolín. On 13 June 1942, they were deported to Theresienstadt concentration camp by transport AAd. His transport number was 138 of 736.  On 10 August 1942, his daughter Zdeňka and his granddaughter Eva arrived in Theresienstadt, being deported from Prague.   Nevertheless, Gustav Mandelík died on 31 October of the same year in Theresienstadt, due to Cachexia caused by starvation, overpopulation and lack of hygiene.  His wife, his granddaughter Eva and his brother Max all lost their lives in 1943 in Auschwitz. His daughter Zdeňka and her husband were murdered in 1944 in Auschwitz. The fate of his siblings Ernestine and Karl is unknown. Also her brother Richard lost his life in 1943 in Auschwitz. Her daughter Zdeňka, her son-in-law Robert Nettl and her sister Gizela Brumlová were all murdered in 1944, also in Auschwitz. The fate of her two sons and of her other six siblings is unknown. Also his brother Pavel was killed in the course of the Shoah. The fate of his wife is unknown. His mother and all his siblings were also killed in the course of the Shoah. The fate of his wife is unknown. Her last residence before deportation was in Kolín. On 13 June 1942, she, her sister Hedvika, her daughter Gusta and her son-in-law Leo Schmolka were arrested and deported to Theresienstadt concentration camp by transport AAd. Their transport numbers were 84, 85 and 345 of 736. Already there were her daughter Anna with her husband (since 8th of February) and her son František (since 7th of May). Step by step the whole family was torn apart and extinct. On 1 September 1942, daughter Anna and her husband were deported to Raasiku. On 8 October 1942, her daughter Gusta and her husband were deported to Treblinka extermination camp. On 11 January 1943, Růžena Meislová was brought to death in Theresienstadt.   On 6 December 1943 her sister Hedvika lost her life in Theresienstadt.  On 16 December 1943 her son František was deported to Auschwitz. He was murdered there. Her son Pavel was murdered at an unknown place. The fate of her sisters Julie and Pauline is unknown. Her brother Francis could survive. On 15 December 1943, his wife was deported to Auschwitz concentration camp and murdered there. The Stolpersteine in Kolín were collocated by the artist himself on the following dates: The Czech Stolperstein project was initiated in 2008 by the Česká unie židovské mládeže (Czech Union of Jewish Youth) and was realized with the patronage of the Mayor of Prague.   