The Stolpersteine in Prague-Karlín lists the Stolpersteine in cadastral area Karlín of Prague. Since 2002, the district belongs to Praha 8. Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide. Generally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self-chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: Kameny zmizelých, stones of the disappeareds. The list is sortable; the basic order follows the alphabet according to the last name of the victim. Three and a half weeks later, his son was also deported to Auschwitz and murdered at the age of 14. Also his mother-in-law was murdered during the Shoah.  The fate of his wife is unknown. The fate of his mother is not known. His maternal grandmother, Hedwig Steinová née Taussigová, was murdered in Izbica. Her father could survive the Shoah. He founded a new family after the fall of the Nazi regime. The fate of his wife is unknown. His only daughter survived, studied, achieved a doctorate in natural sciences, married and took the name Kimlová. In 1991, she submitted the report on his death to Yad Vashem. The fate of his wife, his parents and his brother Antonin is unknown. František Löwy survived. Josef Löwy, his wife Karolina and their daughter Hana (age 14) were all murdered on 9 May 1942 in Sobibór extermination camp.   The fate of his mother is unknown. On 15 October 1942, his mother was deported from Theresienstadt to the Treblinka extermination camp with transport Bv and transport number 1364. All 2,000 people on this transport were murdered by the Nazi regime, including Ernestine Picková.  His sister Lilly, her husband Richard Lustig and their daughter were all murdered in the course of the Shoah. On 17 May 1942, they were deported to Lublin.    The fate of his father and his brother is unknown. Three days later, also Markéta Süssmannová was deported to Auschwitz and murdered there. One month later, also his brother Moritz was deported to Auschwitz and murdered there.  It is known, that their son Karl was married to Svetla née Solar, that they had a child and that he died in the German city Hannover. But his whereabouts during the Nazi regime are unknown and it is not known if his decease occurred during the Nazi reign or later. The fate of his daughter-in-law and his grandchild is unknown. David Süssmann's sisters could emigrate and survive. Eugenie, who was married to Walter Urbach and had a child with him, lost her husband in 1944 in Auschwitz. She died in 1963 in the USA. His other sister, Julia, also lost her husband in Auschwitz. Her husband's name was Ignaz Bobasch, also Itchak. They had two daughters, both born in Czechoslovakia in the 1920s. Julia died in 1991 in Israel at age 92.  It is known, that her son Karl was married to Svetla née Solar, that they had a child and that her son died in the German city Hannover. But is not known if his decease occurred during the Nazi reign or later. The fate of her daughter-in-law and her grandchild is unknown. The fate of her mother, her brother, his wife and his daughter is also unknown. The fate of his brother is unknown. According to the website of Gunter Demnig the Stolpersteine of Prague were posed on 8 October 2008, 7 November 2009, 12 June 2010, 13 to 15 July 2011 and on 17 July 2013 by the artist himself. A further collocation occurred on 28 October 2012, but is not mentioned on Demnig's page. The Czech Stolperstein project was initiated in 2008 by the Česká unie židovské mládeže (Czech Union of Jewish Youth) and was realized with the patronage of the Mayor of Prague.   