 The Stolpersteine in the Jihočeský kraj lists the Stolpersteine in the Czech region Jihočeský kraj (South Bohemian Region). Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They help us remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide. Generally, the stumbling blocks are located in front of the building where the victims had their last self chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: Kameny zmizelých, stones of the disappeared. The Stolpersteine in Třeboň were laid on 6 June 2010. It was the third collocation in the Czech Republic, collocations in Brno and Ostrava followed several days later. The list is sortable; the basic order follows the alphabet according to the last name of the victim. Together with Harry Kende, on 18 April 1942, several family members were deported., i.e. with number 224 his father Vitezslav Kende, who was murdered in Auschwitz in 1944.  Vilém Kende (1883-1944), an uncle of Harry Kende, and his wife Valerie Kendeová (1888-1944) were also murdered in Auschwitz in 1944.   Their son Viktor, who was also deported with the transport Akb, has survived. In March 1942 Harry Kende's uncle Joseph was deported to Theresienstadt together with his wife Helena and the three sons Erich, Oto and Rudolf. He and his wife were murdered in Auschwitz, and son Erich died in Dachau. Son Oto survived the liberation of Mauthausen, but died shortly thereafter. Rudolf could survive and returned to České Budějovice.       His wife Markéta was murdered on 29 October 1942 in Ravensbrück concentration camp. His thirteen year old daughter Hana was gassed immediately after her arrival at Auschwitz. In 2000, Hana's suitcase, containing her drawings, were found. The author Karen Levine told the story of the family in her book called 'Hana's Suitcase', which they produced a film of in 2009.  The Stolpersteine in the Jihočeský kraj were collocated by the artist himself on the following dates: 