Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They memorialize the fate of the victims of Nazi Germany being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide. The Stolpersteine in Neratovice, a town in the Central Bohemian Region (Czech: Středočeský kraj) of the present-day Czech Republic (formerly Czechoslovakia), were collocated in 2010. The Czech Stolperstein project was initiated in 2008 by the Česká unie židovské mládeže (Czech Union of Jewish Youth) and was realized with the patronage of the Mayor of Prague.   Generally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: Kameny zmizelých, stones of the disappeareds. The list is sortable; the basic order follows the alphabet according to the last name of the victim. His son Bohumil Heller could survive the Shoah. He was married to Josefa née Rambousková (born 1915). The couple had two children.  The fate of his daughter Marta is unknown. Also Arnošt, Ludvík, Otto and Adolf Heller were braught to death in Auschwitz. His sister Ella was killed in Theresienstadt.  His brother Otto and his half brother Jiří and their families could all survive. His wife and all three children survived the Shoah in emigration. His daughter Helene married Slávek Březina and had at least one child. She died in 1994. In 1999, his son Pinkas Klemperer, who at the time lived in Tel Aviv, submitted the report on the death of his father to Yad Vashem. He was married and had two children. He died in 2002.  His daughter Asta was also married and thereafter was named Mojžíšová. She was present when the Stolperstein for her father was collocated in 2010. Her sister was deported to Auschwitz on the day before her death and later-on murdered at an unknown date by the Nazi regime. On the day after her deportation, her sister, who had remained in Theresienstadt, died. The Stolpersteine in Neratovice were all collocated in 2010:  