This article describes all Stolpersteine that have been placed in Charleroi, Belgium. Stolpersteine is the German word for stumbling blocks placed all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fates of people who were murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide by the Nazis. Generally, the stumbling blocks are placed in front of the building where the victims had their last self-chosen residence. In Wallonia, Stolpersteine are generally called pavés de mémoire (memorial cobblestones). In Dutch they are called Struikelstenen. Until the end of the 19th century, Charleroi had very few people of the Jewish faith. The Jewish community of Charleroi only developed in the aftermath of World War I. This community consisted mainly of poor families from Eastern Europe, who arrived in great despair and desperately looking for work and survival. Charleroi was one of four Belgian cities that hosted sizeable groups of Jews, the others being Antwerp in Flanders, Liège in Wallonia and the capital Brussels. While the mines and industries were mainly looking for blue collar workers, the Jews tried to establish themselves mainly as craftsmen or with small businesses. Step by step, the Rue Chavannes became the focal point of a small Jewish Quarter, with small shops in Rue Neuve, Rue de la Régence and Boulevard Bertrand, with grocers, butchers, restaurant owners, hairdressers or shoemakers. In 1928, the existence of the Community Israelite of Charleroi was recognised through a Royal Decree. However, in the 1930s the severe economic crisis endangered the Jewish community, and was followed by the rise of extremism. In 1933, Hitler captured power in Germany. In 1936, in Belgium, 21 right-wing members of parliament were elected. Then Hitler caused World War II and invaded Belgium on 10 May 1940. The country was forced to capitulate on the 28th of the same month. Thereafter Jews were confronted with several restrictions. On 29 August 1941, Jews were confined to four cities: Antwerp, Brussels, Liege, and Charleroi. In September 1942. Charleroi became victim of a raid and a convoy left for deportation. In summer 1942, Mechelen transit camp was set up and the Holocaust in Belgium started to take place with deportations from Mechelen to Auschwitz concentration camp. Altogether, 26 trains departed from Mechelen, bringing around 25,000 Jews and 350 Roma to extermination camps in the East, mostly to Auschwitz. Parallel to the deportations, opposition among the general population against the treatment of Jews in Belgium grew. Although the people did not have reliable information about the Holocaust, they sensed that something terrible was happening and started to hide Jewish men, women and children. By the end of the occupation, more than 40 per cent of all Jews in Belgium were in hiding; many of them were helped by Gentiles, particularly Catholic priests and nuns, others by the organised resistance. The Comité de Défense des Juifs (CDJ, Jewish Defence Committee) provided food and refuge to Jews in hiding. In turn, many Jews joined the armed resistance. In April 1943, members of the CDJ attacked the 20th convoy to Auschwitz and rescued some of those being deported. Nevertheless, more than 24,000 Jews were killed before the camps were evacuated and/or liberated by the Allies, i.e. more than a third of all Jews living in Belgium in 1939. In the aftermath of Nazi occupation and WWII, the Jewish community of Charleroi was severely weakened. Many were murdered, some could escape and go into exile. But most of those who had left never came back, but a small community still exists today, and tries hard to survive. In 1963, a new synagogue was inaugurated in Rue Pige-au-Croly, the only one in the province of Hainaut. The building also houses the Museum of the Memory of the Righteous among the Nations. The community is also involved in GRAIR, a group that furthers interreligious dialogue. The list is sortable; the basic order follows the alphabet according to the last name of the victim. Also his daughter and his stepson were killed.  The fate of his wife is unknown. His son could survive the Shoah. The Stolperstein for Nuchem Bialek was created and collocated upon the request of his Léon Bialek.  Also father and husband were murdered in Auschwitz. The Stolperstein for Rosa Bialek was created and collocated upon the request of her younger brother Léon Bialek who could survive.  According to Yad Vashem, Frizmeta Wislitski née Ginsberg was born on 1 May 1899 in Łódź. In Hebrew her first name is פריזמטה, an automatic translation procures the name Frumet. She was married to Michel Wislitski. The couple had a son, Maurice, who could survive the Holocaust. ″Prior to WWII she lived in Belgium. During the war she was in Charleroi, Belgium.″ She was killed in Auschwitz on 31 October 1942.  The higher credibility goes to Yad Vashem as the report about her death was filed by her son, Maurice. He mentions a transport to Auschwitz from 31 October to 9 November 1942. Nevertheless, there are also mistakes in his version and in the version of Yad Vashem. It is correct, that on 31 October 1942 two transports left the  Mechelen transit camp, generally called Malines. According to Danuta Czech, transports XVI and XVII consisted of 1696 persons. 777 were registered as inmates and 919 were immediately murdered in the gas chambers.  However, Czech and several other sources claim that both transports arrived already on 3 November 1942. Therefore, Frizmeta and Michel Wislitski were either killed on this day or later. Both did not survive the Shoah. The Stolperstein for Feldon Izrael was created and collocated upon the request of Léon Bialek.  The Stolperstein for Abraham Keusch was created and collocated upon the request of Léon Bialek, the younger brother of his wife, who could survive the Shoah.  His wife and daughter miraculously could survive with the help of two Belgian citizens Renée Bouffioux and Albert Halloy, hiding them plus an aunt and a cousin of Mariette in the village of Aiseau, about 15 Kilometers east of Charleroi. Both saviors were declared Righteous Among the Nations on 27 June 1995.  In 1999, his daughter reported the death of Abram Kibel to Yad Vashem and thereby unveiled the address of her work place in Brussels. His death was reported to Yad Vashem by his son in 2007. In the paper Maximilien Machnowski added his current address in Brussels.  The death of Michel Wislitski and his wife was reported to Yad Vashem by their son Maurice in 1984. In the paper he added his current address in Charleroi. In October 2014, when he took part at the collocation of the Stolpersteine, according to a local newspaper Maurice Wislitski lived in Israel.   He also spoke about his father during the ceremony. The Stolpersteine of Charleroi were collocated by the artist himself on the following dates: The initiative for the Stolpersteine came from the Association pour la Mémoire de la Shoah (Association for Remembering the Shoah, AMS), situated in Brussels. 