  Paws and Whiskers is a 2014 fundraising anthology for the Battersea Dogs and Cats Home, featuring some of the best children's stories about cats and dogs of all time, selected by multi-award-winning and best-selling children's author Jacqueline Wilson, with illustrations by Nick Sharratt. Published 13 February 2014 by Doubleday Children's, the book includes a new story by Wilson, Leonie's Pet Cat, as well as extracts from such classics as The Hundred and One Dalmatians, by Dodie Smith, and Through the Looking Glass by Lewis Carroll.  Also called Battersea Cats and Dogs Anthology before publication,  the book is under licence from "Battersea Dogs' Home Ltd.", with royalties from book sales going to support the registered charity.  Although dogs appear before cats in the name of this animal welfare organisation, the anthology has the section with excerpts from Cat Stories first, and Dog Stories last, with the special Pets' Corner section in the middle, featuring new stories by notable children's authors about their pets.  The cover art includes illustrations of pets. "That's Shanti on the cover, in the bottom right hand corner", said Francesca Simon, who wrote the story about her Tibetan Spaniel.  Catwings by Ursula K. Le Guin The Daydreamer by Ian McEwan Ice Lolly by Jean Ure The Theatre Cat by Noel Streatfeild Through the Looking Glass by Lewis Carroll Gobbolino the Witch's Cat by Ursula Moray Williams The Cat that Walked by Himself by Rudyard Kipling Orlando's Invisible Pyjamas by Kathleen Hale Soffrona and Her Cat Muff by Mary Martha Sherwood Varjak Paw by S. F. Said The Diary of a Killer Cat by Anne Fine The Incredible Journey by Sheila Burnford Osbert by Noel Streatfeild A Dog So Small by Philippa Pearce The Accidental Tourist by Anne Tyler Love That Dog by Sharon Creech The Hundred and One Dalmatians by Dodie Smith Just William by Richmal Crompton Born to Run by Michael Morpurgo David Copperfield by Charles Dickens Shadow, the Sheep-Dog by Enid Blyton The Knife of Never Letting Go by Patrick Ness Because of Winn-Dixie by Kate DiCamillo The Werepuppy by Jacqueline Wilson The "Pets' Corner" section of the book is where famous authors (such as Horrid Henry's Francesca Simon and The Magic Faraway Tree's Enid Blyton) talk about their pets.  CBBC has done a book club report on it by Katie Thistleton, citing part of it as a "brilliant read".  People have been allowed to comment on the book report and so far there has been over 300 comments.  In The Guardian newspaper review, Kat Winter has given it an 8.5 out of ten, commenting on the fact the stories were too short, she wanted to find out more.  For every copy of Paws and Whiskers sold, a small amount will go to the Battersea Dogs and Cats Home.  It is also the place Jacqueline got her cats, Jacob and Lily. Battersea Dogs and Cats is an animal charity who specialise in abandoned cats and dogs and look for foster, or permanent, owners. They also tour around different schools, showing them about animals. They also arrived at the book signing event for Paws and Whiskers.  