Along the Templar Trail: Seven Million Steps for Peace is a non-fiction travelogue written by Brandon Wilson, published in 2008 by Pilgrim's Tales, Inc.. It is the true story about Wilson, an American, and "Émile", a 68-year-old Frenchman, who set off in the spring of 2006 from Dijon, France to hike the route Godfrey de Bouillon and his army traveled in 1096 to Jerusalem. Traveling simply with backpacks and trusting in the kindness of strangers, the pair have two goals: to carry a message of peace along a route historically used for war, and to establish a pilgrimage path others might follow regardless of nationality, culture and religion.  Their five-month journey leads them 2620 miles across eleven countries and two continents toward Jerusalem. The modern-day pilgrims follow canal paths from France through Switzerland to Donaueschingen in southern Germany, source of the Danube River. In Bavaria they connect with the Donauradweg, or bicycle path, that leads through Bavaria into Austria, then Bratislava, Slovakia and into Hungary. Often staying in monasteries or with families, they hike 31-50 kilometers a day. Upon reaching Budapest, they head south following the Danube Valley on bicycle paths and roads to Serbia. There the relative predictability of their journey changes. Israel and Hezbollah trade missiles, Beirut Airport is bombed, and southern Lebanon evacuated. Still, the men continue walking to Istanbul where they will decide if, how, and where to continue. As word of their peace walk spreads, national television networks and newspapers in cities such as Belgrade (Glas, Public Voice, Novosti), Sombor (TV Speckar), Sofia (Balkan Bulgarian Television), Plovdiv (Labor), Niš (Niska Televizija), and Alanya, Turkey (Kanal A TV Nightly News and Memleketim Alanya) interview the pair.  After the couple connects with the ancient Roman Via Militaris through Bulgaria to Istanbul, conditions grow worse. Emile becomes ill and returns home. While Wilson hikes across Turkey, there is an attempted attack on the US Embassy in Damascus and an Ebola-like virus erupts in eastern Turkey. Drastic decisions are made. The border between north and south Cyprus has just recently opened. To avoid walking through war zones, Wilson crosses from the Turkish coast to Cyprus, then treks to Limassol, rich in the Templar history. After a short sea crossing, he connects with the Israel National Trail, from near Haifa to Jerusalem.  Along the Templar Trail combines a unique cast of characters, intrigue, and adventure with personal growth and social commentary. Wilson writes, “We are all pilgrims, each on their own path, each with their own story to tell. Walking is only a first step, but one we each can take to discover the peace within. In that way, eventually, war will become unconscionable. Darkness will be dispelled with light—one person, one step at a time.” Book contains stages, distances, rough maps, photos, and gear list for those who might follow this trail, one named to honor Knights Templar originally tasked with aiding early pilgrims to Jerusalem. • Winner of the Lowell Thomas Gold Award, named 2009 Best Travel Book, Society of American Travel Writers Foundation  • Short-listed for Book of the Year Award (adventure), ForeWord Reviews  “More than the mere adventure of two brave men, it is a grand and noble quest for peace, as well as a spiritual voyage that will leave readers emotionally and intellectually replenished…” ~ Midwest Book Review  "A fascinating testimony of faith and gumption that inspired two men to take seven million steps for peace. A must read…" ~ Arun Gandhi, president, M.K. Gandhi Institute for Nonviolence  "If we want peace on earth, we must make the effort to embody peace with each step. Brandon Wilson's inspiring journey, told beautifully in this book, is a living example of peacemaking." ~ Cindy Sheehan, noted peace activist  