The Last Templar is a 2005 novel by Raymond Khoury, and also is his debut work. The novel was on the New York Times Bestseller list for 22 months.  In AD 1291, following the fall of Acre, Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem to the Saracens, a small party of Knights Templar leave the city with a small chest. Their ship, the Falcon Temple, is damaged in a storm at sea and sinks. One of the Knights is mortally wounded in the event; he dies on land after hiding a small leather pouch under a gravestone. He charges the remainder of the ship's company to deliver an encoded letter to the Head of the Templars. The last surviving Knight reaches Paris in 1314, just in time to see the Grand Master Jacques de Molay being burned at the stake after refusing to reveal the location of the Templars' treasure. The last Knight commits himself to maintaining the legend of the Templars' threat to the Catholic Church. Martin is in the secondary plot of the story and is a Templar. After his mentor Aimard dies he is to take a message to the Grand Master, but after many perils he is captured in Tuscany and forced into slavery for years before returning to France. Tess is an archaeologist and was in the museum when it was attacked. She is a main part in discovering where the pouch is and after she befriends Reilly they go together to Turkey to find the pouch. Reilly is an FBI agent who is assigned the case of the museum attack.  After capturing Gus and finding the other two people who attacked the museum dead he befriends Tess. He is of Catholic beliefs. These are the three men who with Vance attacked the museum and took the multigeared rotor encoder. The three are killed by a man named Plunkett who is a henchman of De Angelis, who hunts them down and kills each in a different way. Vance is the main antagonist and raids the museum and takes the encoding device. His motives are to release to the world that Christianity is based on a falsehood. The faslehood is that Jesus of Nazareth was divine and not just a spiritual teacher. He believes that this will be the end of the religion. He wants to do this because a priest advised him and his wife against aborting a high-risk pregnancy.  This resulted in the deaths of Vance's wife and unborn daughter.  Vance dies after he falls from a ledge reaching for the Gospel. De Angelis is a monsignor working for the Vatican. He is behind the killing of the three raiders and sinks the boat Tess was on to prevent the recovery of the figurehead containing the Templars' chest. He also received training and orders from the CIA. Between 2009 and 2013, the French publisher Dargaud released a four-part graphic novel adaptation of The Last Templar.   The series was later expanded with a further two volumes adapting the sequel, The Templar Salvation.  An English language translation of the series is published in the UK by Cinebook.  NBC made a two-part television miniseries starring Mira Sorvino, Scott Foley, Victor Garber, and Omar Sharif. It aired over two successive nights: Sunday, January 25 and Monday, January 26, 2009. It re-aired Sunday, May 31 and Sunday, June 7, 2009. The TV miniseries The Last Templar was criticized in Turkey by the media for misrepresenting the geography of Turkey.  The movie is much different than the book.  In the movie, Tess pursues the Met's "Templars" on a police horse; in the book she was hiding with everyone else.  Gus is depicted as a crook who was trying to solicit an antiquarian's help to sell the relict he stole at the Met; in the movie this line is omitted.  Vance was shooting Tess at the cemetery (with a paralyze gun) and, literally, kidnapped her to his dungeon, while in the movie he is presented as Tess' friend.  The role of Tess's daughter, Kim, is left to a minimum in the book, while in the movie she is helping her mom to solve a clue on old Arab town's location.  The name of the "Turkish" town recorded by Al-Idrisi is different, and in the book it is underwater (as a result of a nearby dam's work).  Reilly is taken to Vatican where he was compelled to help in finding Tess and Vance; in the book they all and De Angelis on the same boat.  There are more differences than similarities between the book and TV miniseries. A sequel to the novel, The Templar Salvation, was published in 2010. In the book The Arch Angel Michael is conflated with St. Michael. It is claimed he is the patron saint of seafarers and protects fishermen. In reality the patron saint of fishermen is Andrew the Apostle and the patron saint of seafarers is Brendan the Navigator. Michael is called in the Greek Orthodox Church only Archangel Michael, and not St. Michael in Orthodox terminology. Michael is the patron saint of soldiers, paramedics, paratroopers, police officers, security officers. 