The Sacred Order of Saint Dumas (/ˌsænduːˈmɑː/ SAN-doo-MAH) is a fictional group in the mythos of DC Comic's Batman. Created by writer Dennis O'Neil and introduced in the first issue of the Sword of Azrael arc, the Order is a deviant faction of the Knights Templar from which the mantle of Azrael originates. The Order of Saint Dumas first appeared in Batman: Sword of Azrael #1 and were created by Dennis O'Neil. The Order of Saint Dumas was originally a part of the Knights Templar, a group of warrior-monks that were formed during the Crusades originally to protect pilgrims journeying to the Holy Land, and who grew quite powerful before being disbanded. The members of the Order had a falling out with the other Templars and formed their own group, named for their leader Dumas ("who nobody else has ever accused of being a Saint"). The centuries-old villain Ra's al Ghul once had "an adventure" with Dumas, and Ra's later described the founder of the Order as "...[a] vicious man, an insane fanatic."  The Order eventually stole Ra's al Ghul's Wheel of Plagues which contains a record of biological weapons.  Ra's al Ghul himself also took their precious battle armor called the Suit of Sorrows to pass as a family heirloom.  The Order of Saint Dumas enriched itself during the Crusades and then went into hiding. It devoted itself to the teachings of Dumas. The order's first champion was an Asian man named Stephen Forrest Lee, the assassin known to Mark Shaw as Dumas. The failure of this champion splintered the Order of Saint Dumas.  The main branch retreated and the violent splinter elements created a new champion called Azrael, a hereditary title given to the splinter order's near-superhuman enforcer and assassin. Members of the splinter order enlarged the organization's power by killing their enemies, hoarding knowledge and kidnapping some of the greatest thinkers in the world. The order also spread disinformation to ensure that the theories of the kidnapped geniuses would look so silly that nobody would miss them or examine their research. A recent Azrael named Jean-Paul Valley eventually destroyed the splinter group.  In Detective Comics #842, it is revealed that there is another splinter faction called the Order of Purity. The main branch of the Order of Saint Dumas recruited former Manhunter Mark Shaw to be their new champion.  The Order of St. Dumas appears in Season 2 of Gotham. They are depicted as a religious sect founded by the patron saint of the Dumas family centuries earlier. When Caleb Dumas is falsely accused for sexual assault by Celestine Wayne, Jonathan Wayne used a knife to cut off Caleb's right hand. Afterwards, the Dumas family is discredited for their role in the founding of the city where most of them took refuge with the Order of St. Dumas in Europe while the remaining ones in Gotham City had their last names changed to Galavan. Centuries later, the Order of St. Dumas begins to enact their elaborate plan to atone for the actions of the Wayne family, and destroy and rebuild Gotham. They pull strings so that Caleb's descendant Theo Galavan (James Frain) becomes the mayor of Gotham City. Upon gaining public trust, Galavan carries out the plan by framing Oswald Cobblepot for his crimes, obtaining the knife used on Caleb Dumas and giving it to an elite member named Father Creel (Ron Rifkin), and kidnapping Bruce Wayne so that the Order of St. Dumas members can sacrifice Wayne. Before Father Creel can sacrifice the boy using the same knife that was used on Caleb Dumas, James Gordon, Oswald Cobblepot and Cobblepot's gang, interrupt the ceremony and save Wayne. During a confrontation, all of the members of the Order of St. Dumas that were present were killed in the ensuing battle.  Later in the season, Galavan is resurrected by Hugo Strange (BD Wong) as the villain Azrael. 