The Harkness table, Harkness method, or Harkness discussion is a teaching and learning method involving students seated in a large, oval configuration to discuss ideas in an encouraging, open-minded environment with only occasional or minimal teacher intervention. Harkness method is in use at many American boarding schools and colleges and encourages classes to be held in a discursive manner. The style is related to the Socratic method. Developed at Phillips Exeter Academy,  the method's name comes from the oil magnate and philanthropist Edward Harkness, a graduate of St. Paul's School, who presented the school with a monetary gift in 1930. It has been adopted in numerous schools, where small class-size makes it effective, but it remains impractical for larger classes. Harkness described its use as follows:There are also downsides for students who are not good in taking notes. They must first learn the strategies in proper note-taking in the classroom. Harkness learning can vary, most notably between humanities subjects such as English and history and technical subjects such as math or physics.  There are general principles and goals, however, that go along with that method regardless of subject matter. The main goal is to encourage students to come up with ideas of their own and learn good reasoning and discussion skills. Depending on style, the teacher may interact very little, interjecting only to guide the discussion.  The Whole Group Discussion Technique follows the Harkness Method. It involves interaction throughout the class instead of the teacher simply delivering a lecture with students listening.  Many teachers today prefer this approach because of heightened communication between the mentor and students.  There are advantages and disadvantages in using this method. Auditory learners find this style more interesting. They are able to keep information completely since sounds reinforce the information. This process includes use of musical notes, memorization of lists, voice recordings, and chants for memorizing history terms.  Teachers are able to check what students retain through questioning. Students can concentrate on their lessons and feel more at ease in asking questions during discussions. However, the Whole Group Discussion approach calls for effective classroom management by teachers. Otherwise, it may be too disturbing for them to implement ground rules for students.  There are also downsides for students who are not good in taking notes. They must first learn the strategies in proper note-taking in the classroom.  There are strategies in effective implementation of Whole Group Discussions. The Think-Pair-Share is commonly used for lower elementary pupils to persuade the children in acquiring listening and speaking skills.  Philosophical Chairs is another strategy wherein teachers read sentences or topics with only two likely responses. It is either agree or disagree. Each group of students defends the position it adopted.  Fishbowl is one of the most popular classroom discussion techniques. A group of two up to four students sit facing one another at the center of the classroom. The other students sit around their peers. Those at the middle discuss the selected subject matter or question while the others take notes related to the dialogue.  The other strategies include Concentric Circles Strategy,  Gallery Walk,  Pyramid Strategy,  and Carousel Walk.  