The Teaching and Learning Research Programme (TLRP) was the United Kingdom's largest investment in education research. It was initiated in 2000, ended in 2011 and was managed on behalf of the Higher Education Funding Councils by the Economic and Social Research Council .  The programme engaged 700 researchers in some 70 major projects.  These covered all education sectors - from Early Years to Higher Education and Workplace Learning. The TLRP researchers work closely in partnership with practitioners to ensure the relevance and application of findings to policy and practice. Thematic work across the diverse range of projects enabled analysis of themes and the identification of 'ten principles for effective teaching and learning'. During the project an interest emerged in Technology-Enhanced Learning (TEL). It began with a call for proposals in 2006, additional funding having been made available by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.  From 1995 to 2011, the Teaching and Learning Research programme was based at the Institute of Education, University of London.  Prior to this, it was managed from the University of Exeter and University of Cambridge. The programme acknowledges the important contributions provided by research on teaching and learning. The TLRP's aims, according to its website include : There were six strategic commitments underpinning the programme's overall development:  TLRP's projects covered a broad range of topics within the following areas of the lifecourse: Strategic management of the programme was conducted via a steering committee. This comprised academics, practitioners and other users and was chaired by Professor Robert Burgess, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Leicester.  The steering committee was accountable to the ESRC Council. The Directors’ Team possessed expert knowledge of all the key sectors in which research is currently being conducted.  The final team was: According to its website, the Technology Enhanced Learning research has specific concern with: Under the first phase of the TLRP-TEL programme, seven development projects were funded during 2006-2007.  The programme funded eight large, interdisciplinary projects under its second phase: The Director of TLRP-TEL was Professor Richard Noss. Special education in the United Kingdom 