WHO Disease Staging System for HIV Infection and Disease in Adults and Adolescents was first produced in 1990 by the World Health Organization   and updated in September 2005. It is an approach for use in resource limited settings and is widely used in Africa and Asia and has been a useful research tool in studies of progression to symptomatic HIV disease.  Following infection with HIV, the rate of clinical disease progression varies enormously between individuals. Many factors such as host susceptibility and immune function,    health care and co-infections,    as well as factors relating to the viral strain    may affect the rate of clinical disease progression. (This is the interim African Region version for persons aged 15 years or more who have had a positive HIV antibody test or other laboratory evidence of HIV infection) (The United Nations defines adolescents as persons aged 10−19 years but for surveillance purposes, the category of adults and adolescents comprises people aged 15 years and over) Conditions where a presumptive diagnosis can be made on the basis of clinical signs or simple investigations Conditions where confirmatory diagnostic testing is necessary Conditions where a presumptive diagnosis can be made on the basis of clinical signs or simple investigations Conditions where confirmatory diagnostic testing is necessary Performance scale: 1: asymptomatic, normal activity. And/or performance scale 2: symptomatic, normal activity. And/or performance scale 3: bedridden < 50% of the day during last month. The declaration of AIDS And/or performance scale 4: bedridden > 50% of the day during last month. (*) HIV wasting syndrome: weight loss of > 10% of body weight, plus either unexplained chronic diarrhoea (> 1 month) or chronic weakness and unexplained prolonged fever (> 1 month). (**) HIV encephalopathy: clinical findings of disabling cognitive and/or motor dysfunction interfering with activities of daily living, progressing over weeks to months, in the absence of a concurrent illness or condition other than HIV infection which could explain the findings. 