The elevation of U.S. states and territories may be described in several ways. These include: The following list is a comparison of elevation absolutes in the United States. Data include interval measures of highest and lowest elevation for all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and U.S. territories.  Which state or territory is "highest" and "lowest" is determined by the definition of "high" and "low". For instance, Alaska could be regarded as the highest state because Denali, at 20,310 feet (6,190.5 m), is the highest point in the United States. However, Colorado, with the highest mean elevation of any state as well as the highest low point, could also be considered a candidate for "highest state". Determining which state is "lowest" is equally problematic. California contains the Badwater Basin in Death Valley, at 279 feet (85 m) below sea level, the lowest point in the United States;  while Florida has the lowest high point, and Delaware has the lowest mean elevation. Florida is also the flattest state, with the smallest difference between its highest and lowest points. The list of highest points in each state is important to the sport of highpointing, where enthusiasts attempt to visit the highest point in each of the contiguous 48 states, or in all 50 states, or in all 50 states plus the District of Columbia and the territories.  As of 2006, 155 people had reached all fifty state highpoints.  Roughly 200–300 people attend the Highpointers Club convention each year.  All elevations in the table below have been adjusted to the North American Vertical Datum of 1988.  The mean elevation for each state is accurate to the nearest 100 ft (30 m). Denali is the highest summit of the State of Alaska, the United States, and all of North America. Mount Whitney is the highest summit of the Sierra Nevada, the State of California, and the "Lower 48" contiguous United States. Mount Elbert is the highest summit of the Rocky Mountains and the State of Colorado. Mount Rainier is the highest summit of the Cascade Range and the State of Washington Gannett Peak is the highest summit of the Wind River Range and the State of Wyoming. Mauna Kea is the highest summit of the State of Hawaiʻi and the entire Pacific Ocean. Kings Peak is the highest summit of the Uinta Range and the State of Utah. Wheeler Peak in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains is the highest summit of the State of New Mexico. Granite Peak is the highest summit of the Beartooth Range and the State of Montana. Borah Peak is the highest summit of the Lost River Range and the State of Idaho. Black Elk Peak is the highest summit of the Black Hills and the State of South Dakota. Mount Mitchell is the highest summit of the Appalachian Mountains and the State of North Carolina. Mount Washington is the highest summit of the White Mountains and the State of New Hampshire. Mount Katahdin is the highest summit of the State of Maine Lake Michigan is the lowest area of the State of Wisconsin. Britton Hill in the State of Florida is the lowest state high point in the United States. Lake Champlain is the lowest area of the State of Vermont. The Badwater Basin in Death Valley is the lowest area of the State of California, the United States, and all of North America. Cerro de Punta, the highest point in Puerto Rico, seen from Ponce (highest point in U.S. outside the 50 states) Agrihan is the highest point in the Northern Mariana Islands  