Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day, published in 1972, is an ALA Notable Children's Book written by Judith Viorst and illustrated by Ray Cruz.   It has also won a George G. Stone Center Recognition of Merit, a Georgia Children's Book Award, and is a Reading Rainbow book. Viorst followed this book up with two sequels, Alexander, Who Used to be Rich Last Sunday ISBN 978-0-689-30602-0, and Alexander, Who's Not (Do You Hear Me? I Mean It!) Going to Move ISBN 0-689-31958-4. From the moment Alexander wakes up, things just go wrong in his way. As he gets up, the chewing gum that was in his mouth the night before ends up in his hair. He trips on the skateboard and drops his sweater in the sink while the water is running. He finds out that it is going to be a terrible, horrible, no good very bad day.  At the table, his brothers Nick and Anthony find prizes in their breakfast cereal boxes at breakfast time. Nick finds a decoder ring and Anthony finds a toy car. But as for Alexander, he only has breakfast cereal.  In the carpool on the way to school, he doesn't get a window seat. At school, his teacher, Mrs. Dickens, says she likes Paul’s picture of a sailboat  rather than Alexander's picture of the invisible castle (which is actually just a blank sheet of paper). At singing time, she says that Alexander sang too loud. At counting time, she says that Alexander skipped the number 16. Then Alexander (after he forgot "16"), he says that no one needs the number 16 ("Who needs sixteen?"). Then at recess, Alexander's best friend, Paul says that Alexander is no longer his best friend. He says that Phillip is his first best friend and Albert is his second best friend. But Alexander is only his third. Then Alexander says that he hopes Paul sits on a tack. He also says that the next time when Paul gets a double decker strawberry ice cream cone, the ice cream falls off the cone part and it lands somewhere in Australia. At lunch, Phillip has two cupcakes for dessert and Albert has a Hershey bar with almonds. And for Paul, his mother let him have a jelly roll with coconut sprinkles. But since Alexander's mother forgot to put in dessert, there is no dessert in his lunch bag. After school, Alexander's mother takes both Alexander and his brothers Nick and Anthony to the dentist. The dentist Dr. Fields finds a cavity only in Alexander. He tells him he has a cavity and says he will see him next week and fix it. On the way down, the elevator door closes on Alexander's foot. Anthony pushes him into a mud puddle, and when Alexander cries because of the mud Nick says he is a crybaby. Then he punches Nick in response for calling him a “cry baby”. And at last, their mother comes back with the car. She then scolds Alexander for being muddy and fighting Nick.       At the shoe store, Alexander wanted blue shoes with red stripes, but they're out of Alexander's choice of sneakers, so his mother has to buy him plain white ones, which he refuses to wear. At his father's office, he makes a mess of things when he fools around with everything there (the copying machine, the books, and the telephone). He tells Alexander to not play with his phone. But Alexander calls Australia. Then, the father gets to the point where he tells the family to stop picking him up from work by saying "Please don't pick me up anymore" to Alexander. At home, they have lima beans for dinner (which he hates), Alexander watches kissing on TV (which he also hates), his bath-time is worst (the water being too hot, getting soap in his eyes, and his marble going down the drain), but the worst of all, he's forced to wear his railroad train pajamas (which he also hates). At bedtime, his Mickey Mouse nightlight burns out, he bites his tongue, Nick takes back a bed pillow he said Alexander could keep, and the cat says he wants to sleep with Anthony (but not Alexander). In the end, Alexander says it has been a terrible, horrible, no good very bad day for him. His mother says to him that some days are like that, especially in Australia.  A running gag throughout the book is Alexander repeating several times that he wants to move to Australia because he thinks it's better there.  It ends with his mother's assurance that everybody has bad days, even those who live there.  In the Australian and New Zealand versions, he wants to move to Timbuktu instead. Alexander says tomorrow things must not get any worse. On Saturday, January 13, 1990, the book was adapted into a 30-minute animated musical television special that aired on HBO and Klasky Csupo in the United States.  While the special is mostly true to the book, the following differences are: In 1998, Viorst and the Kennedy Center joined together to turn the book into a musical production.   Charles Strouse wrote the music, Viorst wrote the script and lyrics, and the musical score was composed by Shelly Markham.  The productions have been performed around the country.   Other characters in it are Audrey, Becky, and many others. In 2004, a stage adaptation was run at the B Street Theatre. A Disney live-action film adaptation was released in 2014. Alexander and his two older brothers, Anthony and Nick, are based on Viorst's own three sons of the same names. But the film changed Nick to Emily, replacing the brother with a sister, and adds Trevor as well.  The phrase "terrible, horrible, no good, very bad . . ." has become an Internet meme, often used by bloggers, and sometimes by mainstream media, to criticize, or characterize setbacks for, an individual or political movement. The phrase is also used in the Stephen King miniseries Kingdom Hospital by the orderlies Abel and Christa.     