Killing Lincoln: The Shocking Assassination That Changed America Forever is a book by Bill O'Reilly and Martin Dugard concerning the 1865 assassination of U.S. President Abraham Lincoln. The book was released on September 27, 2011. O'Reilly indicated in a USA Today interview that his coauthor Martin Dugard has written several history books.  O'Reilly himself graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in history from Marist College in 1971 as well as advanced degrees from Boston University and Harvard University.  As of 14 November 2011, Killing Lincoln was among Amazon's best sellers and at number two on the New York Times list of best-selling non-fiction. It also held the number one spot on the New York Times E-Book Nonfiction list for multiple weeks.  In late October 2011, the publisher, Henry Holt and Co., stated that Killing Lincoln had sold nearly a million copies.  On the November 14, 2011 edition of The O'Reilly Factor, O'Reilly told his television audience that "there are now more than 1 million copies of Killing Lincoln in print, and the book continues to sell briskly."  By December 2012, the New York Times reported the book had been on their best-seller list for more than 65 weeks.  During the book's initial release, Rae Emerson, the deputy superintendent of Ford's Theatre National Historic Site, conducted a review of the book's text and discovered a number of inaccuracies, which she described as "factual errors" and listed as numbering ten, each different and one additionally occurring multiple times.   As a result of the review, the National Park Service, which manages Ford's Theatre, made the decision not to allow the edition of the book containing the errors to be sold at the Eastern National Bookstore located in the Museum at Ford’s Theatre National Historic Site, although it is sold in a gift shop in the lobby that is operated independently by the Ford’s Theatre Society.  Historian Edward Steers has also criticized the book in a review for various inaccuracies and for lending support to conspiracy theories. In response to Emerson's review, O'Reilly said that the mistakes, which he numbered less than her findings at just "four minor misstatements" and "two typeset errors" and had been corrected in subsequent printings.  O'Reilly called the controversy "a concerted effort by people who don’t like me to diminish the book," said that Killing Lincoln was "honest," and wished all students would read it.   English-language, first-edition hardcover print copies containing errata material can be identified as such if they contain the following:   O'Reilly told USA Today in a phone interview published in the September 29, 2011 issue that he talked with producers ("big hitters") about turning the book into a cable television special.  Tony Scott was working on adapting the book for the National Geographic Channel when he committed suicide on August 19, 2012.  Production had already begun in Richmond, Virginia. In the film Virginia Repertory Theatre's November Theatre represented Fords Theatre.    The film aired on National Geographic Channel on February 17, 2013 hosted and narrated by Tom Hanks. The docudrama was aired in memorial tribute to Tony Scott. The television film averaged 3.4 million viewers, scoring about 1 million viewers in the 25-54 demographic.  It was National Geographic's highest-rated television airing surpassing Inside 9/11, which drew 3 million in August 2005.  The record was broken by Killing Kennedy, which drew in 3,354,000 viewers while Lincoln took 3,351,000.  