  Sri Sri University (Odia: ଶ୍ରୀ ଶ୍ରୀ ବିଶ୍ଵବିଦ୍ୟାଳୟ) has been established under the Sri Sri University Act, 2009 No. 15024-I-Legis.-33/08/L, notified in Odisha Gazette No. 1899 on 26 December 2009. The University came into operation in the year 2012 and is emerging as a centre for premier education in India.  The University is uniquely placed in offering education that combines Western innovation with the ancient values and wisdom from the East. It offers a range of pivotal as well as unique courses that seek to preserve the ancient wisdom of the East thorough programmes in yogic science, classical visual and performing arts and on the other hand, offers the best of western innovation through cutting- edge programs in osteopathy, good governance and management. Over the years, it is rapidly evolving into a multidisciplinary university with its foundation strongly rooted in spiritual, cultural and academic excellence. At present the University is offering different courses in the areas of Management, Architecture, Humanities, Agriculture, Health and Wellness, Science, Literature, Osteopathy and Performing & Fine Arts. Sri Sri Ravi Shankar is the founder of Sri Sri University. Popularly known as Sri Sri, he has been an advocate of India's ancient traditions, scientific knowledge and spiritual heritage.  On 22 February 2012 Sri Sri University was notified by the Higher Education Department of the Government of Odisha as a legal entity after clearing a High Power Committee (HPC) scrutiny of its infrastructure, academic, regulatory, financial and manpower preparedness. The notification has featured in an extraordinary issue of Government of Odisha Gazette. The university has received approval from the Government of Odisha, University Grants Commission,  All India Council for Technical Education  and Council of Architecture  to offer its degree programmes. As an independent university Sri Sri University is also empowered as per the Sri Sri University Act 2009 to offer new courses as and when required. From 2012 July academic session the university started three management programs in general management, agri-business management and entrepreneurship management. A yoga and naturopathy centre has been built to offer degree programs in the area. In last four years the number of programs have increased thereby attracting students from more than 20 states of India and six foreign countries. As of 2017, the university is offering 21 programs at undergraduate, masters and doctoral levels.  Sri Sri University's focus on sustainable living, emphasis on synthesis of ancient and modern   along with innovation in teaching learning process have been appreciated and received recognition.,    Apart from the above mentioned faculties the university also provides a program in Research and Doctoral Studies. The campus houses the admin block, academic block, computer lab, library, seminar halls, practise halls, amphitheatre, hostels, Vidya (skill training centre), dining hall and cafeteria. The academic block houses classrooms, tutorial centers and a student activity centre. The university offers sports facilities including a gym, basketball court, lawn tennis court, volleyball court and a cricket ground.   There are currently 16 clubs dedicated to different activities.  The university has started a vocational program in collaboration with Larsen and Tubro under their Corporate Social Responsibility commitments. All students of this vocational program are employed by L&T in their domestic and international projects.  To begin with the university had started only bar bending and masonry skill programs. But presently new programs like driving, tailoring and other vocations have been included. 