Headland Archaeology comprises a holding company Headland Group Ltd  and the trading subsidiary Headland Archaeology (UK) Ltd.  These companies provide archaeological services and heritage advice to the construction industry. Headland Archaeology Ltd was established in 1996.  Headquartered in Edinburgh, this company expanded as a provider of commercial archaeology services in the UK. Expansion into the Irish market led to the establishment of Headland Archaeology (Ireland) Ltd in 2000,  in Co. Cork. Restructuring of the companies in May and June 2008 involved the renaming of Headland Archaeology Ltd as Headland Group Limited. A new company, Headland Archaeology (UK) Limited,  was founded at this time to give, in conjunction with Headland Archaeology (Ireland) Ltd, a coherent structure to the group based on trading areas.  The acquisition of Hereford-based Archaeological Investigations Ltd in 2010   expanded their UK operation. Archaeological Investigations Ltd was subsequently assimilated as a regional office of Headland Archaeology (UK) Limited by October of the same year,  with the underlying company dissolved in September 2012.  The company opened a South East office in 2011, initially in Leighton Buzzard later moving to Silsoe, Beds and a Northern office based in Beeston, Leeds in 2015.  During December 2011 a management buyout of Headland Archaeology (Ireland) Ltd with the Irish company renamed as Rubicon Heritage Services.  By 2001 Headland Archaeology Ltd had become a Registered Archaeological Organisation  with the Institute for Archaeologists given the reference number RAO40. This registration has been continued since this time and was transferred to Headland Archaeology (UK) Limited during the company re-organisation in 2008. The changing Irish operations of Headland Archaeology never fell within this scheme. The following are a selection of projects that the Headland Archaeology companies have been involved with. Note that some of these projects were delivered by Headland Archaeology (Ireland) Ltd which has now left the group. UK Ireland 