The National Geographic GeoBee (called the National Geography Bee from 1989-2000 and the National Geographic Bee from 2001-2018 , also referred to as the Nat Geo Bee) is an annual geography contest sponsored by the National Geographic Society. The bee, held every year since 1989, is open to students in the fourth through eighth grades in participating schools from the United States.  The entities represented at the national level come from all fifty States, all the U.S. territories, the U.S. Department of Defense Dependents Schools (DoDDS), and the District of Columbia. The National Geographic Bee Finals was moderated by Jeopardy! host Alex Trebek for its first 25 years (1989-2013). However, at the 2013 National Geographic Bee, Trebek announced that 2013 would be his last year hosting the Finals. Newscaster Soledad O'Brien took his place the following year, moderating the bee in 2014 and 2015. O'Brien was then replaced by Mo Rocca in 2016, 2017, and 2018. The current champion is Venkat Ranjan, from Windemere Ranch Middle School in San Ramon, California. The competition begins at the elementary school and middle school levels (4th grade - 8th grade) and usually occurs in November, December, or January. This competition requires at least 6 people to enter. Private, public, and homeschooled students are allowed to enter. Typically, between five and six million students are entered each year (any number of competitors may enter this competition). The two major stages in this competition are called the preliminary and the final stages. Often, the preliminary competition is further split into preliminary rounds and a semi-final. In the event of a tie, a tiebreaker round is held at the end of the preliminary rounds. In the preliminary rounds, competitors are divided into groups of twenty and each contestant is asked one question from each of the eight themed rounds.  Categories include: Contestants are awarded 1 point per question. At the end of seven rounds, players with the top ten scores advance to the finals. In addition to the game, a player may ask for a repeat of a spelling during these rounds. However, they are restricted to only asking twice in duration of the entire geographic bee. Quite often there is a tie, in which case a semi-final tiebreaker round is needed. For example, if six players finished the preliminary rounds with eight points and fifteen finished with seven points, the six who finished with eight points automatically advance to the final competition. The fifteen with seven points move into the semi-final round where the top four are determined to fill the remainder of the seats in the finals. This is done by asking every player the same question at the same time and giving each player twelve seconds to write down the answer. Each question is automatically repeated twice.  Everyone reveals their answer at the end of the twelve seconds and players are eliminated on a single-elimination basis.  If, using the above example of four open seats in the finals, there is a question where eight players are left in the semi-final round and three players get the question right, those three advance to the finals. The other five who got the question wrong will continue with the single-elimination procedure to determine which competitor will take the last open seat in the finals. A player cannot ask judges to spell or repeat words in the semi-final round. The final competition consists of two parts: the final round and the championship round. Each of the ten finalists starts with a clean slate and is eliminated after two incorrect answers. This continues until the number of contestants drops from ten to two and a third-place finisher is determined. A player is not officially eliminated until the end of a series of questions, since if all but one competitor makes their second miss in that round, all the players stay in the competition. Again, a player may ask for a spelling or repeat on any question, but only once per question. Earlier in the round, questions may require oral answers or written answers from all the competitors at one time. Quite often, many of the earlier questions in this round contain visuals as part of the question, such as maps or pictures. Question examples in the past have included pictures of state quarters with the name rubbed off and maps of the US with national forests shown and numbered. Contestants, at the time, were given the name of the national forest and (he or she) must match states with trees. At the national level, competitions may include items such as flags, musical instruments, hats, and even live animals. After a certain round, all questions must require oral answers only. If there is a tie for the championship round or third place, there will be an elimination round. For example, if four players are left and three make their second mistake, the fourth advances to the championship round and the other three enter the tiebreaker. The moderator will then ask each of the three players, at the same time, to write their answers to the same question. In this special round, questions can be repeated by players but they cannot ask how to spell a given word. As a result, if one of three responses are correct, he or she will rise to the championship round and the other two will move to the tiebreaker round until a third-place winner determined. In the championship round, both players start with a clean slate again. The moderator asks both contestants the same question at the same time, repeated twice, and both players have fifteen seconds to write their answer. Both players then show their answers and each player who wrote a correct answer receives one point. There are three questions in the championship round. The player with the most points at the end is the champion. If both players are tied at the end, the competition enters the championship tiebreaker round. The rules are the same as for the championship round, except that the last player to answer a question incorrectly is the runner-up. In 2010, National Geographic partnered with mobile development company Concentric Sky to launch a series of official app-based study tools titled Geobee Challenge.  Qualifying Test  The Qualifying Test is the only part of the bee that is entirely written. Every school champion takes this test to see if he or she can qualify for the state bee. The test comprises 70 multiple choice questions, which must be completed in 60 minutes. The top 100 scorers in each state or territory advance to the state level competition. Beginning with the 2016 Bee, the Qualifying test is online, and no longer is administered on paper.  The winner of each school-level competition takes an online test, and the top 100 in each state or territory qualify for the State Bee. If there is a tie in the State Qualifying Test, all students in the tie get an invitation to the State Bee (i.e. there were 105 State Bee Qualifiers in the 2018 California State Geographic Bee). The rules at the state level are same as that at the school level, except that there are eight preliminary rounds instead of seven and each player is limited to two repeats or spelling for all eight preliminary rounds. Players are also limited to two repeats or spellings in the final round if they qualify. All the state bees are held on the same date, at the same time (in early April or late March) at all locations. The most recent Bee was held on 06 April 2018. State bees originally occurred for the fifty states, five U.S. territories (Guam, Puerto Rico, US Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Northern Mariana Islands), Washington, D.C., and the Department of Defense Dependent Schools (DoDDS), for a total of 57. The third-place finisher from each state receives $50, the second-place finisher $75, and the winner $100. ( The 2018 state Bee doubled that price.) In 1999 the state competitions for Guam, American Samoa, and Northern Mariana Islands were merged into one state competition known as the Pacific Territories, bringing the number down to 55. In 2009, the Puerto Rico and US Virgin Islands competitions were merged into a single competition known as the Atlantic Territories, and since then there have only been 54 state competitions. The 54 state champions receive an all-expense paid trip to Washington, D.C. for the national competition. The rules at the national level are the same as those at the state, except that there are ten preliminary rounds instead of eight. There was also a video part of the prelims where students submitted a video worth 6 points, but was replaced by a written test. The championship round can also consist of five questions instead of three. The competition is held over four days, with the preliminary rounds on the first day and the final rounds on the third. The national finals are held in late May at National Geographic Society headquarters in Washington, D.C. and are hosted by Mo Rocca. The ten finalists are guaranteed $500. The third-place finisher receives a $10,000 college scholarship, the second-place finisher receives a $25,000 college scholarship, and the National Champion receives a $50,000 college scholarship, as well as a lifetime membership in the National Geographic Society. From 2009 to 2015, the National Champion also won a trip to the Galápagos Islands. In 2016, National Champion Rishi Nair won a trip to southeast Alaska, including a stop at Glacier Bay National Park. This was because 2016 was the centenary of the U.S. National Park Service. 2017 National Champion, Pranay Varada, received a trip to the Galápagos Islands. The Top Ten format is also different from state. Originally, it was the same format, but in 2012, they changed it where correct answers are worth points, and a bonus question can earn you extra points as well, with eliminations being every few rounds. In 2015, they adopted the current format. There are no longer bonus questions, and the first five rounds are USA based and worth one point for most questions. The fifth round is a “lightning round” where you are asked three rapid fire questions. Then, four students with the lowest scores are eliminated, a tie being broken with a tiebreaker about estimation. The next four rounds are global and are all worth two points per question, and end again with another lightning round. After this, the top three are left. There are two “GeoChallenges” in the final competition, one worth three points in round 3, and for the top ten a 45-second oral response worth six points. The top two then compete in a normal championship round. There was an international competition, which was also moderated by Alex Trebek, but it was run differently. The top finishers from each country's national competition formed a team representing their country and participated in an Olympic-style event which included a team written competition and a team oral competition. The 2013 competition was held in Saint Petersburg, Russia. The 2015 National Geographic World Championship, originally planned to take place in Stockholm, Sweden, was canceled, and the competition was since put on hiatus. The selection process of the National Geographic GeoBee competition is not well designed to reliably promote the most qualified contestants as it leaves significant room for chance. This is due to the small number of questions and the fact that each contestant answers different questions.  Particularly, during the preliminary rounds contestants are eliminated with a single mistake if there are more than 9 perfect scores. The fact that a single mistake is not a reliable indicator for a contestant's overall strength was demonstrated during the 2014 National competition. The preliminary rounds resulted in 9 contestants with perfect score who accordingly became finalists. The 10th spot was filled by tie breaker rounds between contestants who made a single mistake during the preliminaries and went to the Virginia champion Akhil Rekulapelli, who then went on to win the finals. Of the twenty-nine National Geographic GeoBee champions, twenty-seven are male and two are female. Five are from the state of Washington, four are from the state of Michigan, four are from Texas, two are from Kansas, two are from New Jersey, two are from Florida, and various other states have been home to one champion each. First Kansas champion First Pennsylvania champion Had a perfect score in the finals Had a perfect score in the finals Was in the finals in 1992 (finished 4th) Was in the finals in 1994 Had a perfect score in the finals; presented an object in the 1994 finals, when he was the New Jersey state champion; was a contestant on the kids game show Figure It Out Was in the finals in 1996 (finished 4th) First home-schooled champion; competed in 1999 Scripps National Spelling Bee championship later in the same month Won after 7 tiebreaker questions in the Championship Round, the all-time record. In addition, the 2nd-place finisher that year, George Thampy, ended up winning the Scripps National Spelling Bee that year. Rhodes Scholar, Harvard graduate; Was in the finals in 1999 Youngest champion This year marked the first time that a competitor in the championship round caught up after falling behind.  Calvin lost his one point lead, but later regained it. Also a competitor in the National Middle School Science Bowl and National Science Olympiad. Wrote Afghanistan to Zimbabwe guide with important information for each country.  Placed 13th in 2006 Scripps National Spelling Bee; was in the finals in 2005 Fifth Washington champion Had a perfect score in the finals Had a perfect score in the finals. Won the Bee on his first attempt at the school, state, and national level. Had a perfect score in the finals Won the bee the first year he came to the National Level; became the first person to win the bee after missing his first question in the finals. Achieved a perfect SAT score in 2013 and a perfect GRE score in 2016. He was named as member of the pioneer cohort of Knight-Hennessy Scholars  in 2018. Had a perfect score in the finals First time contender at the National-Level Bee; finished second in the 2011 Texas Geographic Bee, behind Tine Valencic First time contender at the National-Level Bee, Brother Karthik Karnik finished 5th in National Finals in 2011, 6th in National Finals in 2012 Final Question: The discovery of a major shale oil deposit in the Vaca Muerta formation in 2010 has led to an expansion of oil drilling in the Neuquen province in what country?  Argentina Akhil finished fourth in 2013 Final Question: If completed, the proposed Grand Inga Dam would become the world’s largest hydropower plant. This dam would be built near Inga Falls on which African river?  Congo River First time contender in the National Level Bee Karan challenged a question in the finals and came 2nd in the 2014 New Jersey Geographic Bee Final Question: Which East African lake that drains into the Ruzizi River contains large quantities of dissolved methane gas that could generate electricity for millions of people? Lake Kivu  First sixth-grade National Champion since Akshay Rajagopal in 2008 Won the 2015 Florida Geographic Bee and represented Florida at the National Finals in 2015 and 2016 This year marked the second time a competitor fell behind in the championship round and managed to later catch up.  Rishi lost a one point lead but regained it later on. Was two points from a perfect score in the Finals Placed 6th in 2016 First time a tiebreaker was used in the Championship round since 2012 First time an answer was challenged in the Championship round 