A Student Bill of Rights or Charter of Student Rights and Freedoms is a document adopted by a student group, university or college or government at a local, state or national level. It outlines a population's basic beliefs regarding student rights. These statements of belief are often the foundation for future legislative efforts or collaborative efforts to create joint statements between organizations. The European Student Union, for example, uses their Student Rights Charter when lobbying for student rights in the European Union Higher Education Area as a document representing the student will.  The historic National Student Association in the United States used their Student Bill of Rights to help create dialogue between the American Association of University Professors and to initiate the creation of a joint statement on student rights.  This collaborative effort gave credence to the demands of students and helped normalize student rights on campuses across North America. While the United States Student Association does not have a student bill of rights of its own, it upholds the 1947 student bill of rights put forth by the National Student Association.  These documents tend to do several things. They can be statements of belief, policy or law. When put forth by a student organization or third party organization they tend to be statements of belief because these organizations do not often have the ability to enforce their beliefs. Even though they are not legally binding they are important because they help policy and lawmakers understand what students expect and believe to be ethical treatment. At the institutional level they tend to be policy statements. These are legally binding as a promise from the institution to the students who attend and have been found in court to be considered to be part of the educational contract.  At any level these documents provide students with an understanding of their civil or legal rights which are already contained in legislation. These include rights pertinent to all citizens and also to students in the educational setting and provide procedural rights to inform students how institutions should be respecting their legal rights. When used as a statement of belief, however, they often include rights an organization feels students should have and the procedural rights institutions must follow to ensure these rights are fulfilled. There are currently a number of student petitions calling for the creation of national student bills in various countries. While there have been some attempts to create subject specific student bills in the United States, like the Academic Bill of Rights, these have not been successful due primarily for demand for a document which is wider in scope and deals with students constitutional, civil, contractual and consumer rights. No country in North America has yet adopted a National Student Bill of Rights, Charter of Rights and Freedoms or Code of Rights and Responsibilities.   In the United States there have been several national student bill of rights drafted by student organizations including the historic National Student Association and the American Association of University Professors and other non-governmantal organizations but as yet none have been legally institutionalized. In 1947 the National Student Association NSA in the United States adopted a student bill of rights. The text of this document is not easily accessible.  In 1967, however, the NSA put forth a joint statement on the rights and freedoms of students with the American Association of University Professors AAUP (now the Association of American Colleges and Universities). This statement was endorsed by a number of professional organizations. This document included the following rights: Constitutional Rights Speech and Association Rights Due Process Rights Classroom Rights The United States Student Association does not have an official student bill of rights. The USSA was formed when the historic NSA merged with the National Student Lobby NSL in 1978. They did not officially adopt the student bill of rights put forth in 1947. They text of this document is not on their website and cannot easily be found with a search of the internet. In 2003, Georgia Congressman Kingston proposed the first national student bill of rights, House Bill #318. This bill, which was rejected in congress, was not an all encompassing student bill of rights but was narrowly defined to address academic freedom. Nevertheless, it was the first attempt at the creation of national legislation. The congressman found that "at almost every American university, conservative professors are drastically outnumbered." This bill was intended to secure the intellectual freedom of students and faculty. It did not address whether teachers would have the freedom to determine all course goals, curriculum, assignments, grading schemes and course timeline. These issues are of major importance because students in Europe are calling for rights which protect students from teachers having complete academic freedom in the classroom and which regulate them to ensure students have minimum educational quality standards.  In the United States individual institutions often have their own Student Bill of Rights, Charter of Rights and Freedoms or Code of Rights and Responsibilities. In elementary and secondary education these codes are often drafted by school board officials with perhaps the input of parent or parent teacher associations. In post secondary institutions these are often drafted by the academic senate with the contribution of student representatives. This process often includes varying degrees of student input from student surveys to no student voice and the academic senate may have as much as 50% student representation or as little as 0% student representation depending on the structure of the institution. The Canadian Federation of Students has yet to accept a student bill or rights, code of rights and responsibilities or a charter of rights and freedoms. The Canadian Encyclopedia, which details issues of Canadian life and governance, however, states that in Canada  "Basically 2 sorts of rights apply to students: substantive rights - the actual rights that students should enjoy - and procedural rights - methods by which students claim their rights. This article is concerned with students in public institutions, although those in private schools can claim rights under the common law and provincial education Acts." In the 1960s, the Canadian Union of Students had adopted the Declaration on the Canadian Student, a declaration aimed defining the rights and role of a student. The Declaration was adopted at the September 1965 annual meeting of the CUS, and was initiated mainly by the Students' Union of the University of Ottawa President Jock Turcot.  A year later, the CUS re-affirmed the "fundamental philosophy" behind the Declaration.  In 2008 the European Student Union adopted a Student Rights Charter   which is in essence their platform. This document includes those rights and freedoms which members of the European student Union are lobbying for in their own countries. Romania currently has the strongest student rights legislation in the European Union and this is in part to do with the efforts of the European Student Union to press for legislation.  The 2008 ESU Student Rights Charter includes the following rights: Access to Higher Education Student Involvement Extracurricular Aspect of Study Curricular Aspect of Study Romania is the country which has the greatest student rights legislation currently in place. In 2010 the National Alliance of student organizations in Romania, which is also part of the European Student Union, and the Romanian Students' Union(USR) worked with the Romanian National Government to bring into law the Romanian National Student Code of Rights and Responsibilities. This document provides Romanian students with roughly a hundred which theoretical rights and procedural rights necessary to ensure theoretical rights are fulfilled.  This document includes the following rights: Educational Package Rights Contract Rights Equitability Rights Accountability & Quality Assurance Rights Due Process Rights Information Accessibility Rights It does not seem that Asia has any national or continental student rights bills in place. It does not seem that Africa has any national or continental student rights bills in place. It does not seem that South or Central America has any national or continental student rights bills in place. 