The California drought manipulation conspiracy theory is promoted by a number of independent researchers, self-proclaimed scientists, and alternative news outlets. The theory proposes that the 2011–2017 drought was a deliberate, man-made phenomenon, created by weather modification. The theory has been dismissed by the scientific community and mainstream media as fringe science or pseudoscience.   The 2011–2017 drought has inspired alarm among many, leading to the emergence of alternative theories, or "conspiracy theories", purporting to explain its cause. Many of the proponents claim that chemtrails are used to affect storm clouds, in a manner of suppressing the development of precipitation. This would occur because of the presence of too many cloud condensation nuclei, or "cloud seeds", in a single area. Others say that technologies similar to HAARP (a federal ionospheric research program, which was decommissioned in 2015),  are being used to create a large and stubborn high-pressure area over the West Coast of the United States.  They claim that this, also, discourages storms and rainfall.  Perhaps the most well-known adherent of the theory is Dane Wigington, former solar engineer, and lead researcher for GeoEngineering Watch, a climate engineering watchdog group. He says government agencies and other entities have economic and geopolitical motivations to manipulate the weather on the West Coast and elsewhere.   Actor and columnist Chuck Norris agrees, and has praised Wigington's work.   Proponents have claimed credibility for the theory, in part, as a result of a Los Angeles County cloud seeding program, begun in early 2016.   This reinforces their view that government continues to engage in weather modification and/or climate engineering.   In July 2014, the Shasta County Board of Supervisors voted unanimously in favor of a formal inquiry into chemtrail conspiracy claims. One of the reasons given was their potential to affect weather and rainfall.   The action was cheered by supporters,  but mocked by many in the media.   