  The Disappearance of Larry Griffin is a mystery about a postman who disappeared without trace on Christmas Day 1929. He delivered the mail to the village of Stradbally, County Waterford in the south east of Ireland but failed to return home that night. There was general agreement that, as was the custom on Christmas Day, Larry had been entertained with both food and drink in many of the households that he delivered mail to, and that he was seen to be intoxicated in the late afternoon.  Some people claimed that he had been accompanied by some of the gardai into a local pub but others denied this. His bicycle was found the next morning laid out neatly on the road between Stradbally and his home village, but a witness who had passed that way at 4am had not seen it there, and there were other indications that it had not been left there by Larry. Residents of the village giving ever-changing and conflicting information about what they knew of Griffin's last movements to the Gardai (Irish police) investigating the case and the story went round the world at the time. Witness testimony led to the arrest of ten Stradbally residents, including members of the local police force and the head of the local primary school. However, the prosecution's case fell apart in court when the key witness changed his story, supposedly under duress. No-one else was ever charged with respect to the disappearance. The most likely explanation for his disappearance is that he was involved in an altercation in the pub on the evening of Christmas Day which led to his death, almost certainly accidentally.  Pubs in Ireland were not allowed to serve alcohol on Christmas Day at that time, and the people allegedly involved  - the manager of the pub, the gardai and the local teacher - would have been in serious trouble both with the law and professionally if it had been shown that they had been doing so. It is supposed that they acted together to hide the body and then lied prodigiously to cover up the affair, probably with the collusion of many of the other residents of the village. Over the years, several of the people who had been arrested made substantial sums of money by suing newspapers which published information about or relating to the affair, and it was only after the death of the last of these in 1997 that it was possible to publish or broadcast information about it. Even then, the authorities refused to make files about the investigation available until 2009. Several people visiting Stradbally who asked about the case have been subject to verbal abuse, even in recent times. The case has never been officially solved and Larry's body was never found.  Larry (Laurence) Griffin was born in Waterford in Ireland in 1880.  He was a bombardier in the Artillery Regiment of the British Army from 1899 until 1907, serving in British India. :22 He married Mary Fitzgerald in 1907, and the family were living with her father in 1911 – Larry was working as a farm servant.  He re-joined the army at the start of World War I. He was discharged on 3 June 1916, due to injuries received – his arm was permanently damaged and part of his ear was missing as well as some front teeth.  :22 He was awarded the British War Medal and the Victory Medal in 1918.   After being discharged from the Army, Griffin got a job as a postman.  In 1929, he and his wife and two of his three surviving children were living in Kilmacthomas, a small town in the south east of Ireland.  :22His postal round covered the village of Stradbally which was about 8 miles away from Kilmacthomas.  :17–18 His daughter, Bridie, was working in England.  :60 On Christmas Day, 1929 Larry attended Mass, delivered presents to a neighbour's children, and set off at about noon on his Post Office issue bicycle to deliver the mail in Stradbally.  There was a tradition of offering both money and hospitality to the postman on Christmas Day - Larry was invited to dinner in two of the households he called on, and was given drinks in many of the others. When he had finished his deliveries, he called into the Post Office as normal. At 7pm, it started snowing.  Mary waited for him to return home but he did not appear.  She guessed that he might have had too much to drink and hoped that he had decided to sleep at a friend's house, rather than risk the ride home. :20–27 At 7:30am the next day, a local man walking along the road between Stradbally and Kilmacthomas came across a postman's bicycle lying on the road three feet from the edge, pointing toward Kilmacthomas. It appeared to have been carefully laid down.  There was no sign of Larry.  :29 The Gardai were informed, and a search party, including Gardai from several neighouring towns, and over a hundred civilians, including postmen from Kilmacthomas, started searching.  The postmen noticed that the empty mailbag, waterproof cover, overalls and a cape were carefully strapped to the carrier on the bike, and commented that a postman would not strap his cape in this way, because it would crack when folded up. They searched the countryside between Kilmacthomas and Stradbally, particularly the marshlands on either side of the road where the bike had been found.  It was initially assumed that Larry had wandered off the road and fallen into one the deep holes in the bog, but in spite of extensive searches, they did not find him.  :30–31 The disappearance was reported to Chief Superintendent Harry O'Mara from Waterford on the 27 December. He went to Stradbally and first questioned the local Gardai - Sergeant Cullinane, Gardai Dullea, Frawley, Murphy and Sullivan.  Garda Frawley was married and lived in a flat above the Post Office; all the others lived at the Garda barracks.  They all denied seeing Larry leave the village, and also all, particularly Garda Dullea claimed that Larry was sober. :29–33  Other people in the village, however, reported that he was "a bit jolly" and "intoxicated".  :27 Superintendent O'Mara also established that Larry had not called in to collect the mail at places between Stradbally and the point where his bicycle had been found, even though these were part of his normal round.  Another local man reported that he had been on the Stradbally to Kilmacthomas road at 4am on the 26 December and had not seen the bicycle there at that time.  O'Mara now suspected foul play rather than an accidental disappearance.  :35–36 The search continued. On the 6 January 1930, Father O'Shea, a priest from a neighbouring village told O'Mara that the Gardai in Stradbally were concealing what had happened, and that he should first question a sixteen-year-old boy called John Power.  The next day, O'Mara  interviewed John Power with Gardai from outside the area.  He told them that he had been standing outside the window of Whelan's pub with three other men, from 6pm on Christmas Day, and they had seen Larry and Garda Dullea outside the post office at 6:30pm, who had  then walked passed them and went round the corner. Garda Dullea was pushing the bicycle, Larry appeared drunk and was "trying to empty the contents of his stomach".  Power also said that he remained outside Whelan's for an hour and did not see Dullea again.  The other three men confirmed John Power's account. :37–39 Garda Dullea was interviewed again, and now admitted to meeting Larry outside the post office, and to walking with him for fifty yards along the Kilmacthomas road.  He again said that Larry was not drunk.  When asked why he had not reported this before, he  said he did not think "it was of any importance".  He claimed that after leaving Larry, he returned to the centre of the village past Whelans to meet up with Cissie Whelan, daughter of the Whelans, and that they walked to Stradbally Cove, returning from there at 10pm. This was contradicted by the evidence of John Power and his friends, but Cissie Whelan backed him up. :39–41 Sergeant Cullinane first claimed that he had raided Whelans once at 6pm, but after other people gave statements saying that he had visited twice, he admitted that he had raided it again at 6:35pm.  He said that only the Whelans were present both times.  :44 O'Mara thought that Dullea may have been trying to cover up illegal drinking.  Since 1927, pubs in Ireland were not allowed to serve alcohol on either Christmas Day or Good Friday and it would have been very damaging for a Garda to have been found to be drinking illegally. As January 1930 progressed, more information emerged about events on Christmas Day from new witnesses and more detailed statements from previous witnesses. The story that now emerged was that shortly after 6pm, a clearly drunk Larry Griffin had called into Garda Frawley's flat, accompanied by Garda Dullea  where they had drunk some more alcohol. The three of them then went outside, and the Gardai decided that Larry was too drunk to make his way home.  Garda Frawley went into Whelans to see if they would put him up for the night, but realising that he had been followed in by Sergreant Cullinane, he left again.  Garda Dullea then led Larry round the corner, and the two of them went in to Whelans by the back gate.  Neither of them was seen to leave again.  None of the Gardai had provided any of this information when they were first questioned.  :47–49 Conflicting evidence was given by the Gardai about whether or not they had been given gifts of alcohol by various publicans in the area, and also about whether or not they had been drinking.  It was common practice for publicans to make gifts to the Gardai, though this could have been construed as bribery to help avoid being raided. It was found that entries in the Garda barracks diary had been altered, and that they had not made many of the patrols which were recorded there.  The Stradbally Gardai were changing their stories, contradicting each other, and eventually calling one another liars.  :49–56 O'Mara was now convinced that the Gardai were involved in the disappearance of Larry Griffin.  He reported this to Eoin O'Duffy who was the Chief Commissioner of the Garda Siochana. He also said that Gardai Dullea and Murphy "are influencing the people to make false statements and are visiting those from whom statements have been made to ascertain what they have said". They were all transferred to Garda stations in various parts of Ireland, and a warrant was obtained to allow their mail to be intercepted as O'Mara believed that they would contact one another about the case. :56–57 Soon everybody in Stradbally "knew" that Larry Griffin had been drinking in Whelan's pub on Christmas evening. Two of the people who had joined the search on St. Stephen's Day said that they were told by Patrick Whelan, the publican, that Larry had been in the pub the night before, that he wanted Larry to stay the night but that Larry would not do so.  Patrick Whelan later told Larry's wife that Larry had not been in the pub, and that there had been no visitors in the pub on Christmas Day, something he also told the Gardai.  This was contradicted by statements from two other people who said that they had been drinking in Whelans on Christmas night.  They also contradicted Garda Dullea's statement that he had been with Cissie Whelan at Stradbally Cove all evening, as they said they had seen Cissie in the pub that evening.  Neither of them had seen Larry there, but they had been only in the kitchen, not in the public house area.  :58–62 Father O'Shea had continued to make enquiries.  He reported to the Gardai that Mrs. Cashin, the wife of Thomas Cashin, who was the head teacher of a nearby National school, had told him that the Gardai would never find out what had happened to Larry, and also told him that her husband had been present at whatever had happened to Larry. Thomas Cashin himself told Father O'Shea that the Gardai would never implicate him. :62–63 On 23 January 1930 two local men were interviewed at the Garda station.  The circumstances under which they were taken in for questioning were later the subject of much controversy.  :64 Jim Fitzgerald was a 55 year old labourer who lived about a quarter of a mile from Stradbally.  Thomas Corbett was 25, also a labourer. Jim Fitzgerald had taken Thomas and his girlfriend into his house when she became pregnant.  :63 Jim Fitzgerald said that on Christmas Day, he had gone into Whelans by the back gate with Tommy Corbett and two other people at 6:30pm. They went into the kitchen and were served drinks by Cissie Whelan. They heard singing in the bar, and Jim went outside into the yard, looked through the window into the bar, and saw Gardai Dullea and Murphy, as well as Cissie Whelan and several other people in there.  He also said that when he was standing in the hall, he saw a man coming out of the bar towards the lavatory who had a postman's cap on, and he was fairly sure that it was Larry Griffin. He also said that he was in the bar himself.  His statement continues: Jim Fitzgerald said that Whelan then told Morrissey that he "had him ruined", but Morrissey said that they would take Larry away and no-one would know about it.  He said that the two Gardai, Thomas Cashin, all the Whelan family, and four other people, Ned Dunphy, Jack Galvin, George and Patrick Cummins came into the bar. He said that Cashin, Morrissey, George Cummins and Patrick Whelan put the body in Cashin's car (Cashin owned the only car in the village) and drove away, and that Garda Dullea took away Larry's bicycle saying he would leave it on the Five Cross road somewhere, and that Garda Murphy accompanied him.  He did not know where they put the body but thought that they planned to drop it down a mine shaft.  :64–69 Tommy Corbett agreed that he and Jim Fitzgerald had gone to the back of Whelans on Christmas Day, but told a completely different story about what had happened after that. He said that they had not been admitted to Whelans, and that he had gone to O'Reilly's, another pub in the village and after that to "The Hall"  (this was a room in the house of the McGraths which was a sort of low-cost card playing club).  :26  He said that a fight took place between himself and another local man.  None of the other witnesses supported Jim Fitzgerald's statement,  Parts of Tommy Corbett's story were supported by some witnesses, while contradiced by others.  All were, however, in agreement about the fight that took place in "The Hall".  Many of the witnesses were, however, changing their stories as time went on.  :71–77 Superintendent O'Mara reported that Jim Fitzgerald had asked to remain with the Gardai as he was afraid to go home.  He was taken into protective custody in Waterford "in the interest's of the man's safety and to prevent him being influenced by suspected persons".  :70–71 Copper mining had been a major industry in the area between 1827 and 1877, and there were many abandoned mineshafts in the area. Several of the old mineshafts were explored.  Platforms were erected, grappling hooks and dredging appparatus used.  The possibility of sending down a diver was explored but it was decided that this would be too dangerous. Sightseers poured in to watch, as well as members of the press. The bodies of several pigs, goats and dogs were found., :95–102 .:157–159 The foreshore at Stradbally cove was dug to a depth of four feet. Local farmers and labourers undertook another search of the marshland.  :156 The garden of George Cummins, who had been reported by Jim Fitzgerald as having been involved in the disappearance, was searched as were the grounds of a local convent,  and a pond in the grounds of a local estate, all based on information given.  :171 All the recent graves in a local graveyard were opened up.  :149–150 No trace of Larry Griffin was found. The stove In Whelans against which Larry Griffin had allegedly hit his head was removed by the Gardai, as well as a wooden bench, ladies stockings and a coal scuttle which appeared to be bloodstained.  Other items were also taken away from the houses of Thomas Cashin, Ned Morrissey and George Cummins, and Thomas Cashin's car.  :89–93 By the end of January, all the Stradbally Gardai had been moved to Dublin and suspended from duty on half-pay. :112  There is evidence that they were assaulted while being questioned. :112 Mrs. Frawley gave a statement in which she said that Garda Dullea had asked her on the 7 January not to mention that Larry and himself had been at Frawley's on Christmas Day. :114 Garda Sullivan made a statement on 1 February admitting that he and Garda Frawley had been drinking in Whelans, O'Reilly's and Frawleys' flat on Christmas Day and that he had gone to bed at about 4pm to sleep off the effects of alcohol.  He woke at 12:30am to hear Gardai Dullea and Murphy return.  :112–119 Thomas Cashin was never interviewed, but his wife gave police a statement which provided him with a solid alibi for the whole of Christmas Day   :82–83 Various people who admitted to being in Whelans on Christmas evening denied seeing Larry Griffin there. Many others were questioned but no more concrete evidence was obtained about what had happened to Larry. :123–126 On the morning of the 24th January, the Gardai arrested Thomas Cashin and Ned Morrissey.  They were charged with the murder of Larry Griffin, disposing of a body with intent to obstruct a coroner's inquest, and of taking away a postbag and postman's cap, property of the postmaster general. :79–81 On the 26th January, Patrick Whelan, George Cummins and Patrick Cunningham were arrested and charged.  Next to be arrested were Bridget Whelan and her daughter and son, Nora and James.  :90:99 All eight were held in Waterford and were remanded in custody on the 31st January. :99 On the 3rd February, Gardai Dullea and Murphy were arrested and charged. :120 On the 7th February, a preliminary hearing was held at Waterford courthouse, where the prosecution had to show that there was sufficient evidence to justify trying the defendants before a jury.  :131 Jim Fitzgerald was called to give evidence, but now told a very different story to what he had said in his statement of the 23rd January. He said that he, Tommy Corbett and two other men were outside Whelans and had drink handed out to them there, that he then went on to O' Reillys, and after that to "The Hall" to play cards.  He went back and stood outside Whelans for a while and then went home. When the prosecuting barrister challenged him about the difference between his statement and what he was saying now, he said that he "may have told some lies in it".  When questioned further he said he could not say which part was true and which was lies.  The judge also questioned him but got no further.   The prosecuting cousel asked for a week's remand which was granted by the judge.  :144 On the 14th February, the prisoners were again brought to court.  Two of the men from Kilmacthomas, who came to Stradbally on St. Stephen's Day to search for Larry, told the court that Patrick Whelan had told them that Larry had been in the pub on Christmas night, that he had been very drunk, and that Whelan had tried unsuccessfully to persuade him to stay the night.  :152–3 A pathologist gave evidence about the items taken from various places, but the only ones which he could be certain that had human blood on them were sanitary items belonging to the young women in the Whelan household.  The judge gave the prosecution another week to make its case, and the defendants were again remanded in custody.  :155 Another hearing was held on the 21st February.  Mrs. Frawley gave evidence saying that Garda Dullea and a drunken Larry Griffin had been in her house on Christmas Day, and also that Garda Dullea had asked her not to say that she had seen him with Larry on that day. Another witness said that he had seen Garda Dullea and Larry walk round the corner at Whelans.  A further remand of one week was granted.  :162 At the hearing on 1 March, no new evidence was produced, but the prosecution insisted that they were close to finding Larry's body.  The defendants were remanded in custody for another week.  :162 Om March 7, the prosecuting counsel said that further enquiries were to be made, but that he was now asking for the charges to be withdrawn.  The defendants were released.  There was an outburst of cheering from their friends and supporters.  :174–176 That was the last time anyone appeared in court charged with criminal offences with respect to the disappearance of Larry Griffin. In February 1930, lawyers acting on Tommy Corbett's behalf issued summonses to four of the officers who questioned him on February th 1929, claiming damages for false imprisonment, assault and threats of murder.  The case was heard in December 1930; it was alleged that the Gardai had tried to bribe him to say that he was in Whelan's pub on Christmas night, and that when he would not do so, they threatened to kill him.  It was said that they then drove him to the cliffs, and threatened to throw him into the sea, and that one of the Gardai put a revolver in his mouth and threatened to shoot him.  The defendants denied the allegations, but the jury believed his story, and awarded him £500 damages, and £500 costs.  :186–200 Following the case, the Gardai involved were offered a choice between resignation and dismissal; all chose the first.  It would have been very difficult for them to raise the £1000 awarded against them even if they were still employed (their annual salaries ranged from £200 to £300), but it was now impossible.  They tried to negotiate directly with Corbett rather than going through his solicitor. The latter objected strongly to this as it might have meant he did not get his legal costs.  :193–194 The Garda files show that they were keeping a close eye on these developments, that Thomas Cashin, Patrick Whelan and other ex-defendants were also involved, and that "there was great uneasiness amongst the Whelan and Cashin crowd" as a result of contacts between Tommy Corbett and the ex-Gardai.  They seemed to be concerned that Tommy would make a deal which would involve him revealing what he knew about what had happened to Larry Griffin to the ex-Gardai.  :194–195 Thomas Cashin called Tommy Corbett into his house when Tommy was returning from a meeting with the ex-Gardai at Tramore and went straight to Whelans afterwards. Tommy was unemployed at this time, but shortly afterwards, got a job with the brother of Patrick Cunningham who was one of the ten people who had been charged. A local man told one of the current Stradbally Gardai that he believed that Whelan, Cashin and company wanted "to close his (Tommy's) mouth" because they thought he was "capable of anything".  :195–197 On 20 September 1931, Tommy Corbett announced that he had settled with the ex-Gardai, and would receive the money two days later.  The Gardai notes say: Tommy's solicitor intervened,  saying Tommy Corbett would have to pay the legal costs himself if the ex-Gardai did not do so.  The next day, the solicitor bought out Corbett's damages claim for £125 on condition that he had nothing more to do with the ex-Gardai. There were celebrations in Stradbally that evening.  Thomas Cashin took Tommy and his wife to Whelans and drove them home later.  The Cunninghams and others ex-defendants visited the Corbetts that night with whiskey and stout.  :198–200 In July 1930, the Whelans were awarded £1740 in damages from Waterford News Ltd. because their newspaper, the Evening News, had published a report on the 6th February 1929 about Larry's Griffin's disappearance which they claimed clearly implicated them in the matter. They later received damages from the Cork Examiner for a similar article. In 1954, they sued a British newspaper, Empire News for libel for a sum of £600 each, relating to an article which said that "the postman was taken to the police barracks for safety.... During the night, he left the room.  There was no banister to the stairs.  He stepped out into space and crashed to his death".  The case was settled and the plaintiffs received undisclosed damages.  :258–9 In 1974, they took libel actions against the Waterford News and Star, relating to a review of a play which was based very closely on the Stradally missing postman case.  They claimed that they had been held up to hatred, ridicule and contempt because of the article.  The case was settled for an undisclosed sum and the paper apologised to the plaintiffs.  :262 In the 1960s, Superintendent O' Mara sent a statement to the Irish Times with his account of the missing postman case, hoping that it would be published, but fear of legal  action prevented this. In 1977, an Irish Times correspondent came across the statement, and wrote a long feature based on it. The Irish Times then received a letter from a solicitor acting on behalf of James Whelan and Nora Opren, saying that they intended to sue the paper for libel.  The matter was settled out of court, the Irish Times having been advised that the plaintiffs were likely to be awarded substantial damages by a court.  :262–264 Mary Griffin's distress at the loss of her husband was compounded by the failure to find out what had happened to him, and to be unable to bury him.  In addition, the household lost its income, though a fund was set up which raised over £200 for the family. There was a huge response to the appeal, especially from post office staff all over Ireland, but very few contributions from Stradbally itself.  Her son, Jack set up a garage in Kilmacthomas in 1932, her daughter Bridie married and returned to Ireland to live in Mayo.  Tragically, her daughter Alice died of pneumonia in 1933.  Mary died in 1958, and is buried in the family plot.  Larry is commemorated on the headstone.  The surviving family members still hope that Larry's body will be found so that he can finally be buried with his wife.  :268–273 Jim Fitzgerald returned to Stradbally in a Garda car after his appearance in court on the 7th February. :147–9 Superintendent Hunt, another Garda who had been brought into the investigation, reported that he had interviewed Jim after the collapse of the prosecution case, and said that Jim was terrified, that he had been threatened repeatedly and could not obtain any work.  Hunt organised for him to be employed  by a farmer in Galway. Jim left Stradbally in March 1930. Hunt interviewed Jim Fitzgerald again in Galway.  He now said that he had been in Whelans between 7:30 and 8pm on Christmas night.  He said that he saw Garda Dullea and Larry Griffin there at about 8pm. He left Whelans shortly afterward, met up with Tommy Corbett, and Patrick Cunningham who was one of the people charged with the murder of Larry Griffin. They moved on to O'Reilly's pub, and after that to "The Hall" where the row between Tommy Corbett and another man happened.  After that he went home with Tommy Corbett, while Patrick Cunningham went off in a different direction. Jim Fitzgerald now told Hunt that he had got the story about Larry's death from Tommy Corbett who had heard it from Patrick Cunningham, his employer.  Cunningham had gone on to Whelans on Christmas night and witnessed the events there.  :178–181 A home for the elderly poor in Waterford has records showing that Jim Fitzgerald entered the home in 1945.  It gives details of his parents, his place of birth and death and his pension book number.  In the Observation section, it says "no friends".  He died there in 1961.  :273–4 He and his family remained in the cottage where JIm Fitzgerald had taken them in.  Tommy spent some time working in England.  He bought the cottage in 1965, and died in 1968.  :275 At the time of Larry's disappearance, the Whelans were in rent arrears with their landlord, and had been successfully sued by one of their suppliers for non-payment for goods supplied. . They were able to keep the business afloat with the money they made from the various libel actions that they won and also with a loan from Thomas Cashin.  :23 Patrick died in 1946, and his wife Bridget in 1961.  His son, James inherited the pub, and when he died in 1997, his son took it over and still runs it.  Nora died in 1987, and Cissie in 2004.  :275–6 Thomas Cashin had been the head teacher at Ballylaneen national school for some years.  His wife also taught there even though she did not have a teaching qualification.  His record at the school was less than glowing.  Inspectors' reports on his work for the previous four years had rated him as non-efficient. He did not have an Irish language qualification and had failed the examination in 1924, 1925 and 1926 and 1928, and didn't turn up for the examination in 1927 and 1929.  In May 1928, he was warned that serious action would be taken if matters did not improve.  :85  An inspector who turned up at the school on the 28th July 1928 found the pupils sitting on the roadside with their books and their lunches.  Cashin apppeared at 11:55, claiming that he was working to old time, and that the pupils were only there to help tidy up the school.  The inspector did not believe him.  :85–86 When he was charged with murder, he was suspended without pay. For reasons which have never been explained, he was not interviewed by the Gardai at any time. When the case was dropped, the Department of Education wrote to him asking  him to respond to allegations that he been in a pub on Christmas Day, that he had been involved in the killing of Larry Griffin, and that his car had been used to dispose of the body.  He vehemently denied all the allegations, expressing outrage that he should be accused of such offences. The Department of Education also sought information from the Gardai who responded saying that they were convinced of his guilt, but the Department eventually accepted that there was no chance of this being proved in court, so they had to re-instate him - this happened in December 1930. Cashin then demanded that he be paid for the time when he had been suspended and this was approved by the government in 1932.  :226–238 After his re-instatement, he continued to get poor reports, being rated as "non-efficient" from 1931 until 1940 when he got an "efficient" rating for the first time.  There is no documentation for subsequent years.  He and his wife retired in 1957 when the school closed down. He played a prominent role in the community and was active in the local Fianna Fáil branch.  :277 He died in 1976.  :277 In 1986, Breandan Ó' hEither, a journalist and broadcaster, passed through Stradbally.  He was recognised by a man in the street, and when passing Whelan's, said to the man - "Was it upstairs or downstairs it happened?".  The response was "I think it might be a good idea if you fuck off out of here".  :265 In the early 1990s, the broadcaster, Cathal ÓShannon tried to make a TV programme about the case, but RTÉ turned it down because James Whelan was still alive, and likely to sue for libel.  He also reported that "I was almost run out of Stradbally and received two threats of legal action from the Whelan family" while he was researching the case.  :267 Tadgh Ó Dúshlaine, who has written an unpublished account of the case, requested access  to Garda files many times without success.  :267 In February 2009, the Irish Language programme section of RTE started CSÍ, a new series about historical crime cases.  Fachtna Ó Drisceoil was engaged to work on it. He discussed the case with Tadgh Ó Dúshlaine and was able to access some of the witness statements in the National Archives, in particular, Jim Fitzgerald's statement.  He also spoke to surviving relatives of Larry Griffin and the son of Mike Murphy who had taken over Larry's job as postman of Stradbally.  The programme was broadcast on the 14th September 2009.    A few days before the broadcast, the Garda Commissioner announced that all the files on the case would be made available.  It took Facthna some time to extract all the available information.  There were 5000-10000 pages in the file, but no physical evidence which might have provided DNA evidence which might show what had happened to Larry. Additional information from these files was incorporated in the book  published in 2011. Several newspaper articles appeared after the programme was broadcast.    Fachtna concludes that the Gardai at the time failed to cross-check Jim Fitzgerald's statement with other witness statements which would have strongly indicated that he was not in Whelans when he said he was.  Fachtna believes that the statement taken by Superintendent Hunt from Jim Fitzgerald after he moved to Galway is more accurate than the first one, and that Jim did indeed get an account of what happened from Tommy Corbett who had heard it from Patrick Cunningham - he was in Whelans when the incident occurred and was one of the people accused and charged. Fachtna believes that there was an altercation in Whelans involving Larry Griffin and others in which he was either killed outright, or that he was injured, taken across the road to the Garda barracks, where he later stumbled out of bed and fell down the stairs to his death. The people involved decided to cover up his death to protect their jobs and positions of power.  Patrick Whelan was already in financial difficulty and losing his licence would have been a disaster.  Cashin and the two Gardai, Dullea and Murphy would have lost their jobs if it was found that they had been drinking illegally. Over the years, a variety of locations have been suggested for where Larry's body was hidden, but it remains undiscovered.  It is possible that very few people actually knew the exact location.  Larry's family still hope that his body will ultimately rest in the family plot with his wife, Mary.  :300–311 