The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy (Dutch: Ministerie van Economische Zaken en Klimaat; EZK) is the Dutch Ministry responsible for Commercial policy, International trade, Industrial policy, Investment policy, Technology policy, Energy policy, Nuclear energy policy, Renewable energy policy, Environmental policy, Climate change policy, Natural resources, Mining, Space policy and Tourism Affairs. The Ministry was created in 1905 as the Ministry of Agriculture, Industry and Commerce and had several name changes before it became the Ministry of Economic Affairs in 1946. In 2010 the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality was merged with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and was renamed as the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation. In 2012 the name was reverted back as the Ministry of Economic Affairs but keept the responsibilities of the former Ministry of Agriculture. In 2017 the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality was reinstated but the Ministry of Economic Affairs took on several of the Environmental policies portfolios from the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment which was renamed as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management and with the Ministry of Economic Affairs renamed as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy (Dutch: Minister van Economische Zaken en Klimaat) is the head of the Ministry and a member of the Cabinet of the Netherlands. The current Minister is Eric Wiebes, who has been in office since 26 October 2017.  The Ministry has currently five Government Agencies and several Directorates: The mission of the Ministry is to "promote sustainable economic growth in the Netherlands." It focuses on the key areas of "Knowledge economy and innovation," "Competition and dynamic" and "Room to do business." The political responsibility of the ministry is in the hands of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy who is part of the Dutch Cabinet. A Deputy Minister, called the State Secretary, serves as the second-in-command to the Minister. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy has also a civil service department, led by the Secretary-General and Deputy Secretary-General. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy consists of four Directorates-General: Foreign Economic Relations, Economic Policy, Energy and Telecom, and Enterprise and Innovation. There are also some support departments.  