There is evidence of indoor and outdoor stages used for Commedia dell'Arte with a variation of scenic design. While we know for a fact that Commedia dell'Arte Troupes did perform in indoor spaces, there is no real evidence of use for outdoor spaces aside from depictions of various artists.  The building of new theaters in the Renaissance came from the attempts of rich scholars to rediscover the classical theatre of Greece and Rome.  Some theaters were built in the homes of the lesser gentry in Italy while some were built in public spaces such as apothecary shops and local inns. Other public places that were commonly used for performances were "stanzas" which were multi purpose meeting rooms. The theaters built in these public buildings were used for longer amounts of time and were more available for public performances.  All of these indoor spaces had the facilities for scenery and design, mostly perspective scenery. They also had scene changing equipment and special effect machines which Commedia dell'Arte companies did not need but when it was available, would make use of it.  Italian theaters developed slowly throughout the renaissance helping with Commedia dell'Arte Troupes, although the developments were mostly thanks to the Opera. By 1637 theaters in Venice had evolved into having a pit, box, gallery, and proscenium arch.  Traveling Commedia dell'Arte Troupes used theaters where they found them, sometimes would help create them, and sometimes would have to make do without them.  In 1547 the Medici built a public theatre, the Baldracca, as a venue for professional entertainers traveling to the city.  Teatro Olimpico is Europe's oldest existing post-Roman theatre and it was built for the academy at Vicenza in 1584 for a production of the Greek tragedy Oedipus the King.  As said earlier, this theatre was built in an attempt to revive classical theatre and the interesting thing about this theatre is that the set was built permanently and specifically for Oedipus, no other set can be built there. The scenic design in Teatro Olimpico is a good example of the kind of designs which were used during this time. Because Oedipus is a tragic play the set is built with classical architecture. Also common at the time, the set is designed in forced perspective.  Teatro all'Antica at Sabbioneta, built in 1588, was built with a permanent, comic fixed scene. The design for this set is differs from the Teatro Olimpico as the set is built for comic scenes rather than for tragic scenes, so instead of having classical buildings they have an urban contemporary renaissance exterior.  Similarly to the Teatro Olimpico, it is in forced perspective. Similarly to all Commedia sets, the setting is an urban street scene.  Duke Vespasiano Gonzaga Colonna was the patron of Teatro all'Antica at Sabbioneta and hired a commedia troupe to perform in it. He intended to have this company in residence for two months every year, but unfortunately his plans never succeeded because he died before they could take action.  Commedia dell'Arte has been depicted as actors in masks performing on temporary stages in market squares in woodcuts, paintings, engravings, and drawings by artists such as Callot, Scarron, and Dujardin. The stages in these depictions often appear to be elevated by six foot tall scaffolding with audience members standing on three sides of the stage.  Simple curtains often are depicted hanging behind the actors sometimes painted with an urban background, similar to a backdrop. Sometimes actors were depicted peeking through behind them, and sometimes there would be slits in the curtain indicating doors and windows.  These depictions can give us an idea of the kinds of stages that might have been used at the time, but written reports tell us that the most successful troupes preferred to perform on indoor stages.  If members of a successful Commedia dell'Arte company were seen in a market square it could have been because they were trying to raise extra funds to pay for a trip to perform in another city or because they were showing a preview to a ticket performance in a private venue to try to convince audience members to go see it.  