A balloon release is a ceremonial event in which a number of hydrogen or helium-filled balloons are unleashed into the sky. There is considerable opposition to, and legislation against, balloon releases, due to environmental, flight safety, and wildlife conservation issues. Balloon releases can be done as a prayer ceremony, to create a photo opportunity, to raise awareness of a cause or campaign, or as a competitive long-distance race. Akin to a Sky lantern ceremony of Chinese tradition, a group balloon release can serve as a quiet, prayerful group activity at a funeral or solemn occasion. Unlike sky lanterns, which float down after a short time, helium or hydrogen balloons quickly rise to heights in which they can no longer be seen. Balloon releases are also used in celebration, as a substitute to confetti, in order to avoid an immediate mess. A balloon race or balloon flight contest is a competition wherein the competitors attempt to send balloons as far as possible. It can be compared to a rubber duck race. Postcards are attached to the balloons which are then released. The flight of the balloons cannot be influenced by the competitors. Instead, success in the contest is dependent on the wind conditions and on the location in which the balloon lands. The contest depends on the goodwill of passers-by to find the balloons and return the postcards. A prize may be awarded to the person whose balloon travels the furthest. Helium balloons are claimed to reach a height of anywhere up to ten kilometres.   It is also possible for a balloon, under the right circumstances, to reach equilibrium, and remain suspended in the air for some time, until the helium slowly diffuses out of the balloon. A balloon release in 1986 by the charity United Way Services of Cleveland, in Ohio, USA, was a fund-raising attempt to break the world record for the number of balloons in a single release. 1.5 million balloons were released, but an approaching weather front caused them to return to earth, covering the city in balloons, causing cars to crash, and hindering the coast guard in a rescue mission.  It contributed to the deaths of two sailors on Lake Erie (the wife of one victim sued the organisers, and settled out-of-court),  resulted in injuries to horses, and caused traffic accidents.  A runway at Burke Lakefront Airport had to be closed.  The Guinness Book of Records no longer accepts balloon release records. In the United Kingdom, the National Association of Balloon Artists and Suppliers (NABAS) provide guidelines for appropriate balloon releases in order to minimize potential environmental impacts.  These guidelines include the limit to the number of balloons that should be released, releasing only balloons made from appropriate material, and that no materials such as ribbons or strings are included or attached to the end of any balloons that are released. A number of organisations (for example, in the United Kingdom, these include the Marine Conservation Society,  the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,  the Tidy Britain Group,  the National Farmers Union,  and the RSPB ) oppose balloon releases, because of the visual impact of the fallen, deflated balloons, and the risk of harm to wildlife and domestic animals which they pose.  For these reasons, balloon releases are prohibited in some jurisdictions.   In March 2017 the Marine Conservation Society   launched an on-line pledge asking the public to sign an online pledge page to help the charity create an interactive map to show support for bans around the UK. In May 2018 a peer-reviewed study by Delia M. Webb was published that revealed 2,223 pieces of balloon litter were found on 39 beaches across Cornwall between July – December 2016. The study entitled "Just a balloon? A local study of the extent and impacts of balloon litter on beaches” reported that some of the balloons found on Cornish beaches had travelled from other parts of the UK, Ireland and Europe.  On 31 July 2018 photos were released showing the damage to wildlife caused by helium balloons in Devon and Cornwall, England.   In August 2918 Florida-based non-profit Balloons Blow erected a giant billboard in Lincoln, Nebraska, United States asking the University of Nebraska-Lincoln's "Huskers" football team to cease their large-scale (up to 3,000 items) balloon releases at each home game.   Within many countries written permission is often required from the relevant airspace regulatory authority. In the UK this would be the Civil Aviation Authority, for releases over a certain number of balloons. Helium is a natural atmospheric gas, but as a land-resource, it is limited. As of 2012 the United States National Helium Reserve accounted for 30 percent of the world's helium, and was expected to run out of helium in 2018.  Some geophysicists fear the world's helium could be gone in a generation.  For this reason, balloon releases are seen as a wasteful use of this limited resource. 