 A balloon fetish is a sexual fetish that involves balloons.     A balloon fetishist is also referred to as a "looner".    Some balloon fetishists "revel in the popping of balloons and [others] may become anxious and tearful at the very thought of popping balloons".  Others enjoy blowing up balloons or sitting and lying on them.  Like many paraphilias, the origins of a balloon fetish are complex and vary between individuals, but may be explained as a form of sexual imprinting.  Many "looners" attribute their fetish to early sexual or pre-sexual experiences with balloons, often involving their being burst by members of the desirable sex.  These experiences frequently accompany or instigate a phobia of balloons in the individual,  most often associated with the sudden loud noise when they burst, a form of phonophobia.  Depending on the extent to which this phobia persists through and after puberty, balloon fetishists may regard balloons bursting as either essential to the sexual experience (and frequently refer to themselves as poppers), or to be avoided at all costs (as non-poppers). Even those who are not phobic of the act of a balloon popping may prefer not to pop due to an anthropomorphized emotional attachment to the balloon, which is perfectly normal to non-poppers. One hallmark of the distinction between poppers and non-poppers may be in seeing balloons' bursting either as a metaphor for orgasm,  or as a metaphor for death.  That popping balloons is central to several popular party games suggests that enjoyment of the act, the challenge, and the anticipation of popping is not confined to fetishists. However, for fetishists the adrenaline rush associated with the "danger" that a balloon will pop produces a sexual response. This helps to explain why even non-poppers who have an intense phobia of balloons popping in non-sexual contexts may be aroused by the possibility within safe sexual contexts. It may even suggest that balloon fetish, for poppers and non-poppers alike, is part of the BDSM spectrum of fetishes in which a controlled amount of danger is used to elicit a pleasurable fight-or-flight response in participants.  A true fetish is characterized in the DSM-IV by its social and occupational impedance.  However, it is currently in the DSM-V (see Paraphilic Disorders)  to where a fetish is no longer considered as a disorder (except for fetishistic disorder where if the fetish interferes with the person's life).  Yet, fetishism is classified as code F65.0 in the ICD-10.  Aside from these hazards, balloon fetishism carries with it the hazards of bursting balloons in close proximity to one's body. Eye and ear protection is recommended for such exposure to avoid eye damage or hearing loss. These hazards may be heightened since balloon fetishists often employ larger-than-average balloons and high-energy forms of popping them, such as overinflation.  In addition, those who sit, stomp, or lie on large balloons may be vulnerable to fall injuries when the balloons burst. Additional injuries may occur due to friction and static electricity during prolonged interactions with balloons. Choking is a potential risk for those "looners" for whom the fetish includes kissing or mouthing the balloon. Although largely hypothetical, a "looner" engaged in an orgy with multiple helium-filled balloons may sustain impact injuries such as pelvic fractures, falling from heights at the moment of climax. A different form of this fetish is the "Bubblegum Balloon Fetish" or "Bubblegum Looning", where, instead of latex balloons, Bubblegum is used to produce small to big balloons (depending on the size of the gum). In this case, the "popper" or "non-popper" difference is absent since  balloons can be produced over and over (differently from latex ones, that, once burst, have to be discarded). Bubblegum looners tend to like watching people produce balloons with bubblegum or producing balloons themselves. As with balloon looning, Bubblegum Looning can be used in sexual activities to enhance sexual performances. In this case, bubblegum balloons may also be blown against some partner's body parts to enhance sexual excitement or as a form of game play. A number of looners also enjoy other variations, such as rubber glove balloons (mainly latex  and nitrile medical gloves), condoms, beach balls, the Wubble Bubble Ball, inflatable PVC plastic toys (mainly blow up sharks, whales, and hammers), and inflating bin liners or garbage bags.  The latter is often combined with a crush fetish where the looner is aroused  the sight of glossy, polyethylene garbage sacks being compressed by the hydraulic compactor of a garbage truck or other similar apparatus to the point where they burst or explode - in its most extreme form this may even be combined with a form of  vorarephilia, where the looner desires to be crushed and consumed by the machine itself along with the sacks. 