  A giant inflatable pig has been one of the staple props of Pink Floyd live performances since 1977 when the album Animals was released. After Roger Waters departed Pink Floyd in 1985, he continued to use the pig as a show element during his solo live performances. Roger Waters used inflatable pigs at many shows on his 2006–2007 tour The Dark Side of the Moon Live, specifically, when he performed the song "Sheep", concluding the first part of the show. The pigs used on tour were decorated with slogans and pieces of song lyrics, and with various drawings. During select performances at open-air venues the pig was released to "fly" away, a reference to the idiom "Pigs might fly".  The pig was released again at the Shoreline Amphitheatre show in Mountain View the following week, on 10 October. 7 July 2007: Roger Waters played in the New York leg of Live Earth. When he began singing "The Happiest Days of Our Lives" / "Another Brick in the Wall Part 2" the pig came out again. It had a more cartoonish look, and part of its body appeared as that of the wall. It had the words "Together we stand, divided we fall" (the last lines of "Hey You") on one side and "SOS" on the other. Unlike the SOS logo for Live Earth (which stood for "Save Our Selves"), the one on the pig said "Save Our Sausages" instead. Inflatable pigs were special decorations which have been used by Roger Waters in his concert when the singer took part in Desert Trip show on Sunday, October, 9 2016. They were decorated by images and phrases.  Spectators of the concert could see pigs floating above Empire Polo Field where the event took place. Totally the singer used 3 different pigs in his performance which was watched live by over 75 thousand viewers. In order to control oversized animals the remote control was used.    Inflatable pigs appeared when Roger Waters performed his song “Pigs (Three Different Ones)”. At this time there was a message for spectators on the huge screen behind the artist. It displayed a number of anti-Trump pictures. And the pig became floating up in the air. It was possible to see a phrase “F…k Trump and his wall”. Roger Waters condemned a candidate from Republican party for presidential elections in the USA Donald Trump for his statements about other nations, his racist and sexist comments. On the other side of inflatable pig it could see the phrase “Arrogant, lying, racist, sexist”. On other pig it was written “Together We Stand / Divided We Fall”. Viewers saw on a screen Trump wore Ku Klux Klan hood and there could be possible to read word Charade. If someone didn’t understand meaning for the first time, it was enough to watch at the screen once again and to see the phrase “Trump is a pig”.  