Sleep deprivation is simply a condition of having an inadequate amount of sleep. At least 50% of college students exhibit daytime sleepiness due to sleep deprivation compared to 36% of adolescents and adults.  College students, on average, get about 6 to 6.9 hours of sleep per night.  According to Stanford University's Department for the Diagnosis and Treatment for Sleep Disorders, the recommended amount of sleep needed for college students is around 8 hours.  Most college students are sleep deprived, as 70.6% of students reported that they get less than 8 hours of sleep. There are various effects that sleep deprivation can have on college students, including lower academic performance, impaired learning, and decreased physical activity.  One primary cause as to why college students experience a lack of sleep is improper sleep hygiene.  Inadequate sleep hygiene is one primary cause as to why college students experience sleep deprivation. Sleep hygiene is defined as habits or practices that allow for healthy amounts of sleep on a daily basis.  Good sleep hygiene habits include keeping a consistent sleep schedule, having a quite sleep environment and avoiding consuming caffeine and alcohol before sleeping.  Many students have inadequate sleep hygiene that leads to sleep deprivation.   According to a study by the US Department of Health and Human Services, approximately 80% of college students have drunk alcohol, with nearly 40% of the students reporting to "binge drinking," or the consumption of an excessive amount of alcohol over a short amount of time.  While alcohol may help with faster sleep, it can affect the quality of the sleep. Alcohol may effect one's REM sleep, the stage of sleep where most dreams and memories occur and are stored. Without REM sleep, one would go straight into deep sleep. This may be why people who have insomnia resort to consuming alcohol in order to fall asleep. However, this can result in alcohol dependence. Relying on alcohol as a sleeping aid can lead to sleepwalk, sleep talk and memory problems.  Drinking alcohol has also been linked to causing obstructive sleep apnea, where it causes breathing to repeatedly stop and start during sleep.  In addition, it has been proven that alcohol can cause insomnia. Researchers from the University of Missouri School of Medicine observed the effects of alcohol on sleep. The results showed that drinking alcohol boosted the adenosine levels. Adenosine levels go up when one is awake and goes down when one is asleep. The participants in this study had extended periods of regular drinking and as a result, sleep came quickly to them. However, the participants woke up in a few hours and suffered from insomnia.  The blue light that is emitted from the screens of phones, computers and other devices stops the production of melatonin, the hormone that controls the sleep-wake cycle of the circadian rhythm. Reducing the amount of melatonin produced makes it harder to fall and stay asleep.  In a 2011 poll conducted by the National Sleep Foundation, it reported that approximately 90% of Americans used technology in the hour before bed.  The poll noted that young adults and teenagers were more likely to use cell phones, computers, and video game consoles.  Additionally, the authors of the poll found that technology use was connected to sleep patterns. 22% of participants reported going to sleep with cell phone ringers on in their bedroom and 10% reported awakenings in at least a few nights per week due to their cell phones' ringers.  Among those with the cell phone ringers on, being awakened by their cell phone was correlated to difficulty sustaining sleep.  A study from the University of Kentucky depicted that more than 78% of college freshmen consume above the recommended amount of caffeine each day.  In one group of researchers' study from the Henry Ford Hospital's Sleep and Research Center and Wayne State College of Medicine, they discovered that caffeine consumed at least six hours before bedtime can significantly disrupt sleep.  Participants in this study who consumed caffeine right before bedtime, three hours before bedtime, and six hours before bedtime all experienced a shorter night's sleep, lower sleep quality and spent more time awake at night.  There is evidence that sleep is correlated with GPA. GPA is associated with the student's overall academic performances in their classes. Student who had longer amounts of sleep had higher GPAs than students who had shorter amounts of sleep.  In another study, researchers from the Sleep Health Institute and Division of Sleep and Circadian Disorder at the Departments of Medicine and Neurology in the Brigham and Women’s Hospital, created a study to discover how irregular sleep patterns are associated with poorer academic performances. The students who participated in this study kept online diaries of their sleep schedules for 30 days. The researchers divided the participants into two groups: regular sleepers, or those who went to bed and woke up around the same time every day and irregular sleepers, or those who have different sleep patterns every day. Using a scoring index from zero to 100 to calculate a student’s sleep schedule, students with irregular sleeping patterns were given lower scores closer to zero while the students with regular sleeping patterns had scores closer to 100. The researchers found that for every score increase of 10 on the scoring index, the student had an average increase of 0.10 of their GPA. The researchers concluded that college students who do not go to bed or wake up at consistent times are likely to have lower GPAs. The study suggests that irregular sleeping schedules do indeed affect student’s GPA and academic performance.  Student's physical shape seems to be affected by sleep deprivation as well. Researchers from the Imperial College School of Medicine conducted a randomized controlled study to investigate the effects of a night of sleep deprivation on the physical performance in students. The participants were randomized into two conditions, normal sleep or one night of sleep deprivation. Sleep deprivation was monitored using an online-time stamped questionnaire at 45 minute intervals, done in the participant’s homes. The results show that reaction time and exercise performance were significantly affected by sleep deprivation. The researchers concluded that sleep deprivation can affect physical performance in university students.  Daytime naps offer a potential intervention for sleep deprivation in college students. Napping may improve certain memory tasks as students who were excelling in their academics were more likely to nap than those who had low academic success.  In one study, participants took a two-credit, 18-week course that included group discussions, lectures, and self-evaluation of topics that included circadian rhythms, sleep hygiene, muscle relaxation, and public sleep education. Participants reported that they had improved sleep quality and sleep hygiene throughout the course.  In one study, a revised type of cognitive behavioral for treating insomnia was sent to participating students by email. The email contained an attachment addressing several aspects of sleep, such as techniques for relaxation and methods to stabilize the circadian rhythm. This method was compared to another program called Breathe which was created in order to reduce symptoms of depression and to cope with high stress. Participants in the Breathe program showed improvements in sleep quality and a decrease in depressive symptoms. While this study only had a small number of participants, the final results showed hope as an effective method that can help with sleep deprivation for college students. 