Marxist ethics is a doctrine of morality, i.e. ethics that is based on, or derived from, Marxist philosophy. Marxism–Leninism believes that morality, like other forms of ideology, is of a class character and is manifested in people’s behaviour in different ways in different historical conditions in accordance with the interests of what classes or social strata a person advocates. :47 The main methodological principles of Marxist ethics are materialism and dialectics. Marxist–Leninist ethics is materialist: the ideals, standards and virtues prevailing in society are interpreted as a reflection of actually existing interpersonal (value) relations, an expression of interests and requirements of social groups and classes. Morality is not reduced to an ethical ideology that has isolated itself from the world and lays claim to absolute value. Marxist ethics describes morality as a property of man’s behaviour conditioned by his social and historical existence as those moral values that bring together (or force apart) living individuals.  Marxist–Leninist ethics is dialectical, i.e. it maintains that like morality as a whole, each of its manifestations, each standard and virtue, is in perpetual motion, emerging, developing, disappearing, passing from one qualitative state to another. Torn out of the concrete historical process, morality in general simply does not exist. Each type of morality is socially and historically conditioned—this is the fundamental tenet of Marxist ethics. The objective core of morality conveys the character of definite social relations—relations of ownership of the means of production, interaction of the various classes and social groups and the forms of distribution and exchange. It follows from this that morality has class content. If the nature of social bonds determines the essence of morality (and in a class society these bonds manifest themselves, first and foremost, in the relations between classes), then the morality reflecting them has a class stamp. 