 Redhack (Kızıl Hackerlar, Kızıl Hackerlar Birliği), is a Turkish Marxist-Leninst computer hacker group founded in 1997.  The group has claimed responsibility for hacking institutions which include the Council of Higher Education, Turkish police forces, the Turkish Army, Türk Telekom, and the National Intelligence Organization and many other websites.  The group's core membership is said to number twelve; the leader's pseudonym is MaNYaK.  RedHack is the first hacker group which has been accused of being a terrorist organization  and is currently one of the world's most wanted hacker groups.  On 23 March 2012: Seven of 17 people have been arrested as a result of an operation by the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor of the Special Authority against RedHack. The group claimed in a statement that those arrested had no ties with the group.  On 5 July 2012: The public prosecutor made an application to evaluate RedHack as a "armed separatist terrorist organization".  On 8 October 2012: The application from 5 July was accepted and the public prosecutor has requested a penalty of about 8.5 to 24 years for alleged members. There were still 3 students in detention after four of seven arrested people were released. The case was postponed to 26 November 2012.  On 26 November 2012: Three students accused of being a member of the group were released. The court postponed the case to 26 February 2013.  On 26 February 2013: The court decided to postpone the case to 3 June 2013. Reason for this was that the chief justice was still searching for "experts which are needed for the IT part of the case".  On 9 May 2013: The Ankara Deputy Attorney General stated under the Anti-Terrorism Act that the actions of RedHack "did not involve violence" and with the lack of jurisdiction the Attorney General passed the case to the Cyber Crimes Investigation Unit.  On 25 May 2013: After the group's leaking of classified documents which proved the Turkish government's carelessness of the Reyhanli bombings on 11 May, Private Utku Kali, who was serving at that time at the Amasya Commands, was arrested. After Kali denied being a member of the hacktivist group and leaking the documents, he was released.   