Value criticism (in German Wertkritik) is a branch of post-Marxism which criticizes capitalistic society. Value criticism follows in the traditions of the Frankfurt School and critical theory developed under Max Horkheimer. Prominent adherents of value criticism include Robert Kurz, Roswitha Scholz, Moishe Postone and Jean-Marie Vincent. Value criticism takes crucial aspects of Marx's critiques of commodity fetishism, commodities and value, while criticizing Marx's theory of class struggle and historical materialism. As a result, proponents of Value Criticism feel that the working class is not necessarily a revolutionary subject. Instead, it is pointed out that labor has to be understood as a historic specific entity and that criticizing capitalism implies not only criticizing the distribution process in capitalism, but also the capitalistic production process and the productive powers. From this, they conclude that all actually existing socialisms thus far have been in essence forms of state-led capitalism, where production still followed capitalistic principles. This interpretation, which rejects the traditional Marxist point of view, is defended in the Manifesto Against Labour.  In addition to value criticism, a new branch appeared within a circle of theorists led by Roswitha Scholz. The so-called critique of value direction (in German called "Wertabspaltungskritik") includes not only precise descriptions of the "abstract and fetishized character of modern domination",  but also seeks to explain why irrational attitudes are delegated to women, while men are counted as relatively rational actors in the capitalistic society. Many leftists[who?] claim that books such as The Black Book of Capitalism neither offers a realistic alternative to capitalistic society nor provide any options for actions to overcome capitalism. Additionally, Gerhard Hanloser and Karl Reitter claim that value criticism is a critique from the standpoint of the circulation sphere which can not be explained from within itself.  Publishers of value criticism in Germany are the Krisis group and Exit!, to both of which Robert Kurz made crucial contributions. Much value critical literature has still to be translated into English. Elmar Flatschart from the University of Vienna is also publishing in English for the Exit! group. Moishe Postone and his work "Time, Labor and Social Domination" is often cited by value critics. 