Theodore Antoniou (Greek: Θεόδωρος Αντωνίου Theódoros Andoníou) (born February 10, 1935), is a Greek composer and conductor. His works vary from operas and choral works to chamber music, from film and theatre music to solo instrumental works.  In addition to his career as composer and conductor, he also holds the position of professor of composition at Boston University.  His education includes studies in violin, voice, and composition at the National Conservatory of Athens, the Hellenic Conservatory, and conducting at both The Hochschule für Musik and the International Music Centre in Darmstadt.  He is a member of the Academy of Athens.  In 2004, he was awarded the Herder Prize from the Alfred Toepfer Stiftung F.V.S.  Antoniou was born in Athens, Greece.  He has held teaching positions at Stanford University, the University of Utah, and the Philadelphia Musical Academy. He currently holds the position of professor among the composition staff at Boston University, where he has served since 1978. He also leads and conducts the new music ensemble Alea III, which holds residence at Boston University. The ensemble performs frequently with new and premiering compositions, has worked with numerous renowned artists, and has toured Europe on numerous occasions. As a conductor, Antoniou has worked with orchestras, small and ensembles, and musical organizations all over the globe. He has been engaged by several major orchestras and ensembles, such as the Boston Symphony Orchestra Chamber Players, the Radio Orchestras of Berlin and Paris, the Bavarian Radio Orchestra, the Tonhalle Orchestra (Zurich), the National Opera of Greece, and the Berkshire Music Center Orchestra. In 1974 he was engaged as assistant director of contemporary activities at the Tanglewood Music Center in Lennox, Massachusetts, and held that position until the summer of 1985.  As an enthusiast and active performer of new music, Antoniou has founded various contemporary music ensembles, including ALEA II at Stanford University; ALEA III, at Boston University; the Philadelphia New Music Group; and the Hellenic Group of Contemporary Music. He also directs the ALEA III International Composition Competition. Furthermore, he has held the position of president of the National Greek Composers' Association and director of the Experimental Stage of National Opera of Greece since 1989.  As a composer, Antoniou has written more than a hundred and fifty compositions for theatre and film music. Many of Antoniou's compositions were commissioned by major orchestras around the world. Over two hundred of his works have been published by Bärenreiter Verlag (Germany), G. Schirmer (USA) and Philippos Nakas (Greece). In terms of style, Antoniou's earlier works  hesitated at first between a simple atonality and Bartókian folklorism. He later developed serial techniques and applied them in various refined forms, which continue to characterize his works. In the 1970s, the influences of Jani Christou, Bernd Alois Zimmermann, and Krzysztof Penderecki became evident in his works.  