Mauro Biglino (born September 13, 1950, Torino) is an Italian author, essayist and translator. Biglino has translated the Masoretic text for the publisher Edizioni San Paolo.  He was interviewed by the Italian national television and several radio stations.  According to Biglino, knowledge and understanding of religious thought is nowadays more accessible thanks to the direct analysis of the Bible in its original languages. Biglino translates the Old Testament verbatim from the original languages, Hebrew and Aramaic  (Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia), deliberately ignoring interpretations based on doctrines elaborated with the rise of Christianity. In particular, he emphasizes the technological knowledge of the elohim, beings unwarrantedly rendered as a singular "God" in Greek theological translations of the book, who, according to the author, would have created humanity and the Adamite race in their own image and likeness. Furthermore, he argues that in the Bible there are references to highly technological devices owned by the elohim. He exposes what he considers to be unfaithful and unwarranted translations of the Bible to make it compatible with Christianity, and the latter's monotheism and creationism which, in his view, do not find support in the book. In his book La Bibbia non è un libro sacro, the author seeks to show that concepts of divinity and spirituality are not present in the Old Testament, highlighting how the text was changed over centuries. Although the work of Biglino is original, several other authors have theorized an alien presence in the sacred texts. Among these Erich von Däniken, Zecharia Sitchin, Walter Raymond Drake, Mario Pincherle, Peter Kolosimo, Father Barry Downing, Father Enrique Lopez Guerrero, Corrado Malanga, and Biagio Russo. Erich von Däniken is one of the main supporters of the ancient astronaut hypothesis, he translated mainly from the Greek and Latin but not from the Hebrew, while Zecharia Sitchin translated from Sumerian sources. Comics based on his works: Books translated in other languages: 