 Salvador Freixedo, (O Carballi침o, Ourense Province, Galicia, 1923) is a former Spanish Catholic priest and a former member of the Jesuit Order. An Ufologist and researcher of paranormal subjects, he has written a number of books on the relationship between religion and extraterrestrial beings, and has been a speaker in several international UFO congresses in Europe, the Americas, and  Asia. He is also a contributor to a number of parascientific magazines, such as Mundo Desconocido (Unknown World),  Karma 7 and M치s all치 (Beyond)  among others. He has also appeared in a number of TV and radio shows dedicated to these subjects. He was born in O Carballi침o (Ourense Province, Galicia, Spain), in 1923,  in the bosom of a deeply religious family (his brother was a Jesuit and his sister was a nun). When he was five his family moved to Orense, and it is there where he started his first studies, attending primary school at theSaint Vicent Paul nuns and secondary school at the Institute Otero Pedrayo. At the age of 16 he joins the Jesuit Order and is ordained priest in 1953, in Santander, Spain. He was a member of the jesuit order for thirty years.  He lived in a number of countries in the Americas from 1947, in his role as Jesuit, teaching History of the Church in the Interdiocese Seminary of Santo Domingo, and founding the Movement of the Christian Working Youth in San Juan, Puerto Rico. He was the national vice-assesor of this movement in La Habana. He studied  humanities in Salamanca, philosophy in Universidad de Comillas (Santander),  theology in Alma College in San Francisco (California), ascetics in Mont Laurier (Canada), psychology in the University of Los Angeles (California) and in Fordham University of New York City. Since the 1950s, his critical position on the postures of the Catholic Church and the publication of some books led him to jail and to the expulsion from countries like Cuba and Venezuela, and also to his exclusion from the Jesuit Order in 1969.   Since the 1970s he has dedicated himself to research in the field of parapsychology, in particular the UFO phenomenon and its relation to religion and human history. He has published a number of books on the subject, and founded the Mexican Institute of Paranormal Studies, of which he presided over the First Great International Congress   organized by the former. From the time of his falling away with the Order, he dedicated himself to the study of paranormal phenomena, considering it a window to other realities and other dimensions of existence. He has published over thirty books, many discussing a possible relationship between religion and extraterrestrials, such as: 