Jumanji is a 1981 fantasy children's picture book, written and illustrated by the American author Chris Van Allsburg.  It was made into a 1995 film of the same name. Both the book and the film are about a magical board game that implements real animals and other jungle elements as the game is played; thus the dangers which the players have to overcome in the game also appear in real life. Jumanji star Robin Williams said "jumanji" is a Zulu word meaning "many effects",  as did Van Allsburg.  In 2011, Williams recorded an audiobook for its 30th edition.  Fritz, a bull terrier in all of Chris Van Allsburg's books, appears as a toy dog on wheels in the third illustration. While their parents are out for the evening, Judy and Peter Shepherd, after playing with some toys, become bored and decide to go to the park. There they find a jungle adventure game called Jumanji. Taking the game home, they find a warning message; "Do not begin unless you intend to finish". Ignoring the warning, they start to play. The pair soon discovers that any dangers encountered in the game spring to life somewhere in the house. For example, when Peter rolls on a lion, a real lion appears, which Judy and Peter trap in their mother's bedroom. Continuing on, Judy rolls on a stampede, Peter rolls on a monsoon, and Judy rolls on an explorer—each appears in real life to wreak havoc in the house. Still they continue to play, hoping that by finishing the game everything will go back to normal. The game finally ends when Judy rolls a volcano and yells "Jumanji!". In an instant everything is back to normal and the siblings quickly return to the park and abandon the game before their parents return. The story ends when Judy and Peter look outside and see their neighbors, Danny and Walter, excitedly returning from the park with Jumanji in their hands with the knowledge that their mother claims the brothers never bother to finish the games they play nor read the instructions. Zathura (published in 2002) is a sequel to Jumanji also written by Van Allsburg. In Zathura, Danny and Walter Budwing from the end of the Jumanji story, find a science fiction board game that similarly causes the effects of the game to come to life.  It has also been adapted to film in 2005.      Children's literature portal 