Killers of the Flower Moon: The Osage Murders and the Birth of the FBI is the third non-fiction book by American journalist David Grann.  The book was released on April 18, 2017 by Doubleday.    Time magazine listed Killers of the Flower Moon as one of its top ten non-fiction books of 2017.  The book investigates a series of murders of wealthy Osage people that took place in Osage County, Oklahoma in the early 1920s—after big oil deposits were discovered beneath their land.   Officially, the count of the murdered full-blood wealthy Osage native Americans reaches at least 20, but Grann suspects that hundreds more may have been killed because of their ties to oil.  The book reports cattleman William Hale as the mastermind standing behind the murders and presents detailed evidence. Imperative Entertainment is said to pay $5 million  for the rights to adapt the book to film with Eric Roth set to write the screenplay.   As of July 14, 2017, Martin Scorsese and Leonardo DiCaprio are developing a film adaptation of the book. Filming is expected to start in spring 2018.  Sean Woods of Rolling Stone wrote: "In his masterful new book Killers of the Flower Moon: the Osage Murders and the Birth of the FBI, which comes out this week, Grann chronicles a tale of murder, betrayal, heroism and a nation's struggle to leave its frontier culture behind and enter the modern world... Filled with almost mythic characters from our past – stoic Texas Rangers, corrupt robber barons, private detectives, and murderous desperadoes like the Al Spencer gang – Grann's story amounts to a secret history of the American frontier."  A reviewer of Publishers Weekly stated "New Yorker staff writer Grann (The Lost City of Z) burnishes his reputation as a brilliant storyteller in this gripping true-crime narrative, which revisits a baffling and frightening—and relatively unknown—spree of murders occurring mostly in Oklahoma during the 1920s."  Ed Vulliamy of The Guardian said "The genocide by white America against Native nations during the century leading up to Grann’s period is a metaphor for humanity’s decimation of the natural world which the Natives saw as sacred. Grann’s book is a timely and disturbing chapter in the original, terrible atrocity."  