The Bang-Bang Club: Snapshots from a Hidden War is a 2000 book about the Bang-Bang Club, a group of four South African photographers active within the townships of South Africa during the apartheid period, particularly between 1990 and 1994. The journalists were Kevin Carter, Greg Marinovich, Ken Oosterbroek, and João Silva. The book was written by Marinovich and Silva.  Between 1990 and 1994, the transition from apartheid to democracy in South Africa became extremely violent. Photographers Kevin Carter, Greg Marinovich, Ken Oosterbroek, and João Silva, collectively known as the Bang-Bang Club, documented the violence. In the preface of the book, Marinovich writes that the group were often portrayed as "a group of hard-living men who worked, played and hung out together pretty much all of the time," then saying "Let us set the record straight." Marinovich and Joao Silva started to write the book in 1997.  The acknowledgments mention the so-called Impimpi – informants who contributed to the book. Impimpi is a Zulu word, and in the glossary of the book it is translated as "spy". 45 are listed, including the parents of Kevin Carter. Judith Matloff, also listed under impimpi, wrote in an article: "But the reporters and photographers stationed in South Africa at the time were also compassionate human beings who exposed themselves to danger because they wanted to record history".  Other witnesses or impimpi for the book from that era include: James Nachtwey, Peter Magubane, Brian Mkhize, Gilles Peress,  Vivian Silva, and more. The book was first published in January 2000 by William Heinemann, London, UK and then by Basic Books, New York. It was translated into Polish, Portuguese, Spanish and German. 19 editions have been published.  In a review for H-SAfrica, Niranjan Karnik wrote: "I have several concerns about the future of this profession".  He suggested that conflict journalist need a "debriefing" after the experience in a conflict or war zone "akin to what the International Committee of the Red Cross requires of its fieldworkers". He said of the book that "its overall value is not as much in its use as source of history, but in how it openly exposes the way journalists suffer in the course of their work, and the heavy ethical and moral questions they face on an daily basis." In 2010, the Canadian director Steven Silver released a film adaptation of the book as a full-feature film also entitled The Bang Bang Club. 