Vaginal cancer is a malignant tumor that forms in the tissues of the vagina.  Primary tumors are most usually squamous cell carcinomas. Primary tumors are rare, and more usually vaginal cancer occurs as a secondary tumor. Vaginal cancer occurs more often in women over age 50, but can occur at any age, even in infancy. It often can be cured if found and treated in early stages. Surgery alone or surgery combined with pelvic radiation is typically used to treat vaginal cancer. Children can be diagnosed with advanced vaginal cancer. They are treated by surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. Vaginal cancer in children may recur. Gene therapy to treat vaginal cancer is currently in clinical trials.  Carcinoma of the vagina occurs in less than 2% of women with pelvic malignant tumors. Squamous carcinoma is the most common type of vaginal cancer. The human papilloma virus (HPV) is strongly associated with vaginal cancer. Vaginal cancer occurs most often in the upper third of the vagina (51%), 30% are found in the lower third, and 19% in the middle third. Vaginal cancer can present as an elevated  lesion growing out from the epithelial surface or an ulcer-like, shallow depression. Definitive diagnosis is determined by biopsy.  Most vaginal cancers do not cause signs or symptoms early on. When vaginal cancer does cause symptoms, they may include:  Enlarged pelvic lymph nodes can sometimes be palpated  There are two primary types of vaginal cancer: squamous-cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma.  Stage 1 vaginal cancer Stage 2 vaginal cancer Stage 3 vaginal cancer Stage 4A vaginal cancer Stage 4B vaginal cancer Several tests are used to diagnose vaginal cancer, including: Recommendations for women with vaginal cancer is not to have routine surveillance imaging to monitor the cancer unless they have new symptoms or rising tumor markers.  Imaging without these indications is discouraged because it is unlikely to detect a recurrence or improve survival, and because it has its own costs and side effects.  MRI provides visualization of the extent of vaginal cancer.  Historically, the combination of external-beam radiation therapy (EBRT) has been the most common treatment for vaginal cancer. In early stages of vaginal cancer, surgery also has some benefit. This management and treatment is less effective for those with advanced stages of cancer but works well in early stages with high rates of cure. Advanced vaginal cancer only has a 5-year survival rates of 52.2%, 42.5% and 20.5% for patients with stage II, III and IVa disease. Newer treatments for advanced stages of ovarian have been developed. These utilize concurrent carboplatin plus paclitaxel, EBRT and high-dose-rate interstitial brachytherapy (HDR-ISBT).  When the chance of surgical removal of all cancerous tissue is very low or when the surgery has a chance of damaging the bladder, vagina or bowel, radiation therapy is used. When a tumor is less than 4 cm in diameter, radiation therapy provides excellent results. In these instances, the 5-year survival rate is greater than 80%.  Treatments are individualized due to the rarity of vaginal cancer studies.  A local surgery to remove vaginal cancer A radical hysterectomy to treat vaginal cancer without reconstruction A radical hysterectomy for vaginal cancer with reconstruction of the vagina using other tissues Cancer of the vagina is rare and is only 2% of all gynecological cancers less than 0.5% of all cancers in women.  Estimated new cases in the United States in 2017 are 4,810. Deaths from vaginal during the same time were 1,240.  It is more common in older women.  In the UK, 254 cases of Vaginal cancer were identified in 2014. Deaths from vaginal cancer in this period were 110.  Out of those with vaginal cancer, 53% are related to HPV infection.  