BAND is a mobile community application that facilitates group communication. Created by Naver Corporation, the service is available on iOS, Android, and Desktop. Users can create separate spaces for communicating with members of different groups depending on the purpose of those groups. Types of groups include existing circles such as sports teams, marching bands, campus groups, faith groups, teams, friends, family as well as interest-based groups, like those for hobbyists, gamers, and fans, which are also searchable within the app. BAND is a wildly popular social app in Korea whose number of monthly active users surpassed that of Facebook by June, 2014 according to Nielson-Korean Click.  BAND's core features are Board, Chat, Calendar, and Album. Main communications happen on Board where announcements and comments are posted. Polling, file sharing, and image/video sharing are also possible on Board.  The Discover feature was added in March, 2015 which allows users to search for and join interest-based groups by using certain keywords. There are three types of BAND groups: Secret Band, Closed Band, and Public Band. Secret Band is a non-searchable group where members can join only by invitation. Closed Band is a searchable group, but only members who have already joined can see the content. Public Band is a searchable group whose content is accessible to both members and non-members. Unlike messaging apps, BAND has a membership system where Administrators and Co-Administrators have certain privileges, including Admin-only posting, deleting other members' content, approving/disapproving membership, removing members, or restricting sending out invites to non-members. Key functions of each feature are: There is no limit on the number of members per Band group. Secret Bands are mostly created by pre-existing offline groups when members intend to stay connected, plan, and collaborate with each other via mobile. Examples of such groups include  friends, extended families, social groups, campus groups, teams, and organizations. Once a member creates a group on the BAND app, the member can invite other members by sharing a Band URL via SMS, messenger apps, or email. The members then can sign up on the BAND app and join the group by clicking the URL. Closed and Public Bands are created by interest-based groups, like people with common life experiences or hobbies, gamers, fans, and such. BAND has launched a gaming platform in April, 2014 allowing users to play games and compete with each other.  In South Korea, BAND has become an official communication tool in the Republic of Korea Army.  