Facekoo was a social networking service created and designed by the Facekoo,Inc. which targets the Chinese-Language market. It offers a unique way of face recognition system to connect each member in order to create a social circle.  According to Alexa ranking, its page views went beyond MySpace China for a while in November 2008 and December 2008.  Facekoo  (simplified Chinese: 飞思酷; traditional Chinese: 飛思酷; pinyin: fēi'sī'kù) is a social networking branch created by a private proprietorship, the Facekoo, Inc.,based in Beijing, China.   Facekoo, its name is derived from face and koo (a homonym for cool in Chinese). In the Chinese-language based market, this innovative social networking target on teenagers and the adolescents. FaceKoo was created by co-founders Calvin Pak, CEO, David Yan, Chief technical officer, and Sheryl Liu, CMO, which are all well-educated Chinese Americans with extensive business track records in the Silicon Valley.   Facekoo offers numerous features, such as one of the most representative capability, Mojing, a magic mirror that can link users to another Facekoo member by systematically of facial analysis.   Facial features can be opted by users in which they can find their ideal “koo-friend”. Online games and other interactive applications are also fascinating features available on Facekoo. Facekoo has rapidly grown since the initial in March, 2008 in China. The Facebook sound alike website, Facekoo, is considered as one of the major Chinese social networking site that can fit into the Eastern culture, said Facekoo’s founder.   According to San Francisco Chronicle, Facekoo has 350000 users since its introduction in 2004.   Another database, CrunchBase, stated that Facekoo already possess more than 1.2 million members since they launched this social media networking in March, 2008.  Facekoo has earned profits from online advertising, sale of digital goods and their special e-commerce operation.   Koo-dollar, a virtual currency used in Facekoo, allows you to purchase any additional digital goods.  Although Facekoo has earned over 7 million koo-dollar, Facekoo’s leading income sources are still sourcing from online advertising.  Pengyou is another popular social network that has million of users and growing. 360quan is a major rival of Facekoo that has received more than $20 million USD in funding but is still behind Facekoo in daily ranking. While Facekoo is ahead of 360quan, its page views have also exceeded Cyworld China, which is the most popular site in Korea, and iPart China, the most visited site in Taiwan.   