Koofers is a private company, founded in 2008 and headquartered in Reston, VA (a part of the Washington, DC metropolitan area). Koofers is an interactive community that serves the academic needs of college students through information sharing. All college students have access to the service by creating an account with their e-mail address. Many of Koofers' services span the entire academic calendar from course selection through final exams, and include interactive flashcards, course & instructor ratings, professors’ grading histories, and an online library for sharing past exams & study materials. Koofers.com is a free service to all students and faculty at colleges and universities worldwide. The term “koofer” originated  in the 1940s at Bluefield College, a former extension branch of Virginia Tech, and was likely derived from the word “coffer” (synonym for a strongbox). It is often used as a verb in such constructions as “to coofer a problem,” also sometimes spelled “koofer.” A student from Bluefield College transferred to the Virginia Tech and first introduced the term there. The term then began to refer to tests or homework completed in an earlier course that is made available to students taking the course later, and used for studying or preparing. Koofers.com took it a step further and re-branded the term “koofers” to refer to all previously used/administered college-level, academic information or data that can help students with their courses (i.e. exams, study guides, ratings, grade distributions, etc.). Koofers.com was created in 2006 by [then] Virginia Tech students Michael Rihani and Patrick Gartlan, along with Virginia Tech alumnus Glynn LoPresti. Their vision was to enable students to make the, relatively opaque, process of class and teacher selection fully transparent, by providing grading histories and professor reviews to help students shape their class schedules, based on their individual needs and learning styles (e.g., “I am fine with exams, but I hate teachers who give tons of quizzes”). The reaction from its alpha deployment at Virginia Tech, coupled with positive feedback from a quick pilot during the last week of a Spring term at the University of Maryland, lead to a nationwide launch in the Fall of 2009. Today Koofers.com continues to launch at more higher-education schools and grow its products and services each semester. 