"Five Little Monkeys"  is an English language folk song and fingerplay.  It is usually accompanied by a sequence of gestures that mimic the words of the song.  Each successive verse sequentially counts down from the starting number.     A commonly used version uses these words and gestures:: Five little monkeys jumping on the bed, One fell down and bumped his head, Mama called the doctor and the doctor said, "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!" Four little monkeys jumping on the bed, One fell down and bumped his head, Mama called the doctor and the doctor said, "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!" Three little monkeys jumping on the bed, One fell down and bumped his head, Mama called the doctor and the doctor said, "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!" Two little monkeys jumping on the bed, One fell down and bumped his head, Mama called the doctor and the doctor said, "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!" One little monkey jumping on the bed, He/She fell down and bumped his head, Mama called the doctor and the doctor said, "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!" No little monkeys jumping on the bed, None fell down and bumped their head, Papa called the doctor and the doctor said, "Put those monkeys right to bed!" Hold up five fingers; Rest elbow on other hand, bounce arm up and down Hold up one finger and roll your hand down towards the floor and tap your fist to your head Put your pinky finger to your cheek and thumb to your ear (like a telephone) Wag your index finger nine times Hold up four fingers; Rest elbow on other hand, bounce arm up and down Hold up one finger and roll your hand down towards the floor and tap your fist to your head Put your pinky finger to your cheek and thumb to your ear (like a telephone) Wag your index finger nine times Hold up three fingers; Rest elbow on other hand, bounce arm up and down Hold up one finger and roll your hand down towards the floor and tap your fist to your head Put your pinky finger to your cheek and thumb to your ear (like a telephone) Wag your index finger nine times Hold up two fingers; Rest elbow on other hand, bounce arm up and down Hold up one finger and roll your hand down towards the floor and tap your fist to your head Put your pinky finger to your cheek and thumb to your ear (like a telephone) Wag your index finger nine times Hold up one finger; Rest elbow on other hand, bounce arm up and down Hold up one finger and roll your hand down towards the floor and tap your fist to your head Put your pinky finger to your cheek and thumb to your ear (like a telephone) Wag your index finger seven times Hold up zero fingers; Rest elbow on other hand, bounce arm up and down Hold up zero fingers and roll your hand down towards the floor and tap your fist to your head Put your pinky finger to your cheek and thumb to your ear {like a telephone} Wag your index finger seven times An additional part is: No little monkeys jumping on the bed, None fell down and bumped their heads. Mama called the doctor and the doctor said: Put those monkeys straight back to the bed! An alternate version sometimes seen is: Five little monkeys swinging in a tree, Teasing Mr. Alligator "Can't catch me!" Along came Mr. Alligator quiet as can be, And snatched that monkey out of that tree!  Four little monkeys swinging in a tree, Teasing Mr. Alligator "Can't catch me!" Along came Mr. Alligator quiet as can be, And snatched that monkey out of that tree!  Three little monkeys swinging in a tree, Teasing Mr. Alligator "Can't catch me!" Along came Mr. Alligator quiet as can be, And snatched that monkey out of that tree!  Two little monkeys swinging in a tree, Teasing Mr. Alligator "Can't catch me!" Along came Mr. Alligator quiet as can be, And snatched that monkey out of that tree!  One little monkey swinging in a tree, Teasing Mr. Alligator "Can't catch me!" Along came Mr. Alligator quiet as can be, And snatched that monkey out of that tree!  No more monkeys swinging in a tree! 