Kidsongs is an American children's media franchise that includes Kidsongs Music Video Stories on DVD and video, The Kidsongs TV Show, CDs of favorite children’s songs, song books, sheet music, toys and an ecommerce website.  It was created by producer/writer Carol Rosenstein and director Bruce Gowers of Together Again Video Productions (TAVP), both of whom are music video and television production veterans.    The duo had produced and directed over 100 music videos for Warner Brothers Records (WBR) and took their idea of music videos for children to the record label. Warner Brothers funded the first video, “A Day at Old MacDonald’s Farm”. Shortly thereafter, a three way partnership between TAVP, WBR and View-Master Video was formed with TAVP being responsible for production and WBR and View-Master responsible for distribution to video and music stores, and toy stores respectively.  The home video series was launched with four Kidsongs Music Video Stories episodes at New York's Toy Fair on January 1, 1985. "A Day at Old MacDonald’s Farm” was one of those first four and has sold over 4 million copies  and won the Vira Award.  Each half-hour Music Video Stories episode features 10 to 15 songs, in a music video style production starring children. They sing and dance their way through well-known children's songs, nursery rhymes, and covers of pop hits from the '50s, '60s and '70s—all tied together by a simple story and theme. The TAVP/WBR/View-Master Video (Viewmaster was acquired by Tyco in 1989–95)  partnership produced 16 Kidsongs episodes of the Music Video Stories. In 1995, WBR and TAVP bought out Tyco's distribution rights and produced three more View-Master videos called "Country Sing-Along", "Billy Biggle's Favorite Songs", and "Boppin' with the Biggles" in 1994, and two KidVision videos called "Let's Put on a Show" and "Baby Animal Songs" in 1995, as part of a new venture with another division of Warner Bros.--Warner Vision.  In 1997, TAVP acquired all rights from WBR/Warner Vision and became the sole owner of all Kidsongs properties. Later in 1997, TAVP entered into a distribution/production agreement  with Sony Wonder, which resulted in the production of four more titles called "I Can Dance!", "I Can Do It!", "Adventures in Biggleland: Billy's Birthday", and "Adventures in Biggleland: Meet the Biggles". That agreement ended in July 1, 1998, and in 2002, distribution rights were licensed by Image Entertainment, who continues to distribute the videos. From September 1, 1985 to August 16, 1999, 24 Kidsongs home video episodes encompassing 300 children's songs, nursery rhymes, and cover versions of pop hits from the '50s-'90s were produced, featuring a variety of subjects that are of interest to kids: animals, birthdays, the zoo, sports, summer camp, fantasy, vehicles, and general silliness. 14 have been certified platinum by the RIAA,  with 5 of them having sold more than 2 million copies. As of now, the videos have sold over 19.5 million copies. The following is a complete list of Kidsongs music video titles available on VHS: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: Featuring these music videos: The Kidsongs Television Show debuted on September 19, 1987, with 26 half-hour episodes for 30 minutes distributed by Orbis Entertainment.  The half-hour, live action episodes featured the Kidsongs Kids running their own TV show in a top 8 countdown-style show, featuring music videos from the Kidsongs home video series. It ran on network affiliates, primarily on Saturday mornings.  It garnered excellent ratings and ran for 2 years, before moving to the Disney Channel for another four years. It won the prestigious Excellence in Children's Programming Award from ACT. In 1987–88, it was called The Kidsongs TV Show.  In 1994, a new version of the television series was developed by Rosenstein and produced in conjunction with Chicago public television station WTTW for 30 minutes and distributed by American Public Television to PBS stations nationally. Airing as part of the PBS Kids "Ready to Learn" block, The Kidsongs Television Show aired throughout the country and, by 1998, reached 89 percent of households.  Many of the original Kidsongs videos were used in the public television series, along with new educational content and in-studio guests. The kids are joined by the adorable fantasy characters Billy and Ruby Biggle, and their magical friends from Biggleland. The Biggles help the children resolve their problems and concerns in a comforting, kind way. They address age-appropriate issues, such as not wanting to share, jealousy, friendship, telling the truth and patience. Seasons one through four of The Kidsongs Television Show totalled 80 episodes. It ran on Public Television for six years, winning critical acclaim.   Currently, fifteen episodes of The Kidsongs Television Show are available on DVD,  and also in its entirety on digital download through iTunes and Amazon Video. 