Nancy Stockall (Haas) is an Associate Professor of Early Childhood Studies and Special Education at Sam Houston State University. She has previously held positions at the University of Arkansas at Fort Smith, the flagship University of Arkansas campus at Fayetteville as well as at Bowling Green State University in Bowling Green, Ohio. Before obtaining her Ph.D. (Ph.D. 1993) from Kent State University, she was first both a general education and special education elementary teacher and later became the Special Education Administrator for Massillon City Schools in Massillon, Ohio. Her dissertation was the recipient of the 1995 Outstanding Dissertation Award from the American Educational Research Association Early Education for Children with Disabilities. Dr. Stockall's research interests primarily relate to the field of semiotics, with special interest in applying semiotic methodology to inform inclusive practices for students with mild disabilities in general education classrooms. She has also worked on numerous projects linking applied semiotics to general early childhood education, human development, counseling and rehabilitation, and aviation studies. Author of over 100 publications and presentations, her latest publications include: •	Right from the Start: Universal design for preschoolers. Teaching Exceptional Children •	Planning Literacy Environments for Diverse Preschoolers. Young Exceptional Children.   •	Fathers' Role in Play: Enhancing early language and literacy of children with developmental delays. •	The Daily Dozen: Strategies for Enhancing Social Communication of Infants with Language Delays.  Additional published work includes: Stockall, N., & Dennis, L. R. (2014). Using Pivotal Response Training and Technology to Engage Preschoolers With Autism in Conversations. Intervention in School and Clinic, 49(4), 195-202. Stockall, N., & Smith, R. E. (2013). Alternative Assessment Portfolios for Students with Intellectual Disabilities: A Case Study. Exceptionality, 21(3), 127-146. Dr. Stockall is also involved with the American Educational Research Association, and has served as the Membership Chair, Treasurer and, Secretary of the association's Semiotics in Education Special Interest Group. Stockall, N. S. (2014). When an Aide Really Becomes an Aid Providing Professional Development for Special Education Paraprofessionals. TEACHING Exceptional Children, 46(6), 197-205. Stockall, N., Dennis, L. R., & Rueter, J. A. (2014). Developing a Progress Monitoring Portfolio for Children in Early Childhood Special Education Programs. TEACHING Exceptional Children, 46(3), 32-40.  