The Malvern School, founded in 1998, is a year-round private preschool for ages six weeks to eight years. The Malvern School believes in developing the whole child in a nurturing, yet engaging environment and offers an innovative curriculum that has raised the bar in early childhood education. Today, The Malvern School has 25 locations throughout Southeastern Pennsylvania and Central and Southern New Jersey and is dedicated to providing curriculum that is designed to meet or exceed the highest standards established by the National Association of the Education of Young Children (NAEYC), the nation’s largest early childhood accrediting organization. Joseph Scandone and Kristen Waterfield founded the Malvern School in 1998.  A pioneer in the early childhood education field, Scandone also founded the Goddard School in 1986. Scandone served as President and CEO until 1996.  Scandone and Waterfield then opened The Malvern School in an effort to maintain basic state certification standards and employ only degreed teachers.  Malvern’s innovative curriculum, designed and implemented by Waterfield, allows teachers to customize lesson plans to meet the needs of a diverse student body, and has been recognized as a leader in the field by industry accreditation agencies.  Malvern currently operates schools in Pennsylvania and New Jersey, with three more opening in Central New Jersey in 2013, and seven others planned over the next few years.  The programs at The Malvern School are based on best practices, a set of standards designed to meet the criteria of early childhood experts and are in compliance with state standards. As of 2016, 13 of The Malvern School’s early childhood programs have been accredited by the National Association for the Education of Young Children, an accreditation that carries with it standards for qualifications requirements for faculty, staff, and program specifics.  Timeline of Malvern Schools Receiving Accreditation by NAEYC:   In 2010, The Malvern School hosted a school-wide event based on First Lady Barbara Bush’s pro-literacy radio program "Mrs. Bush’s Story Time." Created by the Philadelphia non-profit organization Children’s Literacy Initiative, hosted by Mrs. Bush, and broadcast nationwide by ABC Radio Networks, ‘’Mrs. Bush’s Story Time’’ featured celebrities reading classic children’s stories.  “As you know, literacy has been my life-long passion, and I am so proud of the work that my foundation has done to advance the cause and encourage people of all ages to experience the joy of reading,” said Mrs. Bush. “I am especially pleased that the Malvern School is using the broadcasts as educational events for their students, and I wish them the best of luck,” she added. “Malvern School First in Nation to Re-Launch Mrs. Bush's Story Time.”  Since 2008, The Malvern School has been a sponsor of The Alex Scott – Stand for Hope Phone Bank on CBS 3-Philadelphia and the Alex's Lemonade Stand Foundation (ALSF) by raising additional funds and awareness in the fight against pediatric cancer. Every year since 2008 each Malvern School location hosts an Alex’s Lemonade Stand Day.  As of 2016, The Malvern School had raised more than $500,000 for Alex’s  and has been recognized by ALSF as one of the Top 100 individual fundraisers for the foundation in the PA/NJ area.  