The Wee Sing Video Series is a collection of live action musical videos for children. Many of the videos contained colorful characters that taught lessons to children, like being young at heart or overcoming personal challenges with the help of friends. The series was started in 1985 and ended in 1996. By 2005, the first nine videos in the series were released on DVD. Sally gets a surprise when her two favorite stuffed animals, Melody Mouse (dressed up as a ballerina) and Hum Bear too, magically come to life and take her, in addition to her brother Jonathan, and their dog Bingo to the magical Wee Sing Park to meet a marching band and celebrate her birthday party. They sing and dance and learn how to conquer their fears when a storm hits. Jack, Jill, Mary, and Little Boy Blue  journey toward King Cole's palace to join him and his other subjects in celebrating 100 years of peace in the kingdom, bringing various gifts: a kitten, a pair of mittens, and a fuzzy blanket, among other things. The main message is that the best gifts come from the heart, but it also teaches the importance of helping others and using good manners. A boy named Peter and his friends, David and Sarah, visit his grandfather and discover his many toys (including Punchinello) and their secrets, all in the search of a missing music box key that he misplaced. When his grandfather leaves the room, the kids shrink down and the toys come to life. This story encourages children and adults alike that no matter how old you are on the outside or body type you have, you'll always be young at heart. Two children named Laurie and Scott, along with their dog Barney, magically enter their coloring book to help an aptly named Sillywhim resolve the townspeople's differences. They encounter the yellow Spurtlegurgles, the blue Twirlypops, the green Jingleheimers and Fruggy Frogs, the red Bittybooties and Purple Pasha and her menagerie. The primary message is that being different should never be a barrier to being friends. Just five days before Christmas, when Poofer the Elf tries to help his best friend Gusty the Elf, he gets lost and winds up in the home of the Smiths, a loving family, and meets their caroling neighbors as well. He and the Smiths journey to the North Pole in an effort to aid Gusty, who has grown unexceptionably clumsy. After the elves, and even Santa Claus himself wrestle with the issue, Susie realizes what's wrong - Gusty needs a new pair of glasses. This story encourages children to wear glasses (if they need them), but also has subtle messages about cultural diversity, helping others, the importance of working together, the importance of wearing a seat belt and helmet while traveling, and that an adoptive family can be as close and loving as any other. An imaginative young girl named Lisa waits until her two stuffed animals, Snoodle and Doodle, come to life, and they take her to a magical secret place called the Big Rock Candy Mountains when her friends Debbie and Eric don't want to do what she wants to do. When they arrive there, the Meecy Mice arrive late because of their issues with Little Bunny Foo Foo, who keeps bopping them on the head and How will they ever find out? Three children named Alex, Kelly, and Benji and their Auntie Annabella go to visit their Great Uncle Rubato in his Marvelous Musical Mansion where the music boxes come to life, the hat rack sings and dances, and the door knocker requires you to solve a riddle before you enter.  However, in the darkness of the night, several small but important items vanish, requiring the children to locate the thief.  Each segment teaches the viewer about musical theory or terminology. Two children named Casey and Carter are magically transported into the world of their toy train set, and begin a journey through several very different locations. Along the route their elephant friend, Tusky the train engineer (voiced by Adair Chappell), learns how to be careful and think things through. An ambitious young boy named Devin and his granny find an enchanted conch shell that takes them to the ocean floor where they encounter many undersea creatures, including an underwater jazz band and even Ottie (voiced by Patti Voglino), a fuzzy baby sea otter. Along the way they encounter Weeber (voiced by Patti Voglino), a lost penguin who misses his way back to the South Pole, take him back home, and help him be comfortable with his odd light blue color, which makes him different. This story also touches on the destructive effects of pollution. Wee Sing characters Punchinello, Sillywhim, Little Bunny Foo Foo, Weeber, Snoodle and Doodle, and Trunky (originally Tusky) who are all from earlier Wee Sing Videos, ride the Wee Sing train to Sing-a-Ling-a-Land where Singaling (voiced by Mikey Moran) and Warbly (voiced by Maureen Robinson) are hosting a big musical party called "The Wee Sing Festival". Sing-a-Ling-a-Land also happens to be an extension of Tim and Annie’s game board. However, the main guest of honor (a singing rainbow) is missing, so as each character performs his or her respective performance, Chug-a-Long the engine and Cubby the caboose are sent to go look for her by asking a cirrus, stratus, cumulus cloud where she disappeared too. Eventually, she is found after Tim and Annie finds her on his gameboard playing with their cat, Staccato, and as a reward, they are invited to attend the Wee Sing Festival, and the singing rainbow is able to perform. This video features 17 clips from different Wee Sing Videos that include an animal song with each of the intervals between them featuring an animated clip of Singaling (voiced by Mona Marshall) and Warbly (voiced by Penny Sweet). This video features 16 clips from different Wee Sing Videos that include a classic children's song with each of the intervals between them featuring an animated clip of Singaling (voiced by Mona Marshall) and Warbly (voiced by Penny Sweet). 