Rodwell, a name of Anglo-Saxon origin, is a locational surname deriving from any one of various places in Bedfordshire, Hertfordshire, and Kent, England. In English, the meaning of the name Rodwell is "lives by the spring near the road".  Locational surnames were acquired especially by those former inhabitants of a place who had moved to another area, usually to seek work, and were thereafter best identified by the name of their birthplace. The places in Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire are called Radwell, and both are recorded in the Domesday Book of 1086 as "Radeuuelle"; the name means "the red spring or stream", derived from the Olde English pre-7th-century "read", red, with "well(a)", spring or stream. Rodwell, a parish in the diocese of Rochester, Kent, derives its name from the Olde English personal name "Hroda", a short form of various compound names with the first element "hrod", renown, with "well(a)", as before. The modern surname from this source can be found as Rodwell, Radwell, and Rudwell. The christening of Hugh, son of John Rodwell, was recorded at St. Michael Bassishaw, London on July 27, 1572, and the marriage of Thomas Rodwell and Hanna Francknet was recorded in Eaton Socon, Bedfordshire, on October 27, 1624. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Robert de Radewell, which was dated 1273, in the "Hundred Rolls of Bedfordshire", during the reign of King Edward I, known as "The Hammer of the Scots", 1272–1307. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. In England this was known as Poll Tax. Throughout the centuries, surnames in every country have continued to "develop" often leading to astonishing variants of the original spelling.  Rodwell is mostly used as a surname. Notable people with such include: Rodwell has been used a character name in literature and television. For example: In English-speaking and some other Western countries, a double-barrelled name (or double surname) is a family name with two parts, which may or may not be joined with a hyphen. It may also be known as a hyphenated name. People with a Rodwell hyphenated or double-barrelled name include: Lady Clarissa Rodwell  was the wife of Cecil Hunter-Rodwell, Governor of the then Southern Rhodesia (1928–1933). In 1932, Lady Rodwell Maternity Hospital  located in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe was named after her. Births at this hospital could explain the use of Rodwell as a male first name. For example: 