Chlamydia research  is the systematic study of the organisms in the taxonomic group of bacteria Chlamydiae, the diagnostic procedures  to treat infections, the disease chlamydia, infections caused by the organisms, the epidemiology of infection and the development of vaccines. The process of research can include the participation of many researchers who work in collaboration from separate organizations, governmental entities and universities.  The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) offers funding to research the biology, physiology, epidemiology, vaccine development, publish systematic reviews of Chlamydia species.  Other funding sources include the National Chlamydia Coalition.   NIAID conducts research at the Rocky Mountain Laboratories in Hamilton, Montana, This facility is developing a vaccine to prevent Chlamydia trachomatis infection. The vaccine being tested is a single-component vaccine that is designed to protect against all 15 chlamydia varieties. Studies have already shown that the vaccine can prevent laboratory cells from becoming infected. Another prevention strategy being pursued is the development of topical microbicides (preparations that can be inserted into the vagina to prevent infection) that are effective and easy for women to use. Studies continue to determine organism's genetic makeup. NIAID-supported scientists determined the complete genome (genetic blueprint) for C. trachomatis.  This instition continues its research into Chlamydia infection.    The Institute has published over 140 studies related to Chlamydia.  There are research projects in several areas, including: development of a human vaccine for chlamydial sexually transmitted disease understanding basic mechanisms of regulation, including the importance of chlamydial proteases. Chlamydia infections in wildlife are part of the research into Chlamydia particularly koalas genomics and gene regulation studies in Chlamydia  A sample list of primary publications.  Vaccine development continues in many independent areas and institutions.   Vaccine research is ongoing in independent and institutional settings.   A clinical study involves research using human volunteers (also called participants) that is intended to add to medical knowledge. There are two main types of clinical studies: clinical trials (also called interventional studies) and observational studies. ClinicalTrials.gov includes both interventional and observational studies.https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/about-studies/learn Clinical trials are used by researchers investigating the efficacy of interventions or protocol in the epidemiology, detection, prevention and treatment of Chlamydia infections. Interventions are the use of medical products, medication. devices; procedures or changes in the participants' behavior. The effects on the participants are measured and compared to previous trials, placebo or a new medical approach, or to no intervention.  The National Institutes of Health support on-going research in the study of Chlamydia infection. At least 113 studies have been initiated as of 2015.   One example was the clinical trial of eye prophylaxis in newborns in the prevention of neonatal conjunctivitis caused by Chlamydia trachomatis  Research related to Chlamydia can take the form of an observational study. This type of study assesses outcomes in groups of participants according to a research plan or protocol. The volunteers in the study may receive interventions such as medical products, medications, devices, or procedures as part of their routine medical care. The volunteers in this type of study are not assigned to specific interventions as in a clinical trial.  An example of an oberservational study regarding Chlamydia infection was "Non-Invasive Sexually Transmitted Disease (STD) Testing in Women Seeking Emergency Contraception or Urine Pregnancy Testing: Meeting the Needs of an At-Risk Population" in 2010.  Observational studies employ the use of randomised control studies.  A case study that researches the prevalence and prevention of Chlamydia can be many things. It often entails personal contact, and a detailed history of the participants along with an extensive physical examination. Included in case studies of Chlamydia infection and the case results include its related contextual conditions. Chlamydia case studies also can be produced by following a formal research method. These case studies are likely to appear in formal research venues, such as journals and professional conferences. ork, and administrative science.   In doing case study research, the "case" being studied may be an individual, organization, event, or action, existing in a specific time and place. For instance, clinical science has produced both well-known case studies of individuals and also case studies of clinical practices.    Evidence-based medicine Chlamydia studies optimizes decision-making by employing the use of information based upon well-designed research. This approach to the study of Chlamydia requires that only research conducted coming from meta-analyses, systematic reviews, and randomized controlled trials) can yield widely applied recommendations.    Some examples of Evidenced-based research on Chlamydia include: Journal Pathog. 2014;2014:183167. doi: 10.1155/2014/183167. Epub 2014 Dec 31.  Nelson HD, Zakher B, Cantor A, Deagas M, Pappas M.Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US); 2014 Sep.   Using Wikipedia for Research 