 Chlamydia trachomatis (/kləˈmɪdiə trəˈkoʊmətɪs/), commonly known as chlamydia,  is one of four bacterial species in the genus Chlamydia.  Chlamydia is a genus of pathogenic bacteria that are obligate intracellular parasites. C. trachomatis is a weakly Gram-negative bacterium. It is ovoid in shape and nonmotile. The bacteria are non spore-forming, but the elementary bodies act like spores when released into the host.   Disorders caused by C. trachomatis include chlamydia, trachoma, lymphogranuloma venereum, nongonococcal urethritis, cervicitis, salpingitis, pelvic inflammatory disease. C. trachomatis includes three human biovars: Many C. trachomatis strains have an extrachromosomal plasmid.  Chlamydia species can exchange DNA between the different strains, thus the evolution of new strains is common.  Like other Chlamydia species, C. trachomatis has an unusual life cycle consisting of two morphologically distinct forms. First, C. trachomatis attaches to a new host as a small spore-like form called the elementary body.  The elementary body enters the host cell, surrounded by a host vacuole, called an inclusion.  Within the inclusion, C. trachomatis transforms into a larger, more metabolically active form called the reticulate body.  The reticulate body substantially modifies the inclusion, making it a more hospitable environment for rapid replication of the bacteria, which occurs over the following 30 to 72 hours.  The massive number of intracellular bacteria then transition back to resistant elementary bodies, before causing the cell to rupture and being released into the environment.  These new elementary bodies are then shed in the semen or released from epithelial cells of the female genital tract, and attach to new host cells.  Clinical signs and symptoms of C. trachomatis infection and gonorrhea infection are indistinguishable.  Both are common causes of urethritis.  C. trachomatis is the single most important infectious agent associated with blindness (trachoma); about 84 million worldwide suffer C. trachomatis eye infections and 8 million are blinded as a result of the infection.   Most people infected with C. trachomatis are asymptomatic. However, the bacteria can present in one of three ways: genitourinary (genitals), pulmonary (lungs), and ocular (eyes). Genitourinary cases can include genital discharge, vaginal bleeding, itchiness (pruritus), painful urination (dysuria), among other symptoms.  Often, symptoms are similar to those of a urinary tract infection. Three times as many women as men are diagnosed with genitourinary C. trachomatis infections. Women aged 15–19 have the highest prevalence, followed by women aged 20–24, although the rate of increase of diagnosis is greater for men than for women. Risk factors for genitourinary infections include unprotected sex with multiple partners, lack of condom use, and living in an urban area. Pulmonary infections can occur in infants born to women with active chlamydia infections, although the rate of infection is less than 10%.  Ocular infections take the form of conjunctivitis or trachoma, both in adults and children. Trachoma is the primary source of infectious blindness in some parts of rural Africa and Asia  and is a neglected tropical disease that has been targeted by the World Health Organization for elimination by 2020. Treatment depends on the infection site, age of the patient, and whether another infection is present. Having a C. trachomatis and one or more other sexually transmitted infections at the same time is possible. Treatment is often done with both partners simultaneously to prevent reinfection. C. trachomatis may be treated with several antibiotic medications, including azithromycin, erythromycin, or ofloxacin.  Azithromycin and doxycycline have equal efficacy to treat C. trachomatis with 97 and 98 percent success respectively. Treatment with doxycycline generic 2x1 100 mg for 7 days has equal success with expensive delayed-released doxycycline 1x 200 mg for 7 days.  If treatment is necessary during pregnancy, levofloxacin, ofloxacin, and doxycycline are not prescribed. In the case of a patient who is pregnant, the medications typically prescribed are azithromycin, amoxicillin, and erythromycin. Amoxicillin has fewer side effects than the other medications for treating antenatal C. trachomatis infection. Retesting during pregnancy can be performed three weeks after treatment. If the risk of reinfection is high, screening can be repeated throughout pregnancy.  If the infection has progressed, ascending the reproductive tract and pelvic inflammatory disease develops, damage to the fallopian tubes may have already occurred. In most cases, the C. trachomatis infection is then treated on an outpatient basis with azithromycin or doxycycline. Treating the mother of an infant with C. trachomatis of the eye, which can evolve into a pneumonia, is recommended.  Chlamydia species are readily identified and distinguished from other Chlamydia species using DNA-based tests. Most strains of C. trachomatis are recognized by monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) to epitopes in the VS4 region of MOMP.  However, these mAbs may also cross-react with two other Chlamydia species, C. suis and C. muridarum. C. trachomatis is thought to have diverged from other Chlamydia species around 6 million years ago, when its sole host modern humans emerged.  The closest relative to C. trachomatis is C. muridarum, which infects mice.  Different evolutionarily distinct lineages of C. trachomatis seem to cause disease in different body niches:  Strains that cause lymphogranuloma venereum (Serovars L1 to L3) Most prevalent genital strains (Serovars D-F) Less prevalent genital strains (Serovars G-K, and some strains of Serovar D) Ocular strains (Serovars A-C)  C. trachomatis was first described in 1907 by Stanislaus von Prowazek and Ludwig Halberstädter in scrapings from trachoma cases.  Thinking they had discovered a "mantled protozoan", they named the organism "Chlamydozoa" from the Greek "Chlamys" meaning mantle.  Over the next several decades, "Chlamydozoa" was thought to be a virus as it was small enough to pass through bacterial filters and unable to grow on known laboratory media.  However, in 1966 electron microscopy studies showed C. trachomatis to be a bacterium.  C. trachomatis agent was first cultured in the yolk sacs of eggs by Tang Fei-fan, et al. in 1957.   Bellaminutti, Serena; Seracini, Silva; De Seta, Francesco; Gheit, Tarik; Tommasino, Massimo; Comar, Manola (November 2014). "HPV and Chlamydia trachomatis Co-Detection in Young Asymptomatic Women from High Incidence Area for Cervical Cancer". Journal of Medical Virology. 86 (11): 1920–1925. doi:10.1002/jmv.24041. Retrieved 13 November 2014.  