The following are academic ranks in the Finnish higher education system. There are a specific number of posts, which can be applied to when they are vacated or established.  Finland's system is similar to the traditional German system in that there is a limited number of posts for professors (professori), who head research groups and take part in administration in addition to lecturing.  Fulfillment of a professor's post often requires that the previous professor has retired. Traditionally, there was no assistant / associate / full professor career track, nor an official "tenure track". The title of apulaisprofessori ("assistant professor") was retired in 1998, but reintroduced in 2010. Qualifications for a professor's position are a doctoral degree and an extensive independent publication and teaching record. The degree of lisensiaatti (licentiate) does not qualify (exceptions are legal, but extremely rare). For example, in medicine, the common degree equivalent to a medical doctor is a lisensiaatti degree: additional research and study is required for the degree called lääketieteen tohtori, "Doctor of Medicine." Mid-career scholars immediately below the rank of full professor are called "yliopistonlehtori", a tenured position equivalent to a senior lecturership/readership in the UK or an associate professorship in the US. The honorary title of dosentti is similar in required qualifications, but the related form of employment is often task-based (e.g., teaching a specific course, supervising a specific student) rather than full-time employment. When it does include full-term employment, it has fewer or no administrative responsibilities and may be combined with work at a company or another university. The alternative translation for docent is "adjunct professor".  The rank of apulaisprofessori (literally "assistant professor", but may refer to positions at the level of assistant professor or associate professor depending on the university) is also in use for positions that are tenure-track rather than permanent). Junior educators are called by other terms such as assistentti (literally "assistant" and is typically a position designed for PhD students), lehtori (lecturer), yliopistotutkija (postdoctoral researcher, literally: university researcher), opettava tutkija (teaching researcher), or yliopisto-opettaja (literally "university instructor").  The same applies to researchers (tutkija, etc.).  Researchers and professors funded by the Academy of Finland are generally styled accordingly, "akatemiatutkija" and "akatemiaprofessori" (academy researcher and academy professor, respectively). 