The Swedish National Agency for Education (Swedish: Statens skolverk, commonly known as Skolverket) is a  Government agency in Sweden that oversees the Swedish public school system for children and adults. Formed in 1991, The Swedish National Agency for Education is included in the Ministry of Education and Research along with the Swedish Schools Inspectorate and the National Agency for Special Needs and Schools. This agency provides services for students and educators such as Development and Service Training, National Certification for Teachers, and a Reference Center for Vocational Education.  The national agency for education prepares not only the knowledge requirements for schools, but also regulations, general recommendations and national tests. This agency is responsible for official statistics in the area of education. They Conduct national follow-ups and evaluations for Sweden. The Agency manages the participation in international educational. The levels of education provided in Sweden is Pre-School, Grade schools, and higher education. Age and Disability does not affect students ability to attend any of these levels of education. The Swedish National Agency for Education controls the grading systems that are implemented through their schools. Currently the Swedish Grading scale is  A, B,C, D, E. F and (-)  Also see academic grading in Sweden. The Education Act is to Ensure the fair and just treatment of students in Sweden.  The act enforces that education standards always for the best pedagogy on the effort of prime educational standards . The system was last changed in 2011 due to the Education act 2010:800  which came into affect July 1, 2011 which addresses the mistreatment of students in schools and bullying. The National Agency for Education requires their educators to be certified to teach in their country based on their regulations. In order to be a Preschool, or grade school teacher than there are requirements for the certification. These requirements is a qualifying diploma; however to teach a candidate from a foreign country must have a  proficiency in the Swedish language. There are some positions that do not requires certifications, like a vocational studies teacher, teach in English (however doesn't cover language teaching), and Mother tongue teachers. The Agency requires educators to be fully equipped in educating all students despite disability or age. The Agency is responsible for the Teachers Disciplinary Board.  Students educational and physical well being comes first. The three main topics on recent polls according to the European Agency for Special Needs and Inclusive Education is Raising achievements for students, education for large numbers of immigrant children and young citizens in Sweden, and lastly to offer teachers the skills to manage and teach students with special needs and disabilities.   Vocational Learning opportunities are provided for students optimal use. By the use of Vocational Learning Students will experience the work force through education before graduating. VET is the vocational education and training system.  The VET incorporates parts of a comprehensive model of education. This model stresses active citizenship, work life orientation, and includes the preparation for future studies. Sweden's VET system is publicly run and financed. There are many rapidly growing programs through the VET system that include: the growth of unemployment, changing skill requirements, new intercultural context, lifelong learning, and deskilling and upgrading. The new developments in the work and society form a new implementation policy for Sweden's youth. Another known project to prepare student is the Glass Project. Beginning in the second half of the 1960's the glass project opened the door to a new classroom and pedagogy.  The glass project expanded on curricular ideas, which enabled school activities to focus around technology. This created a meaningful experience for students and was seen as a language of schooling. Another aspect of the Glass Project includes a utopian logic of educational reform due to the high criticism of the old school pedagogy. Entrepreneurial learning is prevalent in Preschools.  This allows the students to learn various skills at a young age that will allow them to be well developed adults later in their lives. Some of these skill include flexibility, adaption, creativity, risk taking or expanding the comfort zone, critical thinking and self resilience.   