The Staatsexamen ("State examination" or "exam by State"; pl.: Staatsexamina) is a German government licensing examination that future physicians, teachers, pharmacists, food chemists,  psychotherapists and jurists (i.e., lawyers, judges, public prosecutors, civil-law notaries ) as well as surveyors have to pass to be allowed to work in their profession. The examination is generally organized by government examination agencies which are under the authority of the responsible ministry. These agencies create examination commissions which consist of members of the examination agency, university professors and/or representatives from the professions.  The Staatsexamen are both legally equivalent to a master's degree in the respective operating ranges. It used to be known as Lehramtsprüfung or Lehrerexamen. Graduating Staatsexamen is separated into two independent sequences: the first and the second Staatsexamen. Students usually study at university for 4–8 years before they participate at final examinations to graduate by the first Staatsexamen. This shows the academic qualification and knowledge on theoretical and practical skills. Afterwards teachers and jurists continue to the practical phase of two to three years in their future jobs ending with an examination sequence in order to graduate by the second Staatsexamen, which amongst others tests their professional skills in their respective jobs.   In medicine, the Staatsexamen (Ärztliche Prüfung, or physician exam) consists of three parts as of 2013. The first part is taken after the first two years of the six-year medical degree, i.e., after the basic sciences part of the degree (somewhat similar to U.S. pre-med) whereas the second part is taken after the fifth year of studies. Following a practical year, the third part follows at the end of the six-year medical degree. In pharmacy, the Staatsexamen (Pharmazeutische Prüfung, or pharmaceutical exam) consists of three parts. The first part is taken after the first two years of the four-year pharmacy degree, the second part at the end of the four-year pharmacy degree, and the third part after the so-called Praktisches Jahr (practical year) that prospective pharmacists have to take after graduation. In some cases, the second Staatsexamen can be a substitute for a doctorate when it comes to applying for certain jobs at a university (i.e., Akademischer Rat). 