The term theatre (from the Greek theatron) enjoys the distinction of two spellings: "theatre" in British English and "theater" in American English. There is no technical distinction between the meanings of the two spellings, however most theatre artists prefer the English spelling because it creates a historical nod to the ancient Greek term. Some also use the American spelling to designate a theatre building and the English term to reference the art itself, as in the "art of theatre".  More... L'Hemisferic, an IMAX Cinema, planetarium and Laserium, on the grounds of the Ciutat de les Arts i les Ciències ("City of Arts and Sciences"), in Valencia, Spain. More...  More...  More...  Theatre What are WikiProjects? File:A Wilde time 3.jpg File:Chicago Theatre blend.jpg  History: Sanskrit Plays • Natya Shastra • Natya Shastra of Bharata • Koodiyattam • Bhasa • Kālidāsa • Kathakali • Bhavabhuti • Harsha • Chinese theatre • Cantonese Opera • Beijing Opera • Ramakien • Noh • Bunraku • Kabuki • Butoh • Theatre of Ancient Greece • Theatre of ancient Rome • Medieval theatre • Commedia dell'Arte • English Renaissance theatre • Restoration comedy • Restoration spectacular • Neoclassicism • Twentieth century theatre Types: Comedy • Drama • Musical theatre • Hip-Hop theater Philosophy: Aristotle • Poetics • Konstantin Stanislavski • Antonin Artaud • Bertolt Brecht • Orson Welles • Peter Brook • Jerzy Grotowski • Meisner technique • Stanislavsky System • Method acting • Presentational acting Organization: Community theatre • Dinner theatre • Fringe theatre • Summer stock theatre • Regional theatre • Off-Off-Broadway • Off-Broadway • Off West End • Broadway theatre • West End theatre Unions: Actors' Equity Association • Society of Stage Directors and Choreographers • International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees Awards: Back Stage West Garland Awards • Drama Desk Award • Evening Standard Awards • Green Room Award • Hans-Reinhart-Ring • Helpmann Award • Joseph Jefferson Award • Laurence Olivier Awards • London Critics' Circle Theatre Awards • Lucille Lortel Award • Manchester Evening News • Matilda Award • New York Innovative Theatre Awards • Molière Award • Obie Award • Ovation Awards • Sangeet Natak Academy Award • Theatre Pasta Theatre Awards • Tony Award Stagecraft: Theatre director • Playwright • Actor • Production team • Set designer • Lighting designer • Costume designer • Sound design • Dramaturg • Stage management • Production manager • Technical theatre Cleanup listing for this project is available. See also the tool's wiki page and the index of WikiProjects. The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database  