Christopher G. Chute, M.D., Dr. P.H. is a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Johns Hopkins University, physician-scientist and biomedical informatician known for biomedical terminologies   and health information technology (IT) standards. He chairs the World Health Organization Revision Steering Group  for the revision of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11). Dr. Chute received his undergraduate and medical training at Brown University, internal medicine residency at Dartmouth, and doctoral training in Epidemiology at Harvard.  He is Board certified in Internal Medicine and Clinical Informatics.  He is a Fellow of the American College of Physicians, the American College of Epidemiology, and the American College of Medical Informatics (ACMI).  Dr. Chute is president of ACMI, a body of elected fellows within the American Medical Informatics Association (AMIA) who have made significant and sustained contributions to the field. Since January 2015 Dr. Chute is the Bloomberg Distinguished Professor in Health Informatics at the Johns Hopkins University, with academic appointments in the School of Medicine (Division of General Internal Medicine & Division of Health Sciences Informatics), Bloomberg School of Public Health (Department of Health Policy and Management), and School of Nursing (Division of Health Informatics).  He is also Chief Health Research Information Officer of Johns Hopkins Medicine. In December 2014 Dr. Chute retired from Mayo Clinic, where he remains an emeritus professor.  He became founding Chair of Biomedical Informatics at Mayo Clinic in 1988, stepping down after 20 years in that role.  At Mayo Clinic he was Professor of Medical Informatics and Section Head.  He was PI on a large portfolio of research including the HHS/Office of the National Coordinator (ONC) Strategic Health IT Advanced Research Projects on Secondary EHR Data Use,  the ONC Beacon Community  (Co-PI), the LexGrid projects,   Mayo’s Clinical and Translational Science Award Informatics, and several National Institutes of Health (NIH) grants including one of the eMERGE centers   from the National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI), which focus upon genome wide association studies against shared phenotypes derived from electronic medical records.  Dr. Chute served as Chair of the Mayo Clinic Data Governance Committee, and on Mayo’s enterprise IT Oversight Committee.  He was Chair of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) Health Informatics Technical Committee (ISO/TC 215).   He also served on the Health Information Technology Standards Committee for the Office of the National Coordinator    in the United States Department of Health and Human Services, and the Health Level 7 Advisory Council.  Recently held positions include Chair of the Biomedical Computing and Health Informatics study section at NIH, Chair of the Board of the HL7/FDA/NCI/CDISC BRIDG project, on the Board of the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, ANSI Healthcare Information Technology Standards Panel Board member, Chair of the US delegation to ISO TC215 for Health Informatics, Convener of Healthcare Concept Representation WG3 within the TC215, Co-chair of the HL7 Vocabulary Committee, Chair of the International Medical Informatics Association WG6 on Medical Concept Representation, American Medical Informatics Association Board member, and multiple other NIH biomedical informatics study sections as chair or member. 