GalileoMobile is a non-profit, itinerant, science education initiative that brings modern astronomy closer to young people around the world, with emphasis in regions that have little or no access to other outreach actions. The initiative was created in late 2008 inspired by the 2009 International Year of Astronomy   and is currently run by a group of astronomers, educators, and science communicators. The team organises workshops for teachers and hands-on astronomy-related activities for students in schools and villages to foster a will of learning and critical thinking through the exciting wonders of our Universe, and to inspire a sense of global citizenship "under the same sky" by promoting a cultural exchange. To encourage follow-up activities GalileoMobile also donates to each school visited a Galileoscope or You are Galileo! telescope, a copy of our Handbook of activities, a UNAWE Earthball, and other educational material. In GalileoMobile's first project the team travelled across the high plateau of the Andes in the north of Chile, Bolivia, and Peru during October and November 2009. Since then, GalileoMobile has been to Bolivia (2012), India (2012), Uganda (2013), Bolivia and Brazil (2014), and Colombia (2014). Inspired by our expeditions, some of our team members have also carried out activities in Portugal, Nepal, United States, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and Guatemala. In 2015, GalileoMobile embarked on yet another astronomical adventure called Constellation. This project brings together schools from Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru to create a South American network of schools committed to bringing the exciting world of astronomy closer to their students. The students were able to explore the wonders of the Universe by taking part in “Space Exploration”, a series of astronomical outreach activities created especially for this project. Through the network, they will be able to share their passion for the sky with peers from all across South America. Their schools will also benefit from the long-term support of GalileoMobile when independently organising astronomical outreach activities in the years to come. The IAU has decided to officially endorse Constellation as a Major Cosmic Light programme of the International Year of Light 2015 and the Office for Astronomical Development has decided to officially sponsor about 30% of the entire project.  