The School of Physics and Astronomy at the University of Manchester is one of the largest and most active Physics departments in the UK, taking around  250 new undergraduates and 50 postgraduates each year, and employing more than 80 members of academic staff and over 100 research fellows and associates.  The school is based on two sites: the Schuster Laboratory on Brunswick Street and the Jodrell Bank Centre for Astrophysics in Cheshire, international headquarters of the Square Kilometre Array (SKA).  According to the Academic Ranking of World Universities, the school is the 9th best Physics department in the world and best in Europe.  It is ranked equal 7th place in the UK by GPA according to the Research Excellence Framework (REF) in 2014.  The University has a long history of physics dating back to 1874, which includes 12 Nobel laureates,  most recently Andre Geim and Konstantin Novoselov who were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2010 for their discovery of graphene.    The School of Physics and Astronomy comprises eight research groups: Research in the department of Physics has been funded by the Particle Physics and Astronomy Research Council (PPARC), the Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC)  and the Royal Society. As of  2015[update] the School employs 53 Professors, including Emeritus Professors.  The department is also home to a number of Emeritus Scientists, pursuing their research interests after their formal retirement including: The school has origins dating back to 1874 when Balfour Stewart was appointed the first Langworthy Professor of Physics at Owens College, Manchester. Stewart was the first to identify an electrified atmospheric layer (now known as the ionosphere) which could distort the Earth's magnetic field. The theory of the ionosphere was postulated by Carl Friedrich Gauss in 1839, Stewart published the first experimental confirmation of the theory in 1878.  Since then, the school has hosted many award-winning scientists  including: In 2004, the two separate departments of Physics at the Victoria University of Manchester and the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology (UMIST) were merged  to form the current School of Physics and Astronomy at the University of Manchester.  See physicists associated with the University of Manchester for a complete list of physicists in Manchester and their achievements. 