One Globe Forum is an annual thought leadership forum, which focuses on exploring the intersection of technology,  education,  science, innovation,  entrepreneurship,  urbanization,  smart cities,  skills development,  security,  health,  and regional collaboration,  and their role in enabling economic growth to build a 21st-century knowledge economy. Since its inception in 2012, One Globe has brought over 250 global thought leaders from business, government, civil society, media and multilateral institutions, representing over 25 countries each year to debate, discuss, and share global and local perspectives on important issues influencing India and South Asia’s development. The annual One Globe Forum is produced and programmed by the events arm of Salwan Media Ventures. The forum was conceptualized by Harjiv Singh, Founder & CEO, Salwan Media Ventures. Previous speakers have included Piyush Goyal, Minister of State for Power, Coal and New and Renewable Energy, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, Minister of State for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship and Parliamentary Affairs, Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, former Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, and now the Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports, Amitabh Kant Secretary, Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP), Onno Ruhl India Country Director, World Bank, Babul Supriyo, Minister of State for Urban Development, Kapil Sibal Union Minister for HRD & Communications and Information Technology, Pallam Raju Minister of Human Resource Development, Shashi Tharoor Minister of State for Human Resource Development, PP Choudhary, Union Minister of State, Ministry of Law and Justice; and Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Rao Inderjit Singh, Union Minister of State, Ministry for Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation, Sam Pitroda  Advisor to the Prime Minister, Public Information Infrastructure & Innovations, Lord Loomba Founder Chairman- The Loomba Foundation, Jeffrey Sachs President, NYU - Polytechnic, Neeraj Bhargava, Founder Zodius Capital Advisory, Ashok Trivedi, Co-Chairman IGATE Corporation, Frederick M. Lawrence, President Brandeis University, Lakshmi Pratury, General JJ Singh, Governor of Arunachal Pradesh, Meenakshi Lekhi Member of Parliament, BJP National Spokesperson, Advocate and Social Activist, Shereen Bhan Managing Editor CNBC-TV18, Sheila Dikshit Former Chief Minister, Delhi and Former Governor, Kerala, Vikas Bajaj, Correspondent New York Times, Heather Timmons, Reporter New York Times, Nisid Hajari, Editor Bloomberg View (Asia), Dr. Arun Sundararajan, Professor NYU Stern School of Business, Shantanu Prakash, Chairman and Managing Director, Dr. Mukesh Aghi, Chairman & CEO Steria India, Arun Kapur, Director Vasant Valley School, New Delhi, Dr. Hitendra Wadhwa Professor of Professional Practice Columbia Business School, Francisco Marmolejo, Lead, Global Solutions Group on Tertiary Education; Lead Education Specialist for India, World Bank, Dr. A. Didar Singh, Advisor Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs, Sandeep Aneja, Founder and Managing Director Kaizen Private Equity, Gopal Jain, Founding and Managing Partner Gaja Capital Partners, Loftus Harris, Special Trade Representative to the Middle East and India The Queensland Government, M. Damodaran Former Chairman SEBI and IAS (Retd.), Montek Singh Ahluwalia Former Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission of the Republic of India, Dr. Karan Singh President – Indian Council for Cultural Relations, Dr. Fumio Isoda, Executive Vice President, The University of Tokyo, Dr. Anil Sinha, Regional Head, Advisory Services South Asia, International Finance Corporation (IFC), Dr. Surjit Bhalla, Chairman, Oxus Investments & Senior Advisor Bluefin, Sethuraman Panchanathan Senior Vice President Knowledge Enterprise Development, Arizona State University, Som Mittal Former President NASSCOM, Umang Bedi, Managing Director Adobe Systems, Suneet Singh Tuli, Founder and CEO Datawind Ltd. One Globe's current advisory board includes Harjiv Singh, Founder & CEO, Salwan Media Ventures, Anurag Thakur, Member of Parliament & National President Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, Jerry MacArthur Hultin, Senior Presidential Fellow, New York University, and Chairman, Global Advisory Board, at Smart City Expo World Congress, Dr. Siddharth Saxena, Chairperson, Cambridge Central Asia Forum, Dr. Shailaja Fennel, Lecturer in Development Studies, Department of Land Economy, University of Cambridge, Dalbir Singh, Senior Advisor, Forum of Federations Canada, Mahendra Bapna Former Chief Executive Officer, Tata Motor Enterprises and Yatish Rajawat, Founder, Livable Habitats. One Globe Forum provides an ideal annual platform for companies, universities, organizations, governments and civil society to build their brand, thought leadership. The annual event also provides an excellent opportunity to network with key decision makers and thought leaders. One Globe’s curated digital content of videos, email, photographs, and editorial coverage of the forum through the year helps to engage a diverse global audience. Organizations like Cisco, Adobe, Yes Bank, NYU Wagner, Wagner, and WISE have been partners with the forum in its previous editions. One Globe’s knowledge partners have included - Knowledge@Wharton ,  PwC, Brookings Institution, US India Business Council, UK India Business Council, TiE, Swedish Chamber, MAIT, The Chamber of Commerce and Industry France India (CCIFI). Media Partners have included – BrainGain Magazine, The International New York Times, The International Herald Tribune, The Sunday Guardian, The Telegraph and Asia Briefing. The sixth edition of One Globe Forum was held in February 2017 at The Imperial Hotel, New Delhi, India. The Forum commenced with an inaugural session which was attended by Shri PP Choudhary, Union Minister of State, Ministry of Law and Justice; and Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Shri Rao Inderjit Singh, Union Minister of State, Ministry for Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation, Government of India, Anurag Thakur, Member of Parliament (LS); Chairman of India’s Parliamentary Committee on IT, Shalabh Kumar, Founder & President, Republican Hindu Coalition,  Dr. Mukesh Aghi, President, U.S.-India Business Council and Lord Raj Loomba, Founder & Chairman Trustee, The Loomba Foundation, Dalbir Singh, Chairman Organizing Committee; Senior Advisor, Forum of Federations, Canada and Harjiv Singh, Convener, One Globe Forum.   &   The major themes deliberated upon included smart cities, Make in India, defense security, women’s empowerment, science, innovation, higher education, and transforming the public health sector.   The One Globe Forum also gave away awards  in categories for Social Impact, Entrepreneurship, Smart Cities , Research & Development, and Enabling a Digital Economy.  One Globe Forum hosted several keynote sessions and panel discussions along with a breakout session on Design Thinking. The speakers included eminent policy makers, thought leaders, and entrepreneurs.  From discussing the critical role of women’s empowerment towards engendering economic empowerment, to deliberating on how robotics will affect the future of employment, the forum enabled breakthrough insights and knowledge networks. CISCO, USIBC, Knowledge@Wharton, BrainGain Magazine, Swedish Chamber of Commerce India, ANZIBA, European Business Group, WION, and Kodak were key partners who ensured the event’s scale and success. Distinguished speakers at the forum included Raghav Chandra, Former Chairman, NHAI; Secretary, National Commission for Scheduled Tribes, Khurshed Gandhi, Managing Director, Cushman & Wakefield,  Masayoshi Tamura, General Manager, Hitachi India, Mahendra Bapna, Senior Advisor, IIT-Jodhpur, Dr. Makarand Chipalkatti, Managing Director, Dr. Chips Consulting LLC, Gaurav Agarwal, Director-Public Sector, Cisco Systems India and SAARC, Manish Tewari, Former Union Minister of State for Information & Broadcasting, General Deepak Kapoor, Former Chief of Army Staff, Indian Army, Air Marshal Sumit Mukerji, Former Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Vice Admiral Shekhar Sinha, Former Western Naval Command Chief, Manoj Kothari, MD & Principal Strategist, Turian Labs, Vikram Chachra, CEO & Managing Partner, Eight Capital LLC, Dhruv Agarwala, CEO, PropTiger, Aashish Kalra, Chairman, Cambridge Technology Inc, Rohan Malhotra, CEO & Founder, RoadZen Inc., Vaishali Nigam Sinha, CEO, iCharity, Sutapa Sanyal, Director General Police, UP Police Mahila Samman Prakoshth; State Human Rights Commission and Civil Defence, Kunal Nandwani, CEO, uTrade Solutions, Prasad Vanga, Founder & Speed Scaler, Anthill Ventures, Pallav Sinha, Founder & CEO, MeraJob India, C.V.R. Murty, Director, IIT-Jodhpur, Francisco Marmolejo, Lead, Global Solutions Group on Tertiary Education; Lead Education Specialist for India, World Bank, Ajit Kumar, Vice Chancellor, NIFTEM, Mr. Sandeep Sancheti, President, Manipal University, Jaipur, K. Nagaraj Naidu, Joint Secretary (ED), Ministry of External Affairs, Patrick Santillo, Minister – Counselor for Commercial Affairs, U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, Alan Freedman, MOORE Capital, H.E. Daniel Carmon, Ambassador of Israel to India  ,  Louis Skyner, Senior Associate, Clifford, Chance, Ajai Malhotra, Former Ambassador of India to Russia, Dr. C. Raja Mohan, Director, Carneigie India, Ravi Pandit, Co-Founder, Chairman & Group CEO, KPIT Technologies, Som Mittal, Former President, NASSCOM, Jagdish Mitra, Chief Strategy and Marketing Officer, Tech Mahindra, Manit Jain, Founder & Director, Heritage School, Shweta Sastri, Executive Director, Canadian International School, Bengaluru, Sudhir Wadhwa, CTO, Viridis Learning, Sandy Hooda, Founder, Vega Schools, Shoma Chaudhury, Former Managing Editor, Tehelka, Dr. J.N. Misra, Former Ambassador of India to Portugal & Laos, Harendra Singh, Chief Coach, Indian Junior Men’s Hockey Team & Dronacharya Award Winner; Deputy General Manager, Air India,  CK Mishra, Union Health Secretary, Vidur Mahajan, Associate Director, Mahajan Imaging, Harpal Singh, Mentor & Chairman Emeritus, Fortis Healthcare, Shri J.S. Deepak, Department of Telecommunications, Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Technology, Government of India, Debasish Mitter, Country Director – India, Michael & Susan Dell Foundation, Vishal Mehta, Co-founder, Lok Capital, and Ranjna Khanna, Director, Impact Investors Council. The fifth edition of the One Globe Forum was organized in February 2016, at The Imperial Hotel, New Delhi, India. It was inaugurated by Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, former Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting and currently Minister of State with independent charge of Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports.  The forum hosted sessions on key topics like smart cities, defense manufacturing, entrepreneurship, Digital India, skills, investment in science & innovation, social ventures, and higher education in the 21st century. ,   &   Previously known as the One Globe Conference the event also rebranded as the One Globe Forum.  During the two-day event, leaders from various fields met to discuss and deliberate on themes which are critical to the growth of India and South Asia. They identified challenges and suggested pathways for transforming India and South Asia into knowledge hubs with vibrant economies. The sixth edition also saw the institution of the One Globe Awards.  &   CISCO, Anthros Inc, USIBC, Knowledge@Wharton, India Briefing, VCCircle, Business World Smart Cities, Swedish Chamber of Commerce India, and BrainGain Magazine were key partners for the event and played a significant role towards ensuring its success. One Globe Forum consolidated its reputation as a platform for uniting knowledge communities by bringing together thought-leaders, policy makers, and leaders like Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, former Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting – Government of India, Babul Supriyo, Minister of State for Urban Development, Bibek Debroy, Economist and Member of Niti Aayog, Anurag Thakur, Member of Parliament and Chairman – Parliamentary Standing Committee on IT, Shinichi Yamanaka, Senior Advisor – Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology – Japan, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, Former Deputy Chairman – Planning Commission of India, Sofia Eriksson, Head of Communications – Ericsson, India, Jerry MacArthur Hultin, Chairman, The Global Futures Group, LLC & President Emeritus, Polytechnic Institute of NYU, Dr. Shailaja Fennell, Centre of Development Studies – University of Cambridge, Lord Loomba C.B.E., Founder & Chairman Trustee – The Loomba Foundation, Purushottam Kaushik, MD-Sales, CISCO India and SAARC, Ashok Atluri, Chairman & MD – Zen Technologies, Ravi Pandit, Co-founder, Chairman & Group CEO – KPIT Technologies, Bharat R. Joshi, CEO – J Curve Ventures Pvt. Ltd., Nandita Agarwal Parker, MD – Karma Capital Management LLC, Amit Srivastav, President – Infinite Computer Solutions, Chokan Laumulin – Research Fellow – Central Asian Forum, Jesus College, University of Cambridge, Felix Ortiz III, Founder, Chairman & CEO – Viridis Learning, William Kooser, Associate Dean – Global Outreach, University of Chicago School of Business, Moitreyee Sinha, Associate Director – Global Development Incubator, Siddharth Zarabi, Executive Editor – Bloomberg TV, Sanjeev Mohanty, CEO & Managing Director – JABONG, General Deepak Kapoor, Ex-Chief of the Army Staff, Debashish Mitter, Country Director – India – Michael & Susan Dell Foundation.  Speaking at the Inaugural Session, Colonel Rathore underlined the importance of a forum like One Globe. He said, “I call it the world community, as borders are no longer relevant. Lessons learnt in one part of the world can be shared with another.”  In its fourth edition, the "One Globe Forum" was held in March 2015 at The Imperial, New Delhi, inaugurated by Hon'ble Shree Piyush Goyal, Minister of State (independent charge) for Power, Coal and New and Renewable energy, Govt. of India.  The topics of discussions were mobility, connectivity and ubiquity – described by Harjiv Singh  as "shaping the 21st century landscape" by being the key drivers of economic development.  They are also widely seen as key enablers of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Government of India's initiatives such as Smart Cities, Digital India and Make in India.    Through a mixture of keynote speeches, panel discussions and interactive sessions, a number of ideas were mooted by educators, policy makers, C-suite executives, and Government officials. From deliberating the importance of making India a global knowledge destination, to including citizen participation in policy making, allowing better IT integration & even deliberating the urgent need to addressing current skill deficit in India, One Globe 2015 made a breakthrough by bringing the key stakeholders to deliberate the real enablers of socio-economic development in India and the South Asian region. Cisco, U.S.-India Business Council, Brookings India, The College Board, Knowledge@Wharton, The Telegraph, MAIT, Asia Briefings, BrainGainMag & Gutenberg Communications were some of the key partners that were instrumental in driving the event’s success in producing the two-day showcase event. Building on its reputation from previous years, One Globe 2015 saw some renowned speakers such as Piyush Goyal, Minister of State (I/C) for Power, Coal and New and Renewable Energy, Government of India,  Rajiv Pratap Rudy, Minister of State for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship (I/C) and Parliamentary Affairs, Government of India,    Anurag Thakur, Member of Parliament & National President, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM),   Amitabh Kant, Secretary, Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP) &, Chairman, Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor Development Corporation (DMICDC),  Dr. Subir Gokarn, Director, Research, Brookings India,  Onno Rühl, India Country Director, World Bank, Stéphanie Durand, Manager, International Growth, Coursera, Mittu Chandilya, CEO, AirAsia India, Debasish Mitter, Country Director, India, Michael & Susan Dell Foundation, Varun Sood, CIO & Head - Strategic Initiatives, Fortis Healthcare Limited, Lalit Gupta, Vice President, Oracle Corporation, Public Sector & Education ISG, APAC & Japan, Dinesh Malkani, President, Cisco India and SAARC, Ankhi Das, Public Policy Director, Facebook, India, South & Central Asia, Anant Nath, Editor - The Caravan, & Alumni of IIM Lucknow and Columbia University, Rajiv Bajaj, Vice Chairman & Managing Director, Bajaj Capital Limited, Falguni Nayar, Founder & CEO, Nykaa.com, Dr. Manish Gupta, Vice President at Xerox Corporation, Director of Xerox Research Centre in India, Manoj Ladwa, Chief Executive - MLS Chase & Founder,  India Inc., Aashish Kalra, Chairman, Cambridge Technology Enterprises, Dr. Vinnie Jauhari, Director, Education Advocacy Microsoft, Meenakshi Lekhi, Member of Parliament, BJP National Spokesperson, Advocate & Social Activist, Dr. Bibek Debroy, Economist & Full-time Member, NITI Aayog,  Amarinder Singh, Founder & CEO, Clove Dental, Ashok Trivedi, Co-Chairman, IGATE Corporation, Dhruv Agarwala, Co-founder, PropTiger, Gordon Fairclough, South Asia Bureau Chief, The Wall Street Journal, Sajjad Ashraf, Adjunct Professor, Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy & Former High Commissioner of Pakistan to Singapore, Sunil Kant Munjal, Joint Managing Director, Hero MotoCorp among others. In the lunch keynote, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, minister of state for skill development and entrepreneurship (independent charge), and parliamentary affairs, Govt. of India discussed skill development in India with a balance of critique and optimism. At one point he stated “We have an unorganized workforce, but it is nothing to be disappointed about. We have started now what we should have 60 years ago. The government has planned it out. We are talking about many out-of-the-box ideas to create a skilling ecosystem in the country, for which we need support from all of you”.   The third edition of the “One Globe: Uniting Knowledge Communities” Conference was organized in February, 2013, at The Imperial Hotel, New Delhi, India, & inaugurated by Salman Khurshid, Honorable Union Minister of External Affairs, Government of India.  The conference continued to build on its theme of discussing and (in the process) discovering, the real enablers’ that would drive economic growth in India and the South Asian region.   Through series of keynote addresses, expert panels and interactive sessions held over the two day event, the conference served as a platform wherein dignitaries enthusiastically participated in identifying the significant challenges for India, and South Asia, on the journey towards becoming a 21st-century knowledge hub –such as, highest rates of adult illiteracy, lack of quality education, shortage of teachers, low internet penetration, a low gross enrollment ratio across the education spectrum, and most importantly, limited exchanges within the South Asian region. College Board, Adobe, BFU Blossoms, International New York Times, BrainGainmag.com, U.S. India Business Council, Knowledge@Wharton, Media Value Works, WISE, The Indus Entrepreneurs, Gutenberg Communications, PHD Chamber, & The Sunday Guardian were some of the key partners that were instrumental in driving the event's success. Key speakers included Salman Khurshid, Minister of External Affairs, Government of India, Smt. Preneet Kaur, Minister of State for External Affairs, Government of India,  Manish Tewari, Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, Government of India, Onno Ruhl, India Country Director, World Bank, Anurag Thakur, National President, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM),  Umang Bedi, Managing Director - South Asia, Adobe Systems,  Dr. Subir Gokarn, Director, Research, Brookings India, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution USA, Som Mittal, Former President, NASSCOM,  Mr. Kotaro Tamura, Adjunct Professor, Lee Kwan Yew School of Public Policy, National University of Singapore and Chairman, Strategic Initiative of Japan, Suneet Singh Tuli, Founder and CEO, DataWind Ltd, Varun Sood, CIO, Fortis Healthcare Limited, Sukumar Ranganathan, Editor, Mint, among others. In his keynote address, Hon’ble Minister Manish Tewari, Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, Government of India discussed the role of internet and digitization of knowledge repositories as key contributors in uniting knowledge communities across the world. Tewari said “The internet was the most audacious experiment in anarchy and has succeeded. In the past two decades there has been a fundamental transformation in the information architecture of the world –the emergence of the Internet has broken the geographic and physical barriers to the way knowledge is disseminated.”  The second annual “One Globe: Uniting Knowledge Communities” (#OG 13) Conference was organized in February, 2013, at The Imperial Hotel, New Delhi, India. It was inaugurated by Dr. Pallam Raju, Honorable Union Minister of Human Resources Development, Government of India.  The conference served as an engaging forum with leaders from government, academia, business, non-profit and multilateral institutions debating and discussing the elements of creating a 21st-century knowledge based economy.    Topics explored the linkages across the knowledge spectrum, from K-12 to higher education, to innovation to technology. Weaving a holistic thread across discussions, from the four pillars of learning to the creation of world class universities,  from India's demographic dividend, to the use of technologies, like tablets and mobile video in delivering education, from rapid urbanization and designing sustainable innovative cities, building capacity in skills development by looking at community colleges and encouraging entrepreneurship, to the imperative of educating women.    The International Herald Tribune, BrainGainmag.com, U.S. India Business Council, Knowledge@Wharton, The Indus Entrepreneurs, WISE, Gutenberg Communications, PHD Chamber, & The Sunday Guardian were some of the key partners that were instrumental in driving the event’s success. Key speakers included, Dr. Karan Singh, Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha); President of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), and India’s Ambassador to UNESCO, Hon’ble Minister Preneet Kaur, Minister of State for External Affairs, Government of India, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission of India,  Mr. Stavros N. Yiannouka, CEO, World Innovation Summit for Education (WISE),  R.K. Pachauri, Director General of The Energy and Resources Institute(TERI),  Madhav Chavan, CEO, Pratham & WISE Prize for Education Laureate and many more. In a special keynote, Hon’ble Minister Shashi Tharoor, Minister of State for Human Resource Development, Government of India, expressed the need to focus on socio-economic development along with technology driven education initiatives. Tharoor said “If I had to pick the one thing that we must do above all else, I now offer a two-word mantra: educate girls” –answering the perennial question: What is the single-most important thing that can be done to improve the world?  The first conference featured moderated open discussions with leading scholars and expert panelists, and provided participants with an in-depth view of how innovative solutions can help solve real world challenges in education. In two days of sessions and round-table discussions, the conference focused on exploring the multiple opportunities in India and South Asia’s education sector. Some of the corporate sponsors included YES Bank,  the Institute of International Education (IIE), USA Community College Consortium and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI). The International Herald Tribune, BrainGainmag.com, U.S. India Business Council, Knowledge@Wharton, The Indus Entrepreneurs, UK India Business Council, Gutenberg Communications, Ecole Hoteliere Lausanne, Habiart Foundation, Global Partnerships Forum and Centre of Community Initiative were some of the key partners that were instrumental in driving the event’s success in producing the two-day showcase event. Kapil Sibal, Union Minister for HRD & Communications and Information Technology, Government of India, announcing the need of an open platform,  where students will be able to access courses from other universities, interact with international faculty members, and, in the process, generate knowledge, said, “We have to move forward as One Globe, reuniting knowledge communities”. Sibal also urged for the private sector to increase their participation to give a boost to the Gross Enrolment Ratio to 42 million by 2020.  Some of the key speakers and dignitaries included Sam Pitroda, Advisor to the Prime Minister, Public Information Infrastructure & Innovations,  Ron Somers, President, U.S.-India, Business Council,  Lord Loomba CBE, Founder Chairman, The Loomba Foundation, Shantanu Prakash, Chairman and Managing Director, Educomp Solutions Limited,  Jacques Steinberg, Senior Editor, The Choice and The Learning Network, The New York Times,  Dr. Mukesh Aghi, Chairman & CEO, Steria India, and many more. One Globe Forum also publishes content such as videos and articles on its website and social media channels.  Make in India Digital India Smart Cities Startup India 