State Flag Day is the main state holiday in Mongolia.  This date is celebrated annually on July 10. State Flag Day is annually celebrated with a military parade and a flag raising ceremony on Chinggis Square.    In 2008, 3 Mongolian Members of Parliament passed a law on the establishment of State Flag Day. As a result, State Flag Day was celebrated for the first time on July 10 the following year.   The annual military parade Mongolian Armed Forces on the southern part of Sükhbaatar Square is the main event during State Flag Day. The parade has been held since 2009, and is presided by the President of Mongolia in his/her capacity as Commander in Chief of the MAF.  The ceremonies begin as the president steps out of the Government Palace to be received at the saluting base by the Speaker of the State Great Khural, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defense, as well as members of the government and the General Staff of the Mongolian Armed Forces. As the President receives the salute, then a car carrying a color guard from the National Defense University takes its place in the parade to the tune of a slow march. After a fanfare by the combined massed bands of the Ulaanbaatar garrison provided by the Military Band of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Mongolia and the Brass Band of the Military Music College of Mongolia of the NDU, the Minister of Defense arrives in the center of the square to receive the report from the Chief of the General Staff of the MAF, on the status of the parade and its readiness for inspection. As the Minister's vehicle pass the mobile column of the parade he/she greets the formations and congratulates them on the holiday. Once the minister and the parade commander finish their inspection, the minister's vehicle heads to the saluting base to greet the president and give his/her ceremonial report on the parade's readiness to march off. Following this, the National Anthem of Mongolia is played by the band as the national flag is raised. Following a threefold Urra by the armed forces, the parade commander orders the parade formations to stand at attention and to move their colours and commanders to the front of their formation for the march past. Once the commander orders the parade to march in quick time with the command Eyes on the right, quick march!, the Corps of Drums of the Military Music College, march to a tune being played by the drummers and fifers. By the signal of the Corps Drum Major, massed bands start playing and the corps stops and swings its drumsticks while their eyes are on the right. The Corps of Drums are then immediately followed by cadets from the NDU, who are then followed by the parade formations participating in the parade, ending with the Mongolian State Honor Guard Battalion.  