The Center for Hellenic Studies in Greece (CHS GR ) is a Harvard research Center based in Nafplio, Greece. A twin institution to its counterpart Harvard University’s Center for Hellenic Studies in Washington, D.C.,  CHS GR is housed in the Iatrou building, formerly home to the municipal town hall of Nafplio, at Philhellene and King Othon Street. A joint American and Greek Executive Board supervise the Center in Greece. The Director of the Center for Hellenic Studies in Greece is Professor Ioannis Petropoulos of the Democritus University of Thrace. The Center for Hellenic Studies in Greece inaugurated in 2008 by way of a joint decision between the Provost and the Dean of the Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences. CHS GR utilizes the knowledge and expertise of Harvard's faculty and research centers and is a part of Harvard’s continuing effort to expand its international presence.  The Center serves as a nexus for the network of international Centers operated by Harvard in Europe and around the globe, and it was organized and developed by being accessible, and free of charge, to the general public. From a geographical standpoint Nafplio's role in the shaping of modern Greece and its enduring cultural significance make it an opportune setting for Harvard students as well as for visitors from Greece and across the globe. Nafplio neighbors with many archaeological sites in Greece such as Mycenae, Mystras, Epidaurus, Olympia, Tiryns, etc. Nafplio was the first capital of modern Greece after independence and a port during the Mycenean period. The Center for Hellenic Studies’s facility in Nafplio has been equipped with a Digital Library which provides access to Harvard Library's electronic resources and a number of additional databases. Access is open to all researchers and visitors of the Center, regardless of affiliation.  The Center for Hellenic Studies provides training and professional development to students, visitors, and researchers in all fields of study through a wide variety of programs, which include internships, workshops and seminars, research initiatives, and study abroad: As part of its mission of outreach, the Center for Hellenic Studies in Greece offers a regular program of activities that address not only Harvard and other academic institutions but also the local community, including the Argolis region and the Peloponnese. Such is the Events Series, which is organized with the support of Municipalities of the Argolis, Nafplio, Argos-Mycenae, Ermionida, Epidaurus, as well as other institutions such as the Society for the Promotion of Education and Learning (SPEL), the University of Peloponnese, the Harvard Club of Greece, the Archaeological Museum of Thessaloniki, etc. A number of other activities such as educational programs, exhibitions, events and workshops are organized in collaboration with institutions of the city such as the Municipal Organization of Culture, Environment, Sports, and Tourism (DOPPAT), Municipalities of the Argolis as well as the regional government of the Peloponnese, the Athletic Federation of Greece (SEGAS), the Department of Theatre Studies, University of Peloponnese, the Fougaro Cultural Complex, etc. CHS in Greece has established long collaborations with institutions such as SPEL under the direction of George Babiniotis, the International Olympic Academy, the Fulbright Foundation in Greece, the Michael Marks Charitable Trust, the University of Peloponnese, in order to provide a regular program of events and activities addressed to the local and global educational and research community. CHS GR also hosts and supports a number of visiting study abroad programs and collaborates with a number of educational institutions. To name a few: the Summer Study Abroad Program of the Jackson School of International Studies, University of Washington, Seattle; the Summer Program in Greece of Duke University, Department of Philosophy and Education Office for Undergraduates; the Study Abroad Program in Greece “Food and Culture in Greece” of Louisiana University; the Summer Program in Greece of the College of William and Mary, Department of Classical Studies. All these activities constitute an offering back to the local community of the Peloponnese and the global community. Coordinates: 37°34′02″N 22°47′48″E﻿ / ﻿37.567180°N 22.796628°E﻿ / 37.567180; 22.796628 