  Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Bhopal (IISER-B or IISER - Bhopal) is an autonomous research and education institute in Bhauri, Bhopal district, Madhya Pradesh, India. It was established by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India in 2008 in order to incorporate research in basic science at undergraduate and graduate level, with equal emphasis on higher education for research and education in science. It is an autonomous institution awarding its own degrees.  Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISERs) were created in 2006 through a proclamation of Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India, under the category of institiutes of national importance, to promote quality education and research in basic sciences. Soon after the announcement, two of these institutes at Pune and Kolkata, respectively, were started in 2006. This was followed by institutes at Mohali (2007), Bhopal and Trivandrum (2008), Tirupati (2015) and Berhampur (2016). Each IISER is a degree granting autonomous institution with a prime focus to integrate science education and research.  IISER Bhopal offer BS-MS (Dual Degree) programme, Integrated Ph.D. programme in Chemistry, Mathemetics and Physics and Ph.D. programme in Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Earth and Environmental Sciences, Mathematics, Physics, Chemical Engineering and Electrical Engineering & Computer Science.   The five year BS-MS (Dual Degree) Programme is offered in Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Mathematics, Physics, and Earth and Environmental Sciences. The institute will also be offering BS-MS (Dual Degree) programme in Chemical Engineering and Electrical Engineering & Computer Science. BS-MS (Dual Degree) programme consists of mandatory, common courses (core courses) for all disciplines during the first two years  and discipline dependent professional courses during the remaining three years. Core courses include topics from all the four science disciplines in addition to interdisciplinary courses in earth and environmental sciences, computer science and humanities. In the final year, BS-MS students are required to undertake project work with a faculty supervisor, relevant to their major discipline. In addition to majoring in one of the five (Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Earth and Environmental Sciences, Mathematics, and Physics) science disciplines, BS-MS students can also minor in another disciplines. The Institute encourages and rewards academic excellence exhibited by its students. To this end, Professor C. N. R. Rao Education Foundation Prize with a prize amount of Rs. 5000/- per semester is awarded to a student scoring the highest CPI during the first year (in both the first and second semesters) of the BS-MS (Dual Degree) programme. In addition, the Institute awards the President's Gold Medal for the best academic performance in the graduating class in all disciplines of the BS-MS program. Proficiency Medals are the awarded for the best academic performance in the each discipline of the BS-MS program to the graduating class. A Director's Gold Medal is awarded for outstanding all-round achievement and leadership in the graduating class in all disciplines.  The Institute also offers four years BS Programme in Economic Sciences for bright and motivated science students who have passed (10+2) with mathematics as one of the subjects. The programme integrates classroom learning with research. The training during the programme enables students to pursue careers in academia, industry or government organizations. The Institute offers Integrated Ph.D. programme in Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics. Physics Department takes I-PhD candidates from JEST channel, Chemistry Department usually takes students from IIT-JAM.  All admitted students will receive a fellowship of Rs. 10,000/- pm in the initial two years subject to satisfactory performance in their course work. Subsequently the fellowship will be revised to comply with the existing MHRD norms. Students must successfully complete course work, qualifying examination, seminars, and a dissertation. Besides the mandatory requirements, students are encourages to participate in several professional activities such as workshops, review meetings and conferences. Admission to the doctoral program is after a Master's degree in science. Besides the students of the Integrated Master's program, postgraduate students with a Master's degree in science from other Universities/Institutes are also admitted to the doctoral program. The Institute also offers Ph.D. programmes in all disciplines. All selected candidates not receiving external fellowship are awarded an Institute fellowship. Currently, the Institute offers Ph.D. programmes in the following disciplines: Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Chemical Engineering, Earth and Environmental Sciences, Electrical Engineering & Computer Science,  Mathematics, Physics. All doctoral students are also expected to participate in the undergraduate teaching programme of the Institute as a part of their training.  The program involved course work, a qualifying examination, a state-of-the-art seminar, thesis work, open seminar and a thesis examination, leading to the award of a PhD degree.  Postdoctoral studies are possible in Physics, Mathematics, Chemistry, Biology and Earth Sciences. Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Bhopal ranked 56 by the National Institutional Ranking Framework in overall ranking in 2018.  Students are admitted to the programme through the following channels  Admission to the Integrated Ph.D. programme will be made once a year during May/June. Advertisement would be floated between March/April. Candidates must have a Bachelor's Degree. A written or oral exam will be conducted at the campus. A prospective candidate should have completed a graduate programme (B.Sc./B.Tech./B.E.) in a discipline relevant to his/her choice of Integrated Ph.D. programme. Candidates seeking admission in Chemistry should have a valid JAM score. Candidates seeking admission in Physics should have a valid JEST rank Applications are invited twice a year. A prospective candidate should have completed a postgraduate programme (M.S./M.Sc./M.Tech./MBBS) in a discipline relevant to his/her choice of Ph.D. programme along with qualifying a national entrance exam. Students should have a valid rank in the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) and/or have qualified the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)/University Grants Commission (UGC)/National Eligibility Test – Junior Research Fellowship (NET-JRF), or other equivalent examinations. All selected candidates not receiving external fellowship will be awarded an Institute fellowship. Students Activity Council (SAC) is a union of the students for organisation of extracurricular activities in the Institute and to address their concerns. It is totally managed, organised and maintained by the students themselves. SAC contains 6 different Activity Councils: IISER Bhopal has hosted the 4th INTRA IISER SPORTS MEET (IISM 2015), 9 institutes participated in this event ( 6 IISERs, IISc, NISER, CBS Mumbai). IISER Bhopal hosts two annual festivals. Enthuzia is the cultural festival of IISER Bhopal. It was started in 2010. Singularity is the annual science festival of IISER Bhopal. Singularity'16, the third edition, witnessed K. Radhakrishnan as keynote speaker. 