The Leuven Centre for Global Governance Studies is an interfaculty interdisciplinary research centre of the Humanities and Social Sciences at KU Leuven, Belgium. It carries out and supports interdisciplinary research on topics related to globalization, global governance processes and multilateralism, and has been recognized as a KU Leuven Centre of Excellence. The Leuven Centre for Global Governance Studies carries out and supports interdisciplinary research on topics related to globalization, global governance processes and multilateralism, with a particular focus on the following areas, taking the many cross-cutting issues into account: (i) the European Union and global governance, (ii) human rights, democracy and rule of law, (iii) trade and sustainable development, (iv) peace and security, (v) emerging powers, (vi) federalism and multi-level governance, (vii) global commons and outer space, and (viii) non-state actors. In full recognition of the complex issues involved, the Centre approaches global governance from a multilevel and multi-actor perspective. The Centre considers non-European perspectives to global governance of great importance. It also hosts the InBev-Baillet Latour EU-China Chair,  which engages in interdisciplinary research and education on EU-China relations in close synergy with the InBev-Baillet Latour EU-China Chair at the Université catholique de Louvain, and the Leuven India Focus,   which aims at developing knowledge and expertise on India and South Asia by organizing conferences, lectures and seminars and interdisciplinary research. The Centre regularly organizes transatlantic conferences and events focusing on Latin America and Asia, and takes a keen interest in the Global South. In addition to its fundamental research, the Centre carries out independent applied research and advises policy-makers on multilateral governance and global public policy issues. It works with academic and policy partners from all over the world, including the European Parliament, European Commission, European External Action Service, Committee of the Regions, International Labour Organization (ILO), Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), World Bank and World Trade Organization (WTO). The Centre publishes the Leuven Global Governance Series  with Edward Elgar Publishers, makes it research available through academic journal articles, working papers, policy briefs and global governance opinions on its web site and regularly publishes a newsletter. Since March 2011, the Centre is located in the historical house de Dorlodot  near the Centre of Leuven. The house is named after Henry de Dorlodot (nl), a Belgian theologian and paleontologist (1855–1929). The Centre is directed by professor Jan Wouters, Jean Monnet Chair EU and Global Governance and Full Professor of International Law and International Organizations at the University of Leuven. The deputy director is Dr. Axel Marx. The strategic lines of GGS are set by a Board, consisting of the director, the deputy director and professor Bart Kerremans, professor Filip Abraham, professor Ortwin de Graef, professor Idesbald Goddeeris, professor Stephan Keukeleire, professor Stephan Parmentier, professor Bart Raymaekers, professor Jo Swinnen, professor Bernard Tilleman, professor Geert Van Calster and professor Patrick Van Cayseele. Senior members of the Centre are Filip Abraham, Katja Biedenkopf, Toon Braeckman, Kim Christiaens, Christophe Crombez, Geert De Baere, Filip De Beule, Erik De Bom, Helder De Schutter, Martin Deleixhe, Edith Drieskens, Raf Geenens, Idesbald Goddeeris, Tim Heysse, Bart Kerremans, Stephan Keukeleire, Ria Laenen, Matthias Lievens, Miet Maertens, Axel Marx, Alessandro Mulieri, Ching Lin Pang, Letizia Paoli, Stephan Parmentier, Kolja Raube, Stefan Sottiaux, Jo Swinnen, Geert Van Calster, Jan Van Hove, Dimitri Vanoverbeke, Frank Verbruggen and Jan Wouters. Junior members are Johan Adriaensen, Ana Sofia Freitas de Barros, Emilie Bécault, Stephanie Bijlmakers, Christiaan Boonen, Nicolás Brando, Matthieu Burnay, Colleen Carroll, Kenneth Chan, Anna-Luise Chané, Samuel Cogolati, Hanne Cuyckens, Philip De Man, Sanderijn Duquet, Cliff Farhang Pajouh, Dylan Geraets, Nicolas Hachez, Rutger Hagen, Linda Hamid, Rik Hansen, Haye Hazenberg, Marieke Koekkoek, Brecht Lein, Katrien Meuwissen, Bregt Natens, Jed Odermatt, Pierre Schmitt, Eef Vandebroek, Sarah Van Eynde, Sven Van Kerckhoven, Nils Vanstappen and Nele Verlinden. Associate fellows are Elisa Baroncini, Steven Blockmans, Sofie Bouteligier, Dominic Coppens, Tim Corthaut, Jean-Christophe Defraigne, Tom Delreux, Bart De Meester, Bruno Demeyere, Karen Fogg, Fernando Gonzalez, Sander Happaerts, Sebastián López Escarcena, Joris Larik, Frederik Naert, Thomas Ramopoulos, Luc Reydams, Wim Van Aken, Peter van Kemseke and Bart Van Vooren. The International Advisory Board is composed of José E. Alvarez, André Bergen, Bernard Bot, Günter Burghardt, Antonio Augusto Cançado Trindade, Luc Cortebeeck (nl), Herman Daems, Bert De Graeve, Jan Egeland, Gareth Evans, Mark Eyskens, Andreas Follesdal, Rene Foqué, Jan Grauls, Jonas Grimheden, Andreas Kalyvas, Beate Kohler Koch, Thomas Leysen, Edward Luck, Juan Méndez, Arthur Mol, Woo-Sik Moon, Hugo Paemen, Mónica del Carmen Serrano Carreto, Yasmin Sooka, Jan Aart Scholte, Strobe Talbott, Françoise Tulkens, Frans van Daele, Walter van Gerven, Toby Vogel, Youquiang Wang, Thomas Weiss and Abiodun Williams. The Leuven Centre for Global Governance Studies organizes many public events, such as conferences, workshops, lectures and seminars. A complete overview of all upcoming and past events can be found online.   