  Museum railway station is a heritage-listed  underground commuter rail station that is located on the City Circle route at the southern end of Hyde Park in the Sydney central business district of New South Wales, Australia. The station is served by Sydney Trains T2 Inner West & Leppington and T3 Bankstown T8 Airport & South lines. The station is named after the nearby Australian Museum. Designed by John Bradfield in the Inter-War Stripped Classical architectural style,  the station comprises two platforms, each 158.5 metres (520 ft) long by 3.8 metres (12 ft) wide, under an arch with span 14.6 metres (48 ft). Museum's signage and cream tiling with maroon highlights are reminiscent of a typical London Underground tube station of the era, however its layout of central tracks under a grand arch are more in keeping with older stations of the Paris Métro. Until the construction of the Airport Line in the 1990s, it was the only underground station in Sydney without an island platform. It is a companion to St James station, both opened at the same time and use a roundel design on their station signage that is similar to the one used on the London Underground. The station opened on 20 December 1926 with the opening of the eastern city line from Central to St James.    It became part of the City Circle loop on 22 January 1956. The main entrance to the station is located at the corner of Elizabeth and Liverpool Streets. Another entrance featuring a sandstone façade is located on the corner of Liverpool and Castlereagh Streets. This entrance sits at the foot of the District Court of New South Wales' Downing Centre, formerly the site of the Mark Foy's department store. Other entrances are also located on three corners of the intersection of Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets. There are photos of the station being built and a complete photo history through the pedestrian tunnels of this station. The platforms feature various period advertisements.  Work commenced 27 May 2015 on lifts between the street and the concourse level at the Elizabeth and Liverpool Streets entrance with further lifts to the platforms.   Main entrance on Elizabeth Street Main concourse Station trackplan 