"The lamb with the lion" – often a paraphrase from Isaiah, and more closely quoted as "the wolf and lamb", "a child will lead them", and the like – are an artistic and symbolic device, most generally related to peace. The symbol is used in both Christianity and Judaism to represent the Messianic Age.  In addition, in Christianity, according to a sermon by Augustine, the lion stands for Christ resurrected, the lamb for Christ's sacrifice ("He endured death as a lamb; he devoured it as a lion."—Augustine, Sermon 375A).  Although Isaiah 35:2 casts a lion metaphorically as forbidden in the future paradise ("No lion shall be there, nor any ravenous beast shall go up thereon, it shall not be found there; but the redeemed shall walk there"); in 11:6,7, Isaiah references such formerly ravenous beasts as become peaceable: "The wolf will live with the lamb, the leopard will lie down with the goat, the calf and the lion and the yearling together; and a little child will lead them. The cow will feed with the bear, their young will lie down together, and the lion will eat straw like the ox."  "In like a lion, out like a lamb" is a proverb having to do with March weather. It has been speculated that its origin is from astrological Leo (lion) being followed by Aries ([kid] goat).  In the 1830s, American Quaker artist Edward Hicks began painting a series of paintings on the theme of the Peaceable Kingdom. The kingdom-of-peace motif has been popular among various so-called Christian "Restoraionist" groups. For example: A number of "peace" gardens or fountains at Jewsish, Catholic, and Protestant places of worship contain statuary containing the lamb and lion. In 1987, the Lion & Lamb Peace Arts Center was established at Mennonite Bluffton University.  Humorist Josh Billings (1818–1885): "The lion and the lamb may possibly sometimes lie down together; but if you'll notice carefully, when the lion gets up, the lamb is generally missing."  Attributed to Woody Allen: "I've always liked, someday the lamb will lay by the lion ... but it won't get much sleep."  