ArtFutura is a festival of digital culture and creativity that is celebrated annually in Barcelona, Buenos Aires, Ibiza, London, Montevideo and several other cities worldwide. It came about from the confluence of interests of some of the pioneers of the Cyberculture movement from the 90s, among whom were, Rebecca Allen, William Gibson and Montxo Algora, who presently continues to direct the festival. Every edition of ArtFutura is dedicated to a central theme and includes a diversity of activities: conferences, workshops, exhibitions, live shows and an audiovisual program which includes the latest novelties in digital creativity. The festival has a main venue, which started as being Barcelona, later moved to Madrid and Seville and then to a different city every year. A large part of the content of each edition is developed in Barcelona and Madrid although connections by means of video conferences are established with other cities in which the festival is held. Among the cities in which ArtFutura is presented are included Buenos Aires, Bogotá, Granada, Lisbon, London, Madrid, México DF, Montevideo, Palma de Mallorca, Paris, Punta del Este,  São Paulo, Santiago de Chile, Torino, Tenerife, Vigo and Vitoria-Gasteiz. GaleriaFutura is the division of ArtFutura destined to the exhibitions of digital art. One of its most important projects was the "Souls&Machines" ( Máquinas&Almas) exhibit that was presented at the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, Madrid, Spain and curated by Montxo Algora and José Luis de Vicente. It included the works of Paul Friedlander, Sachiko Kodama, Theo Jansen, Daniel Rozin, Chico McMurtrie, Rafael Lozano-Hemmer, Daniel Canogar, Evru, David Byrne, David Hanson, Vuk Ćosić, Pierre Huyghe, Harun Farocki, Muntadas, Ben Rubin, Mark Hansen, Antoni Abad and Natalie Jeremijenko. For each edition of the festival, ArtFutura edits a printed catalog which includes a selection of articles on digital art and culture. They also can be viewed online Souls&Machines 