The Cultural Olympiad Digital Edition, or CODE, was a digital art showcase at the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, Canada. The festival, which lasted from February 4 to 21, was the first of its kind at a major sporting event, showcasing the new digital media styles in art, music, and film. First conceived in 2007, the growth of social networking sites contributed to the eventual popularity of the event. One of the installations, Vectorial Elevation (a spotlight-based light installation over Vancouver's English bay), had over 20,000 individual design submissions. CODE Live was curated by digital artist Malcolm Levy.  Throughout the time of the CODE festival, not only a number of small areas turned into exhibition areas, but the city itself was transformed by digital art displays. Some of these pieces were:  All these installations are attempting to connect to the largest audiences possible, unlike the smaller exhibits. One internet Installation, CODE collections, showcased various aspects of landscape, culture, and people of Canada. Each collection was prefaced by a short introduction in both English and French, followed by pages of submitted photographs. Accessible wherever one could find a computer screen, this section of CODE showcased creations of Canada's visual artists. Nearly 20 recipients of the Governor General's Awards for Visual and Media Arts had work on display. Using an application, users were able to use an interactive catalog to easily find something they could enjoy. Some pieces are:  CODE live, blended interactive art with digital music. Placing the events at three well-known sites, events ranged from artists such as Chromeo performing to an installation of the Reactable on display. Featured at the Great Northern Way Campus, a center for teaching digital art and new media, CODE Live 1 showcased the following exhibits: Located at Emily Carr University, the use of unconventional exhibit spaces allowed for a unique venue for participatory art. Acts included: Within the Vancouver Public Library's central branch on Georgia St, CODE Live 3 featured these writings: For eight nights, electronic musicians played at the Great Northern Way campus; these exhibits were not free but included many popular musical artists.  This exhibit showcased over 50 Canadian filmmakers. A common theme among their films, because they were for the Olympics, was the movement of the human body. Films were shown both online or on larger projection screens at "celebration sites" Some of the films are: 