Gridcosm is a collaborative art project of the online art collective SITO, in which artists from around the world contribute images to a compounding series of graphical squares. Each level of Gridcosm is made up of nine square images arranged into a 3-by-3 grid. The middle image is a one-third size version of the previous level. Artists add images around that center image until a new 3-by-3 grid is completed, then that level itself shrinks and becomes the "seed" for the next level. This process creates an ever-expanding tunnel of images, the newest level a direct result of the previous level which is a result of the previous level... and so on. As of March 2018, 365 artists have contributed more than 4260 levels (over 34,081 individual images) to the project. The Gridcosm was started March 30, 1997 by founder of SITO, Ed Stastny. The project built upon the ideas and experiences with previous SITO collaborative projects ("Synergy" projects), many of which were grid-based. There have been many changes to the infrastructure of the Gridcosm since its 1997 inception. In addition to the images in the gridcosm, there is a text element as well. When submitting a square to the grid, the user adds a text fragment which becomes associated with that square. Before submitting the text, the user can preview any text that comes before or after. This allows the user to choose words or fragments of sentences, allowing them to "blend" the text of the poem if they choose. Hyperlinks can also be added to the submitted text, although this is infrequent. Additionally, when a new level is created, there must be some "seed" of text for users to add on to. This text is created by an algorithim. In earlier levels of the Gridcosm this "seed" of text was not as random as it is now. Various phrases such as "groblin attack" and "this should have been something better" were often used. The details of the Gridcosm are captured with every piece added to the level and information about the work and the participants can be viewed using the Gridcosm Activity Report. A report can be viewed on the Gridcosm as a whole, with such information as the number of levels, the overall number of artists and much more. There are also Individual artist reports which break down the contributions any given artist into categories such as number of pieces, average time between pieces, position popularity and much more. The structure of the project lends itself to animated traversals, called "fly-throughs". These can take the form of a zoom-in, going into the past, or a zoom-out, moving toward the present day. Notably, Lenara Verle produced a high quality animation of the first 1000 levels of Gridcosm, which was scored with a soundtrack made by SITO artists. In 2005, this animation won an International Media Award  . 