Conflict transformation is a concept designed to reframe the way in which peacebuilding initiatives are discussed and pursued, particularly in contexts of ethnic conflict. Traditionally the emphasis has been on conflict resolution and conflict management methods, which focus on reducing or defusing outbreaks of hostility.  Conflict transformation, in contrast, places a greater weight on addressing the underlying conditions which give rise to that conflict, preferably well in advance of any hostility, but also to ensure a sustainable peace. In other terms, it attempts to make explicit and then reshape the social structures and dynamics behind the conflict, often employing analytical tools borrowed from systems thinking. "The very structure of parties and relationships may be embedded in a pattern of conflictual relationships that extend beyond the particular site of conflict. Conflict transformation is therefore a process of engaging with and transforming the relationships, interests, discourses and, if necessary, the very constitution of society that supports the continuation of violent conflict".  Conflict transformation approaches differ from those of conflict management or conflict resolution.  Whereas conflict transformation involves transforming the relationships that support violence, conflict management approaches seek to merely manage and contain conflict, and conflict resolution approaches seek to move conflict parties away from zero-sum positions towards positive outcomes, often with the help of external actors.  Conflict transformation theory and practice are often associated with the academics and practitioners Johan Galtung and John Paul Lederach. According to Johan Galtung's Transcend Method conflict transformation theory and practice, and process/es, comprise:  and are based upon basic premises inspired by main world religions:  According to Berghof Foundation, conflict transformation means: According to Institute for Conflict Transformation and Peacebuilding (ICP), conflict transformation means: According to Search for Common Ground conflict transformation initiatives are often characterized by longtime horizons and interventions at multiple levels, aimed at changing perceptions and improving communications skills addressing the roots of conflict, including inequality and social injustice.  The Principles of Conflict Transformation, by TransConflict, specify further in order to help with defining conflict transformation: 