Harley Samuel Pasternak (born August 6, 1974) is a Canadian-American personal trainer, motivational speaker, author and television host. Pasternak is known for his books The Body Reset Diet and The 5-Factor Diet, along with working with many celebrity clients as a personal trainer. Pasternak is known mainly to most audiences as one of the co-hosts of ABC's 2012 daytime talk show, The Revolution. Pasternak graduated from York Mills Collegiate Institute, and holds an honors degree in kinesiology from the University of Western Ontario, and a master's degree in Exercise Physiology and Nutritional Sciences from the University of Toronto. During his time at U of T, Pasternak served as a Nutrition and Exercise Scientist at Department of National Defence's DCIEM (Defence and Civil Institute for Environmental Medicine) from 2005-2007. As a scientist, Harley focused on performance physiology and nutrition, with a specialty in caffeine and ephedrine. His work was published in the scientific journal, Medicine and Science in Sport and Exercise in June, 2003,  and in The Canadian Journal of Sports Medicine. Harley is also certified by the American College of Sports Medicine and is an IDEA Master Trainer.  Pasternak’s Celebrity client list includes: Adam Levine, Behati Prinsloo, Lady Gaga, Kim Kardashian, Kanye West, Megan Fox, John Mayer, Amy Schumer, Ariana Grande, Charlie Puth, Jessica Simpson, Julianne Hough, Robert Pattinson, Pusha T, Jason Sudeikis, Katherine Langford, Gwyneth Paltrow, Brad Falchuk, Jordana Brewster, Tobey Maguire, Rihanna, Mac Miller, Jennifer Hudson, Nina Dobrev, Gwen Stefani, Nathan Fillion, Abigail Spencer, Usher, Tracee Ellis Ross, Jack Black, Common, Eliza Dushku, Seth Rogen, Robert Downey Jr., Halle Berry, Amanda Seyfried, Kate Beckinsale, Maria Menounos, Bono, Milla Jovovich and Alicia Keys.    In 1999, Dr. Marvin Waxman introduced Pasternak to producer Don Carmody, who hired Pasternak to work with Jim Caveziel and cast on his film, ‘Angel Eyes’.  After several subsequent films, Carmody hired Pasternak to train Halle Berry, Robert Downey Jr., and Penélope Cruz on the set of 'Gothika' in Montreal.17 Berry suggested Pasternak move permanently from Toronto to Los Angeles to continue to work together, which he did.   In 2004, Berry played the title role in Catwoman, a role for which she trained exclusively with Pasternak. Berry's fit body made headlines which in turn led to a great deal of press word-of-mouth about Pasternak's physical training and nutrition advice. Press coverage included The Oprah Winfrey Show, where Pasternak was invited to discuss how he helped her get into shape.1  Winfrey suggested that he write a book about his program.     The book, 5-Factor Fitness: The Diet and Fitness Secret of Hollywood's A-List was published in 2005 and became an international best-seller. In addition to his hosting on The Revolution,  Pasternak has made multiple appearances on American and Canadian morning daytime talk shows and news programs, along with serving as a guest judge on Germany's Next Topmodel and Canada's Next Top Model. In January 2017, Pasternak appeared on Khloe Kardashian's series "Revenge Body". Pasternak appears as himself doing a fitness routine with Megan Fox in the 2014 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film.  He also appeared as himself as Jessica Simpson's personal trainer in Private Valentine: Blonde & Dangerous in 2008. Pasternak has published four books, which have been listed on the New York Times bestselling list and been published in fourteen languages, with sales in 29 countries. In 2015, Pasternak partnered with appliance manufacturer Salton to create a branded blender, The Harley Pasternak Power Blender.    Harley’s 5 Factor Workout, an exercise video series and DVD based on his popular book ‘5 Factor Fitness’, was released in 2009.  As an extension of his ‘5 Factor’ brand, Pasternak created a line of fitness products under his ‘5 Factor’ brand including The HarleyBar, a patented barbell design that appeared on QVC, HSN and the Shopping Channel.     He also developed a snack line, including snack bars and chips, 8 and a 5 Factor meal delivery program with meal delivery service provider Sunfare.   In 2012, Majesco Entertainment released ‘Harley Pasternak’s Hollywood Workout’, an exergame for Wii and XBOX 360 in 2012, which used a motion captured Harley leading his signature workouts.   Pasternak had also developed a series of limited edition Harley Pasternak branded athletic shoes with footwear manufacturer New Balance.  In 2018, Pasternak became the Global Trainer for Reebok, and has endorsed several products, including Fitbit and Propel Fitness Water. 