A brochure is an informative paper document (often also used for advertising) that can be folded into a template, pamphlet or leaflet. A brochure can also be a set of related unfolded papers put into a pocket folder or packet. Brochures are promotional documents, primarily used to introduce a company, organization, products or services and inform prospective customers or members of the public of the benefits.  Brochures are distributed in many different ways: as newspaper inserts, handed out personally, by mail or placed in brochure racks in high traffic locations especially in tourist precincts. They may be considered as grey literature.   A brochure is usually folded and only includes summary information that is promotional in character. A booklet is usually several sheets of paper with a cardstock cover and bound with staples, string or plastic binding. In contrast, a single piece of unfolded paper is usually called an insert, flyer or bulletin. Brochures available in electronic format are called e-brochures. This format has the added benefit of unlimited distribution and cost savings when compared to traditional paper brochures.  The most common types of single-sheet brochures are the bi-fold (a single sheet printed on both sides and folded into halves) and the tri-fold (the same, but folded into thirds). A bi-fold brochure results in four panels (two panels on each side), while a tri-fold results in six panels (three panels on each side).  Other brochure fold arrangements are possible: the accordion or "z-fold" method, the "c-fold" method, etc. Larger sheets, such as those with detailed maps or expansive photo spreads, are folded into four, five, or six panels. When two card fascia are affixed to the outer panels of the z-folded brochure. Booklet brochures are made of multiple sheets most often saddle-stitched, stapled on the creased edge, or perfect bound like a paperback book, and result in eight or more panels. Brochures leaflets are carefully edited to promote an organization or business, to sell a service or product, raise awareness or to champion a cause. Editors will be clear who they are trying to reach and define their target audience. They will also be conscious of skillful layout and design aimed at attracting the attention of their readers.   Brochures are often printed using four-color process on thick, glossy paper to give an impression of quality. Businesses may print small quantities of brochures on a computer printer or on a digital printer, but offset printing turns out higher quantities at a lower cost per unit. Compared with a flyer, a brochure usually uses higher-quality paper, more color, and is folded.  