Ama Opusenibo Dakuku Adolphus Peterside is the current Director General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency since March 2016.   NIMASA is a Nigeria federal government agency which is responsible for the promotion of indigenous shipping and regulation of shipping as well as enforcement of the cabotage law.  Peterside was born on December 31, 1970, a native of Biriye, Kingdom of Opobo to a middle class family of Senibo Adolphus Peterside, a scion of a famous warrior precipitate merchant who is called Senibo Nibilagh Peterside in Biriye Polo, Opobo. Peterside grew up in Azumini, Aba, both in present day Abia State, Kaduna and Port Harcourt at various times. Having graduated from Okrika Grammar School in 1986/87, nicknamed Old Garri sellers during his time. He went further to University of Science and Technology, Port Harcourt where he studied Medical Laboratory Sciences, specializing in Haematology and Blood Transfusion. He was elected National President, National Union of Rivers State Students in January 1992. He was also editor, Kampuswatch the flagship of RSUST's campus journalism. Peterside returned to Rivers State University of Science and Technology, Port Harcourt and earned a Masters Degree in Management. He is presently a doctoral candidate of the University of Port Harcourt.  When he graduated from RSUST, he joined public service which quickly became a passion. He was first appointed Special Assistant to Governor of Rivers State Peter Odili on Student and Youth Affairs in August 1999. Peterside is a member of Nigeria Institute of Management, fellow of Institute of Management Consultants of Nigeria  and member, Institute of Medical Laboratory Sciences of Nigeria. Peterside is married to Elima, a lawyer and with three children, Soba, Belema and Miebi.   Peterside was elected to the House of Representatives in 2011 served between May 2011 and May 2015 as chairman, House Committee on Petroleum Resources (Downstream)  where he had the privilege to oversight strategic National Oil and Gas establishments such as Petroleum Equalisation Fund, Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, Pipelines and Products Marketing Company. He co-over sighted Petroleum Technology Development Fund.  He led other legislators to sponsor and champion the Petroleum Industry Bill as chairman of the technical Committee of the House of Representatives.  He presented a total of 36 scholar papers in five countries on the reform of Oil and Gas industry and government institutions in developing countries. He previously served as Rivers State Commissioner of Works from October 2007 to January 2011. As Commissioner of works, he managed the largest construction portfolio ever in the history of state government’s construction, supervising a total of 200 road projects (totaling 1,000 km), 5 flyover bridges, and 10 bridges in four years. Before serving as commissioner of Works, Peterside had served as Executive director, Development and Leadership Institute 2003–2007, Senior Special Assistant to Governor of Rivers State on works (2003–2005), chairman, Opobo–Nkoro LGA (2002–2003), Special Assistant to Governor of Rivers State on Youths and Student Affairs (1999–2002). He also served concurrently on the Board of Centre for Black and African Arts and Culture.  