Established in 1998, The FAB Awards is an international awards programme focused on food and beverage brands.  Some of the brands that have won the FAB Award include McDonald's, Coca-Cola, Skittles, James Ready Beer, Heineken and Arla Foods. Agencies that have previously won the FAB plate include BBDO, JWT, Leo Burnett, DDB, McCann Erickson, Razorfish, TBWA, Ogilvy & Mather, Lewis Moberly, Design Bridge, Pearlfisher, Landor, Turner Duckworth and Williams Murray Hamm. Here are the various categories an entrant can submit their work into:  1. RETAILERS 2. HEALTH FOODS 3. DAIRY PRODUCTS 4. BAKING FOODS & COOKING INGREDIENTS 5. SUSTAINABLE   6. PET FOODS 7. CONFECTIONERY & SNACKS 8. SAVOURY FOODS 9. ALCOHOLIC DRINKS 10. NON-ALCOHOLIC DRINKS 11. SPECIAL 12. ETHICAL 13. PHOTOGRAPHY 14. SPONSORSHIP & IDENTS 15. CHARITABLE CAUSES   TYPE OF MEDIA / DESIGN Judging takes place by international juries in London and usually takes three weeks. All nominated entrants are notified shortly after the judging. The winners are announced only at the awards ceremony. The following are some of the Judges that have judged The FAB Awards over the past 20 years, since :      The Hurlingham Club in London has hosted the FAB Awards ceremony for all 20 years of its existence. The ceremony, which usually takes place in May, is a formal black tie event that includes dinner and drinks. It is attended by nominees, industry personalities, past judges and other select invitees. The ceremony showcases all the nominated work and hands out the awards to the respective winners. From 2016 onwards all nominees were awarded a Silver Awards. There are two types of awards to be won on the night: This is equivalent to a 'Gold' in other major award ceremonies. There can be multiple FABs across a single category. These are the grand winners on the night and are awarded over a family of categories, such as, Traditional Advertising (TV, Press, Posters, etc.) or Digital Advertising (Online, Website, Social Media, Viral, etc.) A project must have won a FAB Award on the night to be considered for a FABulous Award. Introduced in 2013, this award is handed out to the brand that fares the best in the judging session. This includes the number of nominations, FAB and FABulous Awards it wins. This is also the only award that is announced before the actual awards ceremony. In 2015 and 2016, this award was sponsored by Google UK,   with YouTube sponsoring it in 2017. Similar to the Brand of the Year Award, this award is given to the agency that performed the best during the judging session. The award was introduced for the first time in 2000. This award was also sponsored by Google UK in 2015 and 2016,  with YouTube sponsoring it in 2017. Points are handed out for nominations, FAB Awards and FABulous Awards. The agency that amasses the most points is named Agency of the Year. The following are the agencies that have won the Agency of the Year Award:  Similar to the Agency of the Year Award, this award is given to the design house that performed the best during the judging session. The award was introduced for the first time in 2016. Points are handed out for nominations, FAB Awards and FABulous Awards. The agency that amasses the most points is named Design Agency of the Year. The following are the design houses that have won the Design Agency of the Year Award:  In 2013, The FAB Awards along with WCRS published seven print ads to promote the 15th edition of the awards. That was the first time FAB ran an advertising campaign to promote the event. The campaign is the brainchild or former FAB winner and WCRS creative Naz Nazli. Nazli came up with the idea while judging the awards in 2011.  Full credits for the campaign: The full campaign can be seen here. To mark their 20th Anniversary, The FAB Awards unveiled a new campaign by Creative Directors, Naz Nazli and Alex Ball with the tag line: “20 Years Young”. Photographed by Andy Gallacher, it features some of the leading personalities from the Marketing, Design and Advertising Industry, who have either picked up the FAB plate or have judged the programme during its 20-year history. The likes of Mary Lewis, Rodanthi Senduka, Graham Shearsby, Rosie Arnold, Bjorn Stahl, Peter Ignazi, Russell Ramsey, Karen Welman, Garrick Hamm, Paul Brazier, Donald Gunn and Michael Conrad (to name a few) are showcased in their youthful splendour, highlighting FAB’s continued support from the cream of the Marketing, Design and Advertising Industry.  Full credits for the campaign: The full campaign can be seen here. 