The Tiffin Cup is an annual British competition run by the Tiffin Club to find the best South Asian restaurant in the United Kingdom. Nominees are selected by their constituency and then put forward by their local MPs. One restaurant from every region is then shortlisted and invited to participate in the Grand Final cook-off event held in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, as judged by MPs and guest celebrities, with the proceeds going to a selected charity. The name tiffin is given to the containers that transported light meals. The tiffins, or tiffinboxes are made up of three porcelain round trays with handles and lids in which lunches are delivered to workers. They are delivered through a complex network of Dabbawallahs, who set off with the dishes after the men have left for work. This practice is still in use in India today. The word tiffin is also used to refer to taking a little light snack, including a cup of tea. It probably came into use when it became more popular to have a full meal in the evening rather than mid-afternoon, thus requiring a lighter meal at around midday that needed a name. 2006 - Taj Mahal Indian Restaurant, Preseli Pembrokeshire 2007 - Bekash, Romford 2008 - Mint and Mustard, Cardiff North 2009 - Tamasha, Bromley and Chislehurst 2015/15 - Mushtaqs Restaurant from Hamilton, Scotland won the Tiffin Cup. Ainsley Harriot, famous tv chef, said of the victorious Mushtaqs "Mushtaqs food has some of the best flavour combinations I have ever eaten." 2013 - The competition included Ainsley Harriet as the chair of a panel of judges. Notable mention to the Bilash Balti in Lytham St Annes, Lancashire, which was the first restaurant in the Fylde to win the Best in the North West category.  2010 - A record 74 nominations were received by the Tiffin Club! The Launch of the Newby Teas Tiffin Cup 2010 was on Tuesday 14 September 2010. In 2010, the competition was in aid of World Vision. B. Raj Tandoori, Banff and Buchan The Mirch Masala, Tooting Royal Al Faisal, Birmingham Taj Mahal, Pembrokeshire Pan Ahar, Blyth Valley Aagrah Shipley, Shipley Bombay Dreams, Brent South Queen Spice, South Queensferry Sukhi's Indian Cuisine, Darwen The Royal Bengal, Lowestoft Bombay Spice, North London The Tandoori Parlour, Castle Point Bengal Spice, Hemel Hempstead Queens Spice, Edinburgh West Maharaja, Castle Point Passage to India, Stroud Tower Tandoori, North Southwark and Bermondsey  Taste of India, Surrey Heath Bekash, Romford Shimla Spice, Shipley 4,500 miles from Delhi, Nottingham South Moonlight Tandoori, Banff and Buchan The Gulshan, Wolverhampton South East Shahi Quila, Blackburn The Chilli Raj, St Albans Chilli Chutney, Streatham The Third Place, Shrewsbury Mint and Mustard, Cardiff The Royal Spice, Peterborough Bombay Blues, London Spice Lodge, Cheltenham The Spice Bazaar, South West England Azad Manzil Restaurant, North West England Pan Ahar Restaurant, Havering Kareem's, Vale of Clwyd Tamasha, Bromley and Chislehurst Jalsagor, Herefordshire Saffron, Leeds North East Haweli Indian, Maidenhead Lawthorn Farm Indian, Central Ayrshire Shajan, Ribble Valley Planet Poppadom, Great Yarmouth Godalming Tandoori, South West Surrey The Spice Bazaar, Totnes  