The World Brewer's Cup is a competition which showcases the craft and skill of filter coffee brewing by hand, promoting manual coffee brewing and quality of service.  The contestants comes from around the world to compete in Melbourne, Australia only after winning the crown of their own country first.   The Championship takes place in Melbourne, Australia and runs from May 23 to May 26. Competitors are required to prepare and serve three separate beverages for a panel of judges.  The WCB consists of two rounds: a first round and a finalist round. In the first heat competitors are required to complete two coffee services, which are a compulsory service and an open service. For the compulsory service, competitors prepare three beverages utilizing whole bean coffee provided to them by the competition. For the open service, competitors may utilize any whole bean coffee of their choosing and must also accompany their beverage preparation with a presentation. The six competitors with the highest score from the first round will go on to compete in the finals round consisting exclusively of an open service.  One competitor from the final round will be named the World Brewers Cup Champion. The 2017 World Brewer's Cup takes place in Budapest, Hungary on June 13-15.    The following are different Types of Coffee Recipes from Past World Brewers Cup Competitions. The first type of coffee was brewed by Sam Corra of Australia called ONA Coffee. He brewed Whole Cherry Carbonic wash processed Green-tip Geisha from Finca Deborah in Panama using a Hario V60 brewer. The method used was by splitting 300mL water into five pours with a dose of 20g coffee ground coarsely. The second type of coffee was by Stathis Koremtas of Greece called Taf Coffee. He brewed National processed Ninety Plus using a Hario V60 brewer. The method used was a 30-second bloom with 15g coffee to 250mL of 92°C  water. The third type of coffee was brewed by Costantin Hoppenz of Germany called Bonanza Coffee. He brewed washedd SL-28 and SL-34 coffee from Kenya. He used the method 30 second 30mL bloom with a V60-like glass brewer. Costantin used a dose of 14g to 230mL 90°C water. The forth type of coffee brewed was by Chad Wang of Taiwan called Jascaffe China. The coffee used was Natural processed ninety plus panama geisha with a ceramic Hario V60. The method used was 30 second bloom and after bloom pour rest of water directly in the center of the brewer meaning no circles. He used a dose of 15g coffee to 250mL of 92°C  water. The fifth type of coffee was by Petra Strelecka form Industra Coffee in Czech Republic. She used 70/30 blend of Ninety Plus Hot-Fermented Lotus Geisha and Honey-Processed Juliet Geisha with a plastic Hario V60. The method used was pulse pour 50g water every 30 seconds with a dose of 14.8g coffee to 250mL of 95°C water. The sixth type of coffee was by Michael Manhart of Austria. The coffee used was Natural Processed Nyasaland Variety Uganda with a Custom ceramic brewer similar to a Kalita Wave. The method used was add 250mL of 94°C Third Wave Water with a dose of 16g coffee, coarsely ground.    