The Association of Registered Graphic Designers ('RGD :7,9,52 or simply RGD;  formerly ARGD/ON is a non-profit, self-regulatory :52professional design association with over 3,000 members. It serves graphic design professionals, managers, educators and students. Created in 1996 by an Act of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario (Bill Pr56),  the Association is Canada's only accredited body of graphic designers with a legislated title  and the second such accredited body of graphic designers in the world. RGD certifies graphic designers and promotes knowledge sharing, continuous learning, research, advocacy and mentorship. RGD works to establish professional standards and innovative thinking within the graphic design industry. The association assumes an advocacy role for best practices for both graphic designers and the clients they work with. They focus on issues such as spec work and crowdsourcing, accessibility, sustainability, salaries and billing practices, pro bono work and internship guidelines. RGD advocacy initiatives include: In 1956, Toronto-based designers Frank Davies, John Gibson, Frank Newfeld and Sam Smart formed the Society of Typographic Designers of Canada (TDC).   The TDC was later renamed the Society of Graphic Designers of Canada (GDC) to reflect the wider interests of its members. By 1984 many other design disciplines such as Architecture and Interior Design had been given Acts in Provincial Legislatures so that their respective associations could govern and grant their members exclusive professional designations. RGD's founders recognized the need to align Graphic Design with other design professionals. To ensure Graphic Design could also advance as an acknowledged profession the Association's founders decided to incorporate the Association of Registered Graphic Designers (RGD). On April 25, 1996 Bill Pr56  was passed and Royal Assent was given to an Act Respecting The Association of Registered Graphic Designers by the Legislative Assembly of Ontario. Sponsored by Mrs. Margaret Marland, Member of Provincial Parliament and signed by the Honourable Hal Jackman C.M., O.Ont., O.ST.J., B.A., L.L.B., L.L.D., Lieutenant-Governor of the Province of Ontario. In 1999 a separate Examination Board was established to administer the Registered Graphic Designers Qualification Examination, now referred to as the Certification Process for RGD. In order to obtain the Registered Graphic Designer (RGD) designation, designers must complete go through a Certification Process that includes an application to determine eligibility, a multiple-choice online test, and a virtual portfolio interview. The RGD designation signifies knowledge, experience and ethical practice, guaranteeing that a designer is professionally competent in the areas of accessibility, business, design principles, research and ethics. RGD offers various forms of membership for professional practitioners, managers, educators and students in graphic design, and for persons in allied professions. RGD organizes three annual conferences: a two-day design conference called DesignThinkers,  a one-day career development conference for students and emerging designers called Creative Directions, and a one-day Design Educators Conference.  RGD has published three editionsThe Business of Graphic Design: The RGD Professional Handbook'.   It has also published AccessAbility: A Practical Handbook on Accessible Graphic Design  and publishes a biennial National survey of graphic design salaries & billing practices.  