Copywriting is the act of writing text for the purpose of advertising or other forms of marketing.  The product, called copy, is written content that aims to increase brand awareness and ultimately persuade a person or group to take a particular action. Copywriters help create billboards, brochures, catalogs, jingle lyrics, magazine and newspaper advertisements, sales letters and other direct mail, scripts for television or radio commercials, taglines, white papers, social media posts, and other marketing communications. They are generally known as website content writers or copywriters if their work appears mostly on the Internet. A content writer helps create online advertisements, web pages, email newsletters, blog posts and social media posts. Cross discipline copywriters who look at the wider context of their work are called digital copywriters.  The distinction is that these individuals consider the mechanics of the user journey, the external links that are included in the copy for search engine optimization and are highly focused towards creating online sales and dealing with technical issues such as bounce rate. Many copywriters are employed in advertising agencies, public relations firms, or copywriting agencies. Copywriters also work in-house for retail chains, book publishers or other big firms which advertise frequently. They can also be employed to write advertorials for newspapers, magazines, broadcasters and cable providers. Some copywriters work as independent contractors, doing freelance writing for a variety of clients. They may work at a client's office, a coworking office, a coffeehouse, or from home. Copywriters are similar to technical writers and the careers may overlap. Broadly speaking, however, technical writing is dedicated to informing readers rather than persuading them. For example, a copywriter writes an advertisement to sell a car, while a technical writer writes the operator's manual explaining how to use it. John Emory Powers (1837-1919) was the world's first full-time copywriter.    Other famous copywriters who worked in advertising throughout their careers include William Bernbach, Leo Burnett, Robert Collier, Claude C. Hopkins, David Ogilvy and Lester Wunderman. Many creative artists worked as copywriters before becoming famous, including:  Herschell Gordon Lewis, on the other hand, became famous for directing exploitation films before becoming a successful copywriter. In book publishing, flap copy or jacket flap copy is the summary of a book which appears on the inside of a hardcover dust jacket; back cover copy is similar text, usually briefer, on the outside back cover; and catalog copy is a summary written for a publisher's catalog. The Internet has expanded the range of copywriting opportunities to include landing pages and other web content, online advertisements, emails, blogs, social media and other forms of electronic communications. The Internet has brought new opportunities for copywriters to learn their craft, do research and view others' work. Clients, copywriters and art directors can more readily find each other, making freelancing a viable job option. Web copy may include among its objectives the achievement of higher rankings in search engines. Known as "organic" search engine optimization (SEO), this involves the strategic placement and repetition of keywords and keyword phrases on web pages, writing in a manner that human readers would consider normal. 