The ‘Made in Russia’ national brand is a Russian communication project aimed at promoting and raising awareness of Russia’s exports, business, and culture in both domestic and foreign markets.  The project was created by a team of professional translators, designers, marketers, and foreign trade specialists with the goal of improving communication - in every sense of the word - between Russian companies and international audiences. Amongst its other activities, ‘Made in Russia’ is working to promote the country’s non-commodity goods, attracting necessary partners and target audiences through media platforms, a multi-lingual online portal, catalogues with information about domestic export companies, and a unified corporate style: visual identification systems combining all Russian exports.   The concept and logo of ‘Made in Russia’ have been included in the second edition of an international textbook on branding called Nation Branding. Keith Dinnie, the author of the book, is a PhD candidate, an expert on branding, and a leading business school lecturer at Middlesex University in London.  Logo and corporate style  "Commercial use of Made in Russia" The logo for ‘Made in Russia’ is a combination of a bar code and birch bark texture. References to business, goods production and sales, and the rich culture and history of Russian entrepreneurship are all included in the logo. The ‘Made in Russia’ logo has been legally registered in all Nice 45 classes (International Classification of Goods and Services). The logo and corporate style of ‘Made in Russia’ have already become a visual support element used by Russian exporters in business missions around the world organized by the Russian Ministry for Economic Development.  Rights to use the national brand’s logo Companies that are registered, pay taxes, and create jobs in Russia are eligible to use the logo. All companies are selected and approved by the project’s expert advisory board. The logo is issued free of charge for a period of one year, with the possibility of extension upon entrance into the ‘Made in Russia’ register. Foreign companies may also qualify for the logo if they have joint ventures in Russia or have localized their business inside the country. Official ‘Made in Russia’ portal There is currently a multi-lingual portal  www.madeinrussia.ru and media platform for promoting Russian exporters, and catalogues about Russian export companies have also been created. International presentation of the ‘Made in Russia’ national brand The ‘Made in Russia’ national brand was presented to the international business community at the Milan EXPO 2015 exhibition. Its presentation comprised part of Made in Russia Day at the Russian pavilion with the participation of Igor Shuvalov, the first deputy prime minister.  In addition, the project participated as an informational and visual partner in a number of events for Russian exporters both in Russia and abroad. As a result, a number of agreements were signed and contacts made, as well as an assessment of the prospects for exporting Russian products, which included a study of reactions to the new brand. International experience National brands are a common trend in many countries’ foreign policies. Similar promotion programs have been implemented in other nations.  The national brands ‘Made in…’ are also available in Germany, Canada, the USA, China, Italy, Belarus, India and other countries. Expert opinion “The ‘Made in Russia’ national brand offers a single system for image promotion to domestic exporters that includes a variety of tools to help Russian producers effectively present their products in the process of entering foreign markets.” (Alexey Tyupano, CEO of EXIAR)   “The idea and conception of the ‘Made in Russia’ national brand seemed very interesting to me, and worthy to talk about with readers.” (author of the Nation Brand textbook on branding, Keith Dinnie – a PhD candidate, branding expert, leading business school lecturer at Middlesex University in London)   “The idea of patriotism in our time often turns into clowning... from this point of view, the website www.madeinrussia.ru is interesting. It gives a reasonable attempt, devoid of ridiculous patriotic jingoism, to summarize all brands and people whom our country can be proud of in every field - from Faberge, the jeweler to the tsars, to Igor Butman, the contemporary jazz musician.” (Leonid Kaganov, author and scriptwriter)   “The project aims to support and promote the best domestic achievements in various arenas: science, production, education, business, society, culture, and sports. It brings together companies that are developing their business in Russia and are creating new technologies - be it architecture, marketing, or sales - and through its work, promotes these achievements as a brand of Russian business.” (Irina Dobrokhotova, chairman of the board of directors at Best-Novostroy)   “The ‘Made in Russia’ project is a powerful label integrator whose mission is to gather Russian companies and become a forceful consolidation tool for them. International experience suggests that such initiatives are both strong and promising.” (Alexey Andreyev, managing partner of Depot WPF branding agency)   “The open, cooperative nature of this initiative has been highlighted at the communicative level. It was important for the creator of this idea to show that it’s possible to receive government assistance quickly and easily.” (Elena Yufereva, CEO of Brandson Branding Agency)   