 Mona Kim (born March 15, 1967) is a Korean-American designer born in South Korea and educated in the United States. Kim is a multidisciplinary design consultant and a visual artist for cultural and commercial projects (Mona Kim Projects). Through synthesizing words, images, public spaces, and technology, Kim has directed award-winning projects for her clients: environmental design for museum exhibitions; advertising campaigns for fashion and beauty; branded art installations; interactive sensorial spaces; direction and scriptwriting for audio-visual installations; editorial design. Kim is a Carnegie Mellon University graduate with BFA degree with Honors in Design. She had been selected by IBM Strategic Design branch during her last year in the university to collaborate with leaders in the design field such as Edward Tufte and Sam Lucente.  In 1990, Kim moved to Italy which had significantly influenced her work and life philosophy to date. In Milan, she had worked with the late Ettore Sottsass and had been introduced to the instinctual approach to design. In 1993, Kim moved to New York City where she had begun to expand her work into the fashion & beauty sector, working on advertising campaigns for fashion, beauty, and technology for clients and agencies such as Bloomingdales, Samsung Electronics, Coty, Kenneth Cole, and Arnell Group, as well as working overseas for fashion houses in Italy such as Mandarina Duck and Trussardi on the collection side. During this time, Kim also started to design environments and "experiential spaces" for thematic museums and exhibitions. Using her influence from fashion and advertising background, and merging it with an intellectual approach to communicating socio-political information,  her award-winning projects   are described to be highly impactful, with innovative & seamless synthesis of images, space, and message, that boldly engage the public. She had been involved in international projects which include The European Parliament Visitor Center, The Canadian Museum for Human Rights, "Voices" Exhibition for Universal Forum of Cultures Barcelona 2004, Samsung Seocho Brand Showcase, and "Water for Life" Exhibition, one of Expo Zaragoza 2008's main exhibitions with the much acclaimed sculpture of water Splash  which she designed with her partners at Program Collective.  She has also worked on branded art installations for Uniqlo   and scenography for Premiere Vision.   In addition, she has lectured at international conferences for digital culture and creativity such as Artfutura  and Broadcat.  Kim has also been an adjunct faculty and thesis advisor at Parsons Paris School of Art and Design,  adjunct faculty at IDEP,  Istituto Europeo di Design, and guest lecturer at Elisava Masters Program.  Kim has worked internationally in New York, Milan and Barcelona. She is presently based in Paris. 