The  Society of Graphic Designers of Canada (GDC®) is Canadaʼs national certification body for graphic and communication design and since 1956 has established standards for design professionals, educators, and leaders. Through our certification program, GDC licenses the unique CGD™ certification mark to members whose services meet rigorous, standardized criteria. The CGD™ certification mark is recognized across Canada as the mark of professional services and ethical business conduct. GDC is a member-based organization of design professionals, educators, administrators, students, and affiliates in communications, marketing, media and design-related fields. Our members come together via nine chapters across Canada to advocate for the advancement of the design profession. GDC was Canada’s first distinct group to professionalize graphic design as a distinct field.  In 1956 a visionary group of designers [Frank Davies, John Gibson, Frank Newfeld, and Leslie (Sam) Smart] met in Toronto to form the Society of Typographic Designers of Canada (TDC). Due to the rapid evolution of the profession, in 1968 the organization changed its name to the Society of Graphic Designers of Canada (GDC). Thanks to the efforts of a number of dedicated designers and design educators, negotiations between members of the original society, the federal government, and designers from every region of the country culminated in the granting of a Federal Charter in 1976, unifying the country under one national association. In 1996 GDC’s five Ontario Chapters amalgamated to form the Association of Registered Graphic Designers of Ontario and received provincial legislation granting them authority to use the title of Registered Graphic Designer and the R.G.D. designation within the province of Ontario. GDC celebrated its 50th Anniversary in 2006 with a commemorative stamp from Canada Post.   Today GDC has chapters throughout Canada and proudly boasts representation in every province and territory as well as many international members. GDC is well-respected internationally. Our organization is a member of the International Council of Design (ico-D), the worldwide non-governmental body representing graphic and communication designers. This allows our members to attain international recognition, professional development, and a global perspective on graphic design. GDC is one of the ten largest association members in ico-D and has been a member since 1974. GDC is also allied with the Societe des Designers Graphiques du Quebec (SDGQ), representing graphic designers in Quebec, the University and College Designers Association (UCDA), the Canadian Association of Professional Image Creators (CAPIC)and the Australian Graphic Design Association (AGDA). In September 2010 the GDC adopted membership changes to replace the MGDC and LGDC certifications    with a new CGD™ certification   in order to reduce confusion over the meaning of the MGDC designation.  The GDC has been an advocate and resource for Canada's graphic and communication design profession since 1956. The GDC maintains a national certified body of graphic and communication designers and promotes high standards of graphic design and ethical business practices for the benefit of Canadian industry, commerce, public service and education. Through the media, publications, seminars, events, conferences and exhibits, the GDC builds awareness of graphic and communication design and its essential role in business and society. Since 1960, the GDC has been recognizing as Fellows those designers who make major contributions to Canadian graphic design. Designers who have received the honour include Allan Fleming (1960), Burton Kramer (1975), Chris Yaneff (1983), Paul Arthur (1996), Jim Rimmer (2007), and Mark Busse (2014).  As of July 2014, GDC consists of nine chapters across Canada, facilitating a national, ongoing exchange of ideas and information for designers and students:  GDC is a professional member of ico-D (International Council of Communication Design), the worldwide non-governmental body representing the graphic design profession.  This provides GDC members with the opportunity for international recognition, professional development, and a global perspective on graphic design. The Société des designers graphiques du Québec (SDGQ), representing graphic designers in the province of Quebec, has a formal relationship with the GDC. Through our certification program GDC licenses the unique CGD™ certification mark to members whose services meet rigorous, standardized criteria. The CGD™ certification mark is recognized across Canada as the mark of professional services and ethical business conduct. Current certification requirements and guidelines can be found at gdc.design. 