TRIAD Berlin is a German exhibition design firm based in Berlin with an office in Shanghai. The agency is best known for the development of two major sports museums: the German Football Museum in Dortmund and the FIFA World Football Museum in Zürich.   The Berlin agency was founded in 1994 by Lutz Engelke to realize the exhibition The Dream of Vision – Age of Televisions at Gasometer Oberhausen in the city of Oberhausen.  After designing the theme pavilion Urban Planet at Expo 2010, the company also has an additional permanent office in Shanghai, China.  The agency focusses on spatial communication and sees itself as a Think & Do Tank. Its main goal is to turn complex ideas into tangible experiences. Although the content of the projects varies, the method used for their development is always the same: the creation of stories that can be experienced from abstract ideas. A key component of this process is the development of a narrative that structures the messages and guides the visitor through the exhibition. Most of the times, the storytelling is enhanced by digital media. TRIAD exhibitions rely heavily on digital interactive exhibits with the intention of bridging the gap between the intellectual learning process and the physical experience. In many cases, TRIAD combines education and entertainment in a multimedia space. The result is the so-called edutainment, whose goal is to educate through entertainment.  TRIAD has applied edutainment concepts to various projects focused on children's education, such as the 2018 exhibition on the MS Wissenschaft about working life of the future.  In the same way, the company has used this approach in the Brandenburg Gate Museum in Berlin.  The company is also tackling other challenges that exhibitions face today, like the creation of barrier-free museums. An example of this is the exhibition Wilderness Dreams in Eifel National Park which is part of the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity.  The agency designs exhibitions, museums, experience centers, trade fairs, expo pavilions, edutainment concepts, brand environments and events. A lot of the company's projects focus on three main areas: sustainability, sports, and culture. 