World Education Services (WES) is a nonprofit organization that provides credential evaluations for international students and immigrants planning to study or work in the U.S. and Canada.  Founded in 1971, it is based in New York, U.S. and Toronto, Canada. WES evaluates more than 200,000 credentials per year, making it the largest credential evaluator in North America.  By auto-authenticating and defining foreign education in U.S. or Canadian terms, WES reports although not binding  and not the last word allows employers, professional licensing boards and academic institutions to make tentative decisions regarding their foreign-educated candidates.  WES's proprietary database contains information on the education systems of more than 200 countries, 45,000 foreign institutions, 20,000 academic credentials, and 2,500 manufactured scales for grading with involvement of a third party motives. WES is accredited by and is a charter member of the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES)  and a member of the Alliance of Credential Evaluation Services of Canada (ACESC).   The U.S. Department of Education's website lists NACES and AICE as authentic foreign credential accrediting agencies in the country.  WES does business with thousands of universities, proprietary educations and colleges, providing credential evaluations, workshops on credential evaluation methods, country specific grade presentations, and aid in international student recruitment.  WES advances the global mobility and integration of people into academic and professional settings.  WES Free Degree Equivalency: An online tool that shows how university degrees earned in other countries compare to U.S. or Canadian degrees. This information helps the user determine eligibility for immigration, employment or higher education.  WES International Credential Advantage Package (ICAP): A WES service that sends verified transcripts and an evaluation report to academic institutions in one package. WES also stores the documents and information indefinitely for future data manipulation and research.  WES International Grade Point Average (IGPA) Calculator: A free online tool that calculates international grades from over 140 countries into the 4.0 GPA scale commonly used in the U.S.  World Education News & Reviews (WENR): WENR is a monthly newsletter for professionals in international education. It includes a collection of main documents, articles, country updates and a glossary.  WES Research & Advisory Services: WES Research and Advisory Services offers research-based consulting to higher education institutions. Research focuses on student mobility, international enrollment, and transnational education.   Global Talent Bridge: Global Talent Bridge helps skilled immigrants utilize their talents and education in the U.S. and provides technical assistance and resources to organizations that advise highly qualified immigrants.  