Chinese Poetry Congress (Chinese: 中国诗词大会; pinyin: Zhōngguó Shīcí Dàhuì) is an ongoing game show on China Central Television that tests competitors' memory and reciting of Chinese poetry, including classical and modern forms of shi, ci and qu. As a spin-off of other shows Chinese Characters Dictation Competition and Chinese Idioms Congress, all characters within the games are in simplified Chinese. Every episode of the show starts with quotations from a piece of classical Chinese poetry. By far ten pieces have been quoted. Note: the following pinyin tones show original, or standard pronunciation, not including tone sandhis on special syllables. In the second season, the off-stage contestants no longer read poems, and the presenter of the show reads instead. The show follows a two-part game. In the first part, there are 105 contestants competing, 5 that have done best in the previous episode on stage and 100 off stage (called "百人团", lit. hundred people team). The ones on stage select their set of ten questions one by one, and answer them in order. If they answer correctly in 10 seconds, the population that does incorrectly adds to their mark, otherwise their game is over. When a contestant's mark surpasses another's, the latter is eliminated. The second part sees the best of the five challenging the contestant that has done best during the season, and they have to answer a series of more tough questions in order to win the challenge. The second season introduces a more "reasonable" gameplay: every episode four contestants are selected from the hundred-contestants team, and follow part one from the first season; then the best of them has to challenge the fastest and most correct off-stage contestant to decide who would be the best of the episode, and may accept challenge from people that competes later. The first four contestants (in the opening episode) were chosen as the best performers of a non-broadcast written test and subsequent auditions.  The first round contains nine questions: Each of the two contestants must alternatively give two poem lines, containing a chosen character. The game ends when one of the two contestants cannot name another sentence. Winner of Round 2 and the returning champion play a best-of-nine final, all the questions are on the buzzer. First to score 5 points will be determined as the champion, and return for the next episode. The presenter of Chinese Poetry Congress is Dong Qing, known for co-hosting CCTV New Year's Gala for years. She serves as both a host and a narrator. During a re-recording, Dong, by accident, fell off the stage and hurt her kneecap; however she insisted to continue recording under a cold compression, and eventually completed the show.  Dong also performed reciting a poem in Shanghainese, singing Su Shi's Shui diao ge tou, and quoting numerous Chinese idioms on air. The people that answer questions off-stage are from all walks of life such as teachers, students, peasants and the police, not restricted to Chinese residents. The age ranges from 7 to 55. They follow the narrator's reciting opening poetry and count to the points that an on-stage contestant gets if their answer is incorrect.  Due to the limited time of 10 seconds to answer on a tablet computer, a large quantity of contestants failed to complete verses that are usually taught in China's primary schools, for example Meng Haoran's Ode to the Willow (traditional Chinese: 詠柳; simplified Chinese: 咏柳; pinyin: Yǒng Liǔ), leading to criticism on the team, as they were described as "The regular studio audience".  In the 22nd Shanghai Television Festival, Chinese Poetry Congress is awarded the best variety show.  All references are in Simplified Chinese except as otherwise stated. 