Ménage à 3 (often abbreviated as Ma3) is a webcomic published by Pixie Trix Comix and created by artist Gisele Lagace & Dave Lumsdon, known as Giz and Dave Zero.  It was started on May 16, 2008, and is currently ongoing.  Set in Montreal, Canada, the webcomic follows the lives and adventures of three roommates in their attempts to find love, success and the pleasures of life.  Ménage à 3 is consistently rated amongst the top 50 webcomics annually and has enjoyed success in print in addition to online. Ménage à 3 centers around the life of Gary, Montreal resident and 29-year-old virgin. Upon losing his old roommates Matt and Dillon at short notice (when they decide to become an official gay couple), Gary is desperate to find a couple of new roomies to pay the rent. Luckily, Matt and Dillon put an ad in the local paper to find new people in need of shared living quarters, and before long, the search pays off. Things change drastically for Gary when two girls, Zii and DiDi, suddenly start sharing his apartment. Zii, obviously perplexed by Gary's (unwanted) purity, declares that her goal is to make him more confident and help him lose his virginity. But life proves full of distractions for all three of them, as other characters and objectives come and go through the story.  Ménage à 3 is storyline based.  Each strip is connected to a greater storyline arc, or chapters, that culminates with a resolving event.  Arcs tend to last anywhere from 10 to 30 strips and are part of an annual storyline volume.  Over the course of the year, only days have passed within the storyline.   Each volume ends the second week of May with the following strip initiating the next volume of strips.  Each volume is symmetrical in that the last strip is similar in style to the first strip of the volume.  For example, in volume one, Gary walks in on his roommates having sex in the first strip whereas in the last strip, Dillon walks in on his lover having sex with another. Ménage à 3 mostly tackles themes related to sex and relationships - rarely in a serious manner.  The characters deal with trying to overcome a myriad of issues.  The characters range from being heterosexual, heterosexual but questioning their sexual orientation, in denial of their sexual orientation, bisexual, and homosexual. They deal with issues of trying to find sexual satisfaction, jealousy of each other, competing over each other, and trying to find a committed relationship. Characters also deal with issues from their past, such as being a pornstar or traumatic childhood experiences. Ménage à 3 is consistently rated in the top 50 webcomics  on the internet and is one of the top 25 most read.   Reviews for Ménage à 3 have commended the artistic style as being similar to Archie Comics  in a setting comparable to the American 1970s television show Three’s Company, but with much more nudity and a heavier sexual theme more in line with the American Pie movies. Some online reviews have been critical of Ménage à 3's amount of nudity and explicit panels showing sexual actions.  The NSFW label has been criticized by some reviewers as a downside, but others have noted it as a strength, claiming it is obvious the webcomic is geared towards a certain demographic.   In the text these references are preceded by a double dagger: ‡ 