  Doabgah (193201) is a small village in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, India.  Doabgah, the very word refers to the confluence of two rivers, the Jehlum and the Pohru. These two waters meet at this historic place once famous for trade and commerce, when water route used to be the only medium of trade. the inhabitants of this village are quite hardworking and earn their livelihood from the sweat of their brow. Quite different from the neighbouring villages, Doabgah has its relationship with Sopore town and Srinagar city. This is so, because most of the people have business ties with these places, which in turn have influenced their living standard. This village has produced business tycoons like KHWAJA ABDUL SAMAD PANDITH and world renowned cardiologist like DR ABDUL AHAD GUROO. being hub of the educational activities, this village has served as a platform to give education not only to the people of Doabgah, but also to the denizens of adjacent villages like Achabal, Ladoora, Lorihama, Ferozepora etc. this village has been contributing to the society by giving it doctors, engineers, professors, lecturers, technicians etc. A large section of the society is indirectly related to agriculture industry,as they supply wooden boxes for packing apples to the people in Rafiabad and beyond. The village has three schools imparting education to the community. A higher secondary school, a girls’ high school, and an FAT run high school. Besides this, a Darul Uloom has been busy producing religious scholars. The village might have flourished in many dimensions, but it always received a half-hearted approach from the political representatives. There is a primary health centre functioning for a long time now. Pertinent to mention that the authorities, at the behest of the politician, left no stone unturned in shifting the hospital to Achabal in early 80's. There were massive protests, and CRPF was deployed at Doabgah to quell it. Things turned sour and violent. There were clashes between the public and the government forces. The anger among the public intensified when a youth, Abdul Hamid Khan was hit by a bullet and he fell to it in no time. The hospital was thus named Shaheed Hamid Khan Hospital. This village has a lot of recreational activities going on. At least in sports, the village has produced talented footballers and cricketers.  