The Maternity package (Finnish: äitiyspakkaus, Swedish: moderskapsförpackning) is a kit granted by the Finnish social security institution Kela, to all expectant or adoptive parents who live in Finland or are covered by the Finnish social security system. The package contains children's clothes and other necessary items, such as nappies, bedding, cloth, gauze towels and child-care products.  It was first issued in 1938  to parents with a low income, and contained a blanket, crib sheets, diapers, and fabric which parents could use to make clothing for the baby.  Since 1949 it has been given to all mothers-to-be, provided they visited a doctor or municipal pre-natal clinic before the end of their fourth month of pregnancy, and the pregnancy has lasted at least 154 days.  The contents of the package are updated approximately every year.  Following a BBC story in June 2013, the "baby box" began to receive international attention. Similar packages, commercial or state-sponsored, are being trialled around the world. In 1949, the box given was standard to all expectant mothers who visited a doctor before the fourth month of pregnancy  per the Finnish Maternity Grants Act. A baby bottle was added to the package, but was removed in later packages to encourage breastfeeding.   The requirement to visit a doctor as a prerequisite to receiving the package was done in order ensure that the woman received adequate prenatal care.  The box containing the package transforms into a crib in which many newborns have their first naps.  A mother may choose to take the maternity package, or a cash grant of 140 euros, but 95% of Finnish mothers choose the box because it's worth significantly more.  The maternity package can either be applied for online, on Kela's website, or by completing and returning a form.  The current package contents include bodysuits, a sleeping bag, outdoor gear, bathing products for the baby, nappies and cream, bedding and a small mattress (allowing the box to be used as a crib),  a hooded bath towel, nail scissors, hairbrush, toothbrush, wash cloth, muslin squares, a picture book, teething toy, bra pads, and condoms.  The maternity package is not a commercial product, and therefore Kela cannot sell it.  Prince William and Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge received a maternity package as a gift from Kela in 2013. Crown Princess Victoria and Prince Daniel of Sweden were given one in 2012.  In 2017 the box contained following items:  The program resulted in increased prenatal care for pregnant women, and decreased infant mortality.  The program is now considered a part of the culture of Finland.  In July 2015, Argentina's Ministry of Health under then-president Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner introduced "Plan Qunita" which distributes maternity packages to parents of newborn babies. At the rollout of the program, about 144,000 Qunitas were issued.   Scottish National Party leader Nicola Sturgeon pledged to implement a similar scheme in Scotland in her party's manifesto for the 2016 election,  which saw the SNP returned as a minority government. After a three-month pilot scheme in Clackmannanshire and Orkney, the Scottish "baby box" will be given to all newborn children by summer 2017.  In the summer of 2017, it was announced that the U.S. state of New Jersey would become the first state in the country to adopt the baby box program.  