John Asimakopoulos, born September 10, 1970, is a professor of sociology at the City University of New York-Bronx.  He says he is a "Scholar-Activist" and "Organic Intellectual".  After attending high school in Athens, Greece, Asimakopoulos returned to the United States.  He attended Rutgers University (New Jersey) from 1989 to 1992, where he received a bachelor's degree in sociology and economics; from 1992 to 1993 receiving his master’s degree in economics; from 1993 to 1994 receiving his master’s degree in political science; and the sociology program at the CUNY Graduate Center for his Ph.D. from 1996 to 1999.  After teaching as an adjunct professor at New Jersey and New York area universities, in 2004 he began as an assistant professor of social sciences at the City University of New York-Bronx.  He came to public attention in 2006, when the City University of New York refused to renew his contract.  Asimakopoulos alleged this was a political firing because of his outspoken libertarian socialist ideology.  Asimakopoulos filed for arbitration which he consequently won in 2008 returning to his position.  Asimakopoulos set up Theory in Action, an interdisciplinary journal  and sits on the editorial board of the Peace Studies Journal.   In 2010, Asimakopoulos launched a YouTube channel, "Crushing Capitalism with Dr. Asimakopoulos", commenting on academic topics and current events.   As of  2008[update], he was trying to start a new accredited graduate school based on the principles of critical pedagogy.   Asimakopoulos coined the concept of Globally Segmented Labor Markets expanding theoretical work in the area of labor market segmentation.  In 2007 Asimakopoulos co-founded the Transformative Studies Institute (TSI), a progressive 501(c)(3) nonprofit educational think tank based in the United States.,   which has a YouTube channel  and a Scribd channel.  Asimakopoulos uploads activist videos to the YouTube channel. It “was created to provide an inclusive educational space for research and practice for social justice by academics, community organizers, activists, and political leaders”.  His most recent books include:   