 Major General Ian Cardozo AVSM SM is a former Indian Army officer. He was the first war-disabled officer of the Indian Army to command a battalion and a brigade.  He is an amputee due to a war injury.  Ian Cardozo was born to Vincent Cardozo and Diana (nee de Souza) Cardozo in 1937 in Bombay, Bombay Presidency, British India. He studied at St. Xavier's College, Mumbai.   Cardozo graduated from the National Defence Academy and then attended the Indian Military Academy, from where he commissioned into 5 Gorkha Rifles.  At the outbreak of the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971, Cardozo was attending a course at the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington. His battalion, 4/5 Gorkha Rifles, was already deployed in the eastern theatre of operations. The battalion's second-in-command was killed in action and Cardozo was ordered to replace him. He arrived at his battalion in time to accompany them on the Indian Army's first heliborne operation during the battle of Sylhet.  After the fall of Dhaka, Cardozo stepped on a land mine and his leg was critically injured. Due to non-availability of morphine or pethidine, and absence of medics, his leg could not be amputated surgically. He subsequently used his khukri to amputate his own leg. Afterwards, his unit captured a Pakistan Army surgeon, Maj. Mohammad Basheer, who operated on Cardozo.   After his amputation, Cardozo had a wooden leg. Despite this, he maintained his physical fitness levels and beat a number of able-bodied officers in battle physical fitness tests. He then put his case to the Chief of Army Staff at the time, Gen. Tapishwar Narain Raina, who then asked Cardozo to accompany him to Ladakh. After observing that Cardozo could still walk in the mountains through snow and ice, Gen. Raina allowed him to command a battalion. A similar situation occurred when he was to take command of a brigade.  Cardozo is married to Priscilla and has three sons.  He currently resides in New Delhi.  He served as the Chairman of Rehabilitation Council of India from 2005 to 2011.  He is also a marathon runner, and regularly takes part in the Mumbai marathon on his prosthetic limbs.   He authored several books on military history of India:- 