In psychology, education and social work practice, social role valorization (SRV) is the name given to an analysis of human relationships and human services, formulated in 1983 by Wolf Wolfensberger,     as the successor to his earlier formulation of the principle of normalization which is attributed to Nirje, Wolfensberger, and Bank-Mikkelsen worldwide (Lemay, 1995; Wolfensberger, 1972).    The theory is based on the idea that society tends to identify groups of people as fundamentally 'different', and of less value than everyone else. It catalogs the methods of this 'devaluation' and analyzes its effects. It may be used by those seeking to counteract these methods and effects. A recent compilation of normalization and social role valorization was by Flynn and LeMay (1999); their work remains important today in Europe, New Zealand and Australia among other countries. Although normalization and the initial versions of SRV were described as an 'Ideology', the most recent formulation explicitly denies that SRV is about what should be done, and reinforces that SRV is intended to be a tool for analysis of the process and effects of Societal Devaluation.  Wolfensberger's most recent (1999) definition of SRV is: "the application of what science can tell us about the enablement, establishment, enhancement, maintenance, and/or defence of valued social roles for people" (Susan Thomas and Wolf Wolfensberger in Flynn and Lemay 1999,  p. 125). Susan Thomas, long time professional educator with Wolfensberger, continues to teach through the Institute at Syracuse University as of 2012. University students and training institute colleagues can be found worldwide with many internationally seeking collaborative projects with the Wolfensberger (e.g., now Rannveig Traustadottir, now Gender and Disability Chair at the University of Iceland). Social role valorization (SRV) is a  relationship theory of empirical knowledge for the design and rendering of formal and informal services and relationships to people with any need or condition, especially those who are devalued or are at risk.  Social role valorization is intended to address the social and psychological wounds that are inflicted on vulnerable people because they are devalued, that so often come to define their lives and that in some instances wreak lifelong havoc on those who are close to them. SRV does not in itself propose a 'goal'.  However a person who has a goal of improving the lives of devalued people may choose to use insights gained from SRV to cause change.  They may do so by attempting to create or support socially valued roles for people in their society, because if a person holds valued social roles, a person is highly likely to receive from society those good things in life that are available or at least the opportunities for obtaining them. In other words, all sorts of good things that other people are able to convey are almost automatically apt to be accorded to a person who holds societally valued roles, at least within the resources and norms of his/her society. Social role valorization identifies social devaluation as a critical human experience that has long-term effects on the individual.  SRV is designed to raise consciousness about the fate of socially devalued persons.  SRV holds that the human being is vulnerable to the regard of others for both the heights of edification and the depths of degradation. An understanding of social role valorization can lead to ideas about how to improve the lives of people who are devalued by society. These can be seen to have two themes – firstly, removing devaluing features (for instance people being segregated from society in a building along with others perceived to belong to the same group), and secondly taking action that leads to people being valued. On one the approaches of SRV involves socially valued persons allying themselves with socially devalued persons. This alliance will unify people, broaden acceptance of differences, and encourage coexistence. SRV is a realistic if not pessimistic sense of human behaviour, holding that human beings are imperfect and capable of great evils even if they are occasionally saintly, heroic or kind. Social role valorization is designed to address the social and psychological wounds that get inflicted on vulnerable people because they are devalued, that so often come to define their lives, and that in some instances wreak lifelong havoc on them and those who are close and committed to them. SRV is a description of how societally differentiated people are devalued, assigned low-value roles, and treated poorly, often to the extent of risk to their own lives. This poor treatment is given to members of any group that is given low value by powerful forces in society. SRV considers only those things that can be known from a scientific perspective. In itself it does not subscribe to a particular ideology – it does not say what should be done and it does not say what is morally correct. However, SRV does understand that human interaction is impossible without a moral code and so SRV can be used to suggest what is desirable given the spoken or unspoken moral code of a particular society or individual. Consequently, it is necessary to understand what sort of moral code and societal expectations might be around the implementation of any application of SRV. A consideration of the concepts of humanity and morality place SRV in an appropriate context. Any particular human society will have a set of written and unwritten rules about who is a member of that society and about how members of that society should act, and what treatment is due to non-members of that society. These rules are often set down in codes of law and in religious texts. Every society has such a moral code. Support for SRV can be found throughout the human sciences. Biology, evolutionary biology, sociology, economics, psychology, and anthropology all lend strands to SRV. Even history and geography have ideas to contribute. Although SRV is not in itself a science, it is based on empirically produced disciplines. Psychology and philosophy tell us that there is considerable doubt about the common sense idea that we have total free will; what we do is often societally or physically caused by unconscious mechanisms. Science tells us that people do not often act as completely free-thinking individuals, but in fact occupy particular social strata and  roles that organize and simplify their social communication. Particular people may be forced into a negative role which they do not desire. Science tells us that individuals and groups will place positive and negative values onto other individuals and groups. This assignation of value may lead to a process of devaluation. Complex societal forces mediate the exercise of power and social control in a society. These forces are often not well understood by individuals in that society. Individuals in a society are very aware of similarities and differences between members of that society. This is societal differentiation. Such difference groups may include people with the following differences from the valued norm: Psychology shows us that perception and interpretation are complex subjects, highly reliant on beliefs and prejudices. Human perception and interpretation is complicated and often not in accord with what 'common sense' tells us that it is. Learning and particularly imitation are the natural modes of behavior formation and are important in developing useful as well as damaging performances. Image and image transfer are important subjects when considering how people interpret each other and their own surroundings. Performance, reputation and grouping determine how people are seen and interpreted. So, we may summarise: people who differ in any way from societal expectations or desirability, where this difference is negatively valued, will be badly treated by that society. Powerful groups in society will: SRV suggests that role messages are largely conveyed by image, whether of the individual or of their surroundings (including accompanying people). A person's potential roles may be limited or assigned by the company they keep, the surroundings in which they live, or the activities they engage in. SRV suggests that Role Occupancy is dependent on apparent competency in that role. So the availability of roles may be limited or assigned by the person's ability (or, more importantly, the lack of ability) to perform the necessary role requirements for the effective performance of that role. People cast into such negative roles will be denied the good things in life: The good things in life: Further, such groups will be damaged in the following ways: 'Wounds' or bad things which happen to devalued persons: Additional mental and behavioral response patterns that are evidence of disturbed interactions with the world, and that are engendered by certain wounds and wound clusters, are: The coping mechanism is to avoid negative roles and outcomes: In order to ensure that positive roles are available to persons who have been devalued by society, it is necessary to consider actions at multiple levels: SRV suggests that by these means, people who have been devalued by society may be rescued (or may rescue themselves) from the effects of devaluation, and may manage to live their lives occupying Valued Roles and become seen as valued by society. Other theories regarding "mentally handicapped" individuals include consciousness raising and implications for normalization from the women's movement, related self-advocacy movements in special education and rehabilitation, and now the new movement to community inclusion as represented at the United Nation's Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (2006). This criticism appears unjust in that Wolfensberger is an early proponent of the rights of people with mental retardation to marry, while other professionals placed the same individuals in institutional abuse and confinement. His doctoral students hold leadership positions in gender and disability, and he is associated with liberals in his own academic department who support actions in that context to address entrenched societal discrimination. It can be suggested that all constructed attempts to re-valorize the roles and raise the social status of marginalised individuals and groups are hollow as they are artificial, but of course, government is responsible to provide minimum wage laws, to increase worker benefits, to maintain entitlements, to provide quality housing and beneficial and affordable health care.  In other words, the person providing the re-valorization efforts such as a social worker or supported employment worker is paid to do his or her job, and is not helping the marginalised person out of genuine interpersonal motivation such as friendship, attraction or emotional attachment, and people are well aware of this monetary role in professions in human services. Therefore, any re-valorized role is viewed by those outside the relationship as non-genuine, unstable, though new evidence and theory (e.g., theories of social acceptance, versus deviance) suggests that beneficence and social acceptance are active and result in positive life outcomes. Thus, paid roles (sometimes preferred in modern life) would tend to negate the security-giving benefits that valued, familial and friendship roles would normally provide. Some criticism of social role valorization is said by its advocates to be because of misconceptions about it. Such misconceptions include: The theory of social role valorization is best understood as referring primarily to extreme devaluation (such that few people care much about what happens to an individual or group, or even actively look for their eradication) not more subtle (but still damaging) devaluation such as occurs between different social classes or between genders. Social role valorization (SRV), similar to normalization, is a foundational theory with roots in intellectual and developmental disabilities, often termed learning disabilities in Europe. It is a revolutionary concept which took roots in the deinstitutionalization and community integration movements of the 1970s and 1980s which aligned themselves with its broad concepts and goals more so than with the specifics of the theory, goals and formulations itself. SRV and normalization adherents, in contrast, are committed first to the specific theories and have tended to be reluctant to engage in academic theoretical discussions with related theorists (e.g., independent and supportive living; support and empowerment paradigms; user-and-family directed services; self-determination and choice theories). In addition, other giants in community development such as Gunnar Dybwad, advisors to Presidents in the US, Brandeis University professor, friend of the Center on Human Policy, and former Arc-US director, often are missed in contrasting theory formulations. SRV is supportive of the development of community paradigms (e.g., Schwartz, McKnight, O'Brien, Taylor, Racino, Wehman, Roberts, Towell, Lakin, Bruininks, Braddock, Hemp, Rogan, Anthony, Carling, Seekins, Condeluci & Gretz-Lasky)  which were necessary to replace the institutional paradigms of the pre-expose era, however, with community paradigms taking over 20 years to become the mainstream academic publications. Today, new goals of integration, a basic principle of normalization, involve the integration of family studies to include families with a disability family member, integration of financing (e.g., housing and homes), long-term services and supports development (e.g., personal assistance, support aides for homes and families), and modernization to areas such as green and sustainability.  