FORVM was an Austrian cultural and political magazine, published in Vienna from 1954 till 1995, founded by Friedrich Hansen-Loeve, Felix Hubalek, Alexander Lernet-Holenia und Friedrich Torberg with the financial and logistical support of the CIA-funded Congress for Cultural Freedom (CCF). In 1966 Günther Nenning took over as editor, in 1986 Gerhard Oberschlick.  The magazine was distributed internationally and instigated some heavy ideological debates. In 1995 the magazine closed down due to lack of financial means. In 2004 a complete reprint has been published and there is still a modest website, edited by the last editor.  Only thirteen years after the foundation of FORVM it became public, thanks to Ramparts and Saturday Evening Post, that the financial sources derived from the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) with the aim to undermine liberal und leftist groups of intellectuals all over the world in order to position them against communism in the age of the Cold War. The CIA web site states that "[t]he Congress for Cultural Freedom is widely considered one of the CIA's more daring and effective Cold War covert operations."  Other magazines funded by the CCF were Der Monat in Western Berlin, Preuves in Paris, Tempo presente in Italy, Cuadernos in Madrid, Encounter in London, as well as Freedom First in Bombay, Solidarity in the Philippines, Quadrant in Australia and Examen in Mexico.  FORVM was never an easy partner to its sponsors. Already its first issue caused troubles, as it printed a controversy between Friedrich Heer and editor Friedrich Torberg, called "Conversation with the Enemy" about the legitimacy of discourse with eastern communists. Heer was for, Torberg against any contact with the enemy - Torberg "losing on points, hopelessly"“.  Nevertheless Torberg succeeded - using FORVM as an ardent weapon, with active help from Hans Weigel, against Günther Nenning – to force all major theatres of Austria to boycott the plays of Bertolt Brecht. This lasted until February 23, 1963 when the Wiener Volkstheater dared to play Mutter Courage und ihre Kinder. Although the magazine led by Torberg emphasized mainly on theatre and literature, FORVM also printed notable dialogues between church and state, discourses between the dominating ideologies of the time, as well as fundamental texts from the social sciences in view of the upcoming revolts. But the rigid and fierce anti-communism of Torberg increasingly became a problem to the sponsors, who repeatedly warned the editor, then limited their funding in 1961, then finally stopped the support entirely in 1964. When the new financier of FORVM, Hans Deutsch, also drew back in 1965, Torberg decided to give up his position as well. Nenning, who had served as editor-in-chief since 1958, became the new owner and editor. Günther Nenning declared himself as a "christian and socialist" and opened FORVM to leftist thoughts and ideas. As Torberg opposed this change, Nenning had to rename the magazine as NEUES FORVM (New Forvm) until Torberg died in 1979. Nenning raised the circulation from 2 700 to nearly 30 000. When the magazine - in 1970 - published de Sade's Philosophy in the Bedroom (with an ample commentary by Michael Siegert),  the Ministry of the Interior reacted harshly with confiscation of the magazine and prohibition of the placard. Later on this step was declared unconstitutional, therefore FORVM ended the era of censorship in Austria. The Nenning years were dominated by hearty discussions about the constitution and the neutrality of Austria, the law of nature, Vergangenheitsbewältigung, the sexual revolution, Viennese Actionism and terrorism.  From 1973 to 1982 Michael Siegert served as editor-in-chief. Even more than Torberg or Nenning before him – he adapted the articles and therefore angered some authors.  Nenning formally kept his position as owner and editor, but from 1973 on the magazine was published by an association of the journalists and employees. In 1982 Gerhard Oberschlick took over as editor-in-chief, but was dismissed by Nenning already in 1984 - because of insubordinate behaviour. The main points of controversy were Nennings cooperation with conservative publicists and politicians, as well as the secret funding of the Konrad Lorenz Referendum by Hans Dichand and his Kronen Zeitung.  Nenning consequently established FORVM as the voice of the fundamental green movement, the circulation dropped dramatically (to 1 700), FORVM was close to bankruptcy. In 1985 Nenning was expelled from the union and the Social Democratic Party of Austria. In 1986 he sold the magazine to Gerhard Oberschlick. The new editor quickly had to reposition the magazine. Rule of law and human rights became central issues, Günther Anders the most prominent author. The circulation gained ground and reached up to 25.000. The presidency of Kurt Waldheim and the constant flirting of Jörg Haider with Nazi ideology opened a wide field of discussion and controversy. FORVM served as a stable lighthouse of anti-fascism, avidly opposing any kind of racism and xenophobia. In 1992 Hans Lebert received the Grillparzer Award, donated by German Alfred Toepfer in German Marks. Although ill and not able to participate in the ceremony, Lebert wrote an ardent speech, red by actor Wolfgang Gasser, famous for his performance in a play by Thomas Bernhard at the Burgtheater. In it Lebert warned against the attempts of a new Anschluss, culminating in the exclaim: "Austrians, save your country yourselves!"  The speech caused a scandal, the German ambassador Philipp Jenninger was upset and left early, and Oberschlick, who had printed the speech secretly, had it distributed - as a special issue of FORVM - at the end of the ceremony at the University of Vienna. 