Himal Southasian (stylized as HIMĀL Southasian) was a news magazine, which covered politics and culture in Southasia. It was closed in November 2016.  The magazine defined Southasia as a region beyond political dictum and geography but in relation to its people and history and strives to cover stories from Afghanistan to Burma and from Tibet to the Maldives. This region inhabited by a quarter of the world population, shares great swathes of interlocking geography, culture and history. Yet, given the complex history of rivalries and distrust, neighbouring countries can barely talk to one another, much less speak in a common voice.  Published The Southasia Trust, a not-for-profit organization based in Kathmandu, Nepal, Himal Southasian strived to define, nurture, and amplify that voice. Himal Southasian was initially founded as the bimonthly magazine called as Himal. In 1996 the name was changed to Himal Southasian and enlarged the area to the area  of Afghanistan to Burma and from Tibet to the Maldives. Furthermore, it became a monthly magazine since then. In 2013, Himal Southasian started publishing quarterly in book form so that the magazine has longer shelf life. The magazine debuted in 1987 as the bimonthly 'Himal', with a focus on the Himalaya region. 'Himal' became the monthly 'Himal Southasian' in 1996, shifting its focus to include a broader definition of South Asia. The magazine published long-form journalism and analysis on politics, culture, history and economics. In addition, it carried reportage, reviews, photo essays and fiction. From January 2013, Himal Southasian divided its output between a thematic quarterly publication, Southasia’s first ‘bookazine’, and its website.   Himal Southasian used 'Southasia' as one word. The magazine defined the rational as 'as a magazine seeking to restore some of the historical unity of our common living space – without wishing any violence on the existing nation states – we believe that the aloof geographical term ‘South Asia’ needs to be injected with some feeling.'  