Interview is an American magazine founded in late 1969  by artist Andy Warhol and British journalist John Wilcock. The magazine, nicknamed "The Crystal Ball of Pop",   features intimate conversations between some of the world's biggest celebrities, artists, musicians, and creative thinkers. Interviews were usually unedited or edited in the eccentric fashion of Warhol's books and The Philosophy of Andy Warhol: From A to B and Back Again. In the early days, complimentary copies of Interview were often given away to the "in-crowd"; this was the start of the magazine's circulation.  Toward the end of his life, as Warhol withdrew from everyday oversight of his magazine, a more conventional editorial style was introduced under editor Bob Colacello. However, Warhol continued to act as ambassador for the magazine, distributing issues in the street to passersby and creating ad hoc signing events on the streets of Manhattan, New York City. The creative covers of Interview which gave the magazine its signature style were done by artist Richard Bernstein from 1972 to 1989. The magazine's format has remained consistent at 60% features and 40% glossy advertising. It has been published by Brant Publications, Inc since shortly after Warhol's death in 1987. It was helmed for 18 years by Ingrid Sischy, until she and Peter Brant's ex-wife Sandra became lovers and left the magazine, selling Ms. Brant's half-ownership stake in the parent company Brant Publications.  For a year and a half the magazine was in flux, edited by Christopher Bollen.  Interview restarted under co-editorial directors Fabien Baron and Glenn O'Brien in September 2008, with a cover featuring Kate Moss. Stephen Mooallem and Christopher Bollen served as the working editor-in-chief and editor-at-large, respectively. The publication's content can be found online and via an app, Other Edition, available on iTunes. As of 2017, Fabien Baron was the editorial director; Karl Templer was creative director; Nick Haramis was editor-in-chief. In December 2013, Stephen Mooallem left Interview to join Harper’s Bazaar as its executive editor. Keith Pollock served as editor-in-chief from 2014 to 2016.   It was announced on May 21, 2018 that the publication ‘folded’ and would end both its print and web publications by the end of 2018. The publication also filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy and liquidation.      On September 6, 2018 Interview announced the launch of its 521st issue.   The magazine was purchased by Kelly Brant and Jason Nikic,  with some reports suggesting that the title's intellectual property will be returned to Peter Brant.   The magazine is featured in The CW's television series The Carrie Diaries, a prequel to HBO's Sex and the City. The protagonist, played by actress AnnaSophia Robb, vicariously explores New York City through the glamorous fashion editor of Interview, played by Freema Agyeman. 