Louder Than War is a music and culture website and magazine focusing on mainly alternative arts news, reviews, and features. The site is an editorially independent publication that was started by journalist John Robb in 2010 and is now run by a team of other journalists with a worldwide team of freelancers.  There has been a print edition since 2015 The site is built around live reviews, album reviews and exclusive in-depth interviews with many key musicians including Mick Jones, Kurt Cobain, John Lydon, Peter Hook, The Stranglers, The Charlatans, The Damned and The Happy Mondays. In 2012, Louder Than War launched a record label  to promote and champion lesser known bands and artists. The website broke the story of The Stone Roses' reformation  and was a supporter of the "Justice Tonight for the 96" Hillsborough tour. John Robb is also a member of the English punk rock bands The Membranes and Goldblade. In its first year, in November 2011, Robb was voted to win the UK Association of Independent Music "Indie Champion" award.  As part of the creation of the website, the Louder Than War team wrote their own manifesto,  which would guide their editorial content. In 2014 Louder Than War created the record label Louder Than War Records to act as a platform for bands and artists to reach a wider audience; the first release being Evil Blizzard 'The Dangers Remixes', a 300 copy CD only release without a catalogue number, each being hand numbered; the 8 track releases being a remix of the at that point still to be released Evil Blizzard debut 'The Dangers of Evil Blizzard' (LOUD001). The label has since gone on to release material by King Champion Sounds, Faerground Accidents, The Nightingales, Super Besses, Get Your Gun, and The Membranes. In August 2015, Louder Than War announced they were also creating a print/magazine version of the website.  The first issue of Louder Than War magazine was published by Big Cheese Publishing Ltd in autumn 2015 and followed a similar style and format to the website. In September 2015, Sarah Lay became Editor with John Robb becoming Editor-in-Chief of the online and offline publications. In July 2017 Lay left. The website continues to be run by Robb and Associate Editor Phil Newall and a team of other section editors, journalists and contributors worldwide.  