 The Occidental Observer is an American far-right online publication that covers politics and society from a white nationalist and antisemitic perspective.  Its mission statement is to "present original content touching on the themes of white identity, white interests, and the culture of the West." The publication was founded because, "overt expressions of white identity and white interests (or European-American identity and interests) are rarely found among the peoples who founded these societies and who continue to make up the majority."  It is run by the Charles Martel Society.   Kevin B. MacDonald, the retired American professor of psychology at California State University, Long Beach (CSULB), is the editor of the publication.  MacDonald is best known for his use of evolutionary theory to analyze Judaism as a "group evolutionary strategy".  The Anti-Defamation League says that The Occidental Observer "has become a primary voice for anti-Semitism from far-right intellectuals."  Among the articles it cites as evidence for this are a September 24, 2008 article titled "The Sandra Bernhard Monstrosity"  which charged that "hostility to whites and to Christianity is a mainstream Jewish phenomenon", and a September 12, 2008 article titled "The Washington Post's Willing Executioner?"  which, according to the ADL, "argued that that Jews want to exterminate American whites."  A 2015 article in The New York Times looking at the use of websites by white supremacists said that "Several organizations — the National Policy Institute, American Renaissance, the Charles Martel Society and its website The Occidental Observer — try to take a more highbrow approach, couching white nationalist arguments as academic commentary on black inferiority, the immigration threat to whites and other racial issues."  In response to these allegations, The Occidental Observer claims to reject "labels such as 'white supremacist' or 'racist' that are routinely bestowed on assertions of white identity and interests as a means of muzzling their expression. All peoples have ethnic interests and all peoples have a legitimate right to assert their interests, to construct societies that reflect their culture, and to define the borders of their kinship group."   