The Dubliner was a city magazine based in and centred on Dublin, Ireland. It ceased publication in January 2012, eleven years to the day after the first edition hit the newsstands in January 2001. The Dubliner was originally published by Dubliner Media Limited, and came out ten times per year. Contents included human-interest stories, reporting, opinion, political and social commentary, and essays on Irish culture. It also included reviews of restaurants, books, music, comedy, theatre, cinema and art. The magazine was bought by the VIP Magazine Group in December 2008. In March 2010, it was transformed into a weekly magazine distributed with the Thursday edition of the Evening Herald.  "Capital Life" was a guide to Dublin music, theatre, food, drink, film, art and comedy that appeared each week. Contributors included Victoria Smurfit, Max McGuinness, Bono, Maia Dunphy, A. C. Grayling, Abie Philbin Bowman, Brendan O'Connor, Rosanna Davison, Shane MacGowan, Gavin Friday. Jean Butler, Quentin Fottrell, Domini Kemp, Paul Howard, John Stephenson, John Ryan, Gerry Stembridge, Irvine Welsh, John Banville and Pauline McLynn. The 'Dubliner of the Year Award' was given to a person from Dublin each year by the magazine.[why?]. List of winners Old City, New Dreams, is an annual event organised by the magazine featuring comedy, fashion, food and debates. The 2008 event took place in Dublin's Dundrum Town Shopping Centre. Speakers included Senator David Norris, newspaper columnist Ian O'Doherty, author Paul Howard and restaurateur Kevin Thornton. In 2008 The Dubliner awarded the inaugural Dubliner of the Year Award to Irish rugby captain and former Lions captain Brian O'Driscoll. Martha Connolly was the last Editor of the magazine. She joined The Dubliner in September 2010. Paul Trainer joined The Dubliner in 2003 and acted as Publishing Manager and a contributing editor to The Dubliner 100 Best Restaurants book in his time with the magazine. He was responsible for the Old City, New Dreams series of talks and events organised by the magazine and oversaw the commercial side of the business. He was appointed Managing Editor in 2008 and left the magazine on its closure in 2012. Previous editors of The Dubliner included Emily Hourican, Eoin Higgins, Nicola Reddy and founding publisher Trevor White. 