Wallpaper, stylized Wallpaper*, is a Time Inc. publication focusing on design and architecture, fashion, travel, art, and lifestyle. The magazine was launched in London in 1996 by Canadian journalist Tyler Brûlé and Austrian journalist Alexander Geringer. Brûlé sold the magazine to Time Warner in 1997. Brûlé stayed on as editorial director until 2002, when he was replaced by Jeremy Langmead. In 2003 Langmead appointed Tony Chambers as Creative Director. Chambers, a self-styled "visual journalist", succeeded Langmead as editor-in-chief in April 2007.  Apart from publishing the monthly magazine and website, the Wallpaper brand also creates content, curates exhibitions and designs events for luxury clients. It offers a high-end interior design service, Wallpaper Composed, and has published over 100 travel city guide books in partnership with Phaidon Press.  2015 saw the launch of the Wallpaper Store, an e-commerce platform offering the Wallpaper audience the opportunity to purchase a carefully curated selection of the products seen on the pages. The Telegraph Newspaper called it 'the Net-a-Porter of interiors'. Other notable names who have worked at Wallpaper include Marcus Von Ackermann,  Suzy Hoodless, and Alasdhair Willis. Wallpaper's website was launched in 2004 as an arm of the magazine. Since then the website has grown exponentially  in line with the rise of online media. Rather than publishing reformatted material from the magazine, it covers breaking news across design, interior, art, architecture, fashion, travel, and technology. It also publishes exclusive online features, interviews, blogs from global events by Wallpaper editors, and a wide range of visual galleries. It has on average over 635,000 unique users per month.  Aside from producing the monthly magazine and website, Wallpaper also publishes global city guide books with Phaidon Press. There are over 100 different cities currently available. The city guides are published in English and there are also editions available in French, Italian, Spanish, German, Portuguese, and Japanese.  In 2007, to celebrate its 100th issue and reflect its multi-platform status, the logo's asterisk acquired a cursor   in place of one of its arms. In August 2008,  Wallpaper launched the Wallpaper Selects website in collaboration with contemporary online art retailer Eyestorm. Wallpaper Selects sells a selection of limited-edition photographs from the Wallpaper archive, signed by the photographer. In July 2011  launched an iPad edition of the magazine which is available via the iTunes store. In September 2015  launched the Wallpaper Store, an e-commerce platform offering the Wallpaper audience the opportunity to purchase a carefully curated selection of the products seen on the pages. The Telegraph Newspaper called it 'the Net-a-Porter of interiors' In October 2015  Wallpaper celebrated its 200th issue since starting its print in 1996 In November 2015  Wallpaper US Bespoke Edition was launched. An edited version of the global edition, it is published quarterly and distributed to 250,000 high-net-worth individuals across the US.  Wallpaper Design Awards had 66 categories as of 2010.  