Natural High (formerly Sundt Memorial Foundation) is a United States 501(c)(3) organization committed to developing and distributing a positive drug prevention message to youth nationwide. Their mission is to "inspire and empower youth to find their natural high and develop the skills and courage to live life well." Natural High was created in memorial of founder Jon Sundt's two brothers, Steven and Eric Sundt. Both used drugs as teenagers and subsequently experienced usage-related deaths. In order to help communicate a drug-free message to youth throughout the country, Natural High partners with celebrity ambassadors who share their stories of why they choose to live naturally high and how doing so has helped them succeed and thrive in life. These ambassadors include musicians, athletes, artists, actors, and various other people of influence. 1994: Jon Sundt starts Sundt Memorial Foundation (SMF) and begins speaking at school assemblies. 1995: UCSD Sundt Memorial Open, a surfing competition in memorial of Steven and Eric Sundt, raises $13,000 to support Teen Challenge, Sobriety House, and other nonprofit drug rehabilitation and mental health services. 1999: SMF hosts its first annual fundraising gala in La Jolla, California. The proceeds directly support the production and distribution of the first Natural High DVD. 2000: Fifth Annual UCSD Sundt Memorial Open and production of the first Natural High DVD. A copy is sent to all schools in the state of California free of charge. 2005: SMF produces Natural High II, the second in its DVD series. A copy is sent to all schools in the United States free of charge. 2008: SMF produces Natural High III, the third in its DVD series. A copy is sent to all schools in the United States free of charge. 2009: SMF produces Natural High IV, the fourth in its DVD series. A copy is sent to all middle schools in the United States free of charge. 2011: SMF changes its name to Natural High. 2014: Natural High celebrates its 20th anniversary. 