 World Water Day is an annual UN observance day (always on 22 March) that highlights the importance of freshwater.  The day is used to advocate for the sustainable management of freshwater resources.  World Water Day is celebrated around the world with a variety of events. These can be educational, theatrical, musical or lobbying in nature. The day can also include campaigns to raise money for water projects. The first World Water Day, designated by the United Nations, was commemorated in 1993.  Each year more and more countries celebrate World Water Day. UN-Water selects a theme for each year.  The theme for 2018 was "Nature for Water" to encourage people to "look for the answer in nature".  The theme encouraged the use of nature-based solutions to water-related challenges. For example, reducing floods, droughts, water pollution and protecting ecosystems could be solved using natural means, which nature uses, rather than man-made approaches. Previous themes for the years 2015 to 2017 were "Water and Sustainable Development",  "Water and Jobs'" and "Why waste water?"  The latter theme  included attention to both wastewater and the value of reclaiming water. The focus on universal access to clean water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) is in line with the targets of Sustainable Development Goal 6.  The UN World Water Development Report is released each year around World Water Day. World Water Day is an international observance day. The intention is to inspire people around the world to learn more about water-related issues and to take action to make a difference.  The global water crisis is one of the issues that calls for action.  The challenges include water scarcity, water pollution, inadequate water supply and the lack of sanitation for billions of people in less developed countries.  The day brings to light the inequality of access to WASH services and the need to assure the human right to water and sanitation. UN-Water coordinates activities with UN member organisations who share an interest in that year's theme. In 2016 the "Water and Jobs" theme led to a collaboration with the International Labour Organization.  UN-Water mobilizes organizations of all kinds to action, whether globally or locally. The World Water Day website announces events, activities and volunteer opportunities. In 2018, stories are about "Nature and water from around the world" in keeping with the theme of "Nature for water".  Organizations active in the WASH sector use the day to raise public awareness, get media attention for water issues and inspire action.  Activities have included releasing publications and films, as well as organizing round tables, seminars and expositions.  Non-governmental organizations such as UNICEF, WaterAid and Water and Sanitation for the Urban Poor (WSUP).  End Water Poverty, a global civil society coalition with 250 partner organizations, sponsors Water Action Month each year and offers an event-planning guidebook.  The UN World Water Development Report (WWDR) is released each year on World Water Day. Information related to the annual theme gives decision-makers tools to implement sustainable use of water resources.  More and more initiatives in schools and universities are educating people about the importance of conserving and managing water resources.    For example, Michigan State University held a contest for "best World Water Day poster" in 2017. Primary school children in the Philippines participated in a "My School Toilet" contest in 2010.   In 2016, the World Water Day campaign and related publications reached millions of people through social media, dedicated websites and other channels: The UN-Water annual report states that social media engagement (hashtag #WorldWaterDay) had a maximum potential reach of 1.6 billion people worldwide in 2016. :21 Over 500 events in 1000 countries were registered on the World Water Day website that year. :21 This day was first formally proposed in Agenda 21 of the 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro. In December 1992, the United Nations General Assembly adopted resolution A/RES/47/193 by which 22 March of each year was declared World Day for Water.  In 1993, the first World Water Day was observed.  The theme in 2018 explores how nature can be used to overcome the water challenges of the 21st century. This could be in the form of nature-based solutions to reduce floods, droughts and water pollution and protect ecosystems. Restoring wetlands, implementing constructed wetlands, green roofs, green infrastructure, planting new forests, reconnecting rivers to floodplains, are some examples. Each of these use natural processes to rebalance the water cycle and improve human health and livelihoods.   In 2017, the theme was "Why Waste Water?" which is about reducing and reusing wastewater.  The theme is a play on words as it relates to both: the aspect of wasting water and issues around wastewater, namely treatment and reuse. Wastewater is a valuable resource to help achieve the Sustainable Development Goal Number 6. One aspect of Target 6.3 is to halve the proportion of untreated wastewater and also to increase the recycling and safe reuse of water across the globe. After appropriate treatment, wastewater can be used for a variety of purposes. Industry, for example, can reuse water in cooling towers and agriculture can reuse water for irrigation.  An example activity for 2017 was the Wikipedia edit-a-thon organized by members of the Sustainable Sanitation Alliance on 19–21 March 2017. The purpose of the activity was to improve water and sanitation related content on Wikipedia just ahead of World Water Day. The goal was to improve the quantity and quality of sanitation information available on Wikipedia for the use of teachers, journalists and the general public.  The 2016 theme of "Better water, better jobs" highlighted the correlation between water and job creation, both directly and indirectly by water sources around the globe.  As water scarcity becomes more of a reality, industries heavily dependent on water like textiles and agriculture are at risk of increased costs, which threatens salaries and jobs.  Increased costs may then be passed on to consumers. The theme also highlights how an abundance of quality water can change people's jobs and lives for the better. The 2016 celebration created recognition for those working to improve water quality and availability, and the need for many to transition to other and better jobs.  Three out of four of the jobs worldwide are water-dependent. Water shortages and lack of access may limit economic growth in the years to come, according to the 2016 United Nations World Water Development Report.  With the theme ‘Water and Sustainable Development’, the year 2015 provided an important opportunity to consolidate and build upon the previous World Water Days to highlight water's role in the sustainable development agenda.  The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were to have been achieved by 2015, so the year lent itself to discussions of the post-MDG period and aspirations for water and sustainable development.  With the launch of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), world Water Day gave specific emphasis to SDG 6, which calls for water and sanitation for all, by encouraging discussion of how SDG 6 could be achieved by 2030.  The 2014 theme of Water and Energy emphasized the close linkages and interdependence of water and energy and brought attention to the water-energy nexus.  About 8% of the energy generated globally is used for pumping, treating and transporting water to various consumers. Furthermore, generating and transmitting energy requires the use of water resources, particularly for hydroelectric, nuclear, and thermal energy sources. The aim of that year's theme was to facilitate the development of policies and crosscutting frameworks that would bridge ministries and sectors. It was meant to lead the way to energy security and sustainable water use in a green economy.  Journalists from eleven countries in Asia met in Tokoyo from 20–21 March 2014 to discuss the importance of water. The event included discussion panels on topics such as privatisation of services, integration between water and energy and modernisation of water services. The journalists also developed four joint stories and 20 individual story ideas for a network of Asian journalists writing on water (and energy) in social media.  In the years prior to 2014, the annual themes were as follows:  