Globalization of sports refers to the process of expansion of the idea of sport across the world and phenomena that are associated with it. Globalization not only impacts the way in which sports are conducted and organised but also how they are perceived and what they mean in today's world. The roots of modern sports can be found in the mid-nineteenth century in Great Britain and the United States where first professional sports were organised in mining and industrial towns and cities. Back then, sport competition was conducted mostly on local and national level. First signs of globalization in that matter appeared because of the global hegemonic position that Great Britain had in the nineteenth century. Due to the British influence, popularity of such sports as football, rugby or cricket grew rapidly throughout the world, very often replacing traditional local games.  Another step in the globalization of sports was taken with the establishment of the International Olympic Committee in 1894 and the revival of the Olympics Games in 1896. The first modern Olympics Games were organised in its ancient birthplace of Athens and attracted athletes from fourteen nations. Despite that most of the participants were European, the Olympics Games of 1896 initiated regularly held international sport competition that soon spread on a global scale.  In 1904 in Paris, the International Federation of Association Football (FIFA) was founded by representatives of France, Belgium, Denmark, Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. Shortly after, other European associations joined and by 1909 FIFA was consisted only from nations of the “old continent”. This state of affairs did not last long and South Africa was the first country from overseas that joined the Federation followed by Argentina and Chile (1912) and the United States (1913). This allowed FIFA to start its global activities and in 1930 the first FIFA World Cup was organised. The tournament which was hosted in Uruguay was announced as a great success despite that only four European teams were able to participate.  Meanwhile other international sport federations started appearing and after the World War II, when the United States rose as a global power, “American” sports like basketball and volleyball began getting more popularity around the world. International Volleyball Federation (FIVB) organised their first World Championship in 1949 while International Basketball Federation (FIBA) hosted theirs in 1950.  Later on, globalization of sports was fueled by the expansion of technology and the introduction of commercial aspects to sports. On one hand newspaper, radio and especially television exposed sports to the wider international audience (first FIFA World Cup was televised in 1956 and first Summer Olympics in 1960), on the other commercial advertising allowed to profit from them.  Since the end of the twentieth century the globalization of sports rapidly accelerated by bringing television and corporate sponsorship. It led to the commercialization of sport and gave birth to the sport industry. Therefore, in the context of globalization, sport in the contemporary world can be characterised by the following tendencies: Globalization of sports has also a negative impact that can be visible in the following issues: 