Nude recreation refers to recreational activities which some people do in the nude. Such activities can take place in private spaces, such as in a person's own property or in a naturist context, but they can also be a form of public nudity. A variety of events are organised by various organisations around the world: In February 2013, the Leopold Museum of Vienna opened its doors to nude museum goers for an exhibit entitled "Nude Men from 1800 to Today". More than sixty visitors attended in the nude.  In June 2013, the Portland Art Museum in Oregon admitted nude participants prior to the nighttime World Naked Bike Ride for a special exhibit called "Cyclepedia" on the art of bicycle design. Hundreds of patrons saw the exhibit in the nude.  In Utrecht in May 2011, the play Viva la Naturisteracion, which is about naturism, was performed with actors being nude most of the time, and which was performed before a nude audience.   In Todmorden and London, a group of 3 academics give reading group performances of women writers in the nude.  The International Naturist Federation has designated the first Sunday of June as World Day of Naturism.  People across the globe are encouraged on World Naked Gardening Day (WNGD), held in May each year, to tend their gardens in the nude. WNGD was organized by the Body Freedom Collaborative.  World Naked Bike Rides are yearly clothing-optional bike rides in which each city's participants plan, meet and ride en masse on human-powered transport to "deliver a vision of a cleaner, safer, body-positive world" by attracting attention to a healthy alternative for vehicles that depend on fossil fuels; the naked body is used as a symbol for the vulnerability of humans to pollution, and of cyclists to the traffic in cities. These rides occur in about 75 cities across 6 continents, though in countries with a Romance language WNBRs are usually referred to by a name derived from their Spanish origin, 'Ciclonudista'. World Naked Bike Rides have taken place all over the world since 2004 involving thousands of people. These take place in mostly western cities, where cyclists ride either partially or totally nude in a light-hearted attempt to draw attention to the danger of depending on fossil fuels.  The Solstice Cyclists (also known as The Painted [Naked] Cyclists of the Solstice Parade, or The Painted Cyclists) is an artistic, non-political, clothing-optional bike ride celebrating the Summer Solstice. It is the unofficial start of the Summer Solstice Parade & Pageant since 1992, an event produced by the Fremont Arts Council in the Fremont district of Seattle. The parade sets great value in creative decoration, many cyclists feature body painting and art bikes.  Young Naturists And Nudists America host a yearly nude New Year's Eve party. In 2010 it was held in New York only but in 2011 they expanded to California as well. Many nudist clubs and resorts also organise nude New Year's Eve and other parties and dances.  The Naked Pumpkin Run is an annual event that has taken place since 1974 during Halloween. Naked people, usually college students, parade through several towns in the United States. The tradition started in Boulder, Colorado.  Sources 