The Legend of Georgia McBride is a 2015 American play written by Matthew Lopez.   Casey, a young Elvis Presley impersonator barely making a living, finds a path to prosperity by becoming a lip-syncing drag queen. He’s young, he’s broke, his landlord’s knocking at the door, and he’s just found out his wife is pregnant. To make matters even more desperate, Casey is fired from his gig as an Elvis impersonator in a run-down, small-town Florida bar. When the bar owner brings in a B-level drag show to replace his act, Casey finds that he has a whole lot to learn about show business—and himself. The Legend of Georgia McBride premiered at the Denver Center for the Performing Arts  in January 2014.  The production was directed by Mike Donahue. That production was subsequently produced at MCC Theatre in NYC and Geffen Playhouse in LA. The play has gone on to be produced at Marin Theatre Company  in the bay area CA, directed by Kent Gash, the Arden Theatre in Philadelphia, directed by Emmanuelle Delpech, at Redwood Curtain Theatre  in Humboldt County, directed by Shea King, and at ACT in Seattle, directed by David Bennett. The play is currently being produced at Cygnet Theatre Company  in San Diego, CA and Hippodrome State Theatre  in Gainesville, FL as a part of the fall portion of their 2017/2018 seasons. The Southwest Regional Premiere is being produced at Uptown Players   in Dallas, TX in December as part of the 2017-2018 season. The Hawaii premiere of the play is being given by Manoa Valley Theatre  in Honolulu in November 2017. In 2018, the Legend of Georgia McBride is being produced at the Guthrie Theatre, under the direction of Jeffrey Meanza and running from June 16 to August 26. Round House Theatre in Bethesda, Maryland, just north of Washington, D.C., produced The Legend of Georgia McBride in 2018, directed by Tom Story. Flying Anvil Theatre in Knoxville, Tennessee, will stage their production of The Legend of Georgia McBride from May 30, 2018 to June 24, 2018. Los Altos Stage is running this show September 6-30, 2018 in Los Altos, CA.   