2 States: The Story of My Marriage  commonly known as 2 States  is a 2009 novel written by Chetan Bhagat.  It is the story about a couple coming from two different states in India, who face hardships in convincing their parents to approve of their marriage. Bhagat wrote this novel after quitting his job as an investment banker. This is his fourth book after Five Point Someone, One Night @ the Call Center and The Three Mistakes of My Life. 2 States: The Story of My Marriage is partly autobiographical. The story is about a couple, Krish and Ananya, who fall from two different states of India, Punjab and Tamil Nadu respectively, are deeply in love and want to get married. The story begins in the IIM Ahmedabad mess hall, where Krish, a Punjabi boy from Delhi sights a beautiful girl, Ananya, a Tamilian from Chennai, quarreling with the mess staff about the food. Ananya was tagged as the "Best girl of the fresher batch". They become friends within a few days and decide to study together every night. In the mean time, they become romantically involved. They both get jobs, and have serious plans for their wedding. At first Krish tries to convince his girlfriend Ananya's parents and at last convinces them by helping Ananya's father to do his first PowerPoint Presentation, her brother, Manju, by giving him IIT tuition and later convinces her mom by asking her to sing in a concert organised by Krish's off City at CitiBank. She is convinced as her biggest dream of singing at a big concert comes true. Then they try to convince Krish's mom. But the problem is Krish's mother's relatives who don't quite like this. They say that Krish should not marry a Tamilian but end up agreeing with them when Ananya tries to help one of Krish's cousin to get married and succeeds to do so. Krish has had a hatred on his father. He never shares his feelings or doesn't share a harmonious bonding with him. Now as they have convinced both their parents they now try to introduce each other's parents. They go to Goa. But this dream of theirs end as Ananya's parents finds something fishy between Krish's mom and him. Ananya's family end up deciding that Krish and Ananya will not marry each other.  Krish started becoming workaholic and started living badly. But, at last, Krish's father, who was like an enemy for Krish, helps Krish and Ananya to get married as he convinces Ananya's family well. Now Krish realizes his Dad's love for him. They really do very hard to convince each other's parents and finally make it. It is narrated in a first person point of view in a humorous tone, often taking digs at both Tamil and Punjabi cultures . The novel ends with Ananya giving birth to twin boys. He says that the babies belong to a state called 'India'; with a thought to end inequality. When a film adaptation of the novel was first announced, it was to be directed by Siddharth Anand and the lead roles were stated to be played by Priyanka Chopra and Saif Ali Khan.  The music to be composed by Vishal-Shekhar. However, the project was called off due to creative differences over script. Later, it was announced that the screen adaptation of 2 States would be produced by Sajid Nadiadwala with Shahrukh Khan and Priyanka Chopra in the lead roles and Vishal Bhardwaj would be directing the movie.  However, since Shahrukh Khan did not want to appear in back to back romantic movies, the director had to look at other options. It was later declared that Imran Khan will be playing the male lead in the movie. But then, due to clash of dates, Imran and Priyanka had to opt out of the movie as well. After a lot of brainstorming, it was finally confirmed by producers Karan Johar and Sajid Nadiadwala that Arjun Kapoor and Alia Bhatt will be seen playing the lead pair in the movie. Amrita Singh and Ronit Roy were cast as Arjun Kapoor's parents and Revathy and Shiv Kumar Subramaniam were cast as Alia Bhatt's parents. This movie was released on April 18, 2014. 