The IT@School Project, is an information technology project under the Department of General Education, Government of Kerala in India.  Launched in 2001, the Project has remodeled conventional teaching methodologies in classrooms through the use of IT.  The project is being implemented in over 12,000 schools in the state of Kerala, and also in schools in Mahé, Lakshadweep and the Middle East which follow the state syllabus. An estimated 5 million students and 200,000 teachers are now part of this project, which has a network of 160 "master trainers" and 5600 school IT co-ordinators statewide, who are school teachers themselves. The project also conducts specialized training for visually challenged teachers in that state.  The project functions on a free software platform. It@school is now transformed into KITE, Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education, a Special Purpose Vehicle Company under Department of Education. IT@School is the nodal agency for implementing the EDUSAT network, and runs an exclusive channel for education called VICTERS (Versatile ICT Enabled Resource for Students), which is aired from 6am to 11pm. India's epoch making first broadband network on EDUSAT for schools, "VICTERS"  inaugurated by A P J Abdul Kalam, the president of India, on 28 July 2005 in Thiruvananthapuram. VICTERS offers interactive virtual classrooms that enable the school students as well as the teachers to directly communicate with the subject experts and educationists. It also ensures the dissemination of high quality education to the students and teachers from the original source.  Various programmes telecast through VICTERS are as follows; The project provided training in animated movie making entirely based on free and open source software such as KToon, Gimp, OpenShot Video Editor and Audacity.   IT@School GNU/Linux is a Debian based GNU/Linux distribution that was created for the IT@School project to impart ICT education in public schools in the state. The distribution was originally developed by SPACE  and is currently being maintained by the internal team at IT@School project.  IT@School Project has rolled out several programmes which included the development of its own Operating System - IT@School GNU/Linux- which is now being used in all the schools in the state. Apart from this, several educational software like Dr. Geo, Rasmol, K-Tech lab, Geogebra, Chemtool, Kalzium etc. are being extensively customised by the Project in developing teacher friendly applications for facilitating complete ICT enabled education in the state.  The project prepared interactive multimedia CDs, handbooks and training modules for ICT, as well as text books for IT. All content developed by the project was per the approach based on the National Curriculum Framework 2005. Some of the free software applications developed or customized by the Project include the following. The project also engaged in organizing statewide awareness campaign, exposing the everyday computer user to the possibilities and advantages of using Linux-based software. Resource persons of the IT@School project in these sessions, demonstrate how there is a free software alternative to each and every computer application that an average user requires on a daily basis.  IT@School project implemented several e-governance initiatives in the state. The major e-governance initiatives are the single window admission system and the online transfer and posting of technical assistance to teachers. The online transfer and posting of teachers benefits 60,000 teachers in the state. Some of the other e-governance initiatives of the project include the noon meal distribution computerization, youth festival software, pre-metric scholarship online, centralised online text book intend system, implementation of "Service Payroll Administrative Repository for Kerala" (SPARK) within the general education department, total physical fitness programme software, etc. The "Service Payroll Administrative Repository for Kerala" (SPARK) is a program of Department of Information Technology (DIT) of the state's government for digitizing the service book details of all employees of the state so that the database could be used for the decision makers and to ensure the welfare of the employees. Through this process implemented by the Project, details of as much as 72,256 service books from 2266 schools were entered in the database. Currently[when?] 107 schools use this software to generate the monthly salary bills of teachers and staff. The "Total Physical Fitness Programme" software manages fitness details of 30 lakh students are available for further action. Schoolwiki, modelled on Wikipedia, attempts to foster the culture of collaborative learning in Kerala’s schools. The portal at www.schoolwiki.in provides a comprehensive knowledge database of all schools in the state. The innovative portal include the learning outcomes of students derived from group activities as well as various educational contents prepared by the teacher groups. This collaborative website is completely prepared in Malayalam. All high schools in the state include their educational contents and other details in their allotted space. Each school would be able to enter details such as basic elementary data, their historical references, statistics, infrastructure details, details of alumni, school websites and blogs, various clubs and forums, class magazines, supporting images and videos. Apart from these contents, analytical language projects such as “Pradeshika patram – [school newsletter]”, “Nadodi Vijnanakoshan – [Local Encyclopedia]” and “Ente Nadu- [My Village]”, which are part of learning Malayalam language, would also be entrusted to all students in Std 8, 9 and 10 respectively, which, under the guidance of language teachers, would be completed and the reports and findings would enrich the knowledge base of Schoolwiki.  Schoolwiki also features an “ICT Learning Corner”, which include the various contents prepared by schools for all subjects in ICT enabled education. By facilitating the students to access and modify all contents in Schoolwiki, the project also ensures the participation of the general public including school alumni.  IT@School project to upgrade infrastructure in schools 