Hijabophobia is referred to as a "discrimination" against Muslim women who wear "traditional Islamic coverings".  Hijabophobia is defined as "discrimination" against Muslim women wearing "traditional Islamic coverings",  an "Islamophobic discourse",  "gender dimension of Islamophobia",  "a gendering discourse hidden within Islamophobia"  and as "hostility towards the hijab".  Vincent Geisser argues that Hijabophobia rose after September 11 attacks, an argument which is evidenced by the number of the governmental regulated laws restricting Hijab in public places and governmental offices.  Hijabophobia has restricted girls from "experiencing beyond their schools and immediate community".  According to the Gazette "hijabophobia" is a "made in France" phenomenon since the campaign against the hijab began in France in 1989.  In France, according to Ayhan Kaya, Islamophobia is mixed with Hijabophobia.  There have been numerous cases of Muslim girls getting suspended from schools and classes due to wearing Islamic Hijab in various states across North America and across the globe. In "France, Turkey, and Quebec", more specifically, Hijab is seen as "an assault on the dominant civic values of female liberty and a denial of the dominant national identity".  A ruling by European Union's top law court, European Court of Justice, on 14 March 2017[a] allowed the employers "to ban staff from wearing visible religious symbols" such as Hijab. Muslims described this decision as "a direct attack on women wearing hijabs at work" and it was criticized as "thinly veiled measure targeting Muslims" and as a "disguised ban on the hijab". As a result, by 2017, two women from France and Belgium were dismissed from work since they refused to remove their Hijabs." Samira Achbita, a woman from Belgium, was dismissed from working in her company (G4S) as a result of the court ruling.  HuffingtonPost argued that the ruling verdict were "purportedly" based on "Policy of Neutrality" and that wearing of Hijab at work is itself "counter to a company's desire to portray a position of neutrality", hence the court ruling was normalization of Hijabophobia.  There are incidents where Muslim dress are banned in public spaces. In 2010, the Muslim burqa was banned in Spain. In 2016, burkini was banned by over thirty French municipalities banned the  on public beaches describing them as "the uniform of extremist Islamism."  FIFA's ban of the head cover in 2011–2014 is an example of Hijabophobia.  In 2018, Austria government banned full-face coverings in order to limit the visibility of "orthodox Islam". The "anti-face-veiling act" was criticized by police. It led to acting against those "covering their faces with scarves, skiing masks or animal costumes". France and Belgium have enacted a similar ban since 2011. In 2015, a partial was introduced in the Netherlands and the German parliament banned face coverings while driving in September 2017.  