The Finnish Gaming Software and Multimedia Association (FIGMA) was founded in 1999 by a Finnish representative of digital media importers. The purpose of the association is to "improve the cultural status and legal protection of storage production and the prerequisites for production, import and distribution, and to develop the rights of the rights holders of the law."  FIGMA publishes a list of the best-selling video games every two weeks, distributes platinum and gold prizes, maintains annual statistics on the size of the Finnish video game market, and organized the Finnish Game Awards awarding the game industry prizes in 2008-2013. FIGMA is a member of ANGI's representative and distributor of Nordic video games and represents it in Finland. FIGMA  was founded on April 12, 1999. The first chairman and actor was responsible for Vesa Artman, director of the PlayStation unit at Nordisk Film. Riku Olkkonen was elected as the first Executive Vice President of the Association in March 2007.  The current chairman of the Board is Riku Olkkonen and Executive Director Thomas Westerberg. FIGMA is represented in Scandinavia by ANGI, a member of the Scandinavian video game publisher and distributor organization, 2014[clarification needed], Activision Blizzard, AMO[disambiguation needed], Bergsala, Electronic Arts, Game Outlet Koch Media, Microsoft, Nordic License, Namco Namco Bandai Partners, Nordisk Film, PAN Vision, Ubisoft, Walt Disney Company and Warner Brothers.  FIGMA is a member of the European Gaming Association  ISFE and the Media Education Center Metka. The association cooperates with the State Film Bureau, among other things, under the supervision of age limits, and has a representative in the Advisory Board which is planning the work of the Film Auditor.   Finnish Game Awards  is an annual event organized by the Finnish gaming industry, organized by Figma in 2008-2013. The event started in Games at the Kypeteli Gala where Figma shared its gold and platinum prize since 2003 and released statistical information on the development of the game industry in Finland.  In 2008, From the Games magazine to Figma who started to organize it under the name of Figma-gala. The event Playstation Prize was awarded the prize for the best games of the year and was chosen as the best gamer of the year and the best gaming store of the year. The 2009 event was the 10th anniversary of Figman and there was the advent of the Peliluola honorary mention of special merit in the development of the game industry. In 2010, the event name changed to Finnish Game Awards and the 2014 event was transferred to the Finnish Game Developers Association.  