The Gypsy Robe is a tradition in which a chorus member with the most Broadway credits receives a robe on the opening night of a Broadway musical. The title of the robe was changed to the Legacy Robe in July 2018.  Before curtain on the opening night of a Broadway musical, actors, stage managers, crew, and everyone associated with the play gather onstage for the Gypsy Robe ceremony. At the center of the stage will be a representative of Actors' Equity Association and a recently honored gypsy. The honored gypsy wears the robe that's decorated with mementos and drawings from past shows. The Equity representative tells the history of the ritual and announces the newest recipient from the company. The new recipient puts on the robe, and circles the stage counter-clockwise three times as everyone touches the robe for good luck. The Gypsy Robe recipient then makes their way throughout the theatre to continue bringing good luck.    According to Actors' Equity Association, the following are the rules of the Gypsy Robe:  The ritual dates to 1950, when Florence Baum, a chorus member in Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, entered the men's dressing room wearing a robe, pale pink with white feathers.   The men took turns trying it on. Fellow chorus member, Bill Bradley, sent a dressing gown from one of his fellow performers to his friend performing in Call Me Madam.  A feathered rose from Ethel Merman's costume was attached to the robe, and it was then given to a chorus member in Guys and Dolls.  The robe continued to be passed from one show to another, each time with a memento added on. The ritual has become more formal, with rules about how it is presented, worn, and displayed.  When robes are full of artifacts, a new robe is started.  Retired robes are kept at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, at the Smithsonian, and at Actors' Equity. In 2005, Brynn Williams from the Broadway cast of In My Life became the youngest recipient of the Gypsy Robe at age 12. On April 18, 2018, Actors Equity announced that the name of robe would be changed at the end of the current theater season. A poll was opened to union members to vote on a new name.   The new name chosen is the "Legacy Robe"; the first Legacy Robe presentation took place on July 26, 2018, during the musical Head Over Heels.   