The International Society of Caricature Artists (previously known as the National Caricaturist Network) is an international non-profit trade association founded in 1989. Its purpose is to promote the art of caricature, educate the public and the media about the art of caricature and to provide its members with helpful information about caricature as an art form as well as a profession.  The ISCA  currently[when?] has close to 500 members from around the world. Members receive the quarterly magazine, Exaggerated Features, which has articles about caricaturing, featured artists tips and stories as well as other useful information about caricature illustration. The ISCA annual convention is held each year in a different location. The conventions features a guest speaker, lectures, seminars, competitions, awards and the camaraderie of your peers in the art of caricature drawing. The quarterly newsletter, Exaggerated Features, is sent to the members and an annual convention is held for socialization as well as education and competition. The NCN was formed by Wallace "Buddy" Rose. Buddy created a forum for caricaturists by providing a quarterly newsletter and annual convention. The original goal was to create an organization that would seek out charitable and mutual benefits for united artists. It operated briefly as a booking agency until filing its application in compliance with article 5154a making it a trade union in 1994. In 1995 the new constitution was ratified in San Antonio, TX, the NCN was granted non-profit status, and the first election was held. In 2005, the NCN was changed into a non-profit, unincorporated association. The association boasts some of the most recognizable names in the industry as members and friends of the NCN. Jack Davis, Sergio Aragones, Mort Drucker and Tom Richmond (illustrator) of Mad Magazine, Jan Op De Beeck, Maria Bolton, Sam Norkin, Rudy Cristiano, Bruce Blitz, C.F. Payne, Pancho Willmarth, Mike Peters, Steve Silver and Sebastian Krüger have all been keynote speakers and members. Many NCN members are accomplished as artists not only in caricaturing, but in other artistic fields as well. The NCN officially changed its name to the International Society of Caricature Artists in 2009 to better reflect its international growth and presence. As of 2010 it has over 600 members worldwide. In recent years the International Society of Caricature Artists annual convention has featured guests of honor such as Sam Viviano, Dan Adel, Tom Richmond, Hermann Mejia, Mark Fredrickson and Bill Plympton. In 2011, ISCA will celebrate its 20th anniversary. 