The UK Screen Alliance (formerly UK Screen Association) is a trade body that represents British companies working in the film, TV and commercials industries. The association promotes the business interests of companies involved in audio and video post-production, visual effects (VFX), special effects, animation, camera and equipment hire and production studios. The current CEO, appointed in 2016 is Neil Hatton.  Leading member companies include Framestore, Double Negative, Industrial Light and Magic UK, MPC, The Mill, Pinewood Studios, Aardman Animations, Deluxe, Technicolor and Molinare. In 2004 the Department of Trade and Industry and the UK Film Council provided seed funding to assist in the establishment of a new trade body to represent the UK's post production and special effects sector. This led to the foundation of UK Post (later to be renamed UK Screen Association). UK Post made a contribution to the film tax consultation conducted by HM Treasury and Department for Culture Media and Sport. It also engaged with the BBC to access information to enable its member companies to make decisions about the future direction of their businesses. UK Post's remit expanded in 2006 to provide representation for all companies providing services to the film and broadcast industry in 2006. On 5 September 2006, the association's name was changed to UK Post & Services. In 2007 the association's board decided that a more radical change of name was necessary to reflect the trade body's broadened remit, its expanded membership and the industry's move towards multi-platform content creation and delivery. The board announced the name had been changed to UK Screen Association on 30 May 2007. In November 2016, UK Screen Association announced that it was joining forces with Animation UK to form the UK Screen Alliance, citing increasingly converging policy interests and a desire for a louder voice to government.     UK Screen Alliance acts as the strategic lobbying group interacting with government agencies, providing a support mechanism and a voice for its members, with particular focus on: 