VAGA is an artists’ rights organization and copyright collective, representing over 6,000 visual artists worldwide. Founded in 1976, it was the first fine art and photography royalty collecting society in the United States, and continues to be one of the largest.   Modeled after ASCAP (The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers), VAGA acts as a clearinghouse for licensing reproduction rights to publishers, museums, film production companies, auction houses, galleries, multinational corporations, and other users of art. In addition, VAGA protects its members from infringements, advises on all aspects of intellectual property law, and advocates for artists’ rights.   VAGA represents artists worldwide, both directly and through agreements with affiliated organizations in other countries. As a member of CISAC, the international confederation of societies that represent creators, VAGA takes part in establishing the international standards that govern the use of copyrighted works.  VAGA works to improve artists’ rights through consultation with the U.S. Copyright Office and by lobbying Congress for improved rights legislation.  VAGA, along with other rights organizations, recently initiated the introduction of the American Royalties Too (ART) Act. The bill was introduced in the House of Representatives by Rep. Jerrold Nadler and in the Senate by Senators Tammy Baldwin and Ed Markey.  If enacted, the bill will establish a resale royalty, whereby the creator of a work would receive a percentage of the sale of that work when it is resold at auction.  In 2012, the U.S. Copyright Office reviewed the viability of a resale royalty law in the U.S. VAGA submitted public comments in support of such a law, and addressed the concerns of critics.  VAGA's Executive Director, Robert Panzer, also participated in roundtable discussions hosted by the U.S. Copyright Office in order to advocate for a resale royalty law.  The findings of the Office’s review were determinedly in favor of a resale royalty law in the US.  