Dominique Meyer (President) Kasper Holten (Vicepresident) Dr. Isolde Schmid-Reiter (Secretary General) Thomas Adès Aviel Cahn Joseph Calleja Dr. John Deathridge Alessandro Di Profio Dr. Sieghart Döhring Dr. Michael Hampe Dr. Mario Vieira de Carvalho The European Academy of Music Theatre (German: Europäische Musiktheater-Akademie, abbreviated EMA) is a Vienna based, non-profit institute which seeks to promote not only a pan-European but also international network for those active in the theory and praxis of Music Theatre. The organisation frequently holds symposia at various European cities and publishes their proceedings. The Academy cultivates and optimises the collaboration of professional activities throughout Europe and beyond. On 26 May 1992 the European Academy of Music Theatre  was founded in Prague's Ständetheater by the Research Institute for Music Theatre Thurnau (Germany), Vanemuine Theatre, Tartu (Estonia), Academy of Sciences, Prague (Czech Republic) and the Department for Theatre, Film and Media Studies, University of Vienna (Austria). During its period of gestation the Academy's main task was to provide support and knowledge to partners from Eastern Europe. After the completion of numerous projects and collaborations, the EMA increasingly positioned itself as a dialogue board for those professionally active in Music Theatre. This is achieved by establishing contacts between scientific researchers and those involved in music theatre affiliated domains. At its regular symposia EMA provides its members and associates a high-profile forum for exchanging experience and knowledge as well as for presenting latest developments in research, documentation and music theatre. Since 1992 the European Academy of Music Theatre held fourteen symposia in different European countries, e.g. Russia, Portugal, France and Switzerland. Some of the analysed subjects have been organising and managing opera houses, historiography, as well as aspects of contemporary staging concepts. At the 2011 general meeting Dominique Meyer and Kasper Holten have been appointed President and Vice President, respectively, and British musicologist John Deathridge has been elected new Member of the Board.  At the 2013 general meeting in London the director of De Vlaamse Opera (Antwerp), Aviel Cahn, has been elected new Member of the Board. At the 2015 general meeting, held in Vienna, English composer Thomas Adès, Maltese Tenor Joseph Calleja, and Italian musicologist Alessandro Di Profio have been elected into the Board of Directors.  In March 2016 the Australian Conductor Simone Young was appointed Member of the Board.  In cooperation with European Forum Alpbach: To emphasise each symposium's key aspect, the EMA co-operates with select organisations. Thus conferences with renowned partners such as the Vienna State Opera, the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées in Paris and the Teatro Nacional de São Carlos in Lisbon as well as the European Forum Alpbach and the University of Zurich could be held.  