A jukebox musical is a musical film or stage presentation featuring the songs of popular music acts.  The term is used to describe films starring famous popular music acts showcasing their own recorded songs, not necessarily as part of a traditional musical score, though they are sometimes augmented with scored background music.  Use of the term has also grown to encompass musical films and theatrical presentations that celebrate past or present music acts or personalities, usually played by professional actors singing new renditions of the real artists' previously-recorded songs and other material, done in a manner more akin to a typical Broadway musical, where songs are incorporated into a formal musical score and accompanied by choreography.  The songs in jukebox musicals (of both kinds) are often contextualized into a dramatic plot, and particularly in the case of the later kind, a biographical story about the featured performer(s).  In some instances plots do not revolve around the musical act(s) making appearances.     Jukebox musical films of the first kind often feature famous pop stars and rock groups playing themselves, such as the Beatles in their narrative films, or in other cases playing as alter egos.  Some films star one well-known act, but others include a variety of acts.  Some jukebox musicals include previously recorded songs, but others introduce unreleased material, such the Beatles' did in their first film, A Hard Day's Night, which Andrew Sarris described as "the Citizen Kane of jukebox musicals", as well as in their second and third features, Help! and Magical Mystery Tour (their fourth film, the animated Yellow Submarine, featured mostly previously released songs). Prior to the Beatles, Elvis Presley's movies sometimes contained previously unreleased music.  In the 1980s, Prince's Purple Rain, in which he played a fictional character called the Kid, also featured new songs. Other films described as jukebox musicals take all their songs from a single concept album featuring an integrated song cycle with a story arc, sometimes labeled a rock opera. Both the movies of The Who's Tommy and of Pink Floyd's The Wall adapted the entire song cycle of a single album which already revolved around a fictional character.   Although jukebox musicals had achieved success for years (for instance Buddy – The Buddy Holly Story, the musical about the life of Buddy Holly which ran in the West End for 13 years from 1989 to 2003), a surge in popularity was led by the success of Mamma Mia!, built around the music of ABBA.  Reception of jukebox musicals has been divided, with the most common criticism being that there is too much focus on how many songs can be fit into the musical. Some jukebox musicals, like Lennon and Good Vibrations have been critical and financial flops. Others, like Jersey Boys and All Shook Up have been popular with both fans and critics. The term "jukebox musical" dates at least to 1962,  following Jukebox (1939), though the general genre—motion pictures consisting largely of hit recordings—dates to the 1940s and 1950s.  Examples are Jam Session, An American in Paris (1951), Rock, Rock, Rock (1956); Rock Around the Clock (1956) and Juke Box Rhythm (1959). 