Sangita (Devanagari: संगीत, Nada (intelligible sound) is  the treasure of happiness for the happy, the distraction of those who suffer, the winner of the hearts of the hearers, the first messenger of the god of love... the fifth approach to the eternal wisdom, the Veda. —Sangita Bhasya, A text on musicTranslator: Roshen Dalal  Sangita is broadly categorized as consisting of three interrelated knowledges: gita (vocal music, song), vadya (instrumental music), and nrtya (dance, movement).    These ideas appear in the Vedic literature of Hinduism such as in the Aitareya Brahmana, and in early post-Vedic era Sanskrit texts such as the Natya Shastra, Panchatantra, Malvikagnimitra and Kathasaritsagara. A stringed instrument is described with proportional lengths in Jaiminiya Brahmana and Aitareya Aranyaka, and these are compared to poetical meters.  It is referred to as "Gandharva Sangita" in the ancient Hindu texts, whose leader is mentioned to be the Vedic sage Narada – the author of seven hymns of the Rigveda.  The Hindu goddess Saraswati in revered in these texts as the source and patron of sangita.  Some important Sanskrit manuscripts relating to Sangita include Sangita Ratnakara,  Sangita Ratnavali, Sangita Ratnamala, Sangita Darpana, Sangita Siromani and Sangita Sagara.  One of the earliest known Sangita treatise is Sangita Meru, authored by Kohala – the student of Bharata Muni of Natya Shastra fame. The text is lost to history, but its existence is known because it has been quoted and cited in other Indian texts.  The 13th-century Sangita Ratnakara text has been influential to North and South Indian music traditions, and is available in many languages. It states, according to Tarla Mehta, that "Sangita constitutes song, dance and musical instruments".  The fusion of experience and concept, states Mehta, established Sangita as an integral component of play production in the Indian tradition.  Other known Sangita-related Hindu texts include, with exceptions as noted: The Catalogus Catalogorum published by H. Theodor Aufrecht, and those added by W. Jones, listed forty seven Sanskrit treatises on sangita known in the 19th-century, along with the author of each Sanskrit text.  