Adrienne J. Keene is an American and Native American academic, writer, and activist. A member of the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma, she is the founder of  Native Appropriations, a blog on contemporary Indigenous issues analyzing the way that indigenous peoples are represented in popular culture, covering issues of cultural appropriation in fashion and music and stereotyping in film and other media. She is also assistant professor of American Studies and Ethnic Studies at Brown University, where her research focuses on educational outcomes for Native students. Keene is a member of the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma and grew up in San Diego, California.  She earned her B.A. from Stanford University in Cultural and Social Anthropology and Native American Studies in 2007. Keene then received a master's degree in education in 2010 followed by a doctorate Ed.D. in culture, communities and education in May 2014 from the Harvard Graduate School of Education.  Her dissertation was titled "College Pride, Native Pride, and Education for Nation Building: Portraits of Native Students Navigating Freshman Year."  Keene's blog Native Appropriations is a webpage and forum for Native peoples, including discussions of cultural appropriation and media representations and updates on indigenous activism.  The site and Keene's writing there, as well as across other social media sites and speaking engagements, have drawn notice for commentary on topics including Native American mascots,     Dakota Access Pipline protests,   college access for native students,  and cultural appropriation in children's literature,  tourism,   clothing    and costumes.   Supporting native college students has also been part of Keene's activism,  working with an organization called College Horizons, a series of workshops aimed at supporting Native students in the different stages of the college process, from admissions to college life.  This work formed part of her dissertation.  In 2014, Keene became a Presidential Postdoctoral Fellow in Brown University's Department of Anthropology and the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America.  She is now Assistant Professor of American Studies and Ethnic Studies at Brown. Her research focuses on access to higher education for Native students in America, as well as Native representation in media and culture.  She continues this project with research on the use of media and emerging technology platforms by Native people to combat these images.  She is affiliated with the American Studies Association, the Native American Indigenous Studies Association, the American Educational Research Association, the Eastern Sociological Society, and the National Indian Education Association.  