Little Pine is a vegan bistro located in the Silver Lake neighborhood of Los Angeles, California.   It was founded by electronic musician and animal rights activist Moby.  The restaurant serves organic, vegan, Mediterranean-inspired dishes and has a retail section with art and books, curated by Moby himself.   Moby's vision was to create a space that includes various aspects of society that he cares about. All of the restaurant's profits are donated to animal welfare organizations. Little Pine opened on November 19, 2015 and is located in the Silver Lake neighborhood of Los Angeles, California.  Original plans for the restaurant to open in the summer of 2015 were delayed.  Moby opened the restaurant to create a space that encompasses various matters that he cares about, such as veganism, organic food, community, architecture and design.  Moby has stated that Little Pine was created to provide a "... compelling representation of veganism"  and to provide a space as "... an extension of our neighborhood and community."   The restaurant's decor has chandeliers and artistic murals created by various local artists,  and photographic works of nature created by Moby.   The general decorum was designed by interior designer Tatum Kendrick.   Little Pine is located in an Art Deco-style building that was built in the 1940s.   The restaurant has 58 seats.  Moby does not allow his own music to be played in the restaurant,   and has been a vegan for 28 years.  Little Pine purveys all plant-based, vegan dishes influenced by Mediterranean cuisine   and influences of the cuisine, such as Italian, Spanish and French cuisines, as well as minor aspects of North African cuisine.  Brunch dishes include French toast, lemon pancakes and biscuits and gravy.  Entrée dishes include stuffed shells, panko crusted piccata, and a parmesan spinach crêpe, among others.    Organic wine, various beers, tea and coffee are also served,  as well as almond milk.  Food ingredients are sourced locally whenever possible.  Little Pine donates all of its profits to animal organizations.  Donations are given to The Humane Society, PETA, the Animal Legal Defense Fund, Farm Sanctuary and Sea Shepherd, among others.    The donations commenced when the restaurant began to break even  relative to its operating expenditures. 