Organic beans are produced and processed without the use of synthetic fertilizers and pesticides. In 2008, over 2,600,000 acres (11,000 km2) of cropland were certified organic in the United States.  Dry beans, snap beans, and soybeans were grown on 16,000 acres (65 km2), 5,200 acres (21 km2), and 98,000 acres (400 km2), respectively.  There are three major types of organic beans: dry beans, snap beans (also known as green beans), and soybeans. The mature seeds of dry beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) serve as a protein source in a variety of foods worldwide. Dry beans and snap beans are the same species, although dry beans are distinguished from snap beans (green beans) which are consumed as immature pods.  Dry and snap beans also differ from soybeans (Glycine max), in which the seeds are consumed in a variety of processed forms such as tofu, soybean meal, oil, and fermented forms such as miso. Dry beans are divided into classes with a range of seed sizes, colors, and shapes.  Examples include black beans, pintos, navy beans, small red beans, and kidney beans. Soybeans are usually divided into two groups, feed-grade and food-grade, with the food-grade including soybeans for processing, "tofu-beans", and edamame, the latter of which is eaten as immature beans. To sell beans as organic in the United States, producers must meet the requirements of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) National Organic Program (NOP) under the Organic Food Production Act of 1990. A third-party certifying agency, not part of the USDA, verifies that the producer has met the minimum requirements and may themselves have additional requirements. Prior to marketing crops as "certified organic", fields must be managed during a three-year transition phase using organic practices (that is, no synthetic pesticides or fertilizers). Detailed record keeping is essential for organic producers and these details are checked annually by the certifying agency who may perform a site inspection. Certification information for other nations can be found on the Organic certification Wikipedia page. Michigan is currently the top organic dry bean producing state in the U.S., accounting for 37% of the area and 47% of the sales.  The majority of the area is located in the "Thumb" region of Michigan, with black beans being the most common class produced organically. Colorado and North Dakota are the second and third top producers, respectively, of organic dry beans in the United States. Washington is the top producer of organic snap beans, followed by Michigan and California. In 2008, the total sales of organic snap beans totaled over 1.4 million dollars.  The value of organic soybeans in 2008 totaled more than $50 million in the U.S., with Minnesota, Iowa, and Michigan accounting for 46% of the total production.  Organically grown beans typically demand a price premium and as a consequence the marketing details differ from the conventional market. Organic bean producers often set up contracts with buyers prior to planting the crop.  Buyers may also have special needs to consider when it comes to cleaning and processing beans in certified facilities, thereby making proximity to these certified facilities important. Organic dry beans from the United States are marketed both nationally and abroad. In 2010, one of the markets for Michigan and Washington produced dry beans was the restaurant chain Chipotle Mexican Grill. Another market is Eden Foods Inc. Organic snap beans are marketed to a variety of companies, such as Gerber and Earth's Best, makers of organic baby food. Organic soybeans have perhaps the most market potential of the three beans as they can be used as feed for organic animal production and processed into many different products.  Pest management in organic dry beans must be done without the use of synthetic herbicides, fungicides, insecticides, and other pesticides. For this reason, cultural, mechanical, and biological methods are the primary means of keeping pests under control. Controlling weeds is the primary cost to agricultural production systems, including organic beans. Weeds can reduce the emergence, growth, and yield of beans as they compete for light, water, and nutrient resources. Weeds are grouped in many ways, such as by life cycle. In organic beans, the most problematic weeds are those with summer annual and perennial life cycles.   Summer annuals are weeds that germinate in the spring or summer, produce seed in the late summer to fall, and then die. Their life cycle is complete in one year. Perennial weeds can live for multiple growing seasons, usually due to hardy root stocks. Example of weed management: Several types of tractor-pulled implements such as a rotary hoe and/or one of various types of cultivator/cultivators can be used to mechanically remove weeds from organic fields. Insects are another contributor to yield loss in organic beans. There are several examples of insects that affect organic bean systems including:  Example of insect management: Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) is a bacterium that when ingested by susceptible insects is lethal. This product is referred to as a microbial insecticide of which there are four subspecies and over 100 commercial products available for use in organic systems.  Pathogens can take the form of fungi, bacteria, viruses, and nematodes. Each can act as a disruptor to plant growth and development and can have negative effects on organic bean yields. Examples of bean pathogens include: Example of disease management: The onset of certain diseases, such as white mold, can be reduced by planting in rows wide enough to allow adequate air movement which can reduce humidity and decrease drying time after precipitation events. If plant material is allowed to dry quickly it will not have the 9 to 48 hours of continuous moisture on the leaf surface required for the white mold infection to occur.  Some naturally derived chemical products are permitted for use under organic production. All  materials have to be reviewed and approved by the Organic Materials Review Institute (OMRI). Examples of organically allowable pesticides that can be used to produce organic beans include: Because synthetic fertilizers are not permitted in organic production systems, fertility must come from sources such as:  