Patbingsu (팥빙수, sometimes anglicized as patbingsoo, literally "red beans shaved ice") is a popular Korean shaved ice dessert with sweet toppings that may include chopped fruit, condensed milk, fruit syrup, and red beans.  Varieties with ingredients other than red beans are called bingsu  (or bingsoo).   The food originally began as ice shavings with red bean paste (known as pat, 팥). Many varieties of patbingsu exist in contemporary culture. The early forms of patbingsu consisted of shaved ice and two or three ingredients, typically red bean paste, tteok, and ground nut powder.  The earliest forms of patbingsu existed during the Joseon Dynasty (1392–1910). Government records show officials sharing crushed ice topped with various fruits.   The modern forms of patbingsu are reputed to have originated during the period of Korea under Japanese rule (1910–1945) with the introduction of a cold dish featuring red bean paste.   The combination of red bean paste and shaved ice is a Korean invention.  During the Korean War (1950–1953), foreign influence led to the inclusion of ingredients such as fruit cocktail, ice cream,  fruits, nuts, cereal, syrups, and whipped cream.  In the 1970s and 1980s, popular ingredients included fruit cocktail, whipped cream, and maraschino cherries.  There are a variety of patbingsu types and flavors. Many bingsus do not necessarily follow tradition, and some do not include the red bean paste.  Some popular flavors are: green tea, coffee, and yogurt.  Patbingsu can be found at most fast food restaurants, cafes, and bakeries in South Korea.  Patbingsu is also a very popular dessert at cafes in the Koreatowns of Vancouver, New York City, Los Angeles, and Atlanta.  various bingsu Patbingsu Persimmon bingsu from Coco Bruni patisserie in Hannam-dong, Seoul Lotteria offers an elaborate version with ice cream A yogurt bingsu from the popular Korean Red Mango chain Melon bingsu from 'Chaoruem' near Gangnam station. Patbingsu topped with fruits bingsu with berries Milk tea flavor bing-su Black sesame bing-su Greentea patbingsu Green tea bingsu Cheese bingsu Patbingsu Mixed-berry Bingsu Injeolmi-bingsu topped with kong-gomul (soybean powder) 