Food contact materials are materials that are intended to be in contact with food. These can be things that are quite obvious like a glass, a can for soft drinks, but also machinery in a food factory or a coffee machine. Food contact materials can be constructed from a variety of materials like plastics, rubber, paper, coatings, metal etc. In many cases a combination is used; for example a carton box for juices can include (from the inside to the outside): plastic layer, aluminium, paper, printing and top coating. During contact with the food, molecules can migrate from the food contact material to the food, for example via blooming. Because of this, in many countries regulations are made to ensure food safety. The international symbol for "food safe" material is a wine glass and a fork symbol. The symbol indicates that the material used in the product is considered safe for food contact. This includes food and water containers, packaging materials, cutlery etc.  The regulation is applicable to any product intended for food contact whether it be made of metals, ceramics, paper and board, and plastics.  Use of the symbol is more significant in products which should be explicitly identified whether food safe or not, i.e. wherever there is an ambuiguity whether the container could be used to hold food stuff. The symbol is used in North America, Europe and parts of Asia. It is mandatory for products sold in Europe after the Framework Regulation EC 1935/2004.     In plastic containers, over and above the prescribed resin identification codes (viz; , ,  , ), the food safe assurance is required because the resin identification codes do not explicitly communicate the food safe property (or more significantly, the lack of it).   Even though the legal requirement in various nations would be different, the food safe symbol generally assures that: The framework Regulation (EC) No. 1935/2004  applies to all food contact materials. Article 3 contains general safety requirements such as not endanger human health, no unacceptable change in the composition and no deterioration of the organoleptic characteristics. Article 4 set out special requirements for active and intelligent materials. Article 5 specifies measures for groups of materials that may be detailed in separate regulations of directives. Member States may maintain or adopt national provisions (Article 6).  Articles 7-14 and 22-23 deal with the requirements and application for authorisation of a substance, modification of authorisation, the role of the European Food Safety Authority, the Member States and the Community. Article 15 is about labeling of food contact materials not yet in contact with food. Article 16 requires a declaration of compliance and appropriate documentation that demonstrate compliance. Articles 17-21 deal with traceability, safeguard measures, public access of applications, confidentiality, and data sharing. Article 24 sets out the inspection and control measures. Specific measures for materials and articles such as ceramics, regenerated cellulose, plastics, gaskets and active and intelligent materials, and substances such as vinyl chloride, N-nitrosamines and N-nitrostable substances in rubber, and epoxy derivatives, exist.  EU No 10/2011 is applicable regulation for all the Food contact material or Article made up of Plastics. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) considers three different types of food additives: The food contact materials are described in the Code of Federal Legislation (CFR): 21 CFR 174 - 21 CFR 190. Important starting points are: To this materials additives may be added. Which additives depend on the additive and on the material in which it is intended to be used. There must be a reference to the paragraph in which the additive is mentioned and the restrictions (for example only to be used in polyolefines) and limitations (max 0.5% in the final product) must be respected. See below for part in which additives are described: 21 CFR 170 Food additives Polymers or additives can also be regulated in other ways with exemptions; for example:[clarification needed]   