An Esperantido is a constructed language derived from Esperanto. Esperantido originally referred to the language which is now known as Ido. The word Esperantido is derived from Esperanto plus the affix -id- (-ido), which means a "child (born to a parent), young (of an animal) or offspring" (ido). Hence, Esperantido literally means an "offspring or descendant of Esperanto". A number of Esperantidos have been created to address a number of perceived flaws or weaknesses in Esperanto, or in other Esperantidos, attempting to improve their lexicon, grammar, pronunciation, and orthography. Others were created as language games or to add variety to Esperanto literature. These attempted improvements were intended to replace Esperanto. Limited suggestions for improvement within the framework of Esperanto, such as orthographic reforms and riism, are not considered Esperantidos.  Mundolinco (1888) was the first Esperantido, created in 1888. Changes from Esperanto include combining the adjective and adverb under the suffix -e, loss of the accusative and adjectival agreement, changes to the verb conjugations, eliminating the diacritics, and bringing the vocabulary  closer to Latin, for example with superlative -osim- to replace the Esperanto particle plej "most". Zamenhof himself proposed several changes in the language in 1894, which were rejected by the Esperanto community and subsequently abandoned by Zamenhof himself. Ido (1907), the foremost of the Esperantidos, sought to bring Esperanto into closer alignment with Western European expectations of an ideal language, based on familiarity with French, English, and Italian. Reforms included changing the spelling by removing non-Roman letters such as ĉ and re-introducing the k/q dichotomy; removing a couple of the more obscure phonemic contrasts (one of which, [x], has been effectively removed from standard Esperanto); ending the infinitives in -r and the plurals in -i like Italian; eliminating adjectival agreement, and removing the need for the accusative case by setting up a fixed default word order; reducing the amount of inherent gender in the vocabulary, providing a masculine suffix and an epicene third-person singular pronoun; replacing the pronouns and correlatives with  forms more similar to the Romance languages; adding new roots where Esperanto uses the antonymic prefix mal-; replacing much of Esperanto's other regular derivation with separate roots, which are thought to be easier for Westerners to remember; and replacing much of the Germanic and Slavic vocabulary with Romance forms, such as navo for English-derived ŝipo. See the Ido Pater noster below. Ido spawned its own idos, the first being Adjuvilo (1908), which was created by an Esperantist to sow dissent in the Ido community. René de Saussure (brother of linguist Ferdinand de Saussure) published numerous Esperantido proposals, starting with a response to Ido later called Antido 1 ("Anti-Ido 1") in 1907, which increasingly diverged from Esperanto before finishing with a more conservative Esperanto II in 1937. Esperanto II replaced j with y, kv with q, kz with x, and diacritic letters with j (ĵ and ĝ), w (ŭ), and digraphs sh (ŝ), ch (ĉ); replaced the passive in -iĝ- with -ev-, the indefinite ending -aŭ with adverbial -e, the accusative -on on nouns with -u, and the plural on nouns with -n (so membrun for membrojn "members"); dropped adjectival agreement; broke up the table of concords, changed other small grammatical words such as ey for kaj "and", and treated pronouns more like nouns, so that the plural of li "he" is lin rather than ili "they", and the accusative of ĝi "it" is ju. Romániço (1991) is designed to be more intuitive for native speakers of English. It replaces vocabulary and some grammar with Romance constructions, allows a somewhat more irregular orthography, and eliminates some criticized points such as case, adjectival agreement, verbal inflection for tense and mood, and inherent gender, but retains the o, a, e suffixes for parts of speech and an agglutinative morphology. It is intended as a compromise between Esperanto and naturalistic conlangs such as Interlingua. Esperanto sen Fleksio (Esperanto without inflexion),  proposed under this name by Richard Harrison in 1996    but based on long-term complaints from Asian Esperantists, is an experimental and unfinished proposal for a morphologically reduced variety of Esperanto.  The main changes are:   In an earlier version, the letter ŭ was replaced with w, but the more recent version uses the same alphabet as regular Esperanto.  While most Esperantidos aim to simplify Esperanto, Poliespo ("polysynthetic Esperanto", c. 1993) makes it considerably more complex. Besides the polysynthetic morphology, it incorporates much of the phonology and vocabulary of the Cherokee language. It has fourteen vowels, six of them nasalized, and three tones. There are also extensions of Esperanto created primarily for amusement. One of the more interesting Esperantidos, grammatically, is Universal (1923–1928).  It adds a schwa to break up consonant clusters, marks the accusative case with a nasal vowel, has inclusive and exclusive pronouns, uses partial reduplication for the plural (tablo "table", tatablo "tables"), and inversion for antonyms (mega "big", gema "little"; donu "give", nodu "receive"; tela "far", leta "near"). Inversion can be seen in: The antonyms are al "he" and la "she" (compare li "s/he"), the ge- (completive) and eg- (inchoative) aspects, fin- "to finish" and nif- "to begin", and graf- "to write" and farg- "to read". The Universal reduplicated plural and inverted antonyms are reminiscent of the musical language Solresol. Esperant’ (c. 1998)  is a style of speech that twists but does not quite violate the grammar of Esperanto. The changes are morphological: Example: Literally, "Behold (the) love of group of boys to the pretty-girl." See the Esperant’ Pater noster below. There are various projects to adapt Esperanto to specialized uses. Esperanto de DLT (1983) is one; it was an adaptation of Esperanto as a pivot language for machine translation. Esperanto has little in the way of the slang, dialectical variation, or archaisms found in natural languages. Several authors have felt a need for such variation, either for effect in original literature, or to translate such variation from national literature. Occasionally, reform projects have been used by Esperanto authors to play the role of dialects, for example standard Esperanto and Ido to translate a play written in two dialects of Italian.  Halvelik (1973) created Popido ("Popular Idiom") to play the role of a substandard register of Esperanto that, among other things, does away with much of Esperanto's inflectional system. For example, standard Esperanto is in Popido, ("la" is the Popido equivalent of "lia"; the article in Popido is "lo") In 1969, he published part I of the Sociolekto Triopo, Arkaika Esperanto to serve as equivalent to Middle English, Middle High German and the like. A slang completes the trio, called Gavaro. Proto-Esperanto would theoretically fulfill the need for archaism, but too little survives for it to be used extensively. In 1931 Kalman Kalocsay published a translation  of the Funeral Sermon and Prayer, the first Hungarian text (12th century), in which he created fictitious archaic forms as though Esperanto were a Romance language deriving from Vulgar Latin. Manuel Halvelik went further in 1969 with a book on Arcaicam Esperantom, where he laid out the grammar of a fictitious ancestor of modern Esperanto. It echoes Proto-Esperanto in a more complex set of inflections, including dative and genitive cases ending in -d and -es and separate verbal inflections for person and number, as well as "retention" of digraphs such as ph and tz, writing c for [k], and the use of the letters q, y, w. The Esperanto Pater noster follows, compared to the Ido, Esperant’ and Arcaicam Esperantom versions. Patro nia, kiu estas en la ĉielo, sanktigata estu via nomo. Venu via regno, fariĝu via volo, kiel en la ĉielo, tiel ankaŭ sur la tero. Nian panon ĉiutagan donu al ni hodiaŭ. Kaj pardonu al ni niajn ŝuldojn, kiel ankaŭ ni pardonas al niaj ŝuldantoj. Kaj ne konduku nin en tenton, sed liberigu nin de la malbono.   Patrom nosam, cuyu estas in Chielom, Estu sanctigitam Tuam Nomom. Wenu Tuam Regnom, Plenumizzu Tuam Wolom, Cuyel in Chielom, ityel anquez sobrez Terom. Nosid donu hodiez Panon nosan cheyutagan, Ed nosid pardonu nosayn Pecoyn, Cuyel anquez nos ityuyd cuyuy contrez nos pecait pardonaims. Ed nosin ned conducu in Tentod, Sed nosin liberigu ex Malbonom.   Patro nia, qua esas en la cielo, tua nomo santigesez; tua regno advenez; tua volo facesez quale en la cielo tale anke sur la tero. Donez a ni cadie l'omnidiala pano, e pardonez a ni nia ofensi, quale anke ni pardonas a nia ofensanti, e ne duktez ni aden la tento, ma liberigez ni del malajo.   Nipatr’, kies est’ ĉielas, iĝu via nom’ sankt’. Viu la regnalven’. Iĝu via la volfar’, kielas en la ĉiel’, tiel ankaŭu surtere. Hodiaŭu ĉiutagpandon’ nin. Kaju la pardon’ al niofend’, kiel ankaŭas nipardon’ al ofendintar’ nia. Kaju nea nia konduk’ entent’, sedu nia la liberig’ de l’ malbon’.   