Lingwa de planeta (also Lidepla or LdP) is a constructed international auxiliary language  based on the most widely spoken languages of the world, including Arabic, Chinese, English, Spanish, German, Hindi, Persian, Portuguese, Russian and French.  The main idea of Lidepla is a harmonious whole on the base of the most widespread and influential national languages. The intention is also for it to have something in common with the native languages of most of the people. With the various source languages from across the globe, its design is of the type worldlang, a class of a posteriori languages. Development of the language began in 2006 in Saint-Petersburg, Russia, by a group of enthusiasts, with Dmitri Ivanov being the project leader. The basic version of the language was published in June 2010. The official Lidepla alphabet is based on the Latin script and contains the following 25 letters,  and their upper case equivalents: The letter q is not used, and c occurs only in the digraph “ch”. The letter y represents the same vowel as “i”, but is never stressed. The following digraphs and letters are pronounced as follows, with examples: -ng- in the middle of a word is pronounced /ng/ (as is “ng” in finger). v and ending -ng may alternatively be pronounced as  /w/ (as in wood) and /n/ (nose), respectively. x between two vowels may be slightly voiced,[clarification needed] and x before a consonant pronounced as /s/. Some learning material uses /h/ for the letter h.  The grammar allows that pronunciation, but gives /x/ as ch in German Fach as the primary. For more details on the phonology, see the section Phonology below. The general rule regarding the stress is:  Lidepla tries to preserve the original sounding of the international words, though, so there are some exceptions, as follows, in short:  The main idea behind Lidepla was to create a harmonious whole on the base of the most widespread and influential national languages of the planet. That results in the Lidepla vocabulary containing a fairly significant amount of non-European words, which makes Lidepla a welttung. A general design principle for Lidepla was to have something in common with the native languages of most of the people on Earth.   The Lidepla grammar is based on 3 rules: the rule of the constant form, the rule of belonging to a word class, and the rule of direct word order. The word form never changes. Special particles are used to express the grammatical meanings, for example: The only two exceptions are:  Every Lidepla word belongs to a word class – noun, verb, adjective, adverb, etc. Derivation takes place by means of affixes and particles:  There are no fixed endings for the word classes, there are preferable, though. Thus most verbs end in i, but there are some exceptions (for example: jan – to know, shwo – to talk, etc). By means of affixes and particles new words can be made up, both of the same class and of the other.  For example: The use of special particle is optional if its meaning is clear from the context.   For example: both lack particles indicating time, because it is already obvious from “yesterday” and “tomorrow”. In the same manner:  lacks the plural indicating ending -s, because plural is already indicated by mucho, in contrast to: that uses the plural -s ending. The word order in a sentence is usually direct, that is subject — predicate — object, attribute goes before the noun, prepositions are before the noun group they refer to. If the word order is changed, it is shown by the use of special particles. For example, den is put before the object,  like this: The basic personal pronouns of Lidepla are: There is a distinction in third person singular between animate and inanimate: ta is used for humans and animals (corresponding to he/him, she/her, and it when used about an animal), and it about things and objects. If the speaker wishes to distinguish gender, there is also third person singular ela (she, her) and lu (he, him). Just as in English, second person plural (you, you all) and singular (you) are both the same word: yu. Lidepla also has an indefinite personal pronoun: oni (one, they as in “they say that...”, and “one does not...”). The short form of the possessive pronouns looks like this: The third person singular suy is universal and can be used as the possessive form for both ta, it, ela and lu – for ela  and lu there's also the forms elay and luy. The suffix -ney is used to form adjectives from nouns.  Therefore, it is also possible to form longer possessive pronouns with the base form and the suffix -ney: mi-ney, yu-ney, etc. Verb roots never change in Lidepla. Tense are formed by particles, or by suffixes. Most Lidepla vocabulary is made up of international words of Latin origin. The most frequent words, though, are of English, Russian, Chinese, Arabic and Hindi origin. There are not definite endings for different parts of speech, so nearly any word can be easily incorporated. The words are adapted to Lidepla phonology and don't preserve original orthography – the pronunciation is preserved in first hand, not the spelling.   As of 2014, the Lidepla vocabulary had about 4,000 entries, meaning about 10,000 individual words, with an increasing number. For a word to be incorporated, the following principles are taken into account:  Whole Lidepla phrases sometimes sound very close to national languages ones,   with the same meaning: There are 17 basic consonants (b, d, g; p, t, k; w, f; s, ʃ; x; d͡ʒ, d͡z; m, n, r, l) and 3 optional ones (v; t͡ʃ; ŋ) in Lidepla.  Distinction of the sounds w — v, d͡ʒ — t͡ʃ is not obligatory, that is they may be pronounced in the same way, as there are no minimal pairs for them. The ŋ sound is the same as in English (in -ing ending). There are 5 vowels (a, e, i, o, u) in the language. The project is led by the psychologist Dmitri Ivanov. He laid the foundation of the language, using mainly the ideas of Otto Jespersen on the Novial language, and also the facts of Creole language development and structure, while linguists A. Vinogradova and E. Ivanova helped a lot during the early period of development. In 2007 A. Lysenko joined and became the main linguist of the project.  From the very beginning the project was open and widely discussed in a number of conlanger groups.  As of 2014, more than 15 people contributed to the language considerably (that is, worked on vocabulary and grammar, translated and wrote original texts, including songs),  not speaking about those who participated in discussions. The basic version of the language was published on June 1, 2010.  In some sources   the date of creation of Lidepla is stated to be 2006. It is thus important to clarify that the “basic version” of the language – that is, the version after which the basics of the language is not to be changed – wasn't published until 2010.  At the moment the language is used mainly on the Internet, when it comes to direct communication. About 10–15 people have mastered the language, and about 50 can use it in communication.  A lot of texts have been translated, including rather spacious texts like Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll,  and Sailor Ruterford in Maori captivity by Nikolay Chukovsky (son of Korney Chukovsky; translated from Russian),  and also some tales. There are songs both written and translated, including an album by musician Jonny M, and subtitles made for cartoons and movies (like the popular Russian film Ivan Vasilievich: Back to the Future).  Pater Noster, the Lord's Prayer, in Lingwa de Planeta: 