The Wolfram Language is a general multi-paradigm programming language  developed by Wolfram Research and is the programming language of the mathematical symbolic computation program Mathematica  and the Wolfram Programming Cloud. It emphasizes symbolic computation, functional programming, and rule-based programming  and can employ arbitrary structures and data.  It includes built-in functions for generating and running Turing machines, creating graphics and audio, analyzing 3D models, matrix manipulations, and solving differential equations. It is extensively documented.  The Wolfram language was released for the Raspberry Pi in 2013 with the goal of making it free for all Raspberry Pi users.  It was included in the recommended software bundle that the Raspberry Pi Foundation provides for beginners, which caused some controversy due to the Wolfram language's proprietary nature.   Plans to port the Wolfram language to the Intel Edison were announced after the board's introduction at CES 2014.  There was also a short lived proposal to make Wolfram libraries compatible with the Unity game engine, giving game developers access to the language's high level functions.   The language was officially named in June 2013 although, as the programming language of Mathematica, it has been in use in various forms for over 30 years since Mathematica's initial release.   Before 2013, it was internally referred to by several names, such as "M" and "Wolfram Language." Other possible names Wolfram Research considered include "Lingua" and "Express."  Both Stephen Wolfram and his son Christopher Wolfram were involved in helping create the alien language for the film Arrival, for which they used the Wolfram Language.   They were given portions of the written language, and used Wolfram Language to analyze the images and attempt to interpret them.  This served as the model for how the characters approached the problem in the film. Beginning in 2017, Wolfram began to Live stream internal Wolfram Language development meetings. During these meetings, viewers are encouraged to submit questions and comments related to the development of the programming language. Viewers have been known to suggest new functions that they would like to see developed, name new functions, and help solve complex issues faced by Stephen and the Wolfram Research development team. These live streamed meetings can be viewed on Twitch.tv, YouTube Live, and Facebook Live. 