  Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhavi  (born c. 1960), is a top leader of the Kashmiri terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba and currently serves as Supreme Commander of operations in Kashmir and as a member of the freedom fighting group's General Council. He is listed on India's NIA Most Wanted list. Lakhvi, like his contemporary Hafiz Saeed, is the object of much debate between Pakistan and India, with little of this being based upon known facts . In the publicly available confession of Ajmal Kasab, Lakhvi's name is mentioned as 'Chacha Zaki' (Uncle Zaki).  Little is known about Lakhvi, but he was said to be 52 years old as of December 2008, and was born in the Okara district of Punjab, Pakistan.  He has allegedly directed military actions in Chechnya, Bosnia, Iraq and South-east Asia and is referred to as 'Chachu', or Uncle, by young trainees.   In 1999 at a three-day annual congregation held at Muridke, he is alleged to have explained the reasons for continued missions against the occupying Indian Army in Kashmir, in the aftermath of the Kargil War:  "After the Pakistani withdrawal from Kargil and the Nawaz-Clinton statement in Washington, it was important to boost the morale of the Kashmiri people. These missions were initiated to teach India a lesson as they were celebrating after the Kargil war."  He said that the next target would be New Delhi.  In 2006, he allegedly asked LeT's members to begin training operatives for more operations.   Indian officials claim Lakhvi also oversaw Azam Cheema, who has been accused of being a leader in the 2006 bombing of the Mumbai rail network that killed more than 200 and left 700 injured.  In May 2008, the US Treasury Department announced that it had frozen the assets of four Lashkar-e-Taiba leaders including Lakhvi.  On December 3, 2008 Indian officials named him as one of four possible major planners behind the November 2008 Mumbai Attacks.  He reportedly offered to pay the family of Ajmal Kasab the sum of Rs.150,000 for his participation in the attacks.  On December 7, 2008 Pakistani armed forces arrested Zaki ur Rehman Lakhvi in a raid on an LeT training camp near Muzafarabad in Pakistani Kashmir.  He was among 12 people detained.  Pakistan confirmed the arrest but refused to hand over any of its citizens to Indian authorities.   Officials stated that any Pakistani citizen accused of involvement in the attack would be tried in Pakistan.  On February 12, 2009 Rehman Malik, Interior Minister, stated that Lakhvi was still in custody and under investigation as the foremost mastermind behind the attacks.   On 25 November 2009, a Pakistani anti-terrorism court formally charged seven suspects, including LeT commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, with planning and helping execute the Mumbai attacks, an action that came a day before the first anniversary of the brazen assault.  On 18 December 2014, the Pakistani anti-terrorism court granted bail to Lakhvi in the Mumbai attacks case against payment of surety bonds worth Rs. 500,000.  On December 19, Lakhvi's bail was rejected by the high court.  This step was called 'positive' by the Indian government  On 7  January 2015; Lakhvi's bail was rejected by the Supreme Court   and the case referred back to the high court, who reinstated the bail;  The surety bond required from Lakhvi had a value of US $2,300. Lakhvi was released from jail on bail on 10 April 2015.  