An avunculate marriage is any marriage between an uncle/aunt and a niece/nephew. It may refer to a marriage between biological relatives or people related by marriage. In some countries, avunculate marriages are prohibited by law, while in others marriages between biological relatives of this kind are both legal and common. If the partners in an avunculate marriage are biologically related, they normally have the same genetic relationship as half-siblings, or a grandparent and grandchild – that is they share approximately 25% of their genetic material. (They are therefore more closely related than partners in a marriage between first cousins, in which on average the members share 12.5% of inherited genetic material, but less than that of a marriage between, for instance, cousin-siblings, in which the partners share 37.5% of their inherited genetic material.) Avunculate marriage is legal in Argentina, Australia, , Brazil, Finland,  Malaysia,  The Netherlands,  and Russia.  It is explicitly illegal in most English-speaking countries.[which?]  Avunculate marriage was the preferred type of union in some pre-modern societies. This has remained the case amongst, for instance the Awá-Guajá people of the eastern Amazon Basin.  Marriages between such close relatives were frequent in Ancient Egypt, at least among members of ruling dynasties.  In societies adhering to Jewish or Christian faiths, such marriages were sometimes allowed. The Talmud endorsed marriages between uncles and nieces; although some early Jewish religious communities, such as the Sadducees, believed that such unions were prohibited by the Torah.  Amongst medieval and especially early modern Christians, a marriage between a woman and the sibling of a parent was not always interpreted as violating  Leviticus 18; this was especially so amongst the royal houses of Europe and, in Catholic countries, a papal dispensation could be obtained to allow such a marriage.  Such marriages have traditionally been illegal in Islamic societies and are regarded as prohibited by Islam.  