The Shadamarshana Gothra, popularly known as "Swayamacharyas", is a gotra, or clan of people in Hindu society who all claim descent from Ramanuja Charya. Some people believe Ramanuja was born into the Harita Gothra, but many point to the writings of one of his own descendants, and to the writings of the Maharishi (greatest of saints) which demonstrate that Ramanuja Charya was born into the Shadamarshana Gothra. Korukonda, srimath tirumala venkata are some of the first names of shatamarshana gothras. Brahmins and srivaishnavas both are borned from Sri bhrahmadeva. Originally Shadamarshana gothra was originated by three rishis - Angirasa, Purukutsa and Trasadasyu. The first is almost the most famous of rishis of the vedic age. Purukutsa was in the company of kings and he was responsible for financing the marriages of a large number of girls. The third name means "who is dreaded by thieves" He was a minister with a king to strike terror in the hearts of the thieves. Thraiyarusheya Pravaranvidha Shadamarshana Gothraha Coming to much later times, we have a galaxy of names of those belonging to this gothra. Nathamunigal, the compiler of the Naalayira Divya Prabhandham was one. But for him, we would not have the hymn's of the Alwars. His grandson was Yamunacharya or Alavandar who ruled a principality in the then Tamil Nadu. He was the manaseeka guru of Ramanuja Charya - the founder of Visishta dvaita system of philosophy. Tirumalai Nambigal for whom a shrine exists in the outer prakara of the Tirumala temple. He was the maternal uncle of Ramanuja. Nambigal did theertha-pushpa kainkaryam to Lord Venkateswara. His descendants to this day continue the practice devotedly. Nambigal also taught Srimad Ramaynam to his nephew Ramanuja and hence was one of the five gurus of Ramanuja. These people are the descendants of Tirumalai Nambigal for whom a shrine exists in Tirupathi temple of Govindaraja, on the foothills of the Tirumala temple. Coming to historical times. there was Lakshmi Kumara Thathachariar who was a minister under the Vijayanagar kings. The name Thathachariar came because the Lord himself addressed him as "thatha, give me some water" which he was carrying to the Lord Venkateswara- so goes the legend. Lakshmi Kumara was divinely blessed and he was responsible for helping poor people to perform marriages of their daughters. Followed the path laid by his ancestral rishi! He was also called as Kottikannikadhana Thathachariar. He lived in 15th century. One of his descendants travelled further down to Tamil Nadu and near Vandavasi came to a village. As he was about to perform his Sandhyavandanam, he saw a soldier - his horse was nearby sleeping and a cobra spreading its hood over his head to protect him from the sun. He was wonder struck and talked to the soldier after he woke up. He could perceive that the ordinary soldier has a special future and might one day become king. He told him so and the soldier went on his way down to Thanjavur. He did become a chieftain and remembered his guru. He founded the village Navalpakkam and built a Srinivasa Perumal temple there for his guru. Even to this day, that village consists of a number of learned scholars and pundits - whose fame has spread far and wide. One of them was called Ayya Kumara Tata Desikan (Ayya Kumara Thathachariar). His descendants who came to Kumbakonam called themselves Patracharis (patta in Tamil means tata in Sanskrit). Some family traces its lineage from this saint for whom a niche sannidhi is provided in the famous Sarangapani Temple of Kumbakonam. The word Thatha/Tata originates from Tirumalai Nambi or Srisaila Purna. On LakshmiKumara - Sri Lakshmi Kumara Tata Desikan. He was born at Kumbakonam in the Tamil year of Prajotpathi, in the month of Karthikai, Anusha nakshatram in 1575 A.D A day after Sri Rama Navami, in 1632 A.D. Prajotpathi Samvatsaram, in the month of Panguni, this great Acharya attained moksha on the way to Chandagiri from Tirumalai hills. Abhivadaye is a religious practice among Hindu men to introduce themselves to others especially the elders. It is practiced even today widely among the Brahmin. The importance of giving respect to elders, in whole means it is an introduction of self with lineage. It consists of a set of lines which is essentially used to introduce one's It varies based on one's Gothra. For men belonging to the Shadamarshana Gothra has the following as his Abhivadaye "Abhivaadaye Angirasa, Thrasathasya, Pourukuthsa Thrayaarisheya Pravaranvidha, (Pravara)  Shadamarshana Gotrah (Gotra) Apasthambha Sutrah, (Sutra) Yajussaakhaadhyaayee, (Veda) saakha adhyayi Sathya Narayanan sharmaa naama aham asmi (Name)  Bhoh (Salutations)" Translation: I am saluting, having three pravara rishis Angirasa, Thrasathasya and Pourukuthsa, of Shadamarshana Gothra, following the rules or manual of Apasthambha, learning the branch of Veda called Yajur. I am Sathya Narayanan by name. Your Honour. Another example for someone from Shadamarshana Gothra and Samaveda tradition recites "Abhivaadaye Angirasa, Thrasathasya, Pourukuthsa Thrayaarisheya Pravaranvidha, (Pravara)  Shadamarshana Gotrah (Gotra) Drakhyayana Sutraha,(Sutra)   Saamasaakha Adhyaayai (Veda)   saakha adhyayi GopalaKrishna sharmaa naama aham asmi (Name)   Bhoh" (Salutations)"          