Medical education in Philippines is principally offered and developed by accredited and government recognized medical schools in the country. The Philippine medical schools are graduate schools offering the Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree. The M.D. is a four-year professional degree program which qualifies the degree holder to take the licensure exam for medical doctors in the Philippines. Before applying to any medical school, a candidate must earn a bachelor's degree with credits in certain required subjects. The most common pre-medical degrees include biology, psychology, pharmacy, medical technology, biochemistry, microbiology, nursing, and physical therapy.  In addition, a candidate must take the National Medical Admission Test (NMAT), the national entrance exam for all medical schools in the Philippines.   The Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) is a four-year professional degree program dealing with medical theories, practices, technologies, and problem solving. The completion of the degree program with one-year postgraduate internship qualifies a candidate to take the licensure exam for medical doctors in the Philippines.  Medical schools in the country are regulated by the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) of the Philippines, and accredited by the Association of Philippine Medical Colleges.  The Board of Medicine of the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) of the Philippines.  has released a list of the outstanding colleges of medicine in the Philippines with percentage passing above the national average (62.71%) based on the Physician Licensure Examinations. They were recognized in the oath-taking of the new physicians held at the PICC Plenary Hall in Pasay City on September 15, 2016.    There are 38 APMC member schools and colleges as of 2009.  St Paul University Philippines The licensure exams for physicians (board exam for doctors) are administered by the Philippine Board of Medicine, a professional regulatory body under the general control and supervision of the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) of the Philippines.  After graduation from medical school and passing the board exam for doctors, a Filipino doctor is labelled as a general medical practitioner. He may seek further training by way of graduate programs in medicine (i.e., Master of Public Health, Master of Health Services Administration, etc.), or by way of medical specialization.  Graduate programs are offered in some medical schools in the country and abroad. Candidates usually attend lectures and practical exercises in an academic environment and in laboratory settings. The program may require the presentation and defense of a graduate-level thesis, an independent research project, or supervised professional practice as a final graduation requirement. The entire academic program may last from one year to five years, depending on the requirements of the curriculum; the demands of the institution; and the academic load, availability, and dedication of the individual student.  Medical specialization usually takes three to six years of residency training in accredited hospitals and clinics, and the taking of diplomate board examinations conducted by a board of medical specialists in a particular field (i.e., Philippine Board of Psychiatry, Philippine Board of Pediatrics, Philippine Board of Surgery, Philippine Specialty Board of Internal Medicine, Philippine Academy of Family Physicians Board of Examiners etc.). After specialization, the doctor may practice his field of specialty or pursue one to three years of subspecialty training / fellowship such as A) Pediatrics and internal medicine: cardiology, pulmonology, gastroenterology, endocrinology, infectious disease, oncology etc. B) Surgery: thoracic and cardiovascular, pediatric, transplant, trauma, minimally invasive, oncology C) Anesthesiology: pain, cardiovascular D) OB Gyn: oncology, ultrasound, reproductive endocrinolgy and infertility Straight programs for subspecialties are also offered : urology, orthopedics, plastic and reconstructive, neurosurgery   Medical practice in the Philippines is developed, monitored, and regulated by the Philippine Medical Association (PMA), the largest organization of medical doctors in the country. Other medical and health societies co-exist to pursue more specific interests in the medical field (i.e. Philippine Academy of Family Physicians, Philippine Dermatological Society, Philippine Cancer Society, Philippine Pediatric Society, Philippine Association for the Study of Overweight and Obesity, etc.).  The Department of Health, a cabinet-level department under the Office of the President of the Philippines, exercises general monitoring supervisory powers over medical practitioners and allied health personnel in the Philippines.  