TotalMED is a Philippines-based hospital and health care provider engaged in ambulatory and hospital care. The company currently operates medical clinics in Antipolo City, Rizal, and Subic Bay Freeport Zone. It is a private sector hospital and provides ambulatory, aesthetic and same day surgery services. TotalMED started operations in January and March 2007, when TotalMED Subic (TS) AND TotalMED Clark (TC) were incorporated and registered to provide outpatient (ambulatory) and inpatient (hospital) medical care in Subic Bay Freeport Zone, Clark Freeport Zone and, eventually, in Philippine cities and other growth regions. In June 2007, TS partnered and affiliated with Sta. Lucia Health Care and MedCentral Multispecialty and Diagnostic Center, two leading ambulatory and diagnostic centers providing outpatient medical services in Metro Manila. TotalMED Subic signed a two-year renewable lease to operate a multi-specialty ambulatory and diagnostic center with Subic Vest in Subic Bay Industrial Park. Renovation started in September and full operations started in March 2008. In March, TotalMED signed a partnership contract with Belo Medical Group to provide Cosmetic and Plastic Surgery services primarily to medical tourists and travelers. TotalMED has also been approved for a 15-year renewable lease to open an ambulatory center and primary hospital at the former Marshall Duty Free Shopping Center in Clark. The site is located in the center of the commercial section in front of PureGold on Recto Avenue. Renovation was scheduled for mid-2008 with approximate completion in early 2009. Today, TotalMED is the only full service Ambulatory Care facility inside Subic Bay. Among its largest clients are Hanjin Shipbuilding and all SBDMC‘S 150 locator companies and 20,000 employees located in Subic Bay Gateway Park. TotalMED is also in full negotiations with Medtecs International to open a Medical Center at the Medtecs building located at Subic Bay Gateway Park. By mid-2009, TotalMED will open the first college for alternative and integrative medicine in the Philippines.  