  "Hey Kid, Catch!" was a television commercial for Coca-Cola starring Pittsburgh Steelers defensive tackle "Mean" Joe Greene.   The commercial debuted on October 1, 1979, and was re-aired multiple times, most notably during Super Bowl XIV in 1980. The 60-second commercial won a Clio Award for being one of the best television commercials of 1979.  During its planning and filming stages, McCann Erickson, the advertising agency that created the commercial, used the working title "Mean Joe Greene".  The commercial was a part of Coca-Cola's "Have a Coke and a Smile" ad campaign of the late 1970s.  The commercial's set-up and payoff is classic simple advertising. After sustaining an injury during a football game, Greene is limping alone into the tunnel toward the Steelers' locker room when a young boy (played by Tommy Okon) comes up behind him offering his help, which Greene declines.  After telling Greene that he still thinks he's the best, the boy offers him his bottle of Coke, which Greene refuses at first, but the boy wants him to have it; Greene sheepishly accepts it with thanks and drinks the entire bottle as the boy quietly says "See ya 'round" and slowly walks away.  When Greene finishes the Coke he turns back to the boy and says "Hey, Kid..  Catch,"  tossing his jersey (slung over his shoulder) to the surprised boy who happily says "Wow!  Thanks, Mean Joe!".  Greene casts a smile toward the boy before continuing his trek to the locker room. The commercial has been listed as one of the top ads of all time by multiple sources, including TV Guide. The ad later received worldwide acclaim when it was re-filmed in various countries using indigenous sports figures in each version.   The campaign's art director was Roger Mosconi, the writer was Penny Hawkey, and the singers of the "Coke and a Smile" jingle were Jim Campbell, Don Thomas, Liz Corrigan, Shellie Littman, Arlene Martell, and Linda November. The footage was shot in May 1979 at a small stadium in Mount Vernon, New York, and the commercial first aired on October 1, 1979 on ABC's Monday Night Football, though its airing during Super Bowl XIV in 1980 brought it the most attention due to the program's enormous audience.   Greene later recalled that in filming the commercial, it took several takes to get his final line in the commercial in without burping. "Between me belching and going to the men's room, it took three days to film it," Greene recalled.  The end of the commercial was also shown during the 2004 film Miracle when the USA vs. USSR hockey game was on a commercial break. 