CJ Hopkins (born 1961) is a contemporary American playwright, novelist, and political satirist. His award-winning stage plays have been produced internationally. His political satire and commentary appears in Counterpunch, ColdType, The Unz Review, and other political and literary journals, and has been widely translated. His debut novel, Zone 23, was published in 2017 by Snoggsworthy, Swaine & Cormorant. Hopkins' early plays and experimental theatre texts were first produced in New York City during the 1990s at Off-Off-Broadway theatres including HERE Arts Center, the Ohio Theatre, Theatre for the New City, Manhattan Theatre Source, The Present Company Theatorium and The New York International Fringe Festival. He was a 1994 Drama League of New York Developing Artist Fellow and a 1995 Resident Artist/Jerome Foundation Fellow at Mabou Mines/Suite. Since 2001, his plays have been produced and have toured internationally. His plays are typified by existential explorations of American culture, consumerism, capitalism, authority, and the human condition. His writing is often darkly comedic, leaving the audience with more questions than answers. He has often collaborated with OBIE-winning director John Clancy, who has directed a number of Hopkins' plays since the 1990s. His 1992 play, Horse Country, won numerous awards during its UK premiere at the 2002 Edinburgh Festival Fringe, including a Scotsman Fringe First for New Writing and the 2002 Scotsman Best of the Fringe Firsts Award,   and later went on to win the 2004 Best of The Adelaide Fringe Festival Award. Following its London premiere at Riverside Studios,  Horse Country toured the UK, Australia, Canada and The Netherlands. Hopkins' 2004 play screwmachine/eyecandy premiered at Assembly Rooms at the 2005 Edinburgh Festival Fringe, where it was awarded a Scotsman Fringe First for New Writing. The US premiere was presented at 59E59 Theaters  in New York in 2006. Also in 2006, Hopkins was commissioned by the Freie Universität Berlin to write and direct a site-specific work, The Insurgency, the German version of which was staged in the university's Philological Library. His 2009 play, The Extremists, commissioned by 7 Stages and directed by Walter D. Asmus, premiered in Berlin and Atlanta in 2010.  The UK premiere was presented at the 2013 Edinburgh Festival Fringe. A 2018 production of the play was produced by Clark University and directed by Raymond Munro. Hopkins also teaches workshops on playwriting and screenwriting.  