Oceanwide Plaza, is a residential and retail complex under construction composed of three towers in downtown Los Angeles, California. Across the street from Staples Center and the Los Angeles Convention Center.  Oceanwide Holdings is the owner and developer. Scheduled to be completed next year, the CallisonRTKL-designed complex will feature a five-star Park Hyatt hotel with interiors by Studio Munge, as well as 504 residences and a collection of retailers and restaurants. It will also be home to the city's tallest residential tower, which commenced construction in 2015.   The three luxury apartment towers topped off in April 2018 and are still scheduled to open in late 2019.   Designed by CallisonRTKL. Tower one will feature a 184 room five star Park Hyatt hotel along with 164 Park Hyatt serviced condo residences; a live in hotel option. It will reach a total height of 675 ft, 49 floors. Towers two and three will have 504 residential condominiums.  They will reach a total of 530 ft; 40 floors in height. When completed, they will become the 11th and 21st tallest buildings in Los Angeles. The Park Hyatt project marks the luxury brand's first hotel and branded residences on the West Coast. That 49-story building will consist of a 184-room hotel topped by 164 serviced hotel residences. (The other 340 apartments will be housed in two 40-story towers, The Residences at Oceanwide Plaza.)   Located adjacent to the Staples Center and L.A. Live near the Los Angeles Convention Center, project participants say the complex's design offers a departure from the standardized glass curtain and masonry architecture of the city's downtown. The developer, Beijing-based Oceanwide Holdings, enlisted CallisonRTKL as a consultant to design features such as the 700-ft. LED ribbon wrapping the perimeter of the building. Beyond that, the firm plans to create glass elevators with LED bands and landscaped retail paseos that incorporate local plant life.   A retail mall named The Collection at Oceanwide Plaza is scheduled to open on the first three floors above ground with 153,000 square feet of retail space . The mall will be open air and have deck views of L.A. Live. The 9th floor will feature a two-acre private park. Features include private cantilevered deck pools, viewing platforms, basketball court, a dog park, green space and a running track.   Celebrity fitness trainer and nutritionist Harley Pasternak has conceptualized the development's amenity spaces, including a two-acre sky park. Leisure offerings such as a fitness center, children’s play area, basketball court and two dog parks will also be on-site.   The site was a vacant parking lot used by Staples Center patrons in the South Park neighborhood of Downtown Los Angeles. The site is immediately west of the Los Angeles Metro Station Pico/Chick Hearn. Construction began in 2015.   Three towers are currently under construction.    This development is part of a group of projects currently under construction on Figueroa allowed to add giant video advert screens facing Staples Center. Along with Circa Towers and the Luxe Development. Oceanwide renderings also feature large ribbon style video LED screens.     