This is a list of anthologies of Indian English Poetry. Indian English Poetry is one of the oldest forms of Indian English Literature. Indian poets writing in English have succeeded to indianize English in order to reveal nuances of Indian culture or cultures. Henry Louis Vivian Derozio , Sri Aurobindo, Sarojini Naidu, Michael Madhusudan Dutt and Toru Dutt among others laid the foundation of Indian English Poetry but since then there has been tremendous development in Indian English Poetry both in stylistic and thematic concerns. Nissim Ezekiel with the publication of his first book, A Time to Change, in 1952 heralded in a new era of Modern Indian English Poetry. Since then notable poets like A. K. Ramanujan, R. Parthasarathy, Jayanta Mahapatra, Dom Moraes, Kamala Das, Keki N. Daruwalla, Arvind Krishna Mehrotra, Arun Kolatkar, Dilip Chitre, Eunice De Souza, Gieve Patel, P. Lal and many others have taken Modern Indian English Poetry to new heights exploring culture and the human condition. The younger generation of poets writing in English are Adil Jussawalla, A. J. Thomas, Anand Thakore, Abhay K, Anju Makhija, Anjum Hasan,  Hoshang Merchant,Anupama Raju, Madan Gopal Gandhi, Arundhathi Subramaniam, Bibhu Padhi, C. P. Surendran, Desmond L.Kharmawplang, Dileep Jhaveri, E.V. Ramakrishnan, Anuradha Bhattacharyya, Gopi Kottoor, Jayanta Mahapatra, Jeet Thayil, Jerry Pinto, K Srilata, K. V. Dominic, D. C. Chambial, T. Vasudeva Reddy, Bibhu Padhi, Kumar Vikram, Kynpham Sing Nongkynrih, Makarand Paranjape,  Akhil Katyal, Linda Ashok, Mani Rao, Meena Kandasamy, Menka Shivdasani, Fengkha Deep Daimari, Lalthanmawia, Manohar Shetty, Mustansir Dalvi, Nandini Sahu, Priya Sarukkai Chabria, Rachana Joshi, Ranjit Hoskote, Rita Malhotra, Nar Deo Sharma Robin Ngangom, Nitoo Das , Rukmini Bhaya Nair, Sridala Swami, Sumana Roy, Sudeep Sen, Sukrita Paul Kumar, Nalini Priyadarshni, Gopi Kottoor, Vijay Nambisan, Vihang A. Naik, Tapan Kumar Pradhan, Yuyutsu Sharma and Joshy K J among others. Modern expatriate Indian poets writing in English include Meena Alexander, Ravi Shankar, Sidhartha Bose, Shanta Acharya, Sujata Bhatt, Tabish Khair, Vikram Seth, Vijay Seshadri and Yuyutsu Sharma among others. In book publishing, an anthology is a collection of literary works chosen by the compiler. It may be a collection of poems, short stories, plays, songs, or excerpts, usually collected into a single volume for publication. Although Indian English Poetry dates back to the 19th century it was only in the 1950s that a comprehensive anthology of Indian English Poetry was published. Early efforts in the publication of Indian English Poetry anthologies were made in the 1920s, 1930s and 1940s but they were extremely sparse and made very little impact.  However, since the 1950s there has been a steady amount of anthologies published every decade. During the 1960s the publication of Indian English Poetry Anthologies took place outside of India mostly in America and in the United Kingdom. See list of Indian English Poetry Anthologies Published Abroad below. 