SF Masterworks is a series of science fiction books started by Millennium and currently published by Victor Gollancz Ltd (both being imprints of the UK based Orion Publishing Group). It began in 1999 and comprises selected pieces of science-fiction literature from 1950 onwards (with a few exceptions). The list was compiled by the managing director of Orion Books, Malcolm Edwards, with the help of "leading SF writers and editors" and the goal of bringing important books back into print.  The list was described by science fiction author Iain M. Banks as "amazing" and "genuinely the best novels from sixty years of SF".  It has a companion series in the Fantasy Masterworks line. A separate Future Classics  line has also started featuring eight science fiction novels from the last few decades. Gollancz officially relaunched the series in March 2010 beginning with reissues of the first ten titles. These titles have new cover designs (no longer featuring numbers) and introductions, and other existing titles are planned to be reprinted. Gollancz also added new titles to the series beginning in April 2010.  * Also published in the 2001 SF Masterworks numbered hardcover series. ** Possibly due to a printing error, The Man in the High Castle (number 73) has 72 printed on its cover. The following were announced for publication in 2006, but were not published. The following were all printed in 2001, and featured a dust jacket numbered by Roman numerals. * Also published in the 1999-2009 SF Masterworks numbered paperback series. ** Also published in the current (since 2010) SF Masterworks new design series. The new designs sport yellow/white spines, with the SF Masterworks logo written vertically down the left hand side of the cover.  For titles that were previously issued in the original series, generally the cover artwork is tinted in a different colour from the original version; for example, The Dispossessed cover artwork is primarily red in the original release, but was partly tinted green when republished in the new series.      * Also published in the SF Masterworks numbered paperback series. ** Published as hardcover, possibly due to licensing issue.  Some have been subsequently published in paperback. The following are currently listed for future publication on the Orion Books website . The following have at some point been listed for future publication, but appear to have been cancelled. To celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Gollancz imprint, in 2011 the "top ten" titles were chosen based on a readers' vote  (from a Gollancz selected longlist). They were published in the iconic yellow covers, and included new introductions from recent authors. 