Paleoart (also spelled palaeoart, paleo-art, or paleo art) is any original artistic work that attempts to reconstruct or depict prehistoric life according to the current knowledge and scientific evidence at the time of the artwork's creation.  The term "paleoart", which is a portmanteau of "art" and the ancient Greek word for "old", was introduced in the late 1980s by Mark Hallett for art that depicts subjects related to paleontology,  but is considered to have originated as a visual tradition around 1830 in England.  Works of paleoart may be representations of fossil remains or depictions of the living creatures and their ecosystems. While paleoart is typically defined as being scientifically informed, it is also recognized as important in influencing depictions of prehistoric animals in popular culture media, which in turn influences public perception of, and fuels interest in, these animals.  A chief driver in the inception of paleoart as a distinct form of scientific illustration was the desire of both the public and of paleontologists to visualize the prehistory that fossils represented.  Mark Hallett, who coined the term "paleoart" in 1987, stressed the importance of the cooperative effort between artists, paleontologists and other specialists in gaining access to information for generating accurate, realistic restorations of extinct animals and their environments.   When attempting to reconstruct an extinct animal, the artist must utilize an almost equal mixture of artistry and scientific knowledge. The artist James Gurney, known for the Dinotopia series of fiction books, has described this interaction between scientists and artists as the artist being the eyes of the scientist, since his illustrations bring shape to the theories; paleoart determines how the public perceives long extinct animals.  Since paleontological knowledge and public perception of the field have changed dramatically since the earliest attempts at reconstructing prehistory, paleoart as a discipline has consequently changed over time as well. This has led to difficulties in creating a shared definition of the term. Given that the drive towards scientific accuracy has always been a salient feature of the discipline, some authors point out the importance of separating true paleoart from "paleoimagery", which includes a variety of cultural and media depictions of prehistoric life in various manifestations.  One attempt to separate these terms has defined paleoartists as artists who "create original skeletal reconstructions and/or restorations of prehistoric animals, or restore fossil flora or invertebrates using acceptable and recognized procedures."  Others have pointed out that a definition of paleoart must include a degree of subjectivity, where an artist's style, preferences and opinions come into play along with the goal of accuracy.  The Society of Vertebrate Paleontology has offered the definition of paleoart as "the scientific or naturalistic rendering of paleontological subject matter pertaining to vertebrate fossils",  a definition considered unacceptable by some for its exclusion of non-vertebrate subject matter.   In an attempt to establish a common definition of the term, Ansón & colleagues (2015) conducted an empirical survey of the international paleontological community with a questionnaire on various aspects of paleoart. 78% of the surveyed participants stated agreement with the importance of scientific accuracy in paleoart, although 87% of respondents recognized an increase in accuracy of paleoart over time.  Art of extinct animals has existed since before the creation of the study of paleontology. Although Henry De la Beche's 1830 painting Duria Antiquior is often credited as the first paleontological artwork,  there are numerous examples of art based on extinct creatures beforehand. These include sketches, paintings and detailed anatomical restorations, dating back to at least 1800. There are also possible examples of "proto-paleoart" from long before the 19th century, sometimes considered to include artwork from Before Current Era. However, as Mark Witton discussed, artwork of griffins and cyclopes do not appear to take inspiration from any extinct animals, instead most likely being purely speculative creations. The 560-540 BCE artwork of the Monster of Troy has been considered as the earliest "proto-paleoart" as well, the only known depiction resembling the skull of the giraffid Samotherium. Witton considered that because the painting has significant differences from the skull it is supposedly representing (lack of horns, sharp teeth) there is no reason to assume it represents "proto-paleoart". The earliest definitive work of "proto-paleoart" is a statue of a Lindwurm in Klagenfurt, Austria. Writings from the time of its creation specifically identify the skull of Coelodonta antiquitatis, the woolly rhinoceros, as the basis for the head in the restoration.  Extinct marine animals were some of the first to be realistically restored as in life.  Fifteenth century Flemish painter Petrus Christus was among the first artists known to paint a readily-identifiable image of a fossil.  The role of art in disseminating paleontological knowledge took on a new salience with the introduction of the term "dinosaur" by Sir Richard Owen in 1842. With only fragmentary fossil remains known at the time, the question of life appearance of dinosaurs captured the interest of scientist and public alike.  With Owen's help, Benjamin Waterhouse Hawkins created the first life-size sculptures depicting dinosaurs as he thought they may have appeared; he is considered by some to be the first significant artist to apply his skills to the field of dinosaur paleontology.  Some of these models were initially created for the Great Exhibition of 1851, but 33 were eventually produced when the Crystal Palace was relocated to Sydenham, in South London. Owen famously hosted a dinner for 21 prominent men of science inside the hollow concrete Iguanodon on New Year's Eve 1853. However, in 1849, a few years before his death in 1852, Gideon Mantell had realised that Iguanodon, of which he was the discoverer, was not a heavy, pachyderm-like animal,  as Owen was putting forward, but had slender forelimbs; his death left him unable to participate in the creation of the Crystal Palace dinosaur sculptures, and so Owen's vision of dinosaurs became that seen by the public. He had nearly two dozen life-sized sculptures of various prehistoric animals built out of concrete sculpted over a steel and brick framework; two Iguanodon, one standing and one resting on its belly, were included. The dinosaurs remain in place in the park, but their depictions are now outdated in many respects. As the western frontier was further opened up in the latter half of the nineteenth century, the rapidly increasing pace of dinosaur discoveries in the bone-rich badlands of the American Midwest and the Canadian wilderness brought with it a renewed interest in artistic reconstructions of paleontological findings. This 'classic' period saw the emergence of Charles R. Knight, Rudolph Zallinger, and Zdeněk Burian as the three most prominent exponents of paleoart. During this time, dinosaurs were popularly reconstructed as tail-dragging, cold-blooded, sluggish "Great Reptiles" that became a byword for evolutionary failure in the minds of the public.  Charles Knight is generally considered one of the key figures in paleoart during this time. His birth three years after Charles Darwin's publication of the influential Descent of Man, along with the "Bone Wars" between rival American paleontologists Edward Drinker Cope and Othniel Marsh raging during his childhood, had poised Knight for rich early experiences in developing an interest in reconstructing prehistoric animals. As an avid wildlife artist who disdained drawing from mounts or photographs, instead preferring to draw from life, Knight grew up drawing living animals, but turned toward prehistoric animals against the backdrop of rapidly-expanding paleontological discoveries and the public energy that accompanied the sensationalist coverage of these discoveries around the turn of the 20th century.  Knight's foray into paleoart can be traced to a commission ordered by Dr. Jacob Wortman of a painting of a prehistoric pig, Elotherium, to accompany its fossil display at the American Museum of Natural History. Knight, who had always preferred to draw animals from life, applied his knowledge of modern pig anatomy to the painting, which so thrilled Wortman that the museum then commissioned Knight to paint a series of watercolors of various fossils on display.  Throughout the 1920s, '30s and '40s, Knight went on produce drawings, paintings and murals of dinosaurs, early man, and extinct mammals for the American Museum of Natural History, where he was mentored by Henry Fairfield Osborn, and Chicago's Field Museum, as well as for National Geographic and many other major magazines of the time, culminating in his last major mural for the Everhart Museum of Scranton, Pennsylvania, in 1951.  Harvard biologist Stephen Jay Gould later remarked on the depth and breadth of influence that Knight's paleoart had on shaping public perception of extinct animals, even without having published original research in the field. Gould, who was a prominent fan and popularizer of Knight's works, used one of Knight's paintings for the cover of his 1991 book Bully for Brontosaurus and another in his 1996 book Dinosaur in a Haystack. Gould described Knight's contribution to scientific understanding in his 1989 book Wonderful Life: "Not since the Lord himself showed his stuff to Ezekiel in the valley of dry bones had anyone shown such grace and skill in the reconstruction of animals from disarticulated skeletons. Charles R. Knight, the most celebrated of artists in the reanimation of fossils, painted all the canonical figures of dinosaurs that fire our fear and imagination to this day".  One of Knight's most famous pieces was his Leaping Laelaps, which he produced for the American Museum of Natural History in 1897. This painting was one of the few works of paleoart produced before 1960 to depict dinosaurs as active, fast-moving creatures, heralding the next era of paleontological artworks informed by the Dinosaur Renaissance.  Rudolph Zallinger and Zdeněk Burian both went on to influence the state of dinosaur art while Knight's career began to wind down. Zallinger, who began working for the Yale Peabody Museum illustrating marine algae around the time that the United States entered World War II, began his most iconic piece of paleoart, a five-year mural project for the Yale Peabody Museum, in 1942. This mural, titled The Age of Reptiles, was completed in 1947 and became representative of the modernist consensus of dinosaur biology at that time.  He later completed a second great mural for the Peabody, The Age of Mammals, which grew out of a painting published in Life magazine in 1953.  Zdeněk Burian followed the school of Knight and Zallinger, entering modern, biologically-informed paleoart scene via his extensive series of prehistoric life illustrations.  Burian entered the world of prehistoric illustration in the early 1930s with illustrations for fictional books set in various prehistoric times by amateur archaeologist Eduard Štorch. These illustrations brought him to the attention of paleontologist Josef Augusta, with whom Burian worked in cooperation from 1935 until Augusta's death in 1968.  This collaboration led ultimately to the launching of Burian's career in paleoart.  Some authors have remarked on a darker, more sinister feel to his paleoart than that of his contemporaries, speculating that this style was informed by Burian's experience producing artwork in his native Czechoslovakia during World War II and, afterwards, under Soviet control. His depictions of suffering, death, and the harsh realities of survival that emerged as themes in his paleoart were unique at the time. Original Burian paintings are on exhibit at the Dvůr Králové Zoo, the National Museum (Prague) and at the Anthropos Museum in Brno.  In 2017, the first valid Czech dinosaur was named Burianosaurus augustai in honor of both Burian and Josef Augusta.  While Charles Knight, Rudolph Zallinger and Zdeněk Burian dominated the landscape of "classic" scientific paleoart in the first half of the 20th century, they were far from the only paleoartists working at this time. German landscape painter Heinrich Harder was illustrating natural history articles, including a series accompanying articles by science writer Wilhelm Bölsche on earth history for Die Gartenlaube, a weekly magazine, in 1906 and 1908. He also worked with Bölsche to illustrate 60 dinosaur and other prehistoric animal collecting cards for the Reichardt Cocoa Company, titled "Tiere der Urwelt" ("Animals of the Prehistoric World").  One of Harder's contemporaries, Danish paleontologist Gerhard Heilmann, produced a large number of sketches and ink drawings related to Archaeopteryx and avian evolution, culminating in his lavishly illustrated and controversial treatise The Origin of Birds, published in 1926.  While these artists' style and their artistic mastery of beauty and composition are still lauded today, this classic depiction of dinosaurs and other prehistoric animals remained the status quo until the 1960s, when a minor scientific revolution began changing these perceptions following the 1964 discovery of Deinonychus by paleontologist John Ostrom. Ostrom's description of this nearly-complete birdlike dinosaur, published in 1969, challenged the presupposition of dinosaurs as cold-blooded, slow-moving reptiles, and the artistic reconstructions of Deinonychus by his student, Robert Bakker, remain iconic of what came to be known as the Dinosaur Renaissance.  Bakker's influence during this period on then-fledgling paleoartists, such as Gregory S. Paul, as well as on public consciousness brought about a paradigm shift in how dinosaurs were perceived by artist, scientist and layman alike. This influence affected the presentation of museum displays and eventually found its way into popular culture, with the culmination of this period perhaps best marked by the 1990 novel and 1993 film Jurassic Park.  Gregory Paul's high-fidelity archosaur skeletal reconstructions provided a basis for ushering in the modern age of paleoart, which is perhaps best characterized by rigorous, anatomically-conscious work balanced with speculative flair. Novel advances in paleontology, such as new feathered dinosaur discoveries and the various color studies of dinosaur integument that began around 2010, have become representative of paleoart after the turn of the millennium.  Alongside and subsequent to Paul, other paleoartists typified this anatomically-rigorous new paleoart outside of archosaurs, including reconstructions of fossil hominids by Jay Matternes and Alfons and Adrie Kennis, as well as of fossil mammals by artists such as Mauricio Antón. Other modern paleoartists of the 'anatomically rigorous' movement include Jason Brougham, Mark Hallett, Scott Hartman, Bob Nicholls, Emily Willoughby and Mark P. Witton.   A 2013 study found that older paleoart was still influential in popular culture long after new discoveries made them obsolete. This was explained as cultural inertia.  In a 2014 paper, Mark Witton, Darren Naish, and John Conway outlined the historical significance of paleoart, and lamented its current state.  While the relationship between art and science is built into the various definitions of paleoart, many authors have recognized its distinct cultural importance as well. This includes the endeavor to educate the public about prehistoric life, as well as the economic reality that paleoart's influence on cultural depictions of prehistory in popular media can generate products and merchandise that are globally worth millions of dollars.  Paleoart is considered to be invaluable to generating public interest in not only paleontology but in science writ large. Because artistic renditions of prehistoric life directly influence how the public perceives these organisms, the endeavor to create accurate paleoart can be viewed as a unique responsibility of the artist.  Since 1999, the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology has awarded the John J. Lanzendorf PaleoArt Prize for achievement in the field. The society says that paleoart "is one of the most important vehicles for communicating discoveries and data among paleontologists, and is critical to promulgating vertebrate paleontology across disciplines and to lay audiences".  The SVP is also the site of the occasional/annual "PaleoArt Poster Exhibit", a juried poster show at the opening reception of the annual SVP meetings. The Museu da Lourinhã organizes the annual International Dinosaur Illustration Contest  for promoting the art of dinosaur and other fossils. 2D artists 3D artists 2D artists 3D artists Skeletal restoration of Brontosaurus excelsus, by Othniel Charles Marsh, 1896 Eurypterids by Ernst Haeckel, 1914 Relief of Niolamia by Heinrich Harder, ca 1916 Miocene fauna by Jay Matternes, 1960s Staurikosaurus and rhynchosaur are animals of Geopark Paleorrota produced by paleoartist Clovis Dapper. Velociraptor and Protoceratops locked in mortal combat, by Raúl Martín 2003 Megalodon pursuing two Eobalaenoptera whales by Karen Carr Tyrannosaurus and chicken by Luis Rey Ice Age fauna by Mauricio Anton, 2008 Restoration of Anatosuchus by Todd Marshall, 2009 Quetzalcoatlus models in South Bank, created by Mark P. Witton for the Royal Society's 350th anniversary, 2010 