Accessible tourism is the ongoing endeavour to ensure tourist destinations, products and services are accessible to all people, regardless of their physical limitations, disabilities or age. It encompasses publicly and privately owned tourist locations. The term has been defined by Darcy and Dickson (2009, p34) as: Accessible tourism enables people with access requirements, including mobility, vision, hearing and cognitive dimensions of access, to function independently and with equity and dignity through the delivery of universally designed tourism products, services and environments. This definition is inclusive of all people including those travelling with children in prams, people with disabilities and seniors.  Modern society is increasingly aware of the concept of integration of people with disabilities. Issues such as accessibility, design for all and universal design  are featured in the international symposia of bodies such as the European Commission.  Steps have been taken to promote guidelines and best practices, and major resources are now dedicated to this field. A greater understanding of the accessible tourism market has been promoted through research commissioned by the European Commission where a stakeholder analysis has provided an insight into the complexities of accessible tourism.  Similarly, the Australian Sustainable Tourism Cooperative Research Centre funded an Accessible Tourism Research Agenda  that sought to outline a research base on which to develop the supply, demand and coordination/regulation information required to develop the market segment. The research agenda has now seen three other funded projects contribute towards a research base on which the tourism industry and government marketing authorities can make more informed decisions.    As of 2008, there were more than 50 million persons with disabilities in Europe, and more than 600 million around the world. When expanded to include all beneficiaries of accessible tourism, as defined above, the number grows to some 130 million people affected in Europe alone.  According to the World Report on Disability by World Health Organization and the World Bank in 2011, over 1 billion of people in the world had some disability, of whom nearly 200 million experienced severe difficulty in functioning.    In addition to the social benefits, the market represents an opportunity for new investment and new service requirements, rarely provided by key players in the tourism sector. According to ENAT, the European Network for Accessible Tourism, accessible tourism includes:  Specific problems found by travellers or tourists with disabilities include: A campground picnic table made accessible to wheelchairs and walkers with its extended top. An accessible "boardwalk" ramp with landings for stopping to enjoy a panorama view. Harris Beach State Park, Brookings, Oregon. Kapiti Island coast accessible beach, wheelchair ramp, Paekakariki, Wellington, New Zealand. An accessible yurt shelter in Pinery Provincial Park, Ontario, Canada. An accessible shower stall at a State park in Virginia. Morgan's Wonderland is an accessible family amusement park in San Antonio, Texas, designed similar to a sensory garden with interactive games. A wheelchair with adaptive tires for travelling across snow at a ski hill. Such chairs can be loaned or rented to users. Europe and the United States of America are home to the majority of the existing companies in this niche. However, companies worldwide are starting to appear as the result of a growing need, largely driven by senior tourism, due to increasing life expectancy in developed countries. The United States requires ADA compliant ramp access to virtually all businesses and public places.  Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom, Germany, France and other northern European countries are increasingly prepared to receive tourists in wheelchairs, and to provide disability equipment and wheelchair accessible transport. With the growth of the internet, online travel planning is also becoming more common, leading to the rise of online accessibility maps. Starting in 2016, Lonely Planet started offering online resources by country. 