Geotourism deals with the natural and built environments.  Geotourism was first defined (Hose, 1995) in England.  There are two viewpoints of geotourism:  Key definitions in the geological sense ((abiotic nature based tourism))include: Geotourism adds to ecotourism's principal focus on plants (flora) and animals (fauna) by adding a third dimension of the abiotic environment. Thus it is growing around the world through the growth of geoparks as well as independently in many natural and urban areas where tourism's focus in on the geological environment. Most of the world defines geotourism as purely the study of geological and geomorphological features. "Looking at the environment in a simplistic manner, we see that it is made up of Abiotic, Biotic and Cultural(ABC) attributes. Starting with the 'C' or cultural component first, we note that of three features it is this one which is generally the most known and interpreted, that is, through information about the built or cultural environment either in the past (historical accounts) or present (community customs and culture). The 'B' or biotic features of fauna (animals) and flora (plants) has seen a large focus of interpretation and understanding through ecotourism. But it is the first attribute of the 'A' or abiotic features including rocks, landforms and processes that has received the least attention in tourism, and consequently is the least known and understood.This then is the real power of geotourism, in that it puts the tourist spotlight firmly on geology, and brings it to the forefront of our understanding through tourism".  What is a GEOSITE? A geosite is a location that has a particular geological or geomorphological significance. As well as its inherent geological characteristics it may also have cultural or heritage significance. The geographical-character definition of G.S.T (geographical sustainable tourism) was heavily influenced by the National Geographic Society, which defines G.S.T as tourism that sustains or enhances the geographical character of a place – its environment, culture, aesthetics, heritage, and the well-being of its residents. The concept of Geographical sustainable tourism with coining of the word geotourism, was introduced publicly in the USA in a 2002 report by the Travel Industry Association of America (as of 2009 this organization adapted name to U.S. Travel Association) and National Geographic Traveler magazine.  National Geographic senior editor Jonathan B. Tourtellot and his wife, Sally Bensusen, coined the term in 1997 in response to requests for a term and concept more encompassing than ecotourism and sustainable tourism. So National Geographic 's Geographical sustainable tourism (G.S.T program) is "best practice" tourism that sustains, or even enhances, the geographical character of a place, such as its culture, environment, heritage, and the well-being of its residents. National Geographic 's Geotourism program incorporates sustainability principles, but in addition to the do-no-harm ethic focuses on the place as a whole. The idea of enhancement allows for development based on character of place, rather than standardized international branding, and generic architecture, food, and so on. National Geographic Society has also drawn up a "G.S.T Charter" based on 13 principles:  Success models: Northeast Kingdom in Vermont, Crown of the Continent in Canada and Montana and Appalachian Range were the first three US destinations to actively enrol the program with measured success. In Process: Lake Tahoe's 1960s tourism brand presents a daunting challenge to becoming a G.S.T destination. Sustainable Tahoe is the one organization to provide a tangible demonstration of how geographical sustainable tourism can create long term economic regional prosperity, that includes 100 feet of lake water clarity:  Sierra Nevada College in Incline Village NV (North Lake Tahoe) was the first west coast college to offer a geographical sustainable tourism class as part of their Interdisciplinary Studies. Missouri State University's Bachelor of Science in Geography features a concentration in Geographical tourism—the first degree of its kind in the Western Hemisphere, and is one of only three such degrees offered worldwide. Missouri State’s (Geographically Sustainable Tourism) degree (G.S.T Bachelor's degree) is the first to be associated with a department of geography. 