Tokyo Kodomo Club (東京こどもクラブ, Tōkyō Kodomo Kurabu), meaning Tokyo Children Club, is an early childhood education program published in Japan in an audio-visual format, distributed monthly on a record. The 7-inch record contained stories and songs, accompanied by a picture book that could be bound in a special folder. The early-childhood education program came in two courses: a 2-4 year old course and a 5-7 year old course. Each of the courses was designed to complete in 12 months. In addition on a quarterly basis, the Club sent out supplemental stories, songs and other music on a 12-inch record. The recitations on Side A were by "Uncle Maeda" (前田武彦, Takehiko Maeda), and on Side B, "Bin-chan" (楠トシエ, Toshie Kusunoki). The records were monaural recordings at 33-1/3 rpm. Presently, the recordings have gone out of print, making their procurement quite difficult. The programs were designed to familiarize children with stories and songs from around the world, with emphasis on European orchestral works. Main story narration often featured Classical music as a background music in order to help set the tone of the story. The bullets found in the index to each lesson were color-coded: red for the main story, blue for the songs and yellow for the occasional extra story. In the original course series, the main stories and songs were bulleted with a star and the extra stories with a circle. However, in later course series, they switched their bullets to red circles, blue squares and yellow triangles, keeping the same color code as before.   Song: Don't-Know-Child (しらないこ, Shiranai-ko) Song: Boots (ながぐつ, Naga-gutsu) Song: Big Ol' Clock (おおきなふるどけい, Ōki na Furu-tokei) Song: Let's Hold Hands (手をつなごう, Te o Tsunagō) Song: Jungle-Gym Song (ジャングルジムのうた, Jangurujimu no Uta) Story: Ryūsuke (りゅうすけくん, Ryūsuke-kun) Song: Race with Mom (ママとかけっこ, Mama to Kakekko) Song: Love to Run (はしるのだいすき, Hashiru no Dai-suki) Song: Shepherd's Daughter (ひつじかいのむすめ, Hitsuji-kai no Musume) Song: Amaryllis (アマリリス, Amaririsu) Song: On the bridge of Avignon (アビニョンばしで, Abinyon-bashi de) Song: Slide (すべりだい, Suberi-dai) Story: Belly of the Earth (ちきゅうのおなか, Chikyū no O-naka) Song: The Boy Writes (ぼうやがかいた, Bōya ga Kaita) Song: If Mama Was a Baby (ママがあかちゃん, Mama ga Aka-chan) Song: Little "I dunno" (わからんちゃん, Wakaran-chan) Song: Teeter-Totter (ぎっこんばったん, Gikkon-battan) Song: Don't Be Angry (おこりっこなしよ, Okorikko Nashi yo) Story: Let's Eat It All (なんでもたべよう, Nandemo Tabeyō) Song: Aunt Michelle (ミシェルおばさん, Misheru O-ba-san) Song: I've Been Working on the Railroad Song: Doctor Eisenbart Song: Cowboy's Yodel (うしかいのヨーデル, Ushikai no Yōderu) Song: Rocket (ロケット, Roketto) Song: The Old Gray Mare Story: Electric Path (でんきのみち, Denki no Michi) Song: Friendship Song (ともだちのうた, Tomodachi no Uta) Song: Tottotoko (トットトコ, Tottotoko) Song: Scissor Grinder (はさみとぎ, Hasami-togi) Song: My Bella Bimba (わたしのベラビンバ, Watashi no Bera-binba) Song: Drops Song (ドロップスのうた, Doroppusu no Uta) Song: Wonderful Papa, Charming Mama (すてきなパパ おしゃれなママ, Suteki na Papa, Oshare na Mama) Story: Sky Journey (そらのたび, Sora no Tabi) Song: Balloon that Climbed Up to the Sky (そらへのぼったふうせん, Sora e Nobotta Fūsen) Song: Found a Do-gooder (いいやつみつけた, Ii-yatsu Mitsuketa) Song: At the Tangerine Orchard (みかんばたけで, Mikan-batake de) Song: March of the Sea (うみのマーチ, Umi no Māchi) Song: Spring Breeze (はるのかぜ, Haru no Kaze) Song: Blue Sky Song (あおいそらのうた, Aoi Sora no Uta) Story: Toy Rockette (おもちゃのロケット, Omocha no Roketto) The Purple Flowers: Mother who Fell Ill (むらさきのはな：びょうきになったおかあさん, Murasaki no Hana: Byōki ni natta O-kā-san) Let's sing with Dad (おとさんとうたいましょう, O-tō-san to Utaimashō) Uncle's Pastures (おじさんのまきばで, O-ji-san no Makiba) The Kodomo Concert Hall series were recordings of the Tokyo Symphony Orchestra. Uncle Kōji's Story Bag (コージおじさんのおはなしぶくろ, Kōji ojisan no Ohanashibukuro) The Tokyo Kodomo Club issued two courses of children’s songs in English for the Japanese audience in the Sing in English Group (英語で歌う会, Ei-go de Utau Kai) series. These songs were sung by Esther Ghan and her children. The Let’s Sing English Songs (英語で歌いましょう, Ei-go de Utaimashō) course was designed similarly to their Japanese courses, where the lesson units were distributed monthly on a record. Each of the courses was designed to complete in 12 months, with the course set spanning two years. For the older children, Folk-album for All (みんなのフォーク・アルバム, Minna no Fōku-arubamu) in a set of six lesson units and a Christmas supplement were provided. It also spanned over two years. Original Address: Current address: 