The Alvin J. Siteman Cancer Center at Barnes-Jewish Hospital and Washington University School of Medicine is a cancer treatment, research and education institution with six locations in the St. Louis area. Siteman is the only cancer center in Missouri and within 240 miles of St. Louis to be designated a Comprehensive Cancer Center by the National Cancer Institute (NCI).  Siteman is also the only area member of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network,  a nonprofit alliance of 27 cancer centers dedicated to improving the quality and effectiveness of cancer care.  In 2015, Siteman received the highest rating possible - exceptional - by the NCI for cancer research. At Siteman's review leading to the rating, researchers presented their findings in genomics, cancer imaging, cancer prevention and disparities, and the use of the body's immune system to fight cancer.  In 2018, Siteman was named a top 15 U.S. cancer center by U.S. News & World Report.  The recognition is part of the overall ranking of its parent institutions, Barnes-Jewish Hospital, which is tied for No. 11 on the newsmagazine's “The Best Hospitals 2018-19 Honor Roll,”  and Washington University School of Medicine, which is No. 8 on the newsmagazine's "2019 Best Medical Schools: Research" list.  In 2014, Siteman treated nearly 9,000 newly diagnosed cancer patients  and every year provides continuing care to about 40,000 people, making it one of the largest cancer centers in the United States.  Siteman’s main facility is at Washington University Medical Center in St. Louis’ Central West End neighborhood. Five other St. Louis-area sites offer specialized cancer care in suburban locations: In 1999, Alvin J. and Ruth Siteman committed $35 million to the development of the Siteman Cancer Center at Washington University School of Medicine and Barnes-Jewish Hospital. The commitment was the largest gift ever received by Barnes-Jewish and Washington University in support of cancer research, patient care and services, education and community outreach.  Timothy Eberlein, M.D., has been director of the center since its inception.  John DiPersio, M.D., Ph.D., is deputy director.  In 2001, the NCI designated Siteman as a Cancer Center, which signaled that the institution had demonstrated significant scope and quality in its cancer research programs. The designation came with $850,000 per year in federal research grants.  The NCI named Siteman a Comprehensive Cancer Center in 2005, recognizing its broad-based research, outreach and education activities, and awarded the center a five-year, $21 million support grant.  The NCI renewed the designation in 2010 and awarded another five-year grant, totaling $23 million. The grants fund programs and specialized services that promote multidisciplinary research, as well as shared scientific resources and seed awards that enable investigators to develop and pursue new research opportunities.  Alvin J. Siteman announced in 2010 that he would donate $1 million annually to an endowment fund at the center to advance cancer prevention, diagnosis and treatment programs that might not receive federal funding.  More than 350 Washington University research scientists and physicians provide inpatient and outpatient care at Siteman.  The center also offers patient and family support services, including discussion and education groups.  Scientists and physicians affiliated with Siteman hold more than $145 million in cancer research and related training grants. The results of basic laboratory research are rapidly incorporated into treatment advances. This process is enhanced by patient access to more than 500 therapeutic clinical studies,  including many collaborative efforts with other leading cancer centers throughout the country.  In 2013, three scientists affiliated with Siteman, Washington University School of Medicine and the McDonnell Genome Institute were included on the Thomson Reuters list of “Hottest Scientific Researchers of 2012”: Richard K. Wilson, Ph.D.; Elaine Mardis, Ph.D.; and Li Ding, Ph.D. The list recognized the 21 most-cited researchers of 2012. Robert Fulton, a fourth scientist from Washington University School of Medicine and the McDonnell Genome Institute, also made the list.  Researchers affiliated with Siteman and/or Washington University School of Medicine have pioneered important advances in cancer research, prevention, education and treatment. Highlights and ongoing studies include these projects: 2018 — Personalized brain cancer vaccines 2017 — CAR-T cell therapy and using Zika virus to fight brain cancer 2016 — Chemotherapy for brain tumors 2015 — Melanoma vaccine and urine test for kidney cancer 2014 — Breast cancer vaccine and cancer goggles 2013 — Endometrial cancer and leukemia 2012 — Leukemia, breast cancer research and cancer prevention 2011 — Blood-related cancers 2010 — Pediatric cancers 2008 — Genetic sequencing 2007 — Nanotechnology and radiation therapy 2006 — Photoacoustic imaging 2003 — Breast cancer 2001 — Imaging and the immune system’s role in controlling cancer 1998 — Biopsies 1994 — Genetic screening test for thyroid cancer 1979 — Bone marrow transplants Mid-1970s — Imaging 1954 — Growth factors and cancer 1946 — Radiocarbon in cancer research 1941 — Cyclotron 1933 — Lung cancer surgery and the disease’s link to smoking Siteman and Washington University School of Medicine are actively engaged in many projects to prevent cancer in the St. Louis region and across the United States. These efforts include: In addition to treatment and research programs, Siteman is involved with community outreach, education and screening. Efforts include: In 2017, Siteman Cancer Center launched the Siteman Cancer Network, an affiliation with regional medical centers that is aimed at improving the health of individuals and communities through cancer research, treatment and prevention. Network members are Boone Hospital Center's Stewart Cancer Center in Columbia, Missouri  and Phelps County Regional Medical Center's Delbert Day Cancer Institute in Rolla, Missouri.  