The Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing (JHUSON) is part of the Johns Hopkins University located in Baltimore, Maryland, United States. Established in 1889, it is one of the nation’s oldest and schools for nursing education, ranking 2nd in the nation.  It is also among the top recipients of nursing research funding from the National Institutes of Health.  The school's mission is to provide leadership to improve health care and advance the nursing profession through education, research, practice, and service.  The founder Johns Hopkins' desire for a training school for female nurses was formally stated in a posthumous 1873 instruction letter to the board of trustees of the Johns Hopkins institutions. The School of Nursing in conjunction with the Johns Hopkins Hospital was eventually founded in 1889 after in depth consultation with Florence Nightingale on its planning, organization, structure and curriculum.  The Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing is located on the Johns Hopkins University East Baltimore campus along with the Bloomberg School of Public Health, School of Medicine, and the Johns Hopkins Hospital. The School of Nursing offers a variety of programs from pre-licensure programs to Master's, DNP and PhD programs, online options, post-degree opportunities, and nursing prerequisites.  The school has four research centers (Center for Innovative Care in Aging, Center for Nursing Research and Sponsored Projects, Center for Collaborative Intervention Research and the Center on Health Disparities Research)  and also offers Interdisciplinary Fellowship research on violence, pain, and health disparities in underserved populations, as well as research focused on cardiovascular health prevention and risk reduction, care at end of life, community-based health promotion, health disparities, interpersonal violence, maternal-child health, psychoneuroimmunology, and symptom management areas.  The school is also home to the country’s first and only Peace Corps Fellows Program in nursing.    The school offers a special program for Arts and Science College students to transfer after two years.  The Johns Hopkins School of Nursing ranks #1 nationally among graduate schools of nursing and #3 for online programs, according to U.S. News & World Report, and was named the Most Innovative Nursing Graduate Program in the U.S. by Best Master of Science in Nursing Degrees. The school ranks #1 among nursing schools for Federal Research Grants and National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding. Nearly 95 percent of graduates pass the NCLEX on their first try. Among the faculty, more than 40 percent are ranked as Fellows of the American Academy of Nursing. The school has clinics across Baltimore that reach out to abused women, struggling mothers and other underrepresented communities, giving over 12,000 volunteer hours annually and conducting 40 different community-based service programs. The School of Nursing is associated with nursing practice at Johns Hopkins Hospital, ranked #1 in the United States an unprecedented 22 times by U.S. News & World Report. 