480 M.D.  The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine (JHUSOM), located in Baltimore, Maryland, U.S.A. (founded in 1893) is the academic medical teaching and research arm of the Johns Hopkins University, founded in 1876. The School of Medicine shares a campus with the Johns Hopkins Hospital, established in 1889. Johns Hopkins has consistently ranked among the nation's top medical schools in the number of research grants awarded by the National Institutes of Health. Its main teaching hospital, the Johns Hopkins Hospital, was ranked the #1 hospital in the United States for 22 years by U.S. News & World Report.  The Johns Hopkins School of Medicine is located off Broadway in the East Baltimore campus of the Johns Hopkins University together with the Johns Hopkins Hospital, the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, and the School of Nursing. Known collectively as the "Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions" (JHMI) Campus,  it spans several city blocks, radiating outwards from the 1889 original landmark red brick Billings building of the Johns Hopkins Hospital with its historic dome (cupola). The founding physicians (the "Four Doctors") of the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine included pathologist William Henry Welch (1850-1934), the first dean of the school and a mentor to generations of research scientists; internist Sir William Osler (1849-1919), regarded as the “Father of Modern Medicine,” having been perhaps the most influential physician of the late 19th and early 20th centuries as author of The Principles and Practice of Medicine (1892), written at the Johns Hopkins Hospital and published for more than a century; surgeon William Stewart Halsted (1852-1922), who revolutionized surgery by insisting on subtle skill and technique, as well as strict adherence to sanitary procedures; and gynecologist Howard Atwood Kelly (1858-1943), a superb gynecological surgeon credited with establishing gynecology as a specialty and being among the first to use radium to treat cancer. The Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, which was finally begun 17 years after its original visionary benefactor Johns Hopkins (1795-1873), died and opened only with the large financial help offered by several wealthy daughters of the city's business elite on condition that the medical school be open equally to students of both sexes, consequently one of the first co-educational medical colleges. The School of Medicine is affiliated with the Johns Hopkins Hospital, its main teaching hospital, as well as several other regional medical centers, including the Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center on Eastern Avenue in East Baltimore; the Howard County General Hospital, near Ellicott City, southwest of Baltimore; Suburban Hospital in Bethesda in suburban Montgomery County, (northwest of Washington, D.C.);  Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington, D.C.; and Johns Hopkins All Children's Hospital in St. Petersburg, Florida.  Together, they form an academic health science center. The Johns Hopkins School of Medicine is the home of many medical advancements and contributions, including the first of many to admit women and to introduce rubber gloves, which provided a sterile approach to conducting surgical procedures.  Johns Hopkins has also published The Harriet Lane Handbook, an indispensable tool for pediatricians, for over 60 years. For years, Johns Hopkins has been among the nation's top medical schools in the number of competitive research grants awarded by the National Institutes of Health. According to U.S. News and World Report, Johns Hopkins ranks #2 among research-oriented medical schools, and has always ranked in the top 3.  Its major teaching hospital, the Johns Hopkins Hospital, was ranked the top hospital in the United States every year from 1991 to 2011 by U.S. News & World Report.  International Business Times named an MD from Johns Hopkins one of the five most prestigious degrees in the world.  Some achievements attributed to the school include the development of CPR, the discovery of the first effective treatments for severe forms of sickle cell disease, the development of the first biological pacemaker for the heart, and the planning and performance of one of the most challenging double arm transplants to date. According to the Flexner Report, Hopkins has served as the model for American medical education.  It was the first medical school to require its students to have an undergraduate degree and was also the first graduate-level medical school to admit women on an equal basis as men. Mary Elizabeth Garrett, head of the Women's Medical School Fund, was a driving force behind both of these firsts. Sir William Osler became the first Professor of Medicine at Johns Hopkins and the first Physician-in-Chief at the Johns Hopkins Hospital. Osler was responsible for establishing the residency system of postgraduate medical training, where young physicians were required to reside within the hospital to better care for their patients. Upon matriculation, medical students at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine are divided into four Colleges named after famous Hopkins faculty members who have had an impact in the history of medicine (Florence Sabin, Vivien Thomas, Daniel Nathans and Helen Taussig). The Colleges were established to "foster camaraderie, networking, advising, mentoring, professionalism, clinical skills, and scholarship."  Students are assigned to faculty advisors within their colleges. Each advisor has a group of five students - termed a molecule -  from each of the four years. They instruct these same five students in Clinical Foundations of Medicine, a core first-year course, and continue advising them throughout their 4 years of medical school. Every year, the Colleges compete in the “College Olympics” in the late fall. The Johns Hopkins School of Medicine is led by Ronald J. Daniels, the president of the Johns Hopkins University, Paul B. Rothman, CEO and dean of the medical faculty, and Ronald R. Peterson, president of the Johns Hopkins Hospital and health system. The CFO of Johns Hopkins Medicine is Richard A. Grossi, who is also the Senior Associate Dean for Finance and Administration and executive vice president of Johns Hopkins Medicine. Vice deans preside over specific administrative task areas. The vice deans are: William A Baumgartner, Vice Dean for Clinical Affairs; Janice E. Clements, Vice Dean for Faculty Affairs; Landon King, Vice Dean for Research; Daniel E. Ford, Vice Dean for Clinical Investigation; David G. Nichols, Vice Dean for Education; and David Hellmann, Vice Dean for the Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center. The dean's office also includes over twenty administrators in the position of associate or assistant dean.  Sixteen Nobel laureates associated with the School of Medicine as alumni and faculty have won the Nobel Prize in Medicine or  Chemistry.  Coordinates: 39°17′56″N 76°35′39″W﻿ / ﻿39.29889°N 76.59417°W﻿ / 39.29889; -76.59417 