  UCLA Health is an academic medical center which comprises a number of hospitals and an extensive primary care network in the Los Angeles region. Together, the network aims to achieve coverage for two million lives: "every 4 miles 4 PCPs plus a 50,000 sq. ft. hub within 15 miles".  As a regional health provider, it benefits from the academic affiliation offered by the UCLA campus, as this increases its status in the medical marketplace.  For instance, the symbiotic relationship with the campus allowed the creation of nominal assistant professor-level appointments for primary care physicians, but this practice has now[when?] been limited because of opposition from the academic community.  In 2007, UCLA Health founded Operation Mend, a program for treating military veterans who were wounded in wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. In 2016 Operation Mend received a grant from Wounded Warrior Project to expand its offering to include PTSD treatment and became part of the Warrior Care Network.  A 2013 report by the California State Auditor  has suggested that the financial transactions from the health system to the medical school, which have grown threefold over the reporting period, deserve more transparency. A study by the Rand Corporation about leadership structures at UCLA Health again addresses the ambiguous position of UCLA Health as both an academic and a commercial entity.  More recently,[when?] the UCOP has scheduled a bylaw amendment for the Committee on Health Services with a view to change the composition of the leadership structure to enable the UCLA Health System (then so called) to compete and collaborate more effectively in the health services marketplace.  The governance structure includes a non-fiduciary Board of Overseers  and a Community Engagement Committee that is made up of faculty and staff and reports to the Vice Chancellor, Health Sciences.  In addition there is a UCLA Health Sustainability Steering Committee.   Budgetary information for bondholders (2013)  and the 2014–2015 Financial Report  are available through the University of California Office of the President. 