Weill Cornell Medicine /waɪl kɔːrˈnɛl/ is the biomedical research unit and medical school of Cornell University, a private Ivy League university. The medical college is located at 1300 York Avenue, on the Upper East Side of Manhattan in New York City, along with the Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences. One of the most selective medical schools in the United States (based on analysis by U.S. News & World Report), Cornell enrolls approximately 100 students per class. In 2015, 6,183 persons applied, and 800 were interviewed for only 106 seats. The average undergraduate GPA and MCAT scores for successful applicants were 3.84 and 36, respectively. The college is named after benefactor and former Citigroup chairman Sanford Weill. The school was founded on April 14, 1898, with an endowment by Col. Oliver H. Payne. It was established in New York because Ithaca, where the main campus is located, was deemed too small to offer adequate clinical training opportunities. James Ewing was the first professor of clinical pathology at the school, and for a while was the only full-time professor.    A branch of the school operated in Stimson Hall on the main campus. The two-year Ithaca course paralleled the first two years of the New York school. It closed in 1938 due to declining enrollment.  In 1927, William Payne Whitney's $27 million donation led to the building of the Payne Whitney Psychiatric Clinic, which became the name for Cornell's large psychiatric effort. That same year, the college became affiliated with New York Hospital and the two institutions moved to their current joint campus in 1932. The hospital's Training School for Nurses became affiliated with the university in 1942, operating as the Cornell Nursing School until it closed in 1979.  In 1998, Cornell University Medical College's affiliate hospital, New York Hospital, merged with Presbyterian Hospital (the affiliate hospital for Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons). The combined institution operates today as NewYork–Presbyterian Hospital. Despite the clinical alliance, the faculty and instructional functions of the Cornell and Columbia units remain distinct and independent. Multiple fellowships and clinical programs have merged, however, and the institutions are continuing in their efforts to bring together departments, which could enhance academic efforts, reduce costs, and increase public recognition. All hospitals in the NewYork–Presbyterian Healthcare System are affiliated with one of the two colleges. Also in 1998, the medical college was renamed as Weill Medical College of Cornell University after receiving a substantial endowment from Sanford I. Weill, then Chairman of Citigroup.  In 2015, it renamed itself to simply Weill Cornell Medicine to reflect an expansion of focus beyond the medical school.  While similar to other medical schools, Weill Cornell is different in some important respects. Weill Cornell's administrative connections are complex. Its primary teaching hospital is NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, which has two medical centers: NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center. In addition to its affiliations with New York-Presbyterian Hospital, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Sloan-Kettering Institute, and Rockefeller University, Weill Cornell is the academic center for the Hospital for Special Surgery, which lies across the street and The Methodist Hospital in Houston, a hospital which had been—until 2004—the primary private teaching hospital for Baylor College of Medicine. Other affiliates include Lincoln Hospital (Bronx), New York Hospital Queens, New York Methodist Hospital, New York Downtown Hospital, and NewYork-Presbyterian/Westchester Division. Weill Cornell has also opened the first American medical school to be located outside of U.S. borders. The Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar opened for instruction in 2004. Its facilities are found in Education City, Qatar near Doha. The Qatar campus offers a six-year integrated medical education program primarily focused on patient care. The campus in Doha has led to criticism due to Qatar’s specific interpretation of Shari'a Law and lack of first amendment rights that are so important in U.S. universities.   Cornell has also received criticism for this campus due to Qatar's support of international terrorism groups such as Hamas and ISIS.    Weill Cornell has also been actively involved in the development of the Weill Bugando Medical College in Mwanza, Tanzania.  New York-Presbyterian Hospital is a member of the Planetree Alliance, a nonprofit association of health-care institutions set up to promote practices to make patients less intimidated and more comfortable with the health care they receive. Weill Cornell helped Intelligent Medical Objects develop its vocabulary tool map for medical billing and SNOMED terminology.  In 2012, the school was also featured in the ABC medical documentary series NY Med. Coordinates: 40°45′52.38″N 73°57′14.93″W﻿ / ﻿40.7645500°N 73.9541472°W﻿ / 40.7645500; -73.9541472 