EDSA, Inc. (previously known as Edward Durell Stone, Jr., and Associates) is a planning, landscape architecture, and urban design firm founded in 1960.   The company is headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Florida with offices in Orlando, Florida; Manhattan, New York; Baltimore, Maryland; and Shanghai, China.  There are 120 employees who represent EDSA and come from a varied range of cultural and ethnic distinctiveness with origins from more than 25 different countries. In addition, their portfolio spans a global range of more than 500 projects in over 100 countries.  The firm has been referred to as one of the leading landscape architecture companies in the world.  EDSA also considers itself a steward of the land, according to the website, and places sustainability at the forefront of its planning and design efforts.   EDSA services include: Master Planning (Site selection and site analysis, land use planning, feasibility studies, visioning workshops, development strategies, site-specific plans, design guidelines and entitlements), Landscape Architecture (Site design and theming, conceptual and schematic design, design development, hardscape and water features, planting design and construction period services), and Urban Design (Downtown planning, city revitalization and redevelopment, urban open space, transit-oriented design, public consensus building and vision plans).  EDSA was founded in 1960 by American landscape architect Edward Durell Stone, Jr., who collaborated with his father, architect Edward Durell Stone, Sr. to found EDSA.  Stone, Jr. died in 2009 and Douglas C. Smith, who joined the firm in 1987, now serves as president of the company.  In the 1960s, EDSA became an instrumental player in the travel and tourism industries, leading resort and recreation assignments primarily in the Caribbean, Latin America, and the Southeastern United States. During this time, EDSA adopted an environmentally-based design philosophy, which was a relatively obscure notion that takes inspiration from each project’s local heritage. A village center form became the framework for housing, amenities, and commerce in order to conserve resources and foster social diversity. This approach became a hallmark of EDSA resorts and communities.  In 1971, EDSA began to receive national recognition when Stone, Jr. was appointed to the Commission of Fine Arts in Washington, D.C. by President Richard Nixon. He served in the position for 12 years.  Simultaneously, EDSA’s reach was growing on an international level as the firm expanded within the global marketplace.  Assignments in the Middle East, Europe, and South America further imbedded the values of sensitivity to local cultures and the importance of collaboration with local professionals. EDSA broadened its urban design practice with two influential public commissions that reinvigorated Fort Lauderdale’s neglected urban waterfronts: The Fort Lauderdale Beach Revitalization in 1986 and Riverwalk Linear Park which was completed in 1994.   In the 1990s, EDSA embarked on planning for several academic institutions including the College of Staten Island and Nova Southeastern University as well as cultural venues like the Florida Nature Cultural Center. A branch office in Orlando began to thrive with several assignments for the Disney Corporation and the new Orlando International Airport.  In 1994, Joseph Lalli became President of EDSA.   Under his leadership, EDSA Orient became the first joint venture landscape architectural office in Beijing, China.  He took the role of Chairman from 2012 until 2014, when he died. Currently, J. Robert Behling holds the role of Chairman. EDSA, Inc. is a privately held company. As of  2012[update], the firm Is headed by Douglas C. Smith, who is the president of the company  and a principal of one of the 13 design studios. EDSA has received over 300 industry awards honoring their projects and innovation, some of which include:  