LABash is an annual student Landscape Architecture conference held in North America. Each year, LABash is hosted by a different University in the United States or Canada. Students and professionals, have traveled from Canada and some as far away as South Korea and New Zealand to attend. The conference consists of guest speakers, workshops, design charettes, expos and social events. The annual event was founded by three Landscape Architecture students James Macgregor from the University of Guelph and Ted Baker and Al Reghr from the University of Toronto  ]]. They traveled to several other landscape architecture schools in Canada and the Eastern US to network and exchange knowledge and skills. In 1970, the first LABash conference was held at the University of Guelph, Ontario. It has since become a tradition to host the conference in different universities each year. Landscape architecture professionals, past graduates, current students and professionals and students from related fields such as urban planning, architecture, urban design, and art have joined to celebrate landscape architecture, learn new skills, network with other students and prospective employers, and gain inspiration for their work. Louisiana State University hosted the Conference with the theme "Survive" from February 22 to 24, 2007. It was held in the Baton Rouge Sheraton Hotel. Some speakers included Peter Walker who is known for his project on the World Trade Center Memorial and futurist David Zach. The conference hosted over 700 students and 150 professionals. www.labash.lsu.edu University of Guelph held the Conference for the fifth time from February 21 to 24, 2008 with the theme "Frontiers of Landscape Architecture". Keynote speakers included Craig Kielburger. The 2009 Conference was held from February 26 through February 28 at the Pennsylvania State University. The conference was held at the Penn Stater, a hotel on the campus, with one evening of social events held at the Days Inn. Alcohol was removed from conference events after the first night due to the behavior of student conference attendees from other schools. Three free beer or soda coupons were given to the guests, with those 21 and older receiving wrist bands to be allowed to drink. Many minors from other schools were found with alcohol, and some guests brought alcohol into the social. The 2010 Conference was held in Las Vegas, Nevada, and was hosted by the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. The theme was "outLANDish" and it sure held true to its brand. Venues included UNLV, Sunset Park, the World Market Center Las Vegas, the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area, the Clark County Wetlands Park, the Las Vegas Springs Preserve, the Hoover Dam, the Neonopolis, the Fremont Street Experience, and all the fabulousness of the Las Vegas Strip. At the 2009 Conference, Purdue University was unanimously chosen to host the 2011 LABash Conference. LABASH 2013 SOUTHERN COMFORT March 21–23, 2013 University of Georgia. Athens, GA Miami, FL Athens, GA Madison, Wisconsin   Held in Columbus, Ohio. Keynote speakers included Shannon Nichol of GGN, Laura Solano of MVVA, and Thomas Woltz of Nelson Byrd Woltz.  The 48th Annual LABash carried the theme “Identify.” Keynote speakers included Ken Smith, Susannah Drake, and Gina Ford. The student directors strived to welcome speakers that would generate a diverse array of voices and perspectives. They also started some new practices, such as: From the website,  "Each landscape architect plays a role in the large scheme of how our world changes day to day and over time. Changing the world may sound like a big task, but it is only possible through you. Throughout the weekend, guests were asked to be conscious of the ideas, people, and experiences they encounter and reflect: How will you make your mark? What inspires you? What has shaped you? What will you do?" 