Coordinates: 32°36′30″N 37°57′45″E﻿ / ﻿32.608436°N 37.96237°E﻿ / 32.608436; 37.96237 Qasr Burqu' is a set of ruins and an archaeological site in the badia of eastern Jordan and is the site of one of the earliest of the Umayyad desert castles.  The region where Qsar Burqu' has been occupied since the Neolithic period.   Archaeological excavations reveal that a Roman fort was established on the site and a monastery was built there during the Byzantine period.   It became an Umayyad castle complex in around 700 CE when al-Walid I, who was still emir, rather than Caliph, either built it, or repaired existing structures to form a new palace complex.   It is thought to be one of the earliest of the Umayyad desert castles in Jordan.   Qasr Burqu' in the far northeast of Jordan is one of a number of Umayyad desert castles in the semi-arid region. It is situated about 100 km east of ad-Diyatheh and 70 km south-east of al-Namara, in the black basalt desert, and about 2 km from the Wadi Minqat, which holds water from the Winter rains.   The site was important due to its natural shallow basin which collected rain waters in ponds.   Various water-catchment systems, of uncertain origin and unknown date, have been added to the site over time, in order to sustain larger populations that may have lived in the area at different times.   Carved rock inscriptions show that Bedouin tribes used the site as a seasonal encampment each Spring throughout the Medieval period.   The site's most significant surviving structure is a 5 metre tower, probably of Roman origin, and originally estimated to have been 13 metres in height.  The early Islamic palace complex was constructed around the Roman tower.    The enclosures are constructed of basalt, and were used to pen animals by nomadic peoples attracted to location to water their herds.     It is one of the lesser desert castles in Jordan.    Although it is often described as one of the Umayyad desert castles, but as noted by Svend Helms, "it is neither a castle, nor is it in the desert" and most of the structures predate the Umayyad Caliphate.  