An Indian princess (or Native American Princess) is a representation of indigenous women of the Americas. Often Indian princesses are portrayed as daughters of Tribal chiefs.  Typically, Indian princesses are depicted as cartoons that conform to unnatural standards of beauty.  The most famous and legendized Indian "princess" is Pocahontas. Neo-feminist scholars have stated that the story of Pocahontas helps to perpetuate white Eurocentric values because she leaves her tribe and becomes a Christian and this arguably insinuates that Christianity is better than traditional indigenous religion. Thus, the story of Pocahontas becomes a method of to promoting Eurocentric values and norms and tool of colonialism. The phrase "Indian Princess" is often considered to be a derogatory term & is deemed offensive to natives. Tiger Lily is an Indian princess character in Peter and Wendy by J. M. Barrie. In the book, she is captured by Captain Hook and Mr. Smee and it is rescued by Peter Pan. She only speaks in a stereotypical dialect following her rescue. Her most famous depiction in adaptation is in the 1953 Disney film. Controversy has surrounded the character, as its representation has been touted as racist and sexist. The Disney character Pocahontas, eponymous star of the 1995 Disney film is the most famous modern representation of an Indian princess. She has been inducted to the ranks of the Disney Princess franchise.  Critical reception of her character has panned her overly sexualized portrayal.  Her appearance was modeled on a number of sources, including Eskimo-French Canadian/Cree actress Irene Bedard, who provided the character's speaking voice,  Powhatan historian Shirley Little Dove Custolow,   and her sister Debbie White Dove,  Christy Turlington, who is of Caucasian descent, and Dyna Taylor, a then-21-year-old senior at the California Institute of the Arts, who was used as the model for the character's face. Taylor, who is of Filipino descent, was paid about $200 for four modeling sessions, saying, "I work across from a Disney Store. When they show the promos, certain expressions are really familiar."    Indian princess pageants have taken the stereotype and used it as a form of empowerment for young indigenous women.  Contrary to typical beauty pageants that judge based on physical appearance, indigenous women who compete in Indian princess pageants are judged on how well they promote traditional values and represent their community and not on how they look.  The Miss Indian World contest began in 1984. The contest is held each year during the Gathering of Nations pow wow in Albuquerque, New Mexico.  The contest is the largest and most prestigious of its kind.  Requirements for participation  Judgement criteria  Winners  The Calgary Stampede Indian Princess contest began in 1964.  The Calgary Stampede Indian Princess joins the Calgary Stampede Rodeo Queen and Princesses to complete the Calgary Stampede Rodeo Royalty. While the Calgary Stampede Indian Princess is considered part of the Calgary Stampede Royalty, she has a separate category and competition of her own.  Evelyn Locker (née Eagle Speaker) of the Kainai Nation was the first First Nations woman to participate in and be crowned as Calgary Stampede royalty in 1954.  Controversy erupted after Evelyn Eagle Speaker’s crowning because she was of Aboriginal descent. The issues surrounding her crowning focused on how she should represent the Calgary Stampede and perform her role as Queen, specifically what kind of clothing she should wear (her traditional regalia or cowgirl gear). Most of the time the Calgary press referred to her as the Indian Princess instead of her rightful title as Rodeo Queen.  Requirements for participation:  Judgement criteria:  Winners  