  Nicoli Nattrass is a professor of Economics and the Director of AIDS and Society Research Unit within the Center for Social Science Research at the University of Cape Town in South Africa. Nattrass authored 55 articles published in academic journals and published five books in the areas of economic policy, the political-economy, cultural and behavioural aspects of AIDS.   She is an advocate of science-based AIDS treatment in South Africa and a longtime critic of AIDS denialists.  Nattrass has been very critical of Thabo Mbeki's AIDS policy in South Africa and estimated that >340,000 unnecessary AIDS deaths in South Africa between 1999 and 2007 were the result of this policy.  Nattrass has subsequently investigated poverty and inequality in South Africa, and as of 2017, has focused her research on animal welfare in informal settlements - particularly, rodents in Khayelitsha. Nattrass received her undergraduate and master's degrees from Stellenbosch University and University of Natal, a master's degree in development economics and a doctorate degree with a thesis on 'Wages, Profits and Apartheid' from Oxford University.  She was a Rhodes Scholar in 1984.  Between 2002 and 2012, Nattrass published a number of academic articles and books   to examine the history, sources, characteristics of AIDS denialism and its impact on HIV prevention and AIDS treatment. In her award winning   book The Moral Economy of AIDS in South Africa,  written at the height of AIDS denialism, Nattrass repudiated the South African government's claim that antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) were unaffordable.  She demonstrated that by not implementing mother to child transmission prevention programs, the cost to treat sick children who acquired AIDS from their mother was greater than to prevent the tragedy from happening. Nattrass estimated that Mbeki's denialist policies led to the early deaths of more than 340,000 South Africans and 171,000 infections, which she likened to 'genocide'.  She attributed the slow and ineffective governmental response to the country's massive AIDS epidemic directly to the influence of the AIDS denialists.  In her 2012 article in Skeptical Inquirer  and book The AIDS Conspiracy: Science Fights Back,  Nattrass examines the landscape of the AIDS denialist community and identifies four groups of characters: hero scientists (provide scientific credibility); cultropreneurs (promote non-evidence based, unproven alternative treatment); living icons (proof that HIV is not the cause of AIDS) and praise singers (journalists and film makers who promote the cause). She observes that they each fill their own important role in the intractable propagation of the movement and their intertwined and symbiotic relationships are established through their shared anti-science and conspiratorial stance, and beliefs in alternative medicine and treatment. Nattrass describes how pro-science activists fought back by deploying empirical evidence and giving political credibility to refute AIDS conspiracy theories, as part of the crucial project to defend evidence-based medicine and combat pseudoscience.  Nattrass has collaborated with the United Nation Research Institute for Social Development for which she co-authored the South African study for the project ‘Poverty Reduction and Policy Regimes’.  Nattrass also was a visiting professor at Jackson Institute for Global Affairs at Yale University.  