Pascaline Dupas is a French economist whose research focuses on development economics and applied microeconomics, with a particular interest in health, education, and savings. She is an associate professor in economics at Stanford University, holds senior fellowships at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research and the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies and is a co-chair of the Poverty Action Lab's health sector.  She received the Best Young French Economist Prize in 2015. In 1999, Pascaline Dupas earned the equivalent of a B.A. in economic and econometrics from the prestigious grande école École Normale Supérieure in Paris (rue d'Ulm), followed by a M.Sc. in economic analysis and policy in 2000 and a Ph.D. in economics in 2006 from the Paris School of Economics. Throughout her graduate studies, she held various visiting positions at MIT, Harvard University and New York University. Following her graduate studies, Dupas held assistant professorships at Dartmouth College (2006-2008), UCLA (2008-2011), and Stanford (2011-2014). She was promoted to associate professor with tenure in 2014.   In addition to her work as researcher and teacher, she also works as an (associate) editor for a variety of academic journals in economics, including the Review of Economic Studies, Quarterly Journal of Economics, Econometrica and the Journal of Development Economics. Pascaline Dupas' research studies the challenges that households and governments in developing countries face in relation to a broad range of issues in education, finance and especially health, the latter subject being one in which Dupas has particularly strong expertise.  Methodologically, Dupas' research generally relies on the use of field experiments such as randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Core topics of her work include the prevention of diseases such as Malaria and HIV, the effect of teacher incentives, and the saving behaviour of poor people. Key findings of Dupas' research include the following: Geographically, most of Dupas' work focuses on (western) Kenya, which - along with other factors - has raised questions as to what degree her findings can be translated to other contexts.  According to IDEAS/RePEc, Pascaline Dupas ranks among the top 4% of economists registered on the platform (June 2017).  