New Radio and Performing Arts, Inc. (NRPA), and its satellite project Turbulence.org,  ia an American organization that commissions and archives new and experimental Radio art, sound art, net art and mixed reality works.  Founded in New York City (1981), NRPA is well known for its New American Radio series, a weekly public radio program of its commissioned experimental sound art pieces from 1987 - 1998. Their archive, available online since 2002, includes "over 300 works by artists such as Helen Thorington, Hildegard Westerkamp, Jacki Apple, Pauline Oliveros, Christian Marclay, and Terry Allen"   With the launch of  Turbulence.org in 1996, NRPA expanded its mandate to "regularly commission net art from the US and abroad" and it now holds the largest archive of such work.  Through open calls, competitions and awards, the group supports exhibitions "in real space, as well as on the Web,"  "from full-blown museum exhibitions to esoteric hacks,"  and acts as an "incubator" for "high-tech art."  Today NRPA’s main focus is on supporting established and emerging artists who create net art or networked hybrid art (art for both virtual and physical space) by: 1) commissioning work for Turbulence.org (over 195 commissions ranging from $1,500-$25,000); 2) providing exhibition venues on- and offline; 3) archiving the work. Commissioned artists include Martin Wattenberg & Marek Walczak, Brooke Singer, Golan Levin, Andy Deck, Annie Abrahams, Mary Flanagan, Ethan Ham, Jason Freeman, Scott Kildall & Victoria Scott, Michael Takeo Magruder, Kate Armstrong and Michael Tippett, Nathaniel Stern, Usman Haque, Carmin Karasic & Rolf van Gelder, Teri Reub, Cory Arcangel, Nurit Bar-Shai, David Crawford, Stephanie Rothenberg, R. Luke DuBois, Ursula Endlicher, MTAA, EcoArtTech, Zoe Beloff, and many more.  The Turbulence.org collection is being archived at the Rose Goldsen Archive of New Media Art, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. The archiving project is one of three case studies in Virtueel Platform Research: Archiving the Digital by Annet Dekker and Rachel Somers-Miles. 