Clemencia Rodriguez is a Colombian US-based media and communication scholar recognized for her role in establishing and promoting the field of alternative media studies in English language media studies, notably through her work on 'citizens' media,' a term she coined in her 2001 book Fissures in the Mediascape and through co-founding and facilitating OURMedia/NUESTROSMedios, a global network of researchers and practitioners of alternative media, community media and citizens' media, currently the biggest network of its kind with over 500 members in over 40 countries.  Dr. Rodriguez has conducted research since 1984 on citizens’ media in different international contexts including Nicaragua, Colombia, Spain, Chile, and among Latino communities in the United States. Her current research explores the role(s) of community radio and audiovisual initiatives in regions of armed conflict in Colombia. Her studies focus on the AREDMAG network of community radio stations in Magdalena Medio; the audiovisual school and community radio station (Radio Andaqui) in Belen de los Andaquies, Caqueta; and the Colectivo de Comunicacion de Montes de Maria. In 2001, she initiated OURMedia/NUESTROSMedios with Chris Atton,  Nick Couldry  and John DH Downing  and until 2003 was a key organizer of its yearly conferences.  “Various media technologies provide different ways of 'communicating' both in the kinds of information they present and in the ways we experience it”.  Clemencia Rodriguez recognises a universal cultural change within the mediascape whereby media users have become media producers. She defines citizens' media as a concept 'that implies a collective embracing of new media and interaction, in a way that contests social codes, legitimised identities and institutionalised social relations, through a means of empowering the community'.  Moving away from the original concept of media whereby “communication is sent from one place and received in many places by a large audience”,  Citizens’ media’ encourages a two-way media process, reflecting participatory democracy and greater media access through networking, and broadcasting from citizen to citizen.  