The Daedalus Flight Pack is a jet pack capable of achieving flying ability, hovering and powered jumps.  It was invented by British inventor, Richard Browning, an athlete and Royal Marine Reservist.   The flight pack is different to other man portable flight packs in that it uses jets attached to the hands and feet. These enable it to be directed by moving the arms. Richard Browning first started work on the project in the year 2016.  The suit has been likened to the comic character Iron Man. Browning formed his own company, Gravity, and used his own funding for development work.  The first published test flight was revealed at the 2017 TED conference in Vancouver. Browning experimented with different numbers, configurations and arrays of jets, with varying degrees of success, before coming up with his current configuration.   While initial funding came from Browning himself, since the success of the project, he has received promotional support from the Red Bull energy drink company.  The jets and powerpack are affixed to the wearer with a metal frame. Current maximum flying time is about 10 minutes, and the system uses six micro-gas turbines and can achieve full flight. Projected initial cost for purchase is $250,000 USD, although this projection is expected to come down after full production.   The flight pack can reach altitudes of 2000 feet, thought it is envisaged normal used would be traveling at only three or four metres above the ground.  .  Browning says of the technology: “Our mission is to build an inspirational technology company by re-imagining the future of human flight and pioneering aeronautical innovation.”.  Much like the Comic book character Iron Man, the flight pack incorporates a heads up display which displays for the user operating information, including top speed, fuel left, etc. Gravity, Browning's company that produces the flight pack, have said that the user will require to be vetted before use.  The Daedalus flight pack broke a record for speed for a flight pack, awarded by Guinness book of records   