 The Faculty of Dental Medicine of Monastir (FMDM) (Arabic: كلية طب الأسنان بالمنستير) is a dental school in Monastir, Tunisia. It is the first school to be established within the University of Monastir, and it is the only institution for dental studies in the country.   The faculty is under the dual supervision of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research and the Ministry of Public Health.   Dental studies in Tunisia are reserved for a selection of the elites of high school students who have passed their baccalaureate, hence the fact that admission is exclusive to scientific branches having the highest score nationally.  Before the inauguration of the faculty of dentistry of Monastir and until the beginning of the 1980s, Tunisian dentists studied in foreign universities, mainly in France.  The university was founded by law n ° 75-71 of 14 November 1975, and it has been part of the University of Monastir   since 2004.  The inauguration of the faculties of dentistry and pharmacy took place on November 20, 1975 in the presence of President Habib Bourguiba. The first promotion, counting only 46 students, graduated in 1982.   From 1975 to 1990, the management of the faculty was assured by the deans of the faculty of pharmacy who then took charge of both faculties  : The faculty is located on Avicenna Street in Monastir near the Faculty of Pharmacy, the Faculty of Medicine and the Graduate School of Health Sciences and Techniques and is associated with a university-hospital dental clinic.  According to 2017–2018 statistics , the Faculty of Dentistry in Monastir has: The faculty covers an area of almost 5,000 m2 and shares the campus with the faculty of pharmacy. The university's professors are known for their contributions to the field of scientific and medical research nationally and internationally.    In order to provide a comprehensive training for residents, interns and students in the fourth and fifth grades, they must get through daily clinical traineeship during their studies. These specialized trainings are held in the following university-hospital centers that receive students, interns and residents : The university delivers doctoral degrees in dentistry and provides training for masters and doctoral theses. The programme of medical studies for the national diploma of doctor of dentistry lasts six years: five years of externship and one year of internship, divided into a first cycle of two years, a second cycle of three years with a year internship trainee, and a thesis defense . After the six-year basic cycle, graduates may take a national residency examination for the choice of a clinical or a basic fundamental specialization . These studies are organized by discipline, modules and certificates and are given in the form of lectures, tutorials, practical work and clinical placements. Students are assessed by written and oral exams, practical and directed exams and clinical examinations. A third cycle of specialized studies in dentistry is available for graduating students who want to pass the national residency examination (specialization exams). These specialties are divided into two major categories  : Since its inception, the university has been developing exchange agreements and cooperations, given the historical circumstances of its creation, as with the faculties of dental surgery in Marseille, Paris-VII, Bordeaux and Alger. In 2017-2018, the faculty has 42 foreign students out of a total of 1,526, representing 3% of the total student population, in a context marked by the evolution of African cooperation and the opening up of countries of the continent to collaboration in scientific research and the exchange of experiences and information. Since its affiliation with the University of Monastir in 2004, most of the international conventions are made through it, such as Erasmus +, Erasmus Mundus, the Quality Support Program for Higher Education, the Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst, NursingCAS or other types of bilateral exchanges with foreign universities. Among the partner institutions: 