It can't be a very good user experience for newish users to spend time collating good sources that meet WP:RS in the rest of Wikipedia and then have all their work thrown away because an editor believes it fails a strange guideline called WP:MEDRS that they've never heard of before, especially since MEDRS is a good policy but it certainly isn't just a formalization of "common sense" (like "don't use a random blog as a source") that we can expect the average editor to anticipate. In addition, on more obscure pages non-MEDRS info might end up remaining indefinitely. In short, it's obviously better if users are aware of MEDRS before they attempt to add content to medical articles so that they're less likely to attempt to insert content that fails MEDRS. I would propose that the first time a logged-in user starts to edit a page within the subcategory of Category:Medicine or Category:Health, they get a one-time tip informing them "Tip: on Wikipedia, all biomedical or health content must should conform to stringent WP:MEDRS policy guidelines." (I suspect the Wikipedia software doesn't currently have the ability to do this, but I would argue it's reasonable here to at least ask the software team for such a feature; it's good UI practice to try to inform users of new information as they likely need it, rather than rely on a giant manual nobody's going to read up front.) This wouldn't be perfect, for example it would miss IP users, but it would be better than nothing IMHO. Rolf H Nelson (talk) 05:03, 10 April 2018 (UTC) With respect to WP:MEDASSESS, editors may find this new article by Trish Greenhalgh et al. interesting on what reviews when are useful: "Time to challenge the spurious hierarchy of systematic over narrative reviews?", doi:10.1111/eci.12931. Bondegezou (talk) 12:32, 18 April 2018 (UTC) Does WP:MEDRS apply to canine medicine? I am concerned about the last two paragraphs of Hip_dysplasia_(canine)#Diet_supplementation, which describe the benefits of treatments, usng primary sources. Maproom (talk) 07:18, 3 May 2018 (UTC) Hello,  I am interested in obtaining community feedback as to whether these evidence updates are appropriate to use as references in medical articles under MEDRS. According to PCORI, they have been created by an independent panel consisting of patients, clinicians, and researchers who have been trained to assess the primary research. I believe they are also reviewed by a major medical society (The American Urological Society in this example): https://www.pcori.org/sites/default/files/PCORI-Evidence-Update-for-Clinicians-Prostate-Cancer.pdf These updates can be found here: https://www.pcori.org/research-results/putting-evidence-work/evidence-decisions Thank you! JenOttawa (talk) 01:37, 15 May 2018 (UTC) This Is The Sickening Amount Pharmaceutical Companies Pay Top Journal Editors. Scientific publishing is totally broken. By Fiona MacDonald. 12 Apr 2018. Following along the lines of this discussion: (unindent) Jytdog. You sound like the one slinging crap against the prison cell of your mind, not me. I am slinging reliable sources. From the article: Read the article for more info. and more links to reliable sources. --Timeshifter (talk) 07:12, 13 April 2018 (UTC) Follow the money. | Carome added that the funding of the alcohol study damaged NIH’s reputation, and the halting of the study “is a small step toward restoring that reputation.” And (emphasis added):  --Timeshifter (talk) 07:05, 18 May 2018 (UTC) Follow the lack of money and interest for unbiased or less biased government studies versus (more biased overall) Big Pharma studies. Bias based on choice of what to study. Followup studies on unproven, possibly harmful, adjuvant therapy, versus new drug studies which are much more profitable.  Over the years, doctors started using it for less advanced cases, and eventually as a treatment to prevent cancer from coming back (known as "adjuvant therapy.") ...  There may be many other cancer treatments that are unneeded and possibly even harmful. Many long-time medical practices are based on tradition and thin evidence. But Johnson worries the federal government has been losing interest in this kind of expensive and time-consuming research. He notes that over the past decade, the number of studies presented at the ASCO meeting that have been funded by the U.S. government has dropped from 575 to 143. "It's cut in one-fourth!" he laments. "And one of the things that we think is critically important is a robust clinical infrastructure supported by our government." Indeed, European researchers presented many of the big studies at this year's meeting. ... care about research that will save government health services the costs of unneeded treatment. --Timeshifter (talk) 22:07, 5 June 2018 (UTC) Does every source in an article need to meet MEDRS requirements even when no medical claims are being cited? It is widely accepted (New York Times NewYorker Wired Smithsonian Financial Times) that Silicon Valley has some fascination with life extension. My inclusion of this text at young blood transfusion has been reverted citing MEDRS: Young blood transfusions have been called a "current trend" in regenerative medicine, with significant Silicon Valley investment in "life extension". Jeff Bercovici wrote for Inc. that it is "a popular obsession" and that there are rumours of wealthy technology bosses "spending tens of thousands of dollars for the procedures and young-person-blood". I doubt that I could find that backed up in any medical journal but I think it is making relevant non-medical claims sourced from reputable non-medical sources. violet/riga [talk] 11:24, 29 May 2018 (UTC) The project page defines a "primary source" as "one in which the authors directly participated in the research or documented their personal experiences. They examined the patients, injected the rats, filled the test tubes, or at least supervised those who did. Many, but not all, papers published in medical journals are primary sources for facts about the research and discoveries made."  This is overly simplistic.  More accurately, a primary source is the data set, interview transcripts, etc., from which the findings are derived.  If the current definition of primary source was used consistently on Wikipedia then many if not most of the citations on medical articles would have to be removed as primary research.  This definition seems to be applied selectively editors which results in edits being reverted because of this definition of a primary source.  There are literally thousands of valid citations on Wikipedia that fall afoul of the very broad definition used here.  For example.  Actually, about 1/2 of the citations on that article which are perfectly fine could potentially be removed as primary sources.  AugusteBlanqui (talk) 21:53, 30 June 2018 (UTC) Some here may want to weigh in on this at Wikipedia talk:Frequently misinterpreted sourcing policy. Flyer22 Reborn (talk) 06:01, 1 July 2018 (UTC) It says in bold "Even WP:MEDRS has a blatant error in this regard,...". Is it required reading for those who don't follow MEDRS? It looks like a humour essay! QuackGuru (talk) 06:16, 1 July 2018 (UTC) The title "Frequently misinterpreted sourcing policy" is not what the page is about. It claims "This is a list of key points of frequently misinterpreted sourcing policy, guidelines, and community norms at Wikipedia."  It is not about that. It is a disagreement with sourcing policy. It is not about misinterpreting policy. If it was about misinterpreting policy then it would be providing specific information on what is being misinterpreting. It is about "Frequent disagreements with sourcing policy". The title should be changed to reflect what the page is about. QuackGuru (talk) 22:31, 2 July 2018 (UTC) Which medical dictionaries are considered reliable sources?  I'm looking around but I don't see a list anywhere.  Some Wikiprojects list all reliable sources in one area, making it easier to search for things.  Dream Focus 23:05, 14 July 2018 (UTC) Someone has claimed at Talk:Marie Antoinette syndrome that Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology is categorically unreliable.  I don't know enough about the organization to know if this is true. I did not that our article on them reads like a brochure (i.e., like WP:COI editing, possibly copy-pasted from their official "about us" info).  — SMcCandlish ☏ ¢ 😼  14:03, 16 July 2018 (UTC) References Hmm. So, there don't seem to be any comprehensive impact factor tools. Even Clarivate's (which seems to be a paid-subscription site) only covers about 10% of journals.  I've run into dubious citations from Advances in Aging Research (basic journal info here) and Journal of Stem Cells (basic journal info here). Neither are listed at the predatory journals site, but that's always a work in progress.  Just the nature of the material cited and the authors' affiliations makes me think these are probably predatory journals or basically pseudo-journals, but it's not my field.  — SMcCandlish ☏ ¢ 😼  09:52, 20 July 2018 (UTC) The sources below include the proper attribution in citations to avoid a copyright violation or to indicate the content from the source is in the public domain:      References When an editor copies content from a source they also need to include the proper attribution inside the citation. For example, the following slanted content was copied. See The understanding of trypophobia is still limited and the number of peer-reviewed articles is low, as of  2018[update].  The citation includes the part This article incorporates text by Juan Carlos Martínez-Aguay, Renzo C. Lanfranco, Marcelo Arancibia, Elisa Sepúlveda and Eva Madrid available under the CC BY 4.0 license. References The proper attribution was added to the citation. MEDRS does not address how to format a citation in order to copy content from a source to avoid adding a copyright violation to a medical article. Without proper attribution it is a copyright violation if the content was added to an article or even the talk page of any medical article. There are sources that allow content to be copied but they require proper attribution in order to use the content. Proper attribution is required for copying licensed content that is not in the public domain. See WP:Compatible license. Editors should not remove the required attribution inside the citation or quote the source in the article or on the talk page without a link to a source for content that is not in the public domain. Unattributed copying in a medical-related article or the talk page is a copyright violation. We do use copy-pasted material from a source without quoting it, when it's permissible under copyright law. Many organisations have content on their website that are in the public domain such as content on the FDA website. The CDC website has a lot of medical-related content that is in the public domain. For content that is in the public domain I use the correct template for public domain content. See Template:PD-notice. I propose we create a new section for MEDRS in order to explain how to properly use sources that have a WP:Compatible license. QuackGuru (talk) 04:53, 21 July 2018 (UTC) Should we add the DOAJ list of publisher members  as an additional source to check what open access journals are reliable sources? --Signimu (talk) 20:56, 27 July 2018 (UTC) In the section "Use up-to-date evidence", we can find the following: «If recent reviews do not mention an older primary source, the older source is dubious.» I think the "is dubious" might be a bit too strong, as there can be many reasons why a recent review does not mention an older primary source (eg, simply did not find it, bias of opposite view with the review authors, redondant with newer material, etc). I propose to change this part of the sentence into "the older source might be dubious". --Signimu (talk) 18:24, 28 July 2018 (UTC) From MEDRS: "Ideal sources for biomedical material include..." (emphasis added). Here's my question: Does MEDRS apply to "biomedical" articles only? I often recommend WP:MED to other psychologists as an example of a smart, well-organized Wikiproject that produces high-quality medical articles. And I generally believe articles about psychosocial topics that might not fall under the "biomedical" umbrella (or at least the entire article is not focused on biomedical concerns) often benefit from following guidance or policies developed by this Wikiproject such as MEDRS. Is there an essay or policy which describes the difference between "biomedical" and, for lack of a better term, "definitely not biomedical"?   - Mark D Worthen PsyD (talk) 21:02, 6 August 2018 (UTC) Hello -  I wanted to follow up on the helpful post from JenOttawa's post about PCORI's evidence updates for patients and clinicians. Thank you for everyone's help. I work for PCORI (the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute) and I'm slowly learning the ropes about how to share vetted, reliable sources about results from the studies we've funded. Again, thank you for your feedback so far and help in the future. Link to original post: PCORI's Evidence Update for clinicians and patients Nytodc (talk) 12:21, 15 August 2018 (UTC) 