Bupa (pronounced /buːpə/) Arabia for Cooperative Insurance is a Saudi-owned and operated publicly traded company with SR 800 million in paid up capital. Bupa Arabia provides health insurance in accordance with the requirements of the Council of Cooperative Health Insurance and the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (SAMA). Bupa Arabia is associated with the Bupa Group, a worldwide healthcare organization.  Bupa Arabia was started in 1997 as a joint venture with the Nazer Group. Today, with more than 3 million customers, Bupa Arabia is the largest health insurers in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, with both individual clients as well as some of the Kingdom’s largest companies. Under insurance regulations, Bupa Arabia evolved its business from a joint venture to a publicly listed company offering cooperative health insurance. In 2008, Bupa Arabia offered 40% of its shares to the public in the most successful IPO ever floated for an insurance company in KSA, one that was oversubscribed by more than 900%.  Bupa Corporate is one of the main groups of products that Bupa Arabia has developed for larger businesses and corporations within the Saudi market. The product coverage is based on the basic Council of Cooperative Health Insurance (CCHI) product/policy guidelines, and customized to give a range of options. The available cover levels range from SR 500,000 to SR 37,500,000, and there is a choice of hospital networks.  Bupa Corporate includes four main schemes: Gold, Silver, Bronze and Blue   Bupa Business is a group of products that Bupa Arabia has developed for small to medium businesses and corporations within the Saudi market. The product coverage is based on the basic Council of Cooperative Health Insurance (CCHI) product/policy guidelines, and customized to give a range of options. The available cover levels range from SR 500,000 to SR 600,000, and there's a choice of 7+ hospital networks. Bupa Business includes seven schemes: Diamond, Gold, Silver, Bronze, Blue, Green and White.  Bupa Family is designed for Saudi families who don't fall under Council of Cooperative Health Insurance (CCHI) enforcement within the Saudi market. The available cover levels range from SR 75,000 to SR 250,000. Bupa Family includes four main schemes: Gold, Silver, Bronze and Blue.  Bupa for individuals is designed purely for expatriates working in Saudi Arabia that are not under the sponsorship of a company or establishment. Bupa Individual includes one scheme:Basic Green. which can be purchased through Bupa Arabia website.   Bupa Domestic is designed for domestic help within the Saudi market. This product is designed around the Council of Cooperative Health Insurance (CCHI) guidelines and is available in two schemes: Bronze and White.   