Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare is the result of a first-of-its-kind health care joint venture between Saudi Aramco and Johns Hopkins Medicine.  Since 1933, Saudi Aramco had delivered a high standard of medical care to its employees and their families through its own medical services organization. In 2013, Saudi Aramco partnered with Johns Hopkins Medicine to carve out and expand the capabilities of its medical services through Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare (JHAH), drawing upon the vast expertise of The Johns Hopkins University and The Johns Hopkins Hospital and Health System to provide clinical program development, research, training, safety and quality, and health care administration expertise.  Inaugurated on January 28, 2014, Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare is the complex of company-operated and privately contracted hospitals that serve Saudi Aramco employees and their dependents, numbering about 350,000 total. In all communities, basic health care is provided through clinics, which function much as Health Maintenance Organizations do in the United States. A rotating staff of general practitioners performs examinations and prescribes care on an outpatient basis. All of the clinics have facilities and laboratories for basic diagnostic testing. Each clinic provides ambulance service and emergency room care, and each has a pharmacy where prescriptions ordered by clinic physicians can be filled at no charge. The community clinics are designed to take care of ordinary medical needs. More significant health problems are handled at the Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare hospital in Dhahran.The professional staff at the hospital is multinational, but many of the specialists are U.S. Board Certified or the UK's equivalent.  Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare Dhahran hospital is accredited by JCI, the newly created international division of JCAH. The blood bank is accredited by the American Association of Blood Banks. The Medical Laboratories have been continuously accredited by the College of American Pathologist (CAP) since 2002. Liaison relations exist with the World Health Organization in Geneva, Switzerland, and the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta, Georgia, for immediate consultation regarding diseases of international significance. EPIC: It’s been a long journey for JHAH on the road to implementing a truly first-rate Electronic Health Record (EHR) that is capable of supporting its transformational ambitions in being an ever brighter example for quality of patient care in the kingdom. The recently launched patient portal, MyChart, which elevates patient partnership in their own healthcare to a new level, is only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the anticipated benefits of the new Epic system. 