Dancing England was a series of showcase traditional dance concerts held at the Derby Assembly Rooms from 1979 to 1987. They were devised and curated by Phil Heaton and John Shaw, members of the Black Cap Sword Dancers, and two very notable characters on the Nottingham and Derby folk and dance scene of the 1970s. Dancing England was set up to showcase the best of traditional dance in the UK, along with unique and/or interesting folk customs to celebrate the UK's wide cultural heritage. In 1979 Phil and John of Black Cap decided to hold a 'Feast' and invite the best dancers from across the UK as their guests, and so the idea of Dancing England was born.  The event was held in the evening and consisted of a series of performances by dance teams across all the styles of UK traditional dance; Cotswold Morris, Rapper sword, Longsword, North West, step clog dancing, Border, Molly, and much more. There were also performances by mummers and Pace Eggers, musicians and from some of the more idiosyncratic traditional teams; notably The Britannia Coconut Dancers, Abbotts Bromley Horn Dancers and the Whittlesey Straw Bear. There were stalls selling music, ephemera and crafts, films, workshops and talks. The event was refreshed with plenty of real ale, and finished with a ceilidh late at night. After Dancing England came to an end in 1987, there was a brief reprise in 1993 at the same venue for the Daughter of Dancing England event. This only ran for one year, and both Dancing England and Daughter of same were sadly missed. Dancing England featured a rapper sword competition in the afternoon prior to the evening concert, in homage to the Newcastle Tournament of Music and Art which was held in the city from just after the Great War until the 1950s. Following the sad demise of Dancing England in 1987, the competition continued under the name of DERT and now travels around the country being hosted by a different rapper sword team every year. 2019 - Nottingham Playhouse; Saturday 26th January 2019 2017 - Sheffield City Hall; Saturday 18 February 2017. 