"Eeny, meeny, miny, moe" — which can be spelled a number of ways — is a children's counting rhyme, used to select a person in games such as tag. It is one of a large group of similar rhymes in which the child who is pointed to by the chanter on the last syllable is either "chosen" or "counted out". The rhyme has existed in various forms since well before 1820,  and is common in many languages with similar-sounding nonsense syllables. Since many similar counting rhymes existed earlier, it is difficult to ascertain this rhyme's exact origin. The rhyme can be controversial because of racist versions. A common modern version is:  There are many common variations, such as replacing tiger with "piggy", "tinker", "tigger",  a two-syllable name, etc.; and changing the verb in the third line to "screams", "wiggles", "squeals" or another verb.  Sometimes additional lines are added at the end of the rhyme to draw out or manipulate the selection process or make it seem less predetermined, such as: Or alternatively: Occasionally the line copies 'Ip dip': The first record of a similar rhyme is from about 1815, when children in New York City are said to have repeated the rhyme: The "Hana, man" was found by Henry Carrington Bolton in the US, Ireland and Scotland in the 1880s but was unknown in England until later in the century.  Bolton also found a similar rhyme in German: Variations of this rhyme, with the nonsense/counting first line have been collected since the 1820s, such as this Scottish one: More recognizable as a variation, which even includes the 'toe' and 'olla' from Kipling's version, is: This was one of many variants of "counting out rhymes" collected by Bolton in 1888.  A Cornish version collected in 1882 runs: It is worth noting that the opening to this counting rhyme, "ena mena", is almost identical to the Greek for "one by one" ("ena m'ena"). One theory about the origins of the rhyme is that it is descended from Old English or Welsh counting, similar to the old Shepherd's count "Yan Tan Tethera" or the Cornish "Eena, mena, mona, mite".  Another possibility is that British colonials returning from the Sub-Continent introduced a doggerel version of an Indian children's rhyme used in the game of carom billiards: The rhyme inspired the song "Eena Meena Deeka" in the 1957 Bollywood film Aasha. Another possible origin is from a Swahili poem brought to the Americas by enslaved Africans: Iino ya mmiini maiini mo.  Most likely the origin is a centuries-old, possibly Old Saxon diviner rhyme, as was shown in 1957 by the Dutch philologist dr. Jan Naarding, supported by prof. dr. Klaas Heeroma at the Nedersaksisch Instituut (Low Saxon Institute) at the University of Groningen. They published their findings in an article called Een oud wichellied en zijn verwanten (An old diviner rhyme and its relatives).  In part I of the article Naarding explains, why the counting rhyme he found in Twents-Achterhoeks woordenboek (1948), a dictionary by G.H. Wanink, stands close to an early mediaeval or even older archetype. That same version was recorded in 1904 in Goor in Twente by Nynke van Hichtum: Naarding calls its origin 'a heathen priest song, that begs the highest goddess for an oracle while divining, an oracle that may decide about life and death of a human'. The first lines can be translated as 'foremother of mankind, give me a sign, I take the cut off pieces of a branch (= the rune wands)." This explanation was revived and extended in 2016 by Goaitsen van der Vliet, founder of the Twentse Taalbank (Twents Language Bank).  The last line of the rhyme (in the Netherlands degenerated to 'iet wiet waait weg') can be translated as 'I weigh it up' (in Dutch 'ik wik en weeg'). Some older versions of this rhyme had the word  nigger instead of tiger: This version was similar to that reported by Henry Carrington Bolton as the most common version among American schoolchildren in 1888.  It was used in the chorus of Bert Fitzgibbon's 1906 song "Eeny, Meeny, Miny, Mo": It was also used by Rudyard Kipling in his "A Counting-Out Song", from Land and Sea Tales for Scouts and Guides, published in 1935.  This may have helped popularise this version in the United Kingdom where it seems to have replaced all earlier versions until the late twentieth century.  Iona and Peter Opie pointed out in The Oxford Dictionary of Nursery Rhymes that the word "nigger" was common in American folk-lore, but unknown in any English traditional rhyme or proverb.  This, combined with evidence of various other versions of the rhyme in the British Isles pre-dating this version, would seem to suggest that it originated in North America, although the apparently American word "holler" was first recorded in written form in England in the fourteenth century, whereas according to the Oxford English Dictionary the words "Niger" or "'nigger" were first recorded in England in the sixteenth century with their current disparaging meaning. The 'olla' and 'toe' are found as nonsense words in some nineteenth century versions of the rhyme, and it could possibly be that the original 'Where do all the Frenchmen Go?' (probably originating during one of the periods of Anglo-French warfare) was later on replaced by the earlier version in the United States, using some of the nonsense words.  There are considerable variations in the lyrics of the rhyme, including from early twentieth century in the United States of America: During the Second World War, an AP dispatch from Atlanta, Georgia reported: "Atlanta children were heard reciting this wartime rhyme:  A distinct version of the rhyme in the United Kingdom, collected in the 1950s & 1960s, is: Versions collected in New Zealand in 2002 include: In Latin America the children play a game to choose or discard players, or to draw a winner/loser, singing: Another Latin American Version: In 1935, Billie Holiday sang a version as: There are many scenes in books, films, plays, cartoons and video games in which a variant of "Eeny meeny ..." is used by a character who is making a choice, either for serious or comic effect. Notably, the rhyme has been used by killers to choose victims in the 1994 films Pulp Fiction and Natural Born Killers,   the 2003 film Elephant,  and the sixth-season finale of the AMC television series The Walking Dead. In Let the Tiger Go, a documentary on tiger conservation released on YouTube in 2017, the poem is read by Alan Rabinowitz in advocacy for ending the poaching of tigers for their body parts.  The very title of the documentary is implied to be an allusion to the poem. Other uses of the phrase in popular culture include: The vinyl release of Radiohead's album OK Computer (1997) uses the words "eeny meeny miny moe" (rather than letter or numbers) on the labels of Sides A, B, C and D respectively.  Eenie Meenie Records is a Los Angeles-based music record label. The names of many songs include some or all of the phrase, including: The title of Chester Himes's novel If He Hollers Let Him Go (1945) refers to the rhyme.  In Salman Rushdie's The Moor's Last Sigh (1995), the leading character and his three sisters are nicknamed Ina, Minnie, Mynah and Moor.  Rex Stout wrote a 1962 Nero Wolfe novella titled Eeny Meeny Murder Mo. In the 1930s, animation producer Walter Lantz introduced the cartoon characters Meany, Miny, and Moe (later Meeny, Miney and Mo). First appearing in Oswald Rabbit cartoons, then in their own series.  The 1933 Looney Tunes cartoon Bosko's Picture Show parodies MGM as "TNT pictures", whose logo is a roaring and burping lion with the motto "Eenie Meanie Minie Moe" in the place of MGM's "Ars Gratia Artis". The rhyme appears towards the end of 1949 British black comedy, Kind Hearts and Coronets. The use of the word nigger was censored for the American market, being replaced by sailor.  