The phrase presidential veto does not appear in the United States Constitution, but Article I requires every bill, order, resolution or other act of legislation approved by the Congress of the United States to be presented to the President of the United States for their approval. After that is done, there are several scenarios in which a bill may or may not be enacted into law. The list below contains many of the bills vetoed and pocket vetoed by Presidents. Although each case is unique and involves a plethora of influences, one general rule can be acknowledged: Presidents use their prerogative to veto legislation when such legislation does not represent their viewpoint or agenda.  Occasionally, a President either publicly or privately threatens Congress with a veto to influence the content or passage of legislation. There is no record of what constitutes a "veto threat", or how many have been made over the years, but it has become a staple of Presidential politics and a sometimes effective way of shaping policy.  A President may also warn Congress of a veto of a particular bill so as to persuade Congress not to waste time passing particular legislation or including certain provisions in a bill when the President is prepared to veto it. Source:   The following is an incomplete list of the dates and bills of each veto for each president: Two vetoes: No vetoes. The second President of the United States was the first not to exercise the veto. No vetoes. Jefferson is the only two-term president never to have used the veto. Five regular vetoes, two pocket vetoes: One veto: No vetoes. Adams was the third and most recent president to never use the veto power while serving at least one complete term in office. Twelve vetoes: One pocket veto: No vetoes.  Harrison died after four weeks in office. Congress was never in session during his tenure, and never presented any legislation for his approval. Ten total vetoes, including four pocket vetoes: Two regular vetoes, plus one pocket veto.  No vetoes. No vetoes. Nine vetoes: Four regular vetoes, plus three pocket vetoes.  Two regular vetoes, plus five pocket vetoes.  Andrew Johnson was the most thwarted president as measured by the number of overrides: out of 21 regular vetoes, 15 were overridden; he also used 8 pocket vetoes.   By fraction overridden, however, he comes in second: Pierce had a rate of 56%, compared to Johnson's 52%. Ninety-three vetoes total, with forty-five regular vetoes and forty-eight pocket vetoes. Four were overridden.  Thirteen vetoes. Twelve regular. One pocket veto. One veto overridden  No vetoes. Garfield was the most recent President to have made no use of the veto power.  He was only President, however, for six and a half months. President Arthur vetoed twelve bills, of which four were regular vetoes and eight were pocket vetoes. One was overridden. 584 total vetoes, including 238 pocket vetoes (414 first term, 170 second term). Grover Cleveland vetoed more bills in his two terms than all other presidents to that date combined. Only Franklin D. Roosevelt, who had more than three complete terms in office to Cleveland's two, vetoed more.  Strongly opposed to what he perceived as "pork barrel" spending, and favoring limited government, he vetoed more than 200 private bills granting pensions to individual Civil War veterans. Reacting to these vetoes, Congress passed a bill that would have granted a pension to any disabled veteran. He vetoed this bill as well. This is widely perceived to have been a factor in the defeat of his 1888 bid for re-election. In addition to these, he also vetoed a bill that would have distributed seed grain to drought-stricken farmers in the American west, and bills increasing the monetary supply.  He also refused to sign, but did not veto, the Wilson–Gorman Tariff Act. Thirty-three regular vetoes, eleven pocket vetoes. Six were overridden.  Wilson wrote: "The President is no greater than his prerogative of veto makes him; he is, in other words, powerful rather as a branch of the legislature than as the titular head of the Executive."  Harding vetoed the Soldiers' Adjusted Compensation Act (soldiers' bonus) on 19 September 1922, arguing the country could not afford the cost during the postwar recession. Congress failed, by four votes, to override his veto.  Coolidge vetoed the McNary–Haugen Farm Relief Bill because he thought its cost was too high.635 vetoes. Franklin Roosevelt vetoed more bills than any other president in history. This is partly because of the many new ideas for solutions to the problems caused by the Great Depression and World War II, and partly because he served three terms (he was elected to four). Grover Cleveland vetoed more bills per term. 180 regular vetoes, 70 pocket vetoes. Congress overrode 12 of Truman's vetoes. One of the most notable was the Taft-Hartley Act, which weakened labor unions. Another was the McCarran Internal Security Act, which established the Subversive Activities Control Board to investigate suspected communist and/or fascist sympathizers. Sixteen regular vetoes, fourteen pocket vetoes. None were overridden.  Like President Kennedy before him, President Johnson made no public veto threats.  His is the most recent example of an override-free administration. Twenty-six regular vetoes, seventeen pocket vetoes. Seven were overridden. There were no vetoes in the first session of the Ninety-first Congress. Forty eight regular vetoes, eighteen pocket vetoes. Twelve were overridden.  This bill would have provided for payment, "as a gratuity," of $45,482 to Mr. Burt and for similar payments of $36,750 each to the widow and son of Douglas E. Kennedy for injuries and other damages Mr. Burt and Mr. Kennedy sustained as a result of gunshot wounds inflicted by U.S. military personnel in the Dominican Republic in 1965.  I considered carefully the merits of this case, but could not approve it. Equitable considerations growing out of governmental actions have traditionally been the basis for private relief awards where no legal remedy is available. But the record clearly establishes that no such considerations are present in this case.   I urge that in the future Congress adhere to the traditional equity basis for awards, whether or not they have been recommended by the Court of Claims under Congressional reference procedures.  Congress overrode two of Carter's vetoes. Not since 1952 had a Congress controlled by the president's own party overridden a veto. On 5 June 1980, Carter vetoed a bill that repealed a crude oil import fee of $4.62 per barrel. The same day, the House voted 335–34 to override Carter's veto. The Senate followed suit the next day by 68 votes to 10. Carter's own party (the Democrats) had a 59-seat majority (276–157) in the House, and an eight-seat majority (58–41) in the Senate. In August 1980, Congress overrode his veto of a veterans' health care bill, by votes of 401–5 in the House, and 85–0 in the Senate. Twelve vetoes, including one veto whose status is disputed (Bush claimed it was a pocket veto; the Senate considers it to have been a regular veto): Twelve vetoes, the status of five of which is disputed (Obama considered them pocket vetoes, but since he returned the parchments to Congress, the Senate considers them regular vetoes):  Trump has yet to veto any legislation presented to him by Congress.  