The Institute for Cultural Research (ICR) was a London-based, UK-registered educational charity,    events organizer and publisher which aimed to stimulate study, debate, education and research into all aspects of human thought, behaviour and culture.  It brought together many distinguished speakers, writers and Fellows over the years. A statement issued in 2013 by the institute on its official web site read: "As of summer 2013, the Institute has suspended its activities following the formation of a new charity, The Idries Shah Foundation."  The institute was founded in 1965 by the well-known writer, thinker and Sufi teacher Idries Shah    to facilitate the dissemination of ideas, information and understanding between cultures.   Its Objects and Regulations were officially first adopted on 21 January 1966.  For some time based at Tunbridge Wells in Kent, it was later based in London.  Shah acted as the Institute's Director of Studies whilst still alive.     Nobel Prize-winning novelist Doris Lessing, who was influenced by Idries Shah,  has also contributed to the Institute.   The Institute's stated aim was "to stimulate study, debate, education and research into all aspects of human thought, behaviour and culture" and to make the results of its members' academic work accessible to society and also to academics working in different fields.   The body, which had a number of distinguished Fellows, published several dozen academic monographs and some books over the years   and held regular events.   These events usually included a series of six lectures by specialists per year, and a two-day seminar which is usually held in the Autumn. The aim of these was "to connect ideas across disciplines, across cultures, and even through history" and to bring about a broader, more holistic understanding by looking at issues from several different perspectives, with particular interest in human thought and behaviour and issues neglected by contemporary culture.   In addition, the Institute supported projects in areas where freedom of access to facts was threatened,  for example in the case of Afghanistan where assistance had been given to the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)'s female educational projects.  All the Institute for Cultural Research's activities were open to the general public.  The institute published so many monographs and hosted so many lectures and seminars that only a small sample of notable contributors are listed here.  Lecturers included: Monograph writers included: Books published by the ICR included Cultural Research   edited by the writer Tahir Shah, and Cultural Encounters: Essays on the interactions of diverse cultures now and in the past,   edited by Robert Cecil and David Wade. 