Non-governmental Nonprofit The Arab Forum for Environment and Development (AFED) (Arabic: المنتدى العربي للبيئة والتنمية‎) is a not-for-profit regional non-governmental organization, membership-based organization headquartered in Beirut, Lebanon, with the status of international organization; grouping experts together with the civil society, business community and media, to promote prudent environmental policies and programmes across the Arab region.  While it maintains its character as a non-governmental organization, AFED admits, in the capacity of observers, national, regional and international bodies working in the fields of environment and sustainable development. It has been endorsed by the League of Arab States (LAS) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). AFED was officially proclaimed in Beirut on 17 June 2006, at the conclusion of a regional conference on Public Opinion and the Environment, organized by Al-Bia Wal-Tanmia (Environment & Development magazine). The initiative, which started in 2001 by Al-Bia Wal-Tanmia publisher Najib Saab as an informal gathering of the magazine’s region-wide readers, was established as a regional organization on the occasion of its tenth anniversary. AFED has subsequently earned the status of international non-governmental organization, with the associated amenities for its secretariat based in Beirut. Al-Bia Wal-Tanmia magazine became an organ of AFED as of January 2013, after Saab turned it over to the pan-Arab organization. Since 2007, AFED has been a public forum for influential eco-advocates. During six years, it has become a major dynamic player in the environmental arena. AFED works towards bringing together all parties concerned with environment and development in the Arab world to discuss regional and national issues related to the environment, in view of local and global changes, emphasizing the pivotal role of civil society and the private sector. It groups regional environmental organizations and experts with leading academic institutions, media and the business community, on common debate grounds to further the cause of environment and sustainable development. The Forum, which cooperates with regional and international institutions, aims at spreading environmental awareness through promoting sensible information and education programmes, as well as supporting civil society organizations active in the environmental sector. AFED aims at encouraging Arab societies to protect the environment and use natural resources in a sensible manner resulting in sustainable development. An independent periodic report on the State of Arab Environment (SAE) is yearly produced by AFED, to be presented to the General Assembly of the Forum. The high-level annual forum is designed to attract participants from the private and public sectors, academia, experts, media and civil society. AFED works to achieve its goals through the following course: The Arab Forum for Environment and Development is governed by a Board of Trustees, representing environmental experts alongside business, media, and civil society leaders. The Board of Trustees elects an Executive Committee that includes a Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary General, Treasurer and members. It also appoints honorary members and an external auditor. It meets annually to decide on AFED policies, programs, and budget. The Executive Committee oversees the overall management of AFED, including programs and finance, and meets at least twice a year. Responsibility for the daily management of AFED lies with the Secretary General, assisted by a core secretariat. AFED funds come from: As a not-for-profit organization, any surplus capital is invested in new initiatives or existing programs. Prospective members and observers must submit their applications to AFED Executive Committee, which will consider each case according to the set criteria. Membership continues as long as a member meets the criteria and pays the annual dues. AFED membership is open to all those committed to the goals of sustainable development in Arab countries. The main requirement is acceptance and adoption of AFED mission statement, and commitment to help achieve AFED goals. AFED provides a platform to address and reach a wider audience, in public and private sectors, while allowing networking, exchange of expertise, and exposure to similar initiatives around the world. Working together in such a unique partnership allows members to advance their knowledge of emerging trends and business strategies, while serving a good social and environmental cause. In turn, these efforts will contribute to empowering Arab countries and societies to better tackle the challenges of an increasingly complex world, and embrace the transition to a green economy, that will lead to recession-proof growth, economic vitality, and welfare of Arab societies. AFED membership is institutional In five years, 110 institutional members joined AFED, including: 40 corporate members, 24 NGOs including one political Green party, 12 universities and research centers, 24 media organizations, and 10 government agencies as observers. Businesses active in the Arab region, which are willing to advocate, promote, and adopt policies of sustainable development. Broadcast and print media which commit to promoting public awareness of environmental issues and furthering of the AFED mission Representing grassroots leadership in mobilizing the public to support environmental causes, as well as advising and pressuring the public sector on these issues. Offering educational and research programs related to various aspects of environment and sustainable development. National, regional, and international governmental and inter-governmental bodies, whose mandates cover environment and sustainable development issues. AFED released seven reports covering environmental issues in the Arab world: AFED’s expert-written, policy oriented annual reports have become the main reference on the state of Arab environment. Findings and recommendations have been endorsed by national and regional bodies. Alongside the original Arabic and English editions, the reports were translated into other languages, including Japanese and Spanish. AFED’s reports can be downloaded from AFED website. The most recent AFED convention, held in Sharjah, UAE, in October 2013, brought together over 600 delegates from the public and private sectors, scientists, civil society and media, who engaged in an open debate on Sustainable Energy in the Arab region. The 2012 convention, in Beirut, tackled Survival Options and Ecological Footprint. The 2011 convention discussed Green Economy, while the 2010 convention debated AFED’s report Water: Sustainable Management of a Scarce Resource. The 2009 convention discussed the impact of climate change on Arab countries. The first 2008 convention in Bahrain tackled future environmental challenges. All AFED conventions issue recommendations for action, which are discussed with governments and other stakeholders, and in many cases have contributed to changes in national policies. AFED and ‘’Al-Bia Wal-Tanmia’’ (Environment and Development magazine) launched, in March 2013, the first comprehensive online environmental portal in Arabic, making over 35,000 pages of references freely available to readers and researchers. The domain includes a full archive of the magazine contents during the past 18 years. The website is updated daily with news, information and commentaries. The domain’s name www.afedmag.com (AFED magazine) reflects a new epoch of the magazine, which became an organ of AFED as of January 2013, after its publisher Najib Saab turned it over to the pan-Arab organization. AFED produced six documentaries. AFED continues to support the capacity building initiatives of its member NGOs, as well as its awareness campaigns, school competitions, and training of journalists. AFED has developed a comprehensive environmental education program, supported by a wide-ranging handbook. It provides all material needed to initiate environment activities at schools and incorporate environment in the curricula. Each of the 2 topics is supported by graphics, posters, documentaries, songs and plays, all available online. AFED program includes developing curricula at the national levels and teacher training workshops. In May 2009, AFED launched the Arab Green Economy Initiative (AGEI), designed to facilitate the transition of governments and businesses to more environment-friendly practices. The AGEI covers: Public Policy Recommendations, Economics of Eco-system Investing, Corporate Environmental Responsibility (CER), New Business Workshops, Sustainability Reporting, and Web-based Consumer Education. AFED carried out workshops for stakeholders in seven Arab countries to kick-start the AGEI program and select priorities. The 2011 AFED report Green Economy: Sustainable Transition in a Changing Arab World was one component of the initiative. Other components are 2 handbooks which AFED produced and are in use across the region, on: In January 2012, the UAE announced its national initiative «Green Economy for Sustainable Development”. AFED launched its Corporate Environmental Responsibility (CER) initiative in Abu Dhabi, on 29 November 2007, at the conclusion of the Arab CER Summit, organized by AFED and Environment Agency Abu Dhabi (EAD). Over 120 CEOs, representing major business sectors from across the Arab world, have committed to advance the principles of environmental responsibility and cleaner production, and set a target to reduce energy and water consumption by 20% in their operations by 2012. The CER program works with business enterprises to institutionalize environmental thinking and action in corporate decision making. It also aims at developing a comprehensible roadmap for navigating a transition to environmental responsibility, by integrating environmental goals more effectively into core business operations and strategy. AFED has contributed to over 200 regional and international meetings, reports and programs. Its reports, recommendations and initiatives have been discussed and considered at high-level regional and international meetings, including UNEP, the Council of Arab Ministers Responsible for Environment (CAMRE), the World Bank, ESCWA and ILO. AFED gained observer status with UNFCCC, UNEP and LAS. President, World Resources Institute (WRI) “I have seen many environmental organizations in my time and I think the combination that AFED brings is absolutely best practice. You bring a sharp pencil of analysis, together with the right mix of people: private sector, government, academic, civil society, financiers; because we need all hands on deck if we are going to solve the problem. This part of the world has given to all of us two extraordinary leaders in environment. One is Mustafa Kamal Tolba who was the executive director of UNEP and who has been a precursor in these events; and the other one is, Mohamed El-Ashry, who led GEF, the Global Environmental Facility, and who has been a leader in every thought process dealing with the transition to low carbon. It is not just a coincidence that both are AFED veterans.” Center for Near and Middle Eastern Studies (CNMS), The Philipp University of Marburg, Germany “AFED reports have been a valuable source of information and inspiration to my students when learning about the Arab region” Former President of Costa Rica and Chairman of the Carbon War Room “The report which has been put out by AFED constitutes a very good footprint for action. And action it is what we are convened to undertake in the world of today." Interested in joining regional efforts to save the environment in the Arab world? Anxious to lead the combat against environmental challenges threatening our security and hampering our socio-economic development? The Arab Forum for Environment and Development (AFED) offers you this opportunity! Join AFED to network and cooperate with business pioneers, public leaders, scientists, civil society organizations, and media from across the region, and contribute to the environmental decision making process and formulation of future strategies. 