A biodiversity hotspot is a biogeographic region with significant levels of biodiversity that is threatened with destruction. For example forests are considered as biodiversity hotspots. Norman Myers wrote about the concept in two articles in “The Environmentalist” (1988),  & 1990  revised after thorough analysis by Myers and others in “Hotspots: Earth’s Biologically Richest and Most Endangered Terrestrial Ecoregions”  and a paper published in the journal Nature.  To qualify as a biodiversity hotspot on Myers 2000 edition of the hotspot-map, a region must meet two strict criteria: it must contain at least 0.5% or 1,500 species of vascular plants as endemics, and it has to have lost at least 70% of its primary vegetation.  Around the world, 36 areas qualify under this definition.  These sites support nearly 60% of the world's plant, bird, mammal,  reptile, and amphibian species, with a very high share of those species as endemics. Only a small percentage of the total land area within biodiversity hotspots is now protected. Several international organizations are working in many ways to conserve biodiversity hotspots. By the influence of that the central government of india arrived a new authority named CAMPA(compensatorry afforestation fund management and planning authority) to control the destruction of forests and biological spots in india North and Central America The Caribbean South America  Europe Africa Central Asia South Asia South East Asia and Asia-Pacific East Asia West Asia Critiques of "Hotspots" The high profile of the biodiversity hotspots approach has resulted in some criticism. Papers such as Kareiva & Marvier (2003)   have argued that the biodiversity hotspots: A recent series of papers has pointed out that biodiversity hotspots (and many other priority region sets) do not address the concept of cost.  The purpose of biodiversity hotspots is not simply to identify regions that are of high biodiversity value, but to prioritize conservation spending. The regions identified include some in the developed world (e.g. the California Floristic Province), alongside others in the developing world (e.g. Madagascar). The cost of land is likely to vary between these regions by an order of magnitude or more, but the biodiversity hotspot designations do not consider the conservation importance of this difference. However, the available resources for conservation also tend to vary in this way. 