E3G (Third Generation Environmentalism) is a climate change think tank operating to accelerate a global transition to a low-carbon future. The organisation has staff based in Brussels, Berlin, London and Washington, D.C.. E3G has three co-founding directors, Nick Mabey who is also the current Chief Executive, Tom Burke CBE  who is the current Chairman and John Ashton CBE who was the first CEO.  The organisation works across a number of areas including climate diplomacy, energy, finance, cities, risk, efficiency and infrastructure. E3G was established in 2004, when it played a pivotal role in the successful diplomatic effort to get Russia to ratify the Kyoto Protocol. In 2006, E3G developed a political analysis called Europe in the World, looking at how the EU could best respond to the challenge of maintaining its prosperity and security in an interdependent world. E3G created the Transform UK coalition in 2009, serving as a cross-sector platform to drive green investment in the UK and spearhead the Green Investment Bank campaign. After much advocacy and analysis, the Green Investment Bank was finally created to support low carbon infrastructure. The bank was established in 2011 with £3 billion in initial equity, taking on full legal status in 2013. In 2010, together with partners, E3G developed and piloted the concept of Low Carbon Zones in China. This led to the Chinese government to establish 12 zones covering 350 million people. The groundbreaking Degrees of Risk report on climate risk management was published in 2011. The report went on to influence the US Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Taskforce. The Energy Bill Revolution was launched the following year in 2012.  The campaign set up a coalition of over 200 organisations calling on the  UK government to recycle carbon taxes to make all UK fuel poor homes super energy efficient. In the same year, E3G helped to launch the Norstec coalition, an industrial alliance working together on offshore renewable energy in Europe's North Sea. The North Sea Grid project is a great example of achieving power sector decarbonisation at the regional level. E3G marked its ten-year anniversary in 2014. In 2016 E3G was ranked the fifth most influential think tank in the world, third in Europe and number one in the UK by the University of Pennsylvania Global Go To Think Tank Index Report. 