Earthwatch Institute is an international environmental charity  founded as Educational Expeditions International in 1971 near Boston (USA) by Robert A. Citron and Clarence Truesdale, then superintendent of Vermont public schools.  It is one of the largest global underwriters of scientific field research in archaeology, paleontology, marine life, biodiversity, ecosystems and wildlife.   For over forty years, Earthwatch has delivered a unique citizen science model to raise funds and recruit individuals, students, teachers and corporate fellows  to participate in critical field research to understand nature's response to accelerating global change.   Earthwatch's work supports hundreds of Ph.D. researchers across dozens of countries, conducting over 100,000 hours of research annually. Earthwatch's mission statement is "to engage people worldwide in scientific field research  and education to promote the understanding and action necessary for a sustainable environment." Earthwatch Citizen Science Projects are peer-reviewed, Ph.D led scientific field research  which give everyday citizens the opportunity to join research teams around the world to collect field data in the areas such as wildlife conservation, rainforest ecology, marine science  and archaeology.  By paying to spend time on a project (ranging from a few days to several weeks), volunteers, corporations and foundations support the critical field research both financially and by providing manpower to collect data.  Participants gain first hand experience with science, the scientists and the research area of their projects.  Earthwatch headquarters are in Boston (Massachusetts), as well as offices in Oxford (England), Melbourne (Australia), Tokyo (Japan) and Hong Kong (China). Earthwatch was founded as Educational Expeditions International in 1971 near Boston (USA) by Robert A. Citron and Clarence Truesdale, then superintendent of Vermont public schools.  In 1972, Brian A.Rosborough joined Educational Expeditions International as a volunteer and six months later became full-time president of the newly named Earthwatch. Since 1971, the worldwide organization has recruited more than 110,000 volunteers who have joined scientists in the field as research assistants, and between them have contributed more than 11 million hours of their time to front-line environmental research all over the world. Earthwatch supports more than 50 vital research expeditions in nearly 40 counties. Earthwatch Australia is a partner in Bush Blitz, operated by Australian Biological Resources Study with co-funding by Bush Blitz founding partner BHP Billiton.  Earthwatch volunteers partner with leading scientists in the field to conduct valuable research across four vital areas: Current research expeditions being fielded by Earthwatch scientists and volunteers from around the world: Earthwatch has been successful in completing environmental scientific research throughout its history. Some recently completed research includes: 