The Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA) is a UK-based NGO founded in 1984 by Dave Currey, Jennifer Lonsdale and Allan Thornton, three environmental activists in the United Kingdom.  EIA investigates and campaigns against environmental crime and abuse. Its undercover investigations expose transnational wildlife crime, with a focus on elephants and tigers, and forest crimes such as illegal logging and deforestation for cash crops such as palm oil. It works to safeguard global marine ecosystems by addressing the threats posed by plastic pollution, bycatch and commercial exploitation of whales, dolphins and porpoises. Finally, it seeks to reduce the impact of climate change by campaigning to eliminate powerful refrigerant greenhouse gases, exposing related illicit trade and improving energy efficiency in the cooling sector. EIA uses its findings in hard-hitting reports to campaign for new legislation, improved governance and more effective enforcement. In addition, its field experience is used to provide guidance to enforcement agencies and it also forms partnerships with local groups and activists, support their work through hands-on training.  EIA's Climate work aims to tackle the pressing threat of climate change by eliminating powerful greenhouse gases used widely in the cooling sector, improving energy efficiency of replacement technologies and investigating the illicit trade in refrigerant greenhouse gases.  Key campaign areas include: EIA's Forests work aims to reduce global deforestation by advocating improved governance and trade laws, revealing the negative impacts of cash crops such as palm oil and exposing key criminal players in the transnational illegal trade in stolen timber.  Key campaign areas include: EIA's Ocean work aims to improve the status of marine wildlife and ecosystems by reducing threats posed by marine plastic pollution, bycatch and commercial exploitation of whales, dolphins and porpoises.  Key campaign areas include: EIA's Wildlife work aims to reduce wildlife crime around the world, advocating the dismantling of transnational criminal networks involved in illegal trade, pressing for better legislation and the closure of key markets, advocating improved enforcement techniques and exposing transnational organised criminal networks.  Key campaign areas include: In 1995, Independent Television Network (ITV) broadcast a TV series called The Animal Detectives in the UK.  The series commissioned by Carlton Television was produced by Goldhawk together with Ecodetectives, a company owned by directors of EIA.  The series, based on EIA's undercover investigation work into the trade in endangered species, showed footage from EIA's undercover filming.  The series had seven episodes, each covering a different group of animals- Episodes BEARS  (01/06/1995)  WHALES  (25/05/1995)  PARROTS  (18/05/1995)  WALRUS  (11/05/1995)  RHINOS  (04/05/1995)  TURTLES  (30/03/1995)  MONKEYS  (23/02/1995)  The series won the Media Natura award for best film, the Brigitte Bardot International Genesis Award (Los Angeles), and the Gold Plaque at the Chicago Documentary Film Festival.  