The International Network for Bamboo and Rattan (INBAR ) is an independent intergovernmental organization   established in 1997 to develop and promote innovative solutions to poverty and environmental sustainability using bamboo and rattan.  INBAR is a member of the Association of International Research and Development Centers for Agriculture (AIRCA). INBAR evolved from an informal network of bamboo and rattan researchers set up in 1984 by the International Development Research Centre (IDRC) of Canada. In 1993 the network was formalized under its present name but remained a project of IDRC. Work to launch INBAR as an independent organization started in 1995, and was completed in 1997 when INBAR became an independent organization with its headquarters in Beijing, China – the first intergovernmental organization to be headquartered in the People's Republic. Membership of INBAR is open to member states of the United Nations and to intergovernmental organizations. INBAR currently has 42 member countries. INBAR's supreme governing body is the Council of representatives of its member countries which meets biennially. The Board of Trustees is the second tier of governance, and develops appropriate policies, oversees management and ensures efficient operations at its annual meetings. The Director-General is a member of the Board of Trustees and is responsible for day-to-day running of the organization. The current Director General is Dr. Hans Friederich. INBAR's Headquarters is in Beijing, China and it has regional offices for South Asia (New Delhi, India), East Africa (Addis Ababa, Ethiopia), West Africa (Kumasi, Ghana) and Latin America and the Caribbean (Quito, Ecuador). INBAR is managed by its Executive Management team, which comprises the Director General, Deputy Director General, Treasurer, and the Director of Communications and Outreach, Membership, and programmes. INBAR works in partnership with other international and multilateral organizations to help build mutual capacity and increase the sustainability of the results of its work. Major international partners are the International Fund for Agricultural Development; the Common Fund for Commodities; the European Commission. Major bilateral partners are INBAR’s member country governments, including agencies such as the State Forestry Administration, China, and the International Development Research Centre, Canada. INBAR also partners with commercial companies such as Citi (China) to develop Public-Private Partnerships. INBAR works on field projects with a wide range of local and national organizations such as the Tripura Bamboo and Cane Development Centre (India), the Konkan Bamboo and Cane Development Centre (India), Forest Research Institute of Ghana, Kenya Forest Research Institute, Federal Micro and Small Enterprises Development Agency (FeMSEDA) (Ethiopia) CEDERENA (Ecuador), Sacha Urku (Ecuador), CIPAP (Peru), Hogar de Cristo (Ecuador), RECOFT, Nanjing Forestry University (China), and Mozbambu (Mozambique). INBAR aims to foster informed debate on matters that affect the development of bamboo and rattan in it member countries, and has been emphasizing support for appropriate policy development in its member countries and beyond. INBAR delivers a series of technical training and awareness courses each year and produces a wide-ranging series of online publications on a broad range of bamboo and rattan-related issues. Bamboo and rattan can help millions of poor rural and urban producers lift themselves out of poverty and thrive. Bamboo and rattan offer a unique suite of characteristics that place it at the forefront of natural resources that can develop lives and livelihoods. Rattan is a component of tropical forests and is rarely cultivated. Cultivation of bamboo is highly desirable as it increases yield and quality of the poles and shoots harvested:  