The International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) was founded in 2001 to improve sustainable development performance in the mining and metals industry. In 2001 the International Council on Mining and Metals were developed to bring many different mining companies together and increase performance measures and development in this sector. The ICMM's main goal is to create new opportunities in the mining sector, and overcome many challenges that will be presented in the future. ICMM are looking for ways to continually improve the sector and bring the many issues to the forefront to be resolved in the future. Another goal of ICMM is to work alongside all their shareholders and in turn create new and prosperous relationships with them. They feel that creating a identity with other companies and shareholders will boost there overall public image and help them meet their goals. The ICMM has developed 10 principles to which member companies must adhere. These considerations resulted from a survey of concerned parties both within and outside the council. They seek to comply and reinforce guidelines established by organizations including the OECD and the World Bank. The International Council on Mining and Metals has a list of core values that include;  ICMM are currently working on many programs and activities involving a broad number of companies and organizations. Currently they are dealing with a number of work programs, that involves climate change, socio-economic development, and heath and safety to name a few. These work programs help develop sustainable activities with the environment around them and are built around health and safety of people who are involved. These programs set new standards of communication between companies and will help with future development in the mining and material sector. Opening the door for new innovations and more sustainable work practices for everybody, and promote active participation with as many people as they can to further develop their company. ICMM is a well developed company who are involved with many projects and companies spanning around the world. Their ongoing success is due to the overall market coverage they have and they aim to continue and expand even more. There many projects around the world include North, South and Central America, Asia, Africa, Europe, and the Middle East.  According to data from 2013; ICMM operates in 59 countries and are responsible for a huge amount of global mineral production.  