One Percent for the Planet is an international organization whose members contribute at least one percent of their annual sales to environmental causes.   Their mission is to "build, support and activate an alliance of businesses financially committed to creating a healthy planet."   One Percent for the Planet members assist nonprofit organisations that protect land, forests, rivers, oceans and also encourage sustainable methods of energy production.  One Percent for the Planet was founded by Yvon Chouinard and Craig Mathews in 2002 to “encourage more businesses to donate 1% of sales to environmental groups”.   Yvon Chouinard is the founder of the Patagonia clothing company and Craig Mathews is the founder of Blue Ribbon Files.   The organisation now claims over 1200 members in 48 countries.  The first launch of the organization took place in San Francisco at the Patagonia store in 2002.   The second launch took place in Denver, Colorado at the “Fly Fishing Retailer show” in 2003.   In 2004, Brushfire Records and The Moonshine Conspiracy joined as the 50th members of the organisation.  Let My People Go Surfing was a book authored by Yvon Chouinard in 2005, and discusses the journey of One Percent for the Planet.   According to the organisation, 2005 ended with more than 200 company memberships within the organisation.  Making A Difference series hosted by NBC nightly news showcased One Percent for the Planet in 2006 and resulted in an additional 50 members, according to the organisation.   The organisation reached 1000 members in 2009.  In 2010, a digital music album titled 1% for the Planet, The Music, Vol.1 was released, featuring 40 artists.   The album was number one on Amazon’s MP3 chart and top-40 overall albums on iTunes.  A media partner program was created in 2011 consisting of “artists, athletes and activists” as ambassadors for the organisation.  In 2012, One Percent for Profit global network claims to have contributed more than $100 million “to environmental preservation”.   This year, the organisation created the “High Impact Partnerships” program which aims to enable companies and non governmental organisations “to identify issues where they share concern and collaborate to do more together than they can alone.”  1% of the sales of the member companies are directed to “sustainability-oriented nonprofits” that they choose to support.   One Percent for the Planet evaluates the “track record, credibility and impact”   of the nonprofit organisation and also verifies the contributions made by the member companies. The following “Issue Categories” are supported by the member companies: alternative transportation, climate change, energy and resource extraction, environmental education, environmental law and justice, environment and human health, food, land, pollution, water and wildlife.  One Percent for the Planet offers both corporate memberships and individual memberships.   The corporate membership allow companies to contribute 1% of their gross annual sales to non profit organisations that “focus on environmental causes”.  The Canadian Fair Trade Network joined One Percent for the Planet in 2014.  