Project Green Hands (PGH) is a grassroots ecological initiative established by Isha Foundation in the state of Tamil Nadu, India. The stated mission of the project is to plant 114 million trees throughout Tamil Nadu as soon as possible and increase the forest cover in the state to 33 percent.   Since its inception, Project Green Hands has organized the planting of 27 million trees by over 2 million people in over 1800 communities across Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.    PGH was launched during the World environmental week in June 2004 by Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev. PGH's first major mass tree planting marathon was held on October 17, 2006. The marathon was flagged off by Dr. M. Karunanidhi, the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, planting the first sapling at his Gopalapuram residence in Chennai  and it concluded with the final sapling being planted by His Excellency Surjit Singh Barnala, Governor of Tamil Nadu at Raj Bhavan.  The marathon resulted in 852,587 saplings being planted in 6284 locations across 27 districts in Tamil Nadu by over 256,289 volunteers in just three days. This event resulted in the setting of a Guinness World Record for the most trees planted in three days.    PGH has collaborated with companies such as The Yves Rocher Group which has been a partner of PGH since 2007. Rocher sponsored 1 million saplings in Tamil Nadu over a three-year period from 2007 to 2009.    PGH has also partnered with companies such as Standard Chartered and Scope International,   Suzlon, EADS,  and HPCL.  PGH has partnered with and conducted various tree planting drives and mass awareness campaigns across schools and colleges in the state of Tamil Nadu such as National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi,  Bharathidasan University,  Kumaraguru College of Technology   and Salem Government Arts College.  PGH has partnerships with The Tamil Nadu Organic Farmers Movement, LEISA – Low External Input and Sustainable Agriculture, a worldwide organization working for the promotion of organic farming, NAAM – National Agriculturist Awareness Movement, a national organization working to revive the farming community and discuss new farming methodologies, Tamilaga Iyarkai Uzavar Iyakkam and Joint Action for Sustainable Livelihood (JASuL). PGH has also established partnerships with NGOs involved in rural community development, such as the Eranda Foundation of the United Kingdom, King Lion Media, OAZONE and the Rotary Club of Coimbatore and the Rotary Club, Neyveli. In the targeted plantation zones, PGH gives paramount importance to beneficiary motivation. By including all beneficiaries in the process, instilling a strong sense of ownership and by building up a relationship between people and trees, PGH seeks to ensure the sustainability of the program. The involvement of women and children is also a cornerstone of PGH’s policies and child-focused group discussions held in rural areas are a valuable tool used by PGH.  Plant nurseries are a key component of the PGH strategy. PGH currently has over 400 nurseries throughout Tamil Nadu, many of which are the result of partnerships with other organizations.  Thirty six varieties of saplings including timber, fruit, fuel, fodder and medicinal plants are produced in these nurseries to suit different ecological zones.  In 2008, PGH established 3 centralized nurseries in Coimbatore, Salem and Gobichettipalayam, which utilize modern production technologies and skilled labour to produce saplings. Besides these, there are many regional nurseries which are fully sponsored by corporate entities, institutions, self-help groups or individuals. PGH has launched several initiatives to increase green cover in urban areas across Tamil Nadu. Tirupur was the first city in which such an initiative was launched. The Green Tirupur Movement was launched in Tirupur on August 23, 2009 by the Deputy Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, M. K. Stalin. The Movement began with an exhibition at the Town Hall leading to the inauguration of the planting celebration and was followed by the planting of over 25,000 saplings across the city.  The Green Karur Movement was launched on January 10, 2010, in the city of Karur. In the latter half of 2010, PGH launched a series of urban greening initiatives, beginning with the Green Madurai Campaign which was launched on September 26, in Madurai with the Mayor of Madurai G. Thenmozhi receiving the first sapling from Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev. A total of 20,000 saplings were distributed to members of the public to mark the launch.  This was followed by the launch of the Green Dindigul Campaign at Dindigul on October 1,  the Green Tiruchi Movement at Trichy on October 2  and the Green Thanjavur Campaign at Thanjavur on October 22.  PGH was awarded the Indira Gandhi Paryavaran Puraskar by the Government of India under the Organization category for the year 2008. The award was presented on World Environment Day, June 5, 2010, to the founder of PGH, Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev by the former President of India, Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam.       