 Save China's Tigers (SCT) is an international charitable foundation based in Hong Kong, the United States, and the United Kingdom (Office in London) which aims to save the big cats of China from extinction. It focuses on the Chinese tigers (South China tigers). It also has branches in Mainland China and South Africa. The organization's vision is to raise awareness of the plight of the Chinese tiger and to strive for its protection and preservation through public education, introduction and experimentation with advanced conservation models in China and abroad, and raising funds to support these initiatives. Another aim is to act as a liaison for all those organizations concerned with the conservation of China's wildlife, sustainable development, biodiversity and habitat. The purpose of Save China's Tigers is to reverse the fate of the South China tiger from the brink of extinction by taking them out of zoos, breeding them, letting them regain their hunting abilities, and reintroducing them back to China's wild.  The organization's stated goal is to save the South China tiger using this new method of rehabilitation and reintroduction. No captive-born large predators have ever been successfully reintroduced into the wild before.  It is an experiment to attempt to save a large carnivore by re-introducing them into the wild.  To achieve this goal, Save China's Tigers is using a combination of in-situ and ex-situ conservation. The organization is aiming to set a precedent for international wildlife conservation and for zoos throughout the world.  "Save China's Tigers" was founded in 2000 by  Li Quan, former fashion executive at Gucci, Benetton and Fila in Italy. When Li Quan realized the dire state of the South China tigers in the wild and saw the poor conditions in which captive South China tigers were living in China several years ago, she devoted herself to saving the tigers.  She established the charitable foundation Save China's Tigers in the UK in 2000, and subsequently in the United States (2002) and Hong Kong (2003). She engineered the Chinese Tiger Conservation Model after observing and analysing how wildlife conservation and eco-tourism have succeeded in Africa. In 2001, Li Quan proposed to China to use South African expertise to help China's Chinese Tiger Rehabilitation & Reintroduction project, which the Chinese started in the 1990s, and invited a South African Team to visit China.  To commemorate the 10th anniversary of their establishment, Save China's Tigers released a photo documentary book known as "Rewilded".  The word "rewilding" was coined by conservationist and activist Dave Foreman,  first occurring in print in 1990.  The concept was further defined and expanded by conservation biologists Michael Soulé and Reed Noss in a paper published in 1998.   According to Soulé and Noss, rewilding is a conservation method based on "cores, corridors, and carnivores."  The word was first independently used in 2003 by Gus Van Dyk in the concept of carnivore rewilding (having no prior knowledge of its meaning referred to by Foremen and Soule), conservationist and ex-carnivore manager of Pilanesberg National Park, in an effort to find the most appropriate translation of the Chinese term "野化". In order to be successfully reintroduced into a wild environment, tigers must know how to hunt prey and have to be able to defend themselves. Once in captivity, an animal will gradually lose its ability to survive in the wild, and will likely die if released. Thus Save China's Tigers started a rehabilitation programme to help captive tigers regain their survival skills. Rehabilitation steps taken by the project include feeding the tigers with carcasses of small game. Once the tigers are eating the new food items, live animals similar to those taken dead will be occasionally introduced into large hunting camps. The SPCA claimed that this process was cruel to the prey, but the courts refused to issue an interdict in terms of South African law.  There are plans to introduce larger games into larger camp like the blue wildebeest; the tigers have already been provided with wildebeest carcasses. The prey needed for wild training of the tigers do not have to be the same as those in the original food chain of the tigers, as once a tiger knows how to hunt wild animals of a given size, it should be able to transfer those skills to hunting in the wild. Ideally, a former zoo tiger which has been rewilded and reintroduced into a natural habitat will not only be able to survive in the wild, but pass necessary skills on to any offspring, thus contributing to the survival of the species. Save China's Tigers has also proved that not only zoo tigers can learn to hunt, they can also learn to hunt by themselves through the "adaptive process". The roles of humans are limited to that monitoring and providing a suitable environment. Results of a 2010 workshop attended by numerous international experts confirmed the important role of the South China Tiger Rewilding Project in tiger conservation. "Having seen the tigers hunting in an open environment at Laohu Valley Reserve, I believe that these rewilded tigers have the skill to hunt in any environment." Dr. David Smith remarked. As part of the rewilding process, the Save China's Tigers team has assisted in the recovery and rehabilitation of natural habitat both in China and in South Africa  The Laohu Valley Reserve (LVR) is a roughly 350 square kilometer private reserve near Philippolis in the Free State.  It has been created with the aims of rewilding captive-born South China tigers and for South African biodiversity conservation in general.  LVR was created in 2002 out of 17 defunct sheep farms,    and efforts to return the overgrazed land to natural status are ongoing.  The South China tigers at LVR for rewilding are kept confined to a tiger-proof camp complex of roughly 1.8 square kilometers, with other areas of the reserve being used to protect native South African species.  The word "laohu" is a Chinese term for tiger.  Li Quan persuaded the Chinese government to allow her to bring several captive South China tigers to Africa, where they can start their rewilding training. To date, five South China tigers have left the zoos of China and been sent to South Africa for re-wilding training. These tigers include: The breeding program has successfully produced several tiger cubs, including: On August 29th 2013, The Save China's Tigers Project welcomed its first third generation female cub, born to Princess and Huloo. In April 2014 Madonna gave birth to three cubs, two females and one male. The father of the cubs is Tigerwoods.  Recently in November 20th 2015, two new South China tiger cubs have been born at Laohu Valley. The mother is Cathay and the father is King Henry. With the birth of these cubs, 20 South China tigers in total are in the care of Save China's Tigers within the Laohu Valley Reserve – more than 20% of the world population of the world's most critically endangered tiger.  However, a year later in February 2016, one of two South China tiger cubs recently born in late 2015 died, leaving 19 South China tigers in the reserve.  At some point in that year, the South China tigers made a quick recovery with the birth of 6 healthy cubs at Laohu Valley Reserve, most of which are confirmed to be males. Three cubs were born to Madonna; Hunter, Ivan, and Jay. Two cubs to Cathay: Felix and Gilbert. And one cub to Princess known as K, however the cub's gender has yet to be determined.  A large difficulty faced by the project is the limited gene pool for South China tigers – all of the South China tigers in Chinese zoos are descended from only 6 individuals caught in the 1950s.  Since these tigers in captivity have been reproducing with close relatives, the quality of their genes is deteriorating. The project plans to improve living conditions and breed them scientifically – to this end a breeding centre, the David Tang Tiger Breeding Center, has been constructed at the Laohu Valley Reserve. Mainstream conservationists, however, are not impressed. The WWF says that the money is being spent in the wrong place and that the Amur tiger has a better chance of survival.  The biggest obstacles are from man-made resistance,  some organizations in China or from abroad kept raising objections and condemn the strategy used to save the tigers, telling the organization to give up. To SCT, these obstacles make the tiger salvation program even tougher. Proponents of the Chinese Tiger Project argue that the South China tiger is not only the most ancient tiger species in the world from which all other tiger subspecies are derived, it has been a cultural symbol of China for eight thousand years, so that saving it from the brink of extinction would have a great cultural impact. Since 2001, Save China's Tigers South African team has been working with the Chinese State Forestry Administration to identify locations for the reintroduction of the rewilded South China tigers. Nine sites from four provinces were surveyed using 36 ecological parameters. Two candidate sites were selected in Jiangxi and Hunan province in early 2005, both of which were approved by the State Forestry Administration by the end of 2005.  Due to the progress of Save China's Tigers rewilding project, the Chinese authorities also decided to look for sites within the nature reserves where there would be fewer human population relocation issues.  In early 2010, a government scientific team identified an interim test site and three final sites, which are now awaiting approval from the relevant central government department.  Save China's Tigers' scientific team is assisting Chinese authorities with fencing technology, re-stocking prey, and building tiger and wildlife management  expertise. Save China's Tigers, a charitable foundation funding pioneering work with the South China tiger, has broadened its scope of conservation goals from tigers to include all wild cats around the world. On 7 August 2009, it launched the "Wildcat Fund" to encourage and support wild cat research, conservation, and reintroduction efforts for highly endangered and vulnerable wild cats.  Historically, funding in wild cat conservation has favoured the large, charismatic species. While giving priorities to cat species having the IUCN endangered status or above, the Wildcat Fund encourages projects conducting pioneering biological and ecological research of little known cat species in an effort to increase understanding of these species and help design improved conservation techniques.  In 2013, Li accused her former husband Stuart Bray of using charitable funds for personal expenses.  