The Wildlife Conservation Network (WCN) is a United States-based 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that partners with conservationists from around the world and is dedicated to developing community-based projects that help wildlife and people co-exist.  WCN does this by providing its partners with capital, strategic capacity-building services, training, and operational support. WCN has been given a number one rating amongst wildlife conservation charities, with four stars and a perfect 100 score, on Charity Navigator.  Founded in 2002, Wildlife Conservation Network was built on a venture capital fundraising model to identify high-potential conservationists and projects and give them the support they need to effectively run their programs.  Wildlife Conservation Network forms partnerships with a select number of field-based conservation projects committed to protecting endangered wildlife. WCN limits its partnerships to projects that are beyond the start-up phase and usually with an organizational budget below  $250 thousand.  Partners as of 2017 include: WCN hosts an annual event, the Wildlife Conservation Expo, in the San Francisco Bay Area that brings together donors, partners, other conservationists and experts from around the world.  Notable keynote speakers have included Dr. Jane Goodall,  Dr. Iain Douglas-Hamilton,  Peter Matthiessen  Dr. Claudio Sillero-Zubiri  and Dr. Greg Rasmussen.  The annual Expo also features WCN's partners, who share information and updates on their respective projects. Other past non-partner guest speakers have included William Robichaud representing the Saola Working Group  In partnership with Save the Elephants and supported by the Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation, WCN began the Elephant Crisis Fund to address the current wave of elephant poaching that is devastating Africa’s elephant population. The fund identifies and supports the most urgent projects that address poaching, ivory trafficking, and demand for ivory. Funded organizations include Wildlife Conservation Society, World Wildlife Fund, Tsavo Trust, and Wildlife Direct, among many others. 100% of the Elephant Crisis Fund’s money is used for on-the-ground conservation actions.  Since 2006, WCN has supported graduate students aspiring to become wildlife conservationists through a scholarship program. The program focuses on students committed to working on projects in their home countries where conservation efforts are needed.  In 2005, WCN started providing solar electric systems such as solar water pumps, cookers, lighting, hot water and water purification systems to its partner projects in South America, Africa and Asia.  