Suwanna Gauntlett, founder and Chief Executive Officer Nick Marx, Care for Rescued Wildlife Director Wildlife Alliance is an international non-profit wildlife and forest conservation organization with current programs and partnerships in Cambodia. It is headquartered in New York City, with offices in Phnom Penh. The logo of the organization is the Asian elephant, an emblematic species of Southeast Asia and the namesake for the organization's programs in the Southwest Elephant Corridor of the Cardamom Mountains of Cambodia. Wildlife Alliance's major ongoing programs are: Wildlife Alliance is the leader in direct protection in forests and wildlife in tropical Asia. Our mission is to combat deforestation, biodiversity loss, climate change, and poverty by partnering with local communities and governments. Suwanna Gauntlett is the founder and CEO of Wildlife Alliance and one of the original founders of WildAid.  The organization is governed by a volunteer Board of Directors, and a volunteer International Advisory Board provides guidance on strategy, fundraising, and outreach. The organization has conducted fieldwork in Asia in cooperation with Fauna and Flora International, Conservation International, Traffic (conservation programme), and other international conservation organizations. They are also a partnered with the FREELAND Foundation and the Russian Phoenix Fund.  Wildlife Alliance is also a member of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Wildlife Enforcement Network, Global Sustainable Tourism Council, Wildlife Conservation Network and the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Wildlife Alliance has also partnered with Absolute Travel to bring a meaningful, customized, luxury travel experience to the Southern Cardamom Mountains Wildlife Alliance was founded in 1994 by a group of American and British conservationists under the name Global Survival Network, and reorganized in 1999 as WildAid. The organization restructured itself again in 2006, dividing the organization's programs between two organizations - a new separate WildAid conducting the Active Conservation Awareness Program, Shark Conservation, and Galapagos Islands programs and Wildlife Alliance conducting field operations in Southeast Asia and Russia. 