 International education refers to a dynamic concept that involves a journey or movement of people, minds, or ideas across political and cultural frontiers.  It is facilitated by the globalization phenomenon, which increasingly erases the constraints of geography on economic, social and cultural arrangements.   The concept involves a broad range of learning, covering, for instance, formal education and informal learning (e.g. training, exchange programs, cross-cultural communication).  It could also involve a reorientation of academic outlook such as the pursuit of “worldmindedness” as a goal so that a school or its academic focus is considered international.  For example, the National Association of State Universities prescribes the adoption of "proper education" that reflects the full range of international, social, political, cultural, and economic dialogue.  The emergence of international education as a discipline may be attributed to the international and intercontinental initiatives of the past, which aimed to achieve education, learning, and intellectual exchange. This is demonstrated in the formalized academic relations between countries in the form of bilateral and scientific agreements.  Here, international education is considered a mechanism of international cooperation and, in some cases, it stems from the recognition that different cultures offer different outlooks and styles of learning and teaching in addition to the transfer of knowledge.    There are scholars who associate the development of international education with comparative education,   which is concerned with the evaluation and scrutiny of different educational systems in various countries for the purpose of developing an education and educational structures that are global in scope and application. This concept is considered ancient, having been used in classical Greece, while the actual term was first used by William Russell in 1826.  International education diverged from it as it assumed the form of more organized programs that bring together learners and teachers from different countries to learn from each other.  Based on student engagement and involvement, two general meanings emerge. The first refers to education that transcends national borders through the exchange of people. A good example would be students traveling to study at an international branch campus, as part of a study abroad program or as part of a student exchange program.[according to whom?] The second is a comprehensive approach to education that intentionally prepares students to be active and engaged participants in an interconnected world.[according to whom?] The International Baccalaureate however, defines the term according to a certain criteria. This criteria include the development of citizens of the world in accordance with culture, language, and social cohesion, building a sense of identity and cultural awareness, encrypting recognition and development of universal human values, encouraging discovery and enjoyment of learning, equipping students with collectivist or individualistic skills and knowledge that can be applied broadly, fostering global thinking when responding to local situations, encourage diversity and flexibility in teaching pedagogic methodologies, and supply appropriate forms of assessment and international benchmarking.  While definitions vary, international education is generally taken[by whom?] to include: One of the eight millennium development goals ratified in the United Nations in the year 2000, focuses on achieving universal primary education .[non sequitur] Other mentions of education in regard to  international development:[relevant?  – discuss] Education For All (EFA):  An international strategy to operationalise the Dakar Framework for Action; The World Education Forum (Dakar 2000) agreed to reach 6 goals by 2015: The UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005–2014)  highlighted the central role of education in the pursuit of sustainable development. [relevant?  – discuss] See also Comparative education; and Liberalism, Realism, Power Transition Theory, International Development, as focus areas that provide insight into international phenomena relevant to "International Education." There are different lenses international education can be viewed as. For example, thinking of international education in terms of a study abroad program that can help prepare students when looking for international occupations. Another example can be that international development is a focal point that is taught in colleges and universities under the umbrella of international education. Although very successful programs such as Engineers Without Borders[examples  needed] enable students in one country to obtain an international education while working on open source appropriate technology projects abroad, the cost of this approach can be prohibitive for large scale replication. Recent, work has shown that using a virtual educational exchange, can have many of the positive benefits associated with international education and cross cultural experiences, without the prohibitive costs of overseas programs.  International Education Week is held in the United States by the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Department of Education.  The choice of week for celebration is determined at each institution, but is generally the week before the week that includes U.S. Thanksgiving: November 13–17, 2017; November 12–16, 2018; November 18–22, 2019; November 16–20, 2020.   The aims of this event are to provide an opportunity to celebrate the benefits of international education and global exchange.This joint initiative promotes programs that prepare Americans for a global milieu and attract future leaders from abroad to study, learn and exchange experiences in the U.S. This shows how International education is not just about physically crossing borders, but is also about thinking globally in local situations.  Schools throughout the US celebrate this week through on-campus and off-campus events.   International education has a somewhat unusual position in higher education.[according to whom?] While recognized as an important sphere of activity, it tends to be handled by administrative offices at the top of departments of languages and literature and international affairs. The scholars involved in international education usually have their primary involvement in other teaching and research.[according to whom?] This leads to four distinctive characteristics particular to the field of international education:  Additionally, one of the challenges of international students is that increasingly higher education institutions are treating them as cash cows[buzzword] for meeting their budget challenges. Institutions must do more to support international students in their academic and career success by providing advising, training and coaching that is culturally attuned.  