 Eragrostis abyssinica (Jacq.) Link Eragrostis tef, also known as teff, Williams' lovegrass or annual bunch grass, is an annual grass, a species of lovegrass native to Ethiopia and Eritrea. [self-published source] It is raised for its edible seeds, also known as teff. It is also occasionally known by the native names taf (Tigrinya: ጣፍ ṭaff; Amharic: ጤፍ ṭēff) and xaafii (Oromo). Teff has an attractive nutrition profile, being high in dietary fiber and iron and providing protein and calcium.  It is similar to millet and quinoa in cooking, but the seed is much smaller and cooks faster, thus using less fuel. Teff is adapted to environments ranging from drought stress to waterlogged soil conditions. Maximum teff production occurs at altitudes of 1,800 to 2,100 m (5,900 to 6,900 ft), growing season rainfall of 450 to 550 mm (18 to 22 in), and a temperature range of 10 to 27 °C (50 to 81 °F). Teff is daylight-sensitive and flowers best with 12 hours of daylight. Teff is an important food grain in Ethiopia and Eritrea, where it is used to make injera or keyta, and less so in India and Australia. It is now raised in the US, in Idaho and Nevada. In addition to people from traditional teff-consuming countries, customers include those on gluten-restricted diets.  Because of its small seeds (less than 1 mm diameter), a handful is enough to sow a large area. This property makes teff particularly suited to a seminomadic lifestyle. Ethiopia had a long-standing ban in effect on the export of teff grain or flour from the country prompted by increasing grain prices.  In 2015, that ban was lifted after the introduction of farming techniques which improved yields by 40%.  Teff was one of the earliest plants domesticated.  Teff is believed to have originated in Ethiopia between 4000 BC and 1000 BC. Genetic evidence points to E. pilosa as the most likely wild ancestor.  A 19th-century identification of teff seeds from an ancient Egyptian site is now considered doubtful; the seeds in question (no longer available for study) are more likely of E. aegyptiaca, a common wild grass in Egypt.  Teff is noted for its high quality and high yield, when compared to other forage rotations.  It is also known as an "emergency crop" because it is planted late in the spring when the growing season is warmer, and most other crops have already been planted. It does not tolerate any type of frost.  The first draft of the Eragrostis tef genome was published in 2014.  In 1996, the US National Research Council characterized teff as having the "potential to improve nutrition, boost food security, foster rural development and support sustainable landcare."  Teff has been widely cultivated and used in Ethiopia and neighboring countries, accounting for about a quarter of total cereal production in Ethiopia.  Teff is a main ingredient for preparing injera, a sourdough-risen flatbread.  Teff is high in protein, carbohydrates and fiber.  In one study in Ethiopia, farmers indicated a preference among consumers for white teff over darker colored varieties.  As a nutritious fodder, teff is used to feed ruminants in Ethiopia  and horses in the United States.  Teff is also valued for its fine straw, which is traditionally mixed with mud for building purposes. A broad patent on many aspects of the use and processing of teff and teff flour has been granted in 2007 by the European Patent Office (EPO) to a Dutch company.  This patent is considered unfair   and is being contested since 2014 or earlier.   There has also been a patent application in the U.S. regarding the processing of teff flour.  Cooked teff is 75% water, 20% carbohydrates, 4% protein, and less than 1% fat (table). In a 100 gram amount, cooked teff provides 101 Calories, is a rich source of manganese, and contains moderate content of thiamin, phosphorus, iron, magnesium, and zinc. 