Wufeng Lin Family Mansion and Garden (Chinese: 霧峰林家宅園; pinyin: Wùfēng Lín Jiāzhái Yuán) is the general name for the former residence and grounds of the Wufeng Lin family (zh) at its ancestral home in Wufeng District, Taichung, Taiwan. Owing to the great size of the Lin family clan, the site can be divided into two branches, the Upper (頂厝) and Lower (下厝) Houses. Because of this, the mansion's scope of distribution is considerably vast. The section constructed by Lin Wenqin (zh) of the Upper House (萊園; Laiyuan), it is commonly known to local residents as The Lin Family Gardens (林家花園).  This section is commonly known as the Lin Family Gardens. The Ten Scenes of Laiyuan (萊園十景), along with Tainan Wu Garden, Hsinchu Beiguo Garden (新竹北郭園), and Banqiao Lin Family Mansion and Garden, are collectively known as The Four Great Gardens of Taiwan (台灣四大名園). In 1893 (Guangxu 19), Lin Wenqin, having passed the County Examination, constructed Laiyuan on the foothills of Wufeng, and offered performances for the diversion of his mother, Madame Luo (羅太夫人). The name of the gardens derives from the story of the filial Old Master Lai (老萊子), who even after reaching 70 years of age, would still dress in gaudy clothing and entertain his elderly parents (彩衣娛親). Liang Qichao, during his 1911 stay in Taiwan, composed 20 poems extolling the scenery at Laiyuan, which would late become known as "Twenty Quatrains on Historic Laiyuan" (萊園名勝十二絕句). Laiyuan now serves as the campus of Taichung Ming Tai High School (臺中市私立明台高級中學). The Lin Family Residence, after having suffered through the 921 earthquake, was under the financial support of the Executive Yuan's 921 Rebuilding Committee (行政院九二一重建委員會), the Taichung County Cultural Bureau (already in conjunction with the Taichung Municipal Cultural Bureau) are currently finished with restoration and reconstructive work in five areas, respectively the Upper House's Tower of Prospective Fragrance (work completed) and Nourishment Orchard (already open), and the Lower House's Large Flower Hall (work completed), Residence of the Palace Guard (work completed), and the Two-roomed House (work completed). Work is currently undertaking on the restoration and reconstruction of the Upper House's Hibiscus-mirror Studio, the Lower House's Grass House, and Laiyuan's Five-Cassia Tower. Coordinates: 24°03′51″N 120°42′03″E﻿ / ﻿24.06417°N 120.70083°E﻿ / 24.06417; 120.70083 