Three lives. Three destinies. Three eras. "Karmic Debts" is a 2013 novel, the eight book by the Estonian author Inga Raitar.  It consists of three entwined stories that takes the readers to a journey from a secluded Tibetan Monastery in the 16th century, through the Great Famine in the 1800s, all the way to present day.   The karmic threads start to twist and intertwine between the stories leaving you questioning - why does the fateful karma interfere with our lives and how far does it reach? How do we end up in the relationships that we have? What is the thing bringing them forward? The book was translated to English in 2017, and can be found as a Kindle e-book.  It would appear as if there are three distinct tales unraveling in this novel – one taking place long ago in a Tibetan monastery, another during the Great Famine in Ireland and the third somewhere in the present day. The book is presented by the main characters point of view and the stories are linked to one another in a way that makes it seem, as if time does not flow in a linear way.  In each story, the characters are looking for answers to questions about real love, and how or why does it come to our life? Why do you feel at times that you have known certain people for a lifetime before you even really meet? . The book was originally published as a series of short-stories in the Estonian biggest women's magazine "Naised", but it was never finished. The author wanted to add an extra dimension to the story and stopped writing to the magazine each month. Karmic Debts" is a romantic love story and, at the same time, an exciting fantasy tale about the mysterious strings of karma that are hidden behind all of our relationships. Iris, a young and successful woman, meets a stranger on a business trip, who is far from her “type”. Nonetheless, a spark ignites that turns her life as she knows it, upside down. The beautiful bastard daughter of an Irish lord, Irene, falls in love with a poor farmers boy. This will determine the life of the whole village and set her fate. A devotee named Ikaro bears witness to his best friend’s foul secret. The boy must choose, whether to betray everything he believes holy or acknowledge what he truly wants.  