  Verrückt (German for crazy or insane) was a water slide at the Schlitterbahn Kansas City water park. At 168 feet 7 inches (51.38 m), the slide became the world's tallest water slide when it opened in 2014, surpassing the Kilimanjaro at Aldeia das Águas Park Resort.    Following a fatal accident involving a 10-year-old boy in 2016, the ride was closed permanently after two years of operating, and criminal charges led to the arrests of several individuals who designed and operated the slide, including the park's owner and a co-designer of the ride. In November 2012, owners of Schlitterbahn Kansas City announced plans for the creation of the world's tallest and fastest water slide, with it opening during their Summer season in 2013.  No name was given during the announcement, while specifications on the height of the ride were kept secret in order to ensure that the completed ride would set a world record for its creation.  The plans for the water slide were conceived as a spur of the moment idea by Schlitterbahn co-owner Jeff Henry, after he was asked by a team working on Travel Channel's Xtreme Waterparks what he was working on while attending a trade show.  After initial attempts to pitch the idea to vendors at the show failed,  Henry decided to build the slide himself,  with assistance on the design provided by ride designer John Schooley.  In November 2013, the ride was officially named Verrückt, the German word for crazy or insane, with the opening date pushed back until the start of the park's 2014 season.   When the park opened, delays in construction and testing of the ride led to its opening date being pushed back to June 5,  and then June 29, after the lower portion of the ride was rebuilt, to coincide with a television special about the ride;  the park later cancelled this opening date and two days of media previews following further delays with the ride.  The ride was eventually completed and officially opened on July 10, 2014.  Following its opening, Verrückt was voted the world's "Best New Waterpark Ride" at the 2014 Golden Ticket Awards.  Verrückt was designed to consist of two drops, the initial being a 17-story plunge, with a five-story uphill mid-section.  The ride was designed to accommodate the use of three-person rafts, each weighing 100 pounds (45 kg) and carried up by conveyor to the top of the slide, while riders were required to climb 264 steps to reach the top.  As part of the operations for the slide, to ensure rafts did not fly off the ride, riders were to be kept in groups and weighed both at the bottom and top of the slide, with it required that no single person weighed over 300 pounds (140 kg), and the group's combined weight was between 400 pounds (180 kg) and 550 pounds (250 kg).   The starting point of the ride, at 168 feet (51 m), was taller than either Niagara Falls or the foot-to-torch portion of the Statue of Liberty.  As it was beyond the 120 feet (37 m) that zoning codes permitted, the design required  a variance (the height was increased from its initial plan of 148 feet (45 m), which was also above the limit).  After the announcement of the ride's height and the certification of its world record on April 25, 2014, Schlitterbahn tore down most of the lower part of the ride, in order to rebuild and re-engineer it after sandbags were seen flying off the ride during testing. As a result, the second drop was changed from 45 degrees to 22 degrees, an extra 5 feet (1.5 m) was added to the uphill portion of the ride to slow down rafts,   and a series of metal hoops and netting supported by them were added into areas where rafts had flown off in early testing.  On August 7, 2016, Caleb Schwab, the 10-year-old son of Kansas state representative Scott Schwab, died while riding Verrückt. The death occurred when the raft he was in went airborne and impacted a metal support of the netting, decapitating the child.   The accident also resulted in two women passengers receiving serious injuries — one suffered a broken jaw, while the other suffered fractures in their face that required stitches. In the aftermath of the accident, the park was closed pending an inspection;   while it reopened three days later on August 10, the ride was closed indefinitely.    The investigation into the accident later uncovered several factors that were at fault. The first fault found by authorities was that the boy, who weighed 74 pounds (34 kg), had been allowed to sit in the front of the raft, rather than between the two women accompanying him — one weighed 275 pounds (125 kg), while the other weighed 197 pounds (89 kg), leading the raft's cumulative weight to be around 546 pounds (248 kg), just under the maximum recommended weight of 550 pounds (250 kg). As a direct result, the raft had an uneven weight distribution that contributed to it going airborne.  The second fault was found by engineers who inspected the ride. Comments made in their report found that the netting used in the ride's design, in areas where riders were travelling at around 70 miles per hour (110 km/h), "posed its own hazard because a rider moving at high speeds could easily lose a limb if they hit it".  Their findings revealed that the use of the metal brace and netting system in the design,  along with the use of hook and loop straps to restrain the riders,  went against guidelines set by ASTM F-24 Committee on Amusement Ride and Devices.  According to the guidelines, Verrückt should have incorporated the use of a rigid over-the-shoulder restraint for riders,  and an upstop mechanism to prevent the rafts from going airborne.   On March 23, 2018, a grand jury issued an indictment against Schlitterbahn and Tyler Austin Miles, former director of operations, charging them with involuntary manslaughter, aggravated battery, aggravated child endangerment, and interference with law enforcement.    The indictment accused the park of negligence, concealing design flaws, and downplaying the severity of previous injuries reported on the ride.   Three days later, on March 26, Jeff Henry was arrested in Cameron County, Texas, in connection with the incident.  A day later, on March 27, the Kansas Attorney General's office released a new indictment against Henry, co-designer John Schooley, and Henry & Sons Construction Company — privately-owned by Schlitterbahn — charging them with second-degree murder in addition to 17 other felonies.     Schooley was arrested at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport after returning from a trip to China on April 2, 2018.  The 2018 indictment against Schlitterbahn wrote that Henry and Schooley "lacked technical expertise to design a properly functioning water slide" and did not perform standard engineering procedures or calculations on how the slide would operate.   Instead they used "crude trial-and-error methods" to test its performance, out of haste to launch the ride.  According to court documents, Schooley conceded that “If we actually knew how to do this, and it could be done that easily, it wouldn’t be that spectacular.”  Prior to the August 7th, 2016 death of Caleb Schwab, several Schlitterbahn guests had been injured by riding Verrückt. Of those thirteen documented injuries, eleven had injured the head or neck of the victims. According to the indictment against Tyler Austin Miles and Schlitterbahn Waterpark, "These injuries were caused by airborne rafts or other aspects of Verrückt's flawed design, such as problems with the raft design and violent collisions with the concrete wall at the end of the runout pool."   The first victim was a fourteen-year old girl who suffered from whiplash after the raft decelerated too quickly when entering the runout pool. A later visit to the emergency room confirmed that she suffered a concussion while on the ride. In June 2015, a female guest was thrown from her raft while riding Verrückt after her safety restraint became undone, and the resulting injuries caused chronic back pain. A month later, a fifteen-year old girl suffered sharp neck pain, temporary blindness, and memory loss after her raft on Verrückt suddenly started moving while employees were repairing the ride, causing her head to slam against the raft's head rest two times. Later that month, a male guest's neck was injured by the rough landing of his raft on the ride. Two days later a female guest experienced whiplash while on Verrückt.  Later, in August 2015, a female rider was injured on the ride. She claims to have seen rafts repaired with duct tape, which was also noticed by several others injured on the ride. A male guest rode Verrückt in June 2016, which caused his right eye to temporarily swell shut after his head made contact with one of the overhead hoops that holds up netting along the track. Another male guest broke several toes on the ride after his safety restraint became undone after the ride started. He used his feet to try and hold onto the ride, for fear of being ejected from the raft. In July 2016 a seventeen-year old girl was injured after her head slammed into her knees due to the stopping force of the ride. A male guest suffered from serious and chronic neck pain after experiencing three herniated spinal disks as a result of riding Verrückt.  On November 22, 2016, Schlitterbahn announced that Verrückt would be demolished following the closure of a criminal investigation.   On July 12, 2018, the park announced that a plan for disassembling the ride was approved by a judge. The disassembly was planned to start shortly after Labor Day and take about 3 weeks to complete.    In August 2018, attorneys for the park announced that the demolition of the structure was on hold due to ongoing discussions concerning preservation of evidence to be used in multiple court cases filed after Schwab's death.  