Braal is a fictional planet in the DC Comics universe. It is the homeworld of a race of magnetism manipulators. Its most famous resident is Cosmic Boy, a DC Comics' superhero and founding member of the Legion of Super-Heroes.  It was also home to his brother Pol, who later joined the Legion as Magnetic Kid, and in the post-Zero Hour continuity is the home planet of Dyrk Magz, a.k.a. Magno.  Braal was first mentioned in Adventure Comics #247 (April 1958). Some history of the planet Braal is given in Adventure Comics #352 (January 1967).  Along with its humanoid natives, Braal is inhabited with several species of animals made of living metal.  Some of these metal animals are dangerous and often attack the human settlements.  The natives of Braal evolved the magnetic abilities that give them a defense against the metal monsters. About the time Cosmic Boy is 14, Braal suffers a planet-wide depression.  As the age of adulthood on Braal is 14, Rokk Krinn (as Cosmic Boy was then known) leaves his home planet to seek work on the planet Earth.  During his trip he meets Garth Ranzz and Imra Ardeen, the other two founding members of the Legion of Super-Heroes. Braal's history is modified for the v4/"Five Year Gap" Legion stories.  Never a prosperous planet, Braal is devastated by the economic collapse of the United Planets.  Braal enters into a war with Imsk, and is thrashed when the Imskians deploys a weapon which turns Braalian magnetic abilities against them, at the battle of Venado Bay.  Those who get a partial dose are merely knocked out and lose their magnetic abilities.  Those who get a full dose are torn apart by their own magnetic powers.  After being defeated, Braal is occupied by Imsk, which keeps a sizable garrison on the planet to control it. Braal's history is modified again after the events of Zero Hour.  Braal is still an ecomically depressed world, but is now involved in a war with Titan, the moon of Saturn.  The planet's major source of pride is Magnoball, the most popular sport on Braal.  It involving an iron ball which is manipulated by Braalians to score goals.  Prior to founding the legion, Cosmic Boy was a champion Magnoball player.  While visit Earth on a tour of the United Planets, Cosmic Boy, along with Garth Ranzz and Imra Ardeen help prevent the murder of billionaire R.J. Brande.  