Markovia is a fictional nation in the DC Comics Universe, first seen in The Brave and the Bold #200 (July 1983).  Markovia is a small country in Europe, ruled by the Markov family. The capital and only major city of Markovia is Markovburg.   Markovia suffered a Nazi invasion during World War II. In the same period, the commando team known as the Losers died defending Markovia from a cosmic threat.  The King of Markovia had two sons, Gregor and Brion, and an illegitimate daughter, Terra. To avoid a scandal, the King quietly sent Terra to the United States. Her mother is unknown (to the readers). Later, during the time Prince Brion operates as Geo-Force, the country was invaded by the Soviet Armed Forces, in an operation overseen by the Bad Samaritan, backed up by the villains Masters of Disaster and led by Baron Bedlam. This particular invasion was beaten back with the assistance of the Outsiders, only for the country to suffer a far worse invasion years later. A vampiric invasion, led by a vampire known as Roderick, slowly takes over the country. The Queen is murdered in a method that frames Brion, and the country suffers for some time. Again, the Outsiders help repel the invaders. While Terra was taken in by the Teen Titans, Markovia fell into the hands of the revolutionaries and was finally absorbed into the Soviet Union. The Outsiders are seen again helping to protect Markovia in the limited series Day of Judgment. This time it is from an invasion of demons, a situation most of the world is undergoing. Other heroes stop the demons at their source. As detailed in Detective Comics #829–830, Markovia is in a state of war with the newly formed Republic of Jalib. However, representatives do attend a Bruce Wayne-sponsored peace talk. Markovia is often depicted as an authoritarian country with a secret police. Prior to its annexation by the Soviets, Western countries and a number of other anti-communist regimes, such as South Africa's apartheid government, had supplied the Markovian military with arms.  The Markovian language appears to be based on German.  An independent terrorist organization called 'Kobra' invades Markovia, conquering part of it. The Justice League associate called 'Katana' become involved in this incident when she tries to ally with the scientist Doctor Helga Jace.   In the "Watchmen" sequel "Doomsday Clock", Markovia and Russia are allied in what is called The Superman Theory which claims many superpowered beings are controlled by the American government.  When the world starts a "metahuman arms race", Markovia is listed as having the Outsiders as their residential superhero team.  In the Amalgam Comics universe, Markovia was later combined with Latveria of Marvel Comics to form the nation of Latkovia. 