TEDx conferences are independently organized events licensed by the organization in charge of the TED conferences. TEDx conferences agree to follow certain principles set out by the main organization.  TEDx events are non-profit, but may use an admission fee or commercial sponsorship to cover costs.  Similarly, speakers are not paid. They must also relinquish the copyrights to their materials, which TED may edit and distribute under a Creative Commons license.  In 2011, TED began a program called "TEDx in a Box" that allows people in developing countries to hold TEDx events. TEDx also expanded to include TEDxYouth events, TEDx corporate events and TEDxWomen, among other events.  As of January 2014, TEDx talk library contained some 30,000 films and presentations from over 130 countries   In March 2013, eight TEDx events were organised every day; raised up from five in June 2012, the previous year, in 133 countries.   TEDx presentations also include live performances, which are catalogued in the TEDx Music Project.  According to TEDxSanta Cruz, "as of 2015, over 1,500 [TEDx events] have been scheduled all over the world".  In 2011, TED began a program called "TEDx in a Box" that allows people in developing countries to hold TEDx events.  TEDxYouth events such as TEDxYouth@Doha are independent programs set up for students roughly between 7–12 grades.  These events usually have people closer to the age of the students and sometimes show TED Talks.  TEDxYouth@Scholastica will be held on 8 September 2018 at Scholastica in Dhaka.  As of 2012, TEDxWomen’s day was an international event, with local events in locales such as Las Vegas held in conjunction with the main organizers. Also that year, there was a TEDxWomen 2012 event in Washington DC. TedxWomen is only held once a year, or was as of 2012.  TEDxHarvardCollege is Harvard's university-wide TEDx event.  TEDxNewYork was founded by Thu-Huong Ha and David Webber . Events include: TEDxPineCrestSchool is the annual TEDx event   created by Aaron Gillego, TEDx organizer, and hosted by Pine Crest School in Fort Lauderdale, FL.  Events include: TEDxYouth@OIS is an independently organised single-day TED conference in Mumbai, India started in 2015 by students of Oberoi International School at Oberoi International School, after which the event is named. The conference has hosted increasingly notable speakers who have delivered talks which have become popular on the internet. Events include TEDxUniversityofRochester is an independently organised single-day TED conference in Rochester, New York, started in 2016 by students from The University of Rochester, after which the event is named. . Events include:  In 2014, TEDxUniversityofSanCarlos, the first independently-organized TED in the Visayas region of the Philippines, made a record for organizing five TEDx events in a span of six months.  Template:Founder Leticia Menger TEDxBergamo has been founded in 2013 by Cinzia Xodo with the aim of "recalling a tendency and a preference for innovation, social and technical changes or paradigm shifts",  covering various themes from science, art, health, culture and innovation.  Bergamo has seen four TEDx events from 2014 to 2017, hosting several notable speakers such as Martina Caironi, Mauro Berruto Marco Antonio Attisani, Matilde Leonardi, Beatrice Venezi, Serafino Rudari and Roberto Battiston.    TEDxBergamo is the first TEDx event in the world featuring a "smell live design" integrated with the speakers' interventions. TEDxTrondheim was founded in 2011 by Martin Hassel. As of April 2017 more than 50 people are currently involved on a voluntary basis in the organizations of TEDx events in Trondheim. Apart from the annual, day-long conference, a number of smaller events are also created by team members, notably: Livestream of TED events and TEDxTrondheimSalon. All of these are free to attend, previous on-line registration. As of April 2017 over 80 speakers and artists have appeared at the various TEDxTrondheim events.  The conference has grown continuously and expanded its audience size to meet the demand.  These are past events:   Past Salons:  Open-mic events were also organized throughout 2016.  List of notable individual TEDx events: 