Collaborative piano is a discipline of music that combines piano performance, accompaniment, and music pedagogy.  Martin Katz Warren Jones  Roger Vignoles  J.J. Penna Robert McDonald Marie-France Lefebvre Andrews University Appalachian State University, MM only Arizona State University Azusa Pacific University Ball State University Bard College Conservatory of Music Baylor University Benjamin T. Rome School of Music Binghamton University Boston Conservatory Boston University Bowling Green State University Brandon University California State University Carnegie Mellon School of Music Chapman University Cleveland Institute of Music Cleveland State University East Texas Baptist University Eastern Mennonite University Eastern Washington University Eastman School of Music Florida State University Furman University Mariam Cannon Hayes School of Music Hunter College Illinois State University, MM only Indiana University Ithaca College James Madison University Juilliard School Lawrence University Longy School of Music of Bard College Lynn University Mansfield University of Pennsylvania Mercer University Michigan State University Middle Tennessee State University Montclair State University New England Conservatory of Music New York University North Dakota State University Northwestern University Ohio University Peabody Institute Radford University Rider University Rutgers University San Francisco Conservatory of Music Shenandoah University Southern Illinois University Carbondale State University of New York Temple University  Texas State University  Texas Tech University  University of Akron University of Arkansas University of California, Irvine University of Central Oklahoma University of Cincinnati University of Colorado Boulder University of Georgia University of Hartford University of Houston University of Idaho University of Maryland University of Massachusetts  University of Memphis University of Michigan University of Minnesota University of Nevada, Reno University of New Mexico University of North Carolina  University of North Texas College of Music University of Northern Colorado University of Oregon University of South Alabama  University of South Dakota University of Southern California University of Tennessee University of Texas at Austin University of Wisconsin–Madison Wayland Baptist University Weber State University West Virginia University Yale University Algernon Lindo. The Art of Accompanying. New York: G. Schirmer, 1916. Coenraad V. Bos and Ashley Pettis. The Well-Tempered Accompanist. Bryn Mawr, PA: Theodore Presser, 1949. Cranmer, Philip. The Technique of Accompaniment. London: Dennis Dobson, 1970. Dian Baker. “A Resource Manual for the Collaborative Pianist: Twenty Class Syllabi for Teaching Collaborative Piano Skills and an Annotated Bibliography.” DMA doc., Arizona State University, 2006. Elana Estrin. “It Takes Two,” The Strad 121, no. 1439 (March 2010): 56-62. Gerald Moore. Farewell Recital: Further Memoirs. New York: Taplinger, 1978. Gerald Moore. Furthermore: Interludes in an Accompanist’s Life. London: Hamilton, 1983. Gerald Moore. Singer and Accompanist: The Performance of Fifty Songs. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press,  . Gerald Moore. The Unashamed Accompanist. Rev. ed. London: Methuen, 1959. Kurt Adler. The Art of Accompanying and Coaching. Minneapolis, MN: University of Minnesota Press, 1965. Martin Katz, The Complete Collaborator: The Pianist as Partner.  Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2009. Robert Spillman. The Art of Accompanying: Master Lessons from the Repertoire. New York: Schirmer Books, 1985. Ruthann Boles McTyre. Library Resources for Singers, Coaches, and Accompanists: An Annotated Bibliography, 1970-1997. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1998. Aspen Music Festival and School Blue Lake Fine Arts Camp Brevard Music Center Fairbanks Summer Arts Festival Hot Springs Music Festival Interlochen Center for the Arts Music Academy of the West SongFest Los Angeles 