 Starcrawler is an American rock band. In a performance review in The Guardian the band was described as "Blending the sludgy, doom-laden riffs of Black Sabbath with the urgent pop-punk of The Runaways, the young LA band Starcrawler are a group whose entire DNA seems linked to the 1970s."  Starcrawler's debut 7" Ants/Used To Know was released in 2017 on red/white splatter vinyl with a picture sleeve, in a limited edition of 500 which sold out quickly. The band's debut album entitled Starcrawler was released in 2018 by Rough Trade Records on both white vinyl and black vinyl. 200 copies were also pressed on white vinyl with an alternate cover.  Starcrawler released their first 7" single from their debut album, "I Love LA/Castaway" on Rough Trade Records on February 16, 2018. The single features a photo of the band on the front and back labels, and comes in a pink sleeve. Starcrawler lead singer Arrow de Wilde attended Los Angeles' Grand Arts High School.  She is the daughter of photographer Autumn de Wilde and drummer Aaron Sperske.  In the summer of 2015, Arrow de Wilde and Austin Smith came together to collaborate in making music. When the school year began in 2015/2016, the two decided to recruit new members, a guitarist and bassist.  One day during school Wilde saw Henri Cash and asked: "You look cool, do you play guitar?" Cash was actually carrying a tuba. Wilde later recruited bassist Tim Franco.  In March 2018, Starcrawler performed a number of shows at the world's biggest music showcase, South By Southwest (SXSW), in Austin, Texas. Their performances gained notoriety for their energy and antics. During their final gig at SXSW, lead singer de Wilde terrorized the crowd by spitting blood in the face of a photographer, hurling attendees' personal possessions into the crowd, and snot-rocketing in the face of another member of the audience.  Starcrawler won the Grulke Prize for Developing U.S. Act at SXSW for their performances at the festival.  Starcrawler performed their single "I Love LA" live on Later With Jools Holland on May 29, 2018 before starting their 2018 European Tour. The tour runs from May 30 to June 23 and includes concerts in Spain, Luxembourg, Germany, Portugal, United Kingdom, Austria, France and the Netherlands.   