A dame school was an early form of a private elementary school in English-speaking countries. They were usually taught by women and were often located in the home of the teacher. Dame schools were small, private schools run by working class women and occasionally men in their own homes.   References to dame schools can be found from the 16th century onward.  Dame schools often had a poor reputation and were often seen as a cheap form of daycare.   The London inspector of the British and Foreign School Society in 1838 wrote that "in the dame schools they cannot teach reading."  In 1861 the Newcastle Commission reported: "The number of children whose names ought (in summer 1858 in England and Wales) to have been on the school books, in order that all might receive some education, was 2,655,767.  The number we found to be actually on the books was 2,535,462, thus leaving 120,305 children without any school instruction whatever."  They looked at the previous year's data and found that 2,213,694 children of the poorer classes were in elementary day schools. But of this number:  Most dame schools largely closed with the implementation of the 1870 Elementary Education Act.  In North America, "dame school" is a broad term for a private school with a female teacher during the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. The education provided by these schools ranged from basic to exceptional.  The basic type of dame school was more common in New England, where basic literacy was expected of all classes, than in the southern colonies, where there were fewer educated women willing to be teachers.  Motivated by the religious needs of Puritan society and their own economic needs, some colonial women in 17th century rural New England opened small, private schools in their homes to teach reading and catechism to young children. An education in reading and religion was required for children by the Massachusetts School Law of 1642. This law was later strengthened by the famous Old Deluder Satan Act. According to Puritan beliefs, Satan would assuredly try to keep people from understanding the Scriptures, therefore it was deemed that all children be taught how to read. Dame schools fulfilled this requirement if parents were unable to educate their young children in their own home. For a small fee, women, often housewives or widows, offered to take in children to whom she would teach a little writing, reading, basic prayers and religious beliefs. These women received "tuition" in coin, home industries, alcohol, baked goods and other valuables. Teaching materials generally included, and often did not exceed, a hornbook, primer, Psalter and Bible.  Both girls and boys were provided education through the dame school system. Dame schools generally focused on the four R's of education-Riting, Reading, Rithmetic, and Religion.  In addition to primary education, girls in dame schools might also learn sewing, embroidery, and other "graces".  Most girls received their only formal education from dame schools because of sex-segregated education in common or public schools during the colonial period.   If their parents could afford it, after attending a dame school for a rudimentary education in reading, colonial boys moved on to grammar schools where a male teacher taught advanced arithmetic, writing, Latin and Greek.  In the 18th and 19th centuries, some dame schools offered boys and girls from wealthy families a "polite education". The women running these elite dame schools taught "reading, writing, English, French, arithmetic, music and dancing".    Schools for upper-class girls were usually called "female seminaries", "finishing schools" etc. rather than "dame schools". The first known school in Australia was founded in Sydney in 1789 by Isabella Rossen.   The second known school in Australia was founded by Mary Johnson in Paramatta in 1791.   Both women were convicts supervised by clergyman Rev. Richard Johnson.    