A night owl, evening person or simply owl, is a person who tends to stay up until late at night. In several countries, especially in Scandinavia, early birds are called A-people and night owls are called B-people.   Night owls who are involuntarily unable to fall asleep for several hours after a normal time may have delayed sleep phase syndrome.  The opposite of a night owl is an early bird – a lark as opposed to an owl – which is someone who tends to begin sleeping at a time that is considered early and also wakes early.  Researchers traditionally use the terms morningness and eveningness  for the two chronotypes or diurnality and nocturnality in animal behavior.  The term is derived from the primarily nocturnal habits of the owl.  Most owls sleep during the day and hunt for food at night. Usually, people who are night owls stay awake past midnight, and extreme night owls may stay awake until just before or even after dawn.  Night owls tend to feel most energetic just before they go to sleep at night.  Some night owls have a preference or habit for staying up late, or stay up to work the night shift. Night owls who work the day shift often have difficulties adapting to standard daytime working hours. Night owls have often been blamed for unpunctuality or attitude problems.  Employers, however, have begun to learn to increase productivity by respecting body clocks through flexible working hours,  while the Danish "B-Society" of night owls  and the American Start School Later movement lobby actively for more school and workplace flexibility for the post-agricultural world.  Some research has found that night owls are more intelligent and creative and more likely to get high-paying jobs than larks. A study among 1000 adolescents by the University of Madrid found that owls are better than early birds in intuitive intelligence, creative thinking and inductive reasoning. However, they lag behind larks in academic performance,  and they tend to have unhealthier eating habits.  Some night owls with great difficulty adopting normal sleeping and waking times may have delayed sleep-phase disorder. Morning light therapy may be helpful in shifting sleep rhythms for the night owl.  The tendency to be a night owl exists on a spectrum, with most people being typical, some people having a small or moderate tendency to be a night owl, and a few having an extreme tendency to be a night owl.   An individual's own tendency can change over time and is influenced by multiple factors, including: The genetic make-up of the circadian timing system underpins the difference between early and late chronotypes, or early birds and night owls.    While it has been suggested that circadian rhythms may change over time, including dramatic changes that turn a morning lark to a night owl or vice versa,   evidence for familial patterns of early or late waking would seem to contradict this, and individual changes are likely on a smaller scale.  A 2007 survey of over 55,000 people found that chronotypes tend to follow a normal distribution, with extreme morning and evening types on the far ends.  Night owls tend to thrive in careers that do not require working in the early morning. People who want to work in the evening are often employed at restaurants, hotels, entertainment venues, retail stores, and some personal care businesses.  Night owls who work the night shift may work in emergency services, in transportation, or at round-the-clock facilities, such as hospitals and some manufacturing plants.  Many businesses that operate in the evening or at night need employees at all levels, from entry-level employees to managers to skilled staff, whenever they are open.  For example, most hospitals employ many types of workers around the clock:  Industries that tend to be less favorable to night owls include farming, construction, and working for public utilities.  Many employees in these industries start working before 7:00 a.m.  A list of famous night owls includes: For Robert Louis Stevenson, "there is a romance about all those who are abroad in the black hours."  In Jayne Ann Krentz's Truth or Dare, "Arcadia and Harry were both creatures of the night. They managed to appear oddly stylish at one-thirty in the morning."  British author Hilary Rubinstein wrote: "Blessed are the owls, for they shall inherit the mystery and magic of the night."  In Pliny the Elder's Natural History, he states Vita vigila est, "to be alive is to be watchful", a military metaphor for keeping watch in the night.  In The Little River Band, hit "The Night Owls": "be strong, find the heart of a night owl falling/Stay up till dawn until the night is gone"  