Sleep is a naturally recurring state of mind and body, characterized by altered consciousness, relatively inhibited sensory activity, inhibition of nearly all voluntary muscles, and reduced interactions with surroundings. It is distinguished from wakefulness by a decreased ability to react to stimuli, but is more easily reversed than the state of being comatose.  Sleep occurs in repeating periods, in which the body alternates between two distinct modes: REM sleep and non-REM sleep. Although REM stands for "rapid eye movement", this mode of sleep has many other aspects, including virtual paralysis of the body.  A well-known feature of sleep is the dream, an experience typically recounted in narrative form, which resembles waking life while in progress, but which usually can later be distinguished as fantasy. Do you have a question about Sleep that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. The Land of Cockaigne by Pieter Bruegel the Elder, 1567. Sleeping Girl on a Wooden Bench by Albert Anker The Sentry (1654) by Carel Fabritius Bronze statue of Eros sleeping, 3rd century BC–early 1st century AD Noon – Rest from Work (1890) by Vincent van Gogh (after Millet) Dreams often feel like waking life, yet with added surrealism. The Second Class Carriage (1864) by Honoré Daumier Man napping in San Cristóbal, Peru. Flaming June (c. 1895) by Frederic Lord Leighton Sleeping Jaguar, by Paul Klimsch The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters (1799) by Francisco Goya Medieval manuscript illumination from the Menologion of Basil II (985 AD), showing the Seven Sleepers of Ephesus sleeping in their cave "The Awakening", an illustration to writing by Leo Tolstoy Zwei schlafende Mädchen auf der Ofenbank (1895) Albert Anker Lullaby (1875) by William-Adolphe Bouguereau Sleep is associated with a state of muscle relaxation and reduced perception of environmental stimuli. Victory of Faith (1889) by Saint George Hare An artist's creative illustration depicting REM sleep. Taking a Rest (1882) by Ilya Repin The main health effects of sleep deprivation, indicating impairment of normal maintenance by sleep. Sleep and his Half-brother Death (1874) by John William Waterhouse Chrapek (Snorer), Wrocław's dwarfs The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 