A continent is one of several very large landmasses of the world. Generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria, up to seven regions are commonly regarded as continents. Ordered from largest in area to smallest, they are: Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, and Australia. Geologically, the continents largely correspond to areas of continental crust that are found on the continental plates. However, some areas of continental crust are regions covered with water not usually included in the list of continents.  Zealandia is one such area (see submerged continents below). Do you have a question about Continents that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. Hollandia Nova, 1659 map prepared by Joan Blaeu based on voyages by Abel Tasman and Willem Jansz, this image shows a French edition of 1663 The Ancient Greek geographer Strabo holding a globe showing Europa and Asia Universalis Cosmographia, Waldseemüller's 1507 world map—the first to show the Americas separate from Asia The tectonic plates underlying the continents and oceans Map of island countries: these states are often grouped geographically with a neighboring continental landmass. Medieval T and O map showing the three continents as domains of the sons of Noah—Asia to Sem (Shem), Europe to Iafeth (Japheth), and Africa to Cham (Ham). "Botanical continents" defined by the World Geographical Scheme for Recording Plant Distributions. Animated, colour-coded map showing the various continents and regions. Depending on the convention and model, some continents may be consolidated or subdivided: for example, Eurasia is most often subdivided into Asia and Europe (red shades), while North and South America are sometimes recognised as one American continent (green shades). A Dymaxion map shows land masses with minimal shape distortion. Africa Antarctica Asia Australia Europe North America South America Afro-Eurasia America Eurasia Oceania The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database 