Dude food is a recent food trend concerning food that is assumed to appeal to men which includes mostly heavy, greasy, and meaty dishes such as hamburgers and hotdogs and ingredients such as bacon.  This trend is distinguished from junk food in terms of higher quality.  Allegedly, the origins for this particular food trend are considered to be born during the first years of the 2000,  in the United States,   supposedly in the southern regions of the state.  According to the most common theory, the trend has been exposed thanks to its affinity with the food trucks and street food movements,  defined by their goal of selling “comfort and good quality food” accessible and easily consumable  and for their affinity of assortment, with food like hotdogs, hamburgers, french fries etc, which can be considered belonging to each of the above mentioned trends. The trend furthermore expanded as a social media phenomena,  becoming one of the new most used words being added in the year 2016 to the Collins dictionary.  Furthermore, the trend has inspired a growing number of academic and non-academic literature    with titles such as Dudefood: A Guy's Guide to Cooking Kick-Ass Food  and Dude Food: Recipes for the Modern Guy.  In addition, it has been notices that dude food dishes strongly compete with healthy dishes when people decide to eat out, which strongly indicates its increasing importance in people's diet.  Despite the rise in the interest toward dude food,  it was particularly hard to find a proper and unique definition of the trend; newspapers, blogs and the academia have attempted to find a solution to this issue.  Significantly, the various proposed definitions have in common certain elements such as gender stereotypes, the focus on heavy, meaty dishes and, even, the influence of "feminine" types of food.  The rise in the attention for health consequences of high cholesterol and unhealthy eating habits,   especially considering findings in recent scientific researches that show that men suffering from heart attacks and fatal coronary heart disease are twice the level of women suffering from the same diseases  is leading dude food to a change of its heavy and meaty characteristics, becoming more lighter and vegetable based instead.  This explains the diffusion of healthy dude food recipes in various countries all over the world, stressing the importance people give not only to taste but also to their health.  The trend is said to have originated in North America, moreover, following its success the trend has geographically expanded into other countries,  reaching during the following years Europe, Oceania and also at last Asia.  Indeed, the trend seems to have arrived, following its North American origins, at first also in the United Kingdom,   where it has allegedly influenced a number of “dude food” inspired restaurants, that have therefore mixed their British national dishes with “dude food” characteristics.   The same seems to be happening also in Australia,  combined with the unsatisfaction with fast food  and the demand of higher-quality,  but not necessarily per se healthy food. Lastly, dude food is considered to be one of the next biggest growing trend for the year 2018,  to be arriving also in Japan,   influencing the usual healthy, rice and fish based cuisine and combining it with the more heavy and greasy dude food methodology.  Dude food advertising and representation tends to follow the traditional gender binary  and can be analyzed from a visual perspective, that is by taking into account how gender identity is represented in the food field. Thus, food is considered to be part of those products which are “gendered in a practice of normative sexual dualism reinforced and maintained within (…) cultural institutions of marketing communication and market segmentation”.  According to this, advertising plays a significant role in defining this dualism concerning gender identity since its language represents a tool contributing to the creation and reflection of social norms.  According to Katherine Parkin,  the gender binary in advertising took shape in 50s, following the theories of Ernest Dichter. She believed that “by convincing Americans of a food’s sex and its resultant gendered identity, as well as its sensuality, advertisers could suggest their foods to meet consumers’ need to fulfill their gender roles”  and “Dichter believed that many people categorized the sex of foods. However, his own subscription to a gendered taxonomy of food is evident in his assessment of the findings”.  Food advertising in America follows the stereotype of “meat cooked on fire” or food that is simple to eat. Moreover, it might be important to notice that not only the food product itself but also the related packaging and advertisement are employed as tools to transmit an idea of how men and women should be, stressing again the cultural and social awareness raised by studies on dude food.  An example of advertising in England is the Ginsters advertise  of a beef pasty accompanied by the hashtag #FeedTheMan, in which there is a man that tells a joke in front of his girlfriend’s bosses; but he is talking about Ginsters, thus she has nothing to worry about, because it’s a type of food that makes everyone agree. In accordance with Lynsey Atkin, advertisement agencies and brands have honed in on a crisis of masculinity in our society and “in times of insecurity, brands can repurpose themselves as champions of the everyman, facilitators of the macho clean, however small. In other words, promising gender-traditional-prowess, like being able to kick a football in a straight line, could be the media-constructed equivalent of helping you grow a beard. Some stereotypes, like male dominance in social situations, are invoked as a nostalgia (a dream of the football-playing and bear-growing of days gone by)".  Generally, it is hard to find an advertisement of men eating chocolate, otherwise in Canada there is the advertise of chocolate bar Mr. Big  produced by Cadbury, where the snack is oversexualized and it is associated to virility, in fact the slogan is “When you're this big they call you Mister”. Furthermore, specific events and moving tours were organised in Canada and promoted in order to provide dude food dishes and a certain atmosphere; they were born specifically to satisfy men's tastes, whereas women were welcomed but only as supporters of their men.  According to the feminist scholar Judith Butler, gender is “…an identity tenuously constituted in time (…) instituted through a stylized repetition of acts”.  In fact, “…performing food labor is intertwined with performing gender”.   In particular, several studies focus on how certain foods, drinks, or ways of eating and drinking are interpreted as “masculine”; a crucial example of this attributed masculinity to certain types of food is represented by dude food.  Significantly, scholars have been suggesting that this masculinisation of food practices might allegedly be the expression of masculine privilege which “manifests around food and cooking in a myriad of ways”.  Dude food has been extremely crucial as it has raise the interest of the scholarly world as to why the Western cultural and social system defines gender by looking at people's food choices.  Meat is considered to be one of the most important ingredients of “manly” food, since meat conveys meaning of “…sexuality and virility…”.  Thus, if masculinity is related to meat, a mostly vegetarian diet is inevitably interpreted as feminine. Not only the consumption of meat, but also the various ways in which it is cooked are associated with a specific idea of masculinity. For instance, barbecued meat and its consumption have always been seen as a rather masculine activity.  There is an increase growing literature demonstrating how types of unhealthy food are interpreted to be masculine due to the presence, in our belief system, of cultural stereotypes according to which women tend to eat more healthily than men.  This differentiation could also be attributed to the packaging of food products.    Strong stereotypes are deeply embedded also in people’s buying preferences. The cultural basis of these stereotypes regarding food choices and gender perception is the desire from part of our social system to protect and maintain its hegemonic masculine norms.   The interest toward dude food is leading people to re-think about the reasons behind food choices and why it should be "...enjoyed. With friends and family- male or female"  