Redirect to:right The European Union (commonly known as Europe or the EU), is a confederation of twelve constituent nations in western, central, and south eastern Europe which makes up the third-most populous country in the world and the tenth-largest country by land area. The twelve EU nations are divided into 117 provinces with the capital city of Brussels located in the Capital Region. The European Union borders Scandinavia to the north; Lithuania to the northeast; Poland, Hungary, and Slovakia to the east; and Yugoslavia to the southeast. Greece, an EU constituent nation, is not contiguous to the rest of the EU, and borders Albania, Yugoslavia, and Bulgaria to the north; Greece shares a maritime border with Turkey to the east. Switzerland forms the world's largest enclave within the EU, bordering three constituent nations.   The EU consists of twelve constituent nations: Czechia, France, Germany, Great Britain, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Each of these nations are divided into provinces; the most in Germany with nineteen, and the least in Malta and Luxembourg with one province each. Numerous overseas territories and dependencies are maintained by the constituent nations with little administration from the EU central government. The unlikely formation of the London Pact in 1922 to counter Soviet influence brought the Western European powers closer together in an alliance after centuries of turbulent relations. The European War showed that the three empires (British, French, and German) could work together in the face of a common enemy, however the years following the war brought economic devastation which in turn led to further economic integration and the eventual establishment of the European Economic Community in 1940. More countries, such as the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Czechia, Ireland, and Greece were included in the EEC with Italy joining after the overthrow of their fascist regime in 1947. The EEC developed into a closer political union in 1953 with the signing of the Treaty of Amsterdam, establishing the European Community with a European Parliament in Brussels as dialogue amongst member states. Deteriorating relations between Europe and the United States and the greatly resurgent Soviet threat pushed the member states into a confederation in 1960 after successful referenda in each country. The newly united European Union quickly established itself as a global superpower alongside the United States and the Soviet Union in the Cold War era.  The European Union is a highly developed country with the world's second-largest economy by nominal GDP and PPP. The European economy is largely post-industrial and high-tech, dominated by services and knowledge-based activities with a large manufacturing sector. After the Cold War, the EU remains a global superpower with considerable economic, cultural, military, scientific, and political influence internationally. It is a recognised nuclear state; however it is on track to eradicate its nuclear program and nuclear weapons by 2025, abiding by the International Nuclear Weapons Ban Treaty. Despite this, the EU has one of the largest voluntary militaries in the world, participating in numerous conflicts since confederation including the Gulf War, the Sudanese Conflict, the Guiana War, the South African Civil War, the Hong Kong and Macau Conflict, and the Global War on Terrorism. The European Union is a founding member of the International Council, the Eurasian Council, the G7, the G20, the OECD, Interpol, and the WTO; as well as having constituent nations that are part of the Commonwealth of Nations, the Francophonie, the Lusophone, and the Ibero-American Organisation.   Pre-human hominid remains have been found throughout the European Union; most notably, the remains of Homo sapiens neanderthalensis which is named after the Neander Valley in Rhineland province where it was first found. Other fossils and remains have been found in most countries of the European Union as well as parts of the rest of Europe.  The Age of Enlightenment was a powerful intellectual movement in the 18th century, promoting scientific and reason-based thinking. Discontent with the aristocracy and clergy's monopoly on political power in France resulted in the French Revolution and establishment of the First Republic as a result of which the monarchy and many of the nobility perished in the initial reign of terror. Napoleon Bonaparte rose to power in the aftermath of the French Revolution, establishing the First French Empire that, during the Napoleonic Wars, grew to encompass large parts of Europe before collapsing in 1815 with the Battle of Waterloo. Napoleonic rule resulted in the further dissemination of the ideals of the French Revolution, including that of the nation-state, as well as the widespread adoption of the French models of administration, law, and education. The Congress of Vienna, convened after Napoleon's downfall, established a new balance of power in Europe centred on the five "Great Powers": the UK, France, Prussia, Austria, and Russia. This balance would remain in place until the Revolutions of 1848, during which liberal uprisings affected all of Europe except for Russia and the UK. These revolutions were eventually put down by conservative elements and few reforms resulted. The year 1859 saw the unification of Romania, as a nation-state, from smaller principalities. In 1867, the Austro-Hungarian Empire was formed as a consolidation to ethnic Hungarians who sought independence. 1871 saw the unification of both Italy and Germany as nation-states from smaller kingdoms and principalities. The unification of Germany came after the Prussian victory in the Franco-Prussian War, leading to the Treaty of Frankfurt. The decline of the Ottoman Empire was accelerated after the Greek War of Independence (1821) which marked the beginning of the end of Ottoman rule in Europe and the Balkans.  The Industrial Revolution began in Great Britain in the end of the 18th century and spread throughout Europe. The invention and implementation of new technologies resulted in rapid urban growth, mass employment, and the rise of a new working class.  The European Union occupies an area of 2,716,662.59 square kilometres (1,048,909,29 sq mi), with the largest constituent nation being Germany at 660,334 square kilometres (254,956 sq mi). The smallest constituent nation is Malta at just 316 square kilometres (122 sq mi). The largest province in the EU is Austria at 119,316 square kilometres (46,068 sq mi), whereas the smallest province is Monaco at 2 square kilometres (0.77 sq mi). The European Union is the tenth-largest country in the world by total area.  The European continent makes up the western fifth of the Eurasian landmass. The European Union (except for Greece) encompasses most of western and central Europe. There are three constituent nations which are not geographically part of continental Europe: Great Britain, Ireland, and Malta. Several provinces in various nations are also not located on continental Europe. Land relief maps show great variation within relatively small areas. Southern regions of the EU in places such as Spain, Italy, and Greece are more mountainous with ranges such as the Alps, Pyrenees, Apennine, and Pindus dominating the landscapes. The North European Plain dominates the landscape of northern Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, and northern France. The Iberian and Italian Peninsulas and the British Isles contain their own complex geographical features with numerous plateaus, plains, peninsulas, and valleys, as does central Europe which is dominated by the Alps.  Europe mainly lies within temperate climate zones, subject to prevailing westerlies. The climate is milder compared to other regions on the same latitude across the globe due to the influence of the Gulf Stream. This helps make Europe's climate warmer and wetter than what it would otherwise be. It not only carries warm water from to European shorelines, but also warms the westerly winds from the Atlantic. Despite this, the climate in southern provinces such as Cyprus or Malta is very different and warmer compared to a northern province such as the Scottish Highlands. Seville, Andalusia is the warmest major city on average in the EU with an average high of 19.2°C, whereas the coldest major city on average is ______.  The European Union is a confederation with autonomy among each of the constituent nations which are divided into provinces. The provinces are formed out of historical regional divisions as well as other factors such as population size and land area; however there is great variation between the largest and smallest provinces. Each constituent nation has its own form of government; however at present each nation is ruled as a constitutional monarchy with separate heads of state. There is no requirement for monarchy in the EU; the only requirement is that each constituent nation must have a fairly elected head of government.  The European Parliament (and other government institutions) meets in Brussels, a city located in the Capital Region which is not a part of any constituent nation; although is sometimes informally considered as part of the Netherlands. The executive branch of the European Parliament includes the European President and European Chancellor who serve respectively as head of state and head of government of the EU as a whole. Due to the nature of the confederal system of the European Union, the President serves as head of state only in name due to the fact that sovereignty is shared by the European Parliament and the member states, meaning that each member nation has its own head of state (often a monarch) who has an equal ranking as the European President. In their role as head of government, the Chancellor is usually the person who leads the largest party or coalition in the House of Nations. In elections, European citizens (or permanent residents) vote for a political party who then chooses who will assume the role of Chancellor. There are three major political parties who usually get most of the votes in confederal elections: the European People’s Party (EPP); the European Socialist Party (ESP); and the Liberal Party of Europe (LPE). Other smaller but significant parties include the Social Democrats, the Conservatives, the Greens, the Communists, and the Popular Front. In the most recent confederal election, the centre-right European People’s Party took most of the seats in the House of Nations in a coalition with the Social Democrats and the Greens. The leader of the European People’s Party in the House of Nations, Julia Klöckner of Rhineland (Germany), assumed the position of Chancellor, with her counterpart in the Senate, Édouard Philippe of Normandy (France), continuing his role as President as head of the EPP's Senate branch.   European citizens are subject to four levels of government: confederal, national, provincial, and local. The confederal government deals with issues affecting the whole European Union including (but not limited to) foreign relations, trade, currency circulation, EU elections, military, and EU laws. National governments are in charge of  some foreign relations (eg. Commonwealth of Nations membership, Francophonie membership, etc), national laws, national elections, taxation, courts, welfare, healthcare, infrastructure, and policing. Provincial government deals with education, housing, infrastructure, transport and roading, civil emergencies, and the environment, while local government deals with by-laws, city and urban planning, housing, fire emergencies, sanitation, water, resource management, and public transportation.   The bicameral European Parliament is divided into the European Senate as the Upper House, and the House of Nations as the Lower House. The parliament has limited but influential powers due to the confederal system of government in the EU. In the Senate, there are 234 senators — two from each province regardless of the population of that province. However, in the House of Nations, each nation is delegated a number of seats (out of the 1000 total seats) proportioned to the nation’s population at the last census. Each nation then divides these seats amongst their provinces in proportion to the provincial populations. The nation with the highest number of seats is Germany with 230 seats, whereas Malta, the smallest nation, has just one seat. Senators have a four year term, however both senators are elected at different times — serving overlapping but separate terms, with senatorial elections taking place every two years. Often (but not always), senators do not come from a political background or specific political party and are elected as representatives of their nation rather than as politicians. Representatives in the House of Nations are elected every four years concurrent with the EU-wide confederal elections. The European Court of Justice is the most supreme judiciary in the European Union (with the ability to overrule decisions by national supreme courts). It is made up of twelve judges, one from each nation with lifetime tenures, and a thirteenth judge in case of a tie who is selected biannually in a rotation of each EU nation. Judges are appointed by the European Chancellor and must be confirmed by the House of Nations with a three-fifths majority (600 votes).   Only three nations, Spain, Portugal, and Malta, have joined the European Union since the founding of the confederation in 1960. There are a number of requirements for candidate countries to join the EU. Since 1990, there have been a series of measures in the candidate country that must meet the average of the European Union including GDP per capita, quality of life, personal freedoms and democracy ratings, and economic stability. Once these requirements have been met, the accession can be debated by the European Parliament. A majority of 2/3 must vote for the accession in both houses of parliament before the application is approved. Due to these strict measures implemented in 1990, there have been limited calls for other European nations to join the EU. However, both Lithuania and Livonia have recently come close to these requirements and movements for EU ascension have grown in both countries. A significant pro-EU movement also exists in Yugoslavia, however the required standards are not likely to be achieved within the next decade, despite the high popularity of the movement within the country.   As a global superpower, Europe's foreign policy was formerly shaped by the Cold War and relations between the USSR and the USA. Historically, most of the constituent nations of the EU have been at war with each other at various times in the past. Today, the EU maintains a close relationship with other non-EU European nations such as Scandinavia, Yugoslavia, Lithuania, Livonia, Albania, and Hungary. It also retains strong trade, diplomatic, and cultural relationships with the United States, as well as the Soviet Union. Further abroad, strong relationships are held with Canada and Australia, as well as Japan and Korea.  Almost every country has an embassy in Brussels as well as consulates and or other embassies throughout the EU. Likewise, nearly all nations host European diplomatic missions. Some European Union constituent nations maintain overseas territories that are not directly administered by the EU. Some range from highly populated territories like (British) Hong Kong to uninhabited regions such as the British Indian Ocean Territory. While these regions are not represented in the confederal parliament, they are generally represented within the national government, with some exceptions. The European Union is also the largest contributor to foreign aid in the world; with money largely being sent to Sub-Saharan Africa, India, and Eastern Europe.  A united European military is generally seen to have been born out of the London Pact of 1922 between Great Britain, France, and Germany. Nowadays, the European Armed Forces are among the largest voluntary military force in the world. Since confederation, they have participated in numerous conflicts, including the ongoing Global War on Terrorism which has seen ground fighting in Arabia, India, and central Africa. The European Armed Forces consists of three main branches: the Army, the Navy (including the Marine Corps), and the Air Force, (including the Space Force).   The European Union is a confederation of twelve constituent nations, which were divided into provinces after the passing of the Provincial Act of 1984. The largest constituent nation by both population and area is Germany with 90.8 million people and an area of more than 660,334 square kilometres, and the smallest constituent nation by both population and area is Malta with 0.44 million people and an area of 316 square kilometres.  As with the European Parliament, the national parliaments are also bicameral. The constituent nations are sovereign entities with sovereignty being shared with the EU Parliament. The head of state of each constituent nation varies in title but as each nation is a constitutional monarch, they are all headed by monarchs. The head of government is generally titled Prime Minister or Chancellor and serves as the primary elected leader of the nation. Each nation is divided into provinces — the most being Germany with nineteen; and the least being Luxembourg and Malta, with one each. There are 117 provinces in total spread among all twelve constituent nations.   The European Union has a single market across the territory of all the constituent nations representing around 400 million citizens. The EU's GDP is estimated to be €14 trillion (nominally) in 2017, representing more than a fifth of the global economy. The currency used throughout the EU is the euro, which is the second most traded currency globally after the United States dollar. The European economy is largely mixed, incorporating free market and advanced social models. The EU is known for its low levels of unemployment, high wages, and low income disparity. Four out of the ten largest stock exchanges in the world are located within the European Union.