The Posse Foundation is an American nonprofit organization that identifies, recruits, and trains student leaders from public high schools to form multicultural teams called "Posses" of 10 Posse Scholars. These teams are then prepared, through an intensive eight-month Pre-Collegiate Training Program, for enrollment at top-tier universities nationwide to pursue their academics, help promote cross-cultural communication and become leaders on college campuses. Each Posse Scholar is awarded a full-tuition scholarship.  Posse has three goals designed to address some critical issues of importance to institutions of higher education in the United States today: (From the Posse Foundation Web site.) For eight months before they begin their college career, Posse Scholars attend a weekly Pre-Collegiate Training Program. The goal of this training program is to prepare Posse Scholars for as many as possible of the academic, social, and personal challenges they may face in their college career. While the program began as a partnership with a single school (Vanderbilt University ), Posse has grown to partner with 56 colleges and universities;   as of 2018 Posse has matched over 8,400 students with full-tuition college scholarships.  In 2007, it was among over 530 New York City arts and social service institutions to receive part of a $20 million grant from the Carnegie Corporation, which was made possible through a donation by New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg.  The Posse Foundation's founder, Deborah Bial, received the prestigious MacArthur Fellowship in 2007, honoring her work with Posse to address the challenges of college access for underrepresented populations.   In March 2010, President Barack Obama donated a portion of his $1.4 million Nobel Peace Prize award money to The Posse Foundation. The Posse Foundation was one of ten organizations to receive this honor.   In 2013, The Posse Foundation implemented a program with a new recruitment strategy to choose veterans who they feel have a potential for academic excellence at selective four-year institutions of higher education.  By applying the core Posse principle to group 10 Scholars per university, they prepare veterans for the college experience and support them through to graduation.  The Posse Veterans Program   began in partnership with Vassar College  and now also counts Wesleyan University,  Dartmouth College,  the University of Virginia  and the University of Chicago  as partners. Former Vassar President Catharine Bond Hill said of the original idea, "I think it adds to the education on campus to have students with different experiences."  Vassar, Wesleyan, UVA, UChicago and Dartmouth supplement available G.I. Bill and Yellow Ribbon funding to guarantee full tuition support for every veteran student selected. Posse began recruiting STEM-specific Posses in collaboration with Brandeis University in 2008.  The program notably expanded to 10 partner schools in 2014,  announced at a White House summit  on higher education.   The PossePlus Retreat (PPR) is a collaborative, focused group discussion on a contemporary issue which Posse Scholars and invited college community members conduct each year in a retreat setting.  In 2008, "Social Responsibility" was chosen as the first PossePlus Retreat theme. Following years' PPR themes have been "Education" (2009), "Do we still need to talk about race?" (2010), "The Millenials" (2011),  "Born This Way? Gender and Sexuality in the 21st Century" (2012),  "What's Your Worth? Class, Power and Privilege in America" (2013),  "Revolt? Rethink? Reform?" (2014),  "Crime and Punishment" (2015),   "Sticks and Stones: Language and Speech in a Diverse Society" (2016),   "Us Vs. Them" (2017)   and "Hope, Hate and Race in the United States" (2018).    As of 2016 the Posse Foundation had assets of $83,256,943.    Revenue and support as of 2016: $21,864,016 Expenses as of 2016: $22,479,487   