Beny Tchaicovsky (1954-2009) was a painter, musician and a multimedia computer artist. Tchaicovsky’s paintings have been exhibited internationally in museums such the Luxembourg Museum in Paris in the   1989 show "Les Trois Ameriques a Paris",  as well as in exhibitions in Germany,  Brazil    and the United States.  Tchaicovsky’s numerous awards include The Visionary awarded first place for the best cyberposter in the International Multimedia Day at the 49th Cannes Film Festival in 1996.  In the early 90's, after two decades of a career as a painter and musician living in Europe, Tchaicovsky moved to Marin County in California and began expanding his 2D art into 3D and 4D. In 1989 Tchaicovsky won a Gold Medal for his paintings at the International Connection Brazil_Japan Exhibition in Rio de Janeiro and First Place award with his painting "The Last Crusade" in a competition at the Natzoula Naveles Gallery in Davis, California.      In 1993 he established "ZOE Productions" a 3D computer animation company based in his studio in Fairfax, California. In 1994, segments of Tchaicovsky's animation were included in the VHS compilation The Gate to the Mind’s Eye, It featured, among others, his 3D animation  titled "Quantum Mechanics", which included segments of his shorts 3D animation titled "Modus Vivendi", "Delirium Tremendus"and "House of Mirrors". "Out of Step" , "The Traveller" and "Intelligent Life", segments from Tchaicovsky's "Cyberscape",  were seen in the 1996 compilation Odyssey into the Mind’s Eye, a 45 minute program latest addition to the "Mind’s Eye series" distributed by Sony Music Video. In 1997, after three years,  Zoe Productions released his first full feature 3D computer animation project, Cyberscape: A Computer Animation Vision. The sound track was co-produced with Odyssey Productions and distributed by Sony Music Video. Cyberscape's original 3D animation was conceptualized and produced by Tchaicovsky . "Cyberscape opened a new dimension in computer generated animation. It's 3D animation is a dazzling and surreal journey through humanities evolution. Tchaicovsky used symbolism and mythology, compressed in a fast paced video, which in a wry humor plays out humanity's progress from the primordial garden of Eden to quantum mechanics."   In 2001, Tchaicovsky released three more DVDs: the Morning Star Trilogy titled "The Call" (46:00 min), "Caught Between Worlds" (49:00 min) and "Dimensional Connections" (52:37 min). In 2005 Tchaicovsky completed two more 3D feature works, "Memoirs of a Shadow"' '(72 min) and "Luz Oferenda"' (40 min). Tchaicovsky's last work, ZyconX1 was unfinished. At an early age, Tchaicovsky started with black ink sketches before progressing to acrylic paintings. His canvasses depict surrealistic visions.  Tchaicovsky's style of expression has been described as surrealist art, fantastic art, metaphysical art and visionary art. "Tchaicovsky’s 3D Art expresses humanity's existentialist desolation and increased fragmentation. His digital animations are rich with images, symbols and personal mythology. They carry two clear messages: the perilous direction taken by modern technology oriented society and the need for self-exploration.  In 2005, he returned to Rio de Janeiro and in 2007, after spending some time in Israel, he moved to the south of France where he spent the last two years of his life painting abstract images and photographing nature. Tchaicovsky passed away in his studio in Gassin November 2009. 