This is a list of Christmas carols organized by country, language or culture of origin.  Originally, a "Christmas carol" referred to a piece of vocal music in carol form whose lyrics centre on the theme of Christmas or the Christmas season. Many traditional Christmas carols focus on the Christian celebration of the birth of Jesus, while others celebrate the Twelve Days of Christmas that range from the 25 December to 5 January. As a result, many Christmas Carols can be related to St Stephen's Day (26 December), St John's Day (27 December), Feast of Holy Innocents (28 December), St Sylvester's Day (31 December), and the Epiphany. Examples of this are We Three Kings (an Epiphany song),  and Good King Wenceslas (a carol for St. Stephen's Day). Nonetheless, some Christmas Carols, both religious and secular, now regarded as Christmas songs have become associated with the Christmas season even though the lyrics may not specifically refer to Christmas – for example, Deck the Halls (a pagan Yuletide drinking song) and O Come, O Come, Emmanuel (an Advent chant). Other Christmas songs focus on more secular Christmas themes, such as winter scenes, family gatherings, and Santa Claus (Jingle Bells, O Christmas Tree, Home for the Holidays, Jolly Old St. Nicholas, etc.). The English titles are taken from the Hymns of Universal Praise and the Chinese New Hymnal. published The list is based primarily on carols and hymns mentioned in the Song Book for the Danish Folk High School.  Where possible, a carol title is linked to its (Danish) Wikipedia entry, where the carol can be heard. Otherwise, a carol title has been linked to its entry at the Danish Hymn Book Online.  Carolling, i.e. dancing around, is practised - probably unintentionally - in Danish Christmas tradition, when a Christmas party join hands forming a chain around the family Christmas tree and walk, dance or run around the Christmas tree depending on the Christmas carol or song sung. A children's favourite. tune: Michael Praetorius (1571 - 1621) written originally to the lyrics of Lo, How a Rose E'er Blooming. ("Tonight Christ was born") ("Christmas Carol") See also: Список українських колядок і щедрівок (uk) (List of Ukrainian carols on the Ukrainian Wikipedia) 