Danika Lee Massey,  also known as Comic Book Girl 19 or CBG19, is a YouTube personality known for her commentaries on comics, films, books, and television shows.  She has a degree in sequential art from the Savannah College of Art and Design.  Comic Book Girl 19 had been working as a tattoo artist for five years when she and Tyson Wheeler began producing YouTube videos in 2012.  She remained a full-time tattoo artist during the first year of the show, and quit to promote a 2013 Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign to finance the production of more episodes.  The campaign raised over $57K when it ended in May 2013.  Comic Book Girl 19 and her team also joined the ongoing crowdfunding platform Patreon in 2016.  As of  January 2018[update], the Comic Book Girl 19 YouTube channel has over 49 million views and nearly 527,000 subscribers.  Some of her most popular videos are commentaries on the film Prometheus, the television series Game of Thrones, and the documentary series Epic History X-Men. Some videos delve into the background of popular culture myths and explore special effects in movies. In 2013, she interviewed Alec Gillis of Amalgamated Dynamics, a special effects company that specializes in animatronics and prosthetic makeup.  CBG19 occasionally co-presents with "Robot",  a Golden Age of Science Fiction-inspired robot character with the personality of an angry teenager, and "Space Brain", a floating brain with eyes. The CBG19 videos are directed and edited by Tyson Wheeler, and the creative partnership is called "Team 19" or "Team 19 Productions".  Comic Book Girl 19 has contributed reviews of various comics to DC All Access.  She has also appeared on The Jace Hall Show's Lounge Live,  Geek and Sundry,  and Chaotic Awesome,  sharing her views on pop culture and comics. She posed for the artist Daniel Dos Santos in a photo shoot for the cover of Diana Rowland's novel White Trash Zombie Apocalypse   and was featured on Gizmodo for winning "Best in Show" for her RoboCop costume at Dragon Con.  CBG19 has been featured in Variety  and Cosmopolitan.  She has spoken at TEDx Claremont Colleges on the value of using fictional characters for empowerment.   Her series Greater Creators was released in 2017,  for Verizon’s go90 platform. CBG19 has said her pseudonym is connected to the 19th card of the Major Arcana of the Tarot, which is The Sun.  Interviewed by HelloGiggles in 2014, Massey said that her use of the number is related to Stephen King's The Dark Tower.  The number features in many of her videos in the form of a tattoo. 