 A gutter punk is a homeless or transient individual who displays a variety of specific lifestyle traits and characteristics that often, but not always, are associated with the punk subculture.   Attributes may include unkempt dreadlocks, nose rings, Mohawk hairstyles, and tattooed faces.  Gutter punks are sometimes referred to as "crusties", "crusty punks", or "crust punks"; "traveling" or "traveler kids", "traveling" or "traveler punks", or simply "travelers"; and "punk hobos", "hobo-punks", or "hobos", among other terms. Some self-identified gutter punks may distinguish themselves from "crusties" or "travellers", and vice versa; however, there is considerable overlap between the groups, and the terms are often used interchangeably.     In addition to the term "gutter punk", members of the gutter punk subculture may also be described as "crusties", "crusty punks", "crust kids", or "crust punks",     though certain members of the gutter punk subculture, and crusty or crust punk subculture, may not consider the terms synonymous. "Crust punk" also refers specifically to a related subgenre of punk rock. Other terms used to describe gutter punks include "travelers",     anarcho-punks  (however, this term may also be used to describe any punk in general who identifies with anarchism, while some gutter punks may in fact not be ideologically or politically subscribed to anarchist philosophy); "traveling" or "traveler punks";    "traveling kids", "traveler kids", or "travel kids";      "punk hobos", "hobo-punks" / "hobo punks", or simply "modern-day hobos";    "transient punks",  "punk nomads",  "road kids",  "gutter pirates",  "street punks,"  "dirty kids",    "train hoppers" or "railriders" (in reference to the common gutter punk practice of freighthopping);      and "oogles".    Certain terms used to describe the subculture may not be used by gutter punks themselves, or may in fact refer to related or similar but somewhat different subcultures. "Oogle", while sometimes used to describe gutter punks in general, is often used by gutter punks themselves to describe members of the subculture whom they perceive as "poseurs" or inauthentic.    "Scumfuck" or "Scum fuck" may be used, especially among gutter punks, to refer to certain members of the subculture who are perceived as selfish, apathetic, violent, aggressive, overly nihilistic, or overly hedonistic. Scumfucks are often labeled as heavy alcohol and drug users with overtly macho tendencies, and they are generally more apolitical than other members of the gutter punk subculture. The notorious punk musician GG Allin was known to use the term to describe himself.     Gutter punks are generally homeless and transient. Many travel by alternative means of transportation such as illegally riding freight trains ("freighthopping") or hitchhiking.     The number of gutter punks who travel to various U.S. cities is in the thousands, and they often congregate in major U.S. cities.  Some may squat in abandoned buildings.  When traveling, gutter punks run the risk of being trapped inside box cars, often with dangerous cargo.  Three gutter punks died when a box car with I-beams in it suddenly stopped, and the cargo shifted.    Gutter punks often tag the box cars they ride in to let others know where they have been and where they are going.   Common tags include dates and initials, with NBD (for northbound) or EBD (for eastbound), or an arrow with dual lines representing train tracks across it.  Gutter punks are often voluntarily unemployed and may acquire income by panhandling, sometimes holding signs (known as "flying a sign") requesting spare change.     Harvesting food is a popular way for gutter punks to earn money, such as collecting blueberries in Maine or sugar beets in Minnesota.   Gutter punks may also work odd jobs or other temporary work.  Popular food includes non-perishable items such as Spam, beans, instant ramen, and Chef Boyardee pasta.   Gutter punks may also collect food stamps.  Gutter punks often travel with dogs for safety and companionship.   Getting the dogs onto the trains is often a challenge, however.  Cities where gutter punks may congregate include Halifax, Nova Scotia, Ann Arbor, Michigan, Winnipeg, Manitoba; Knoxville, Tennessee;Asheville, North Carolina; the Haight-Ashbury district in San Francisco, California; Berkeley, California; Seattle, Washington; Portland, Oregon; Surbiton, Greater London; New Orleans, Louisiana; Lubbock, Texas; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; the East Village, Manhattan and Williamsburg, Brooklyn in New York City;  Chicago, Illinois; and the Ocean Beach area of San Diego, California, among others.     