Mong Kok culture (MK文化) is a local terminology used in Hong Kong denoting a specific culture in the area of Mong Kok, a culture which has grown rather prevalent amongst local youths and teenagers. The area of Mong Kok is especially known for its plethora of stores and vendors who sell assorted knickknacks, playthings, clothing, tools, electronics, and food along with all other sorts of novelties. Mong Kok also provides a variety of entertainment for young adults and teenagers, among which includes the cinema. The multipurpose nature of the area thus draws in teenagers and young adults, of whom which avidly pursue the latest popular trends. The area is also a popular meet-up and dating location amongst local youths. Teenagers who have a high affinity for the Mong Kok culture and hang around the area but do not necessarily live there are known as MK people (MK guys or MK girls depending on their gender) or a MK person. Their age typically ranges between 14-25 and often dress in particular styles of clothing, including Hip Hop or punk, without fully acknowledging the implications of what they wear.   Essentially, the term MK person, which carries a rather negative undertone, is often used to describe a person who blindly follows trends without thought with the implication that they have a poor taste or behaves in a bad way. It could also mean that he or she has nothing productive to do so as to idly squander their time wandering around the streets of Mong Kok.  The origin of their dressing style is believed to be the movie series Young and Dangerous produced in the 1990s, which describes the lives of Hong Kong gangsters and their triad activities. However, some other people believe that it is because this group of people purchase their Hip Hop clothing in Mong Kok only.   The characteristics includes their hairstyles, which they would like to have their hair dyed into some bright colors like gold and silver, also they would tend to have longer fringes that as long as covering their foreheads or even eyes. Typical Mong Kok culture attire includes: sleeveless shirts, black garments, bell-bottom trousers, and carry a number of accessories such as chains around trousers, earrings, and necklaces. Advocates and followers of this particular culture also tend to sport tattoos. These tattoos are often situated on their upper arms, which remains visible to those around them because of the prevalence of sleeveless shirts amongst the culture.      Those who participle in MK culture are considered to be active on the social-networking sites and online forums, where they can share their own lives actively. This gives them a sense of community for their shared values, and has given rise to terminology and abbreviations unique to the culture's community.  The exaggerated dressing style and behavior distinct to the culture is considered to be relevant on their beliefs and personalities that aims at seeking attention and attempting to behave in a mature way. People who are perceived as a representative of Mong Kok culture always have similar characteristics on their verbal expression and written language. There are several types of features on their use of language, especially the choice of words: Unique Terms Mong Kok Culture has a select, unique vocabulary of words that those foreign to the culture may not necessarily understand.  Example: the labeling of men who always ingratiate women as “gourmet”. Usage of abbreviations Notable examples of abbreviations common in their 'language' include calling “Fa Yuen Street” as “Fa Street”, and “Argyle Centre” as “M Centre”.   Interweaving of Profanity in everyday speech It's quite common for advocates of Mong Kok culture to extensively weave in profanities in everyday interactions. The aforementioned idiosyncrasy also appears in their written language. In addition to profanities, they also like to use Martian language, which is formed by using words have similar or exact pronunciation in Cantonese to replace the original words, or the extensively use of symbols to illustrate their facial expressions when they chat online. Thus, it is often difficult for those foreign to the culture to understand and interpret correctly phrases common amongst the culture. Being a prominent underground subculture in Hong Kong, Mong Kok Culture is often discussed in many forms of media. However, whether it be exaggerated comedy or serious discussion, most media discussion regarding the subculture is held with negative undertones. Young and Dangerous This famous Hong Kong movie series is about a gangster Chan Ho-nam. His clothing, behaviours and hairstyle in the films became a trend that teenagers in 1996-1997 liked to imitate the looks of those characters in the films and it was the beginning of MK style. Lan Kwai Fong (film) A movie series that talks about the lives of people who go to Lan Kwai Fong at night frequently. Although the films are more about pubbing and having sex, the lifestyles of characters are also regarded as MK style nowadays. The series fully shows what MK culture is. MK-pop In 2014, a multitude of singers and pop groups emerged (e.g. FAITH) that tried to replicate the style of K-pop. Their imitations of the style was received negatively by netizens online. Criticisms from netizens often consist of labeling the music as "MK-pop". This label comes from the Mong Kok Culture being stereotyped as a culture that blindly follows trends in conjunction to groups like FAITH drawing heavy inspiration from K-pop.  Mong Kok Culture frequently appears as a topic in the Apple Daily tabloid. Articles regarding the culture are often blatantly mocking towards the culture. 