 Aquarius is an American period crime drama television series created by John McNamara for NBC.  The show aired from May 28, 2015, to September 10, 2016.  In 2015, the series was among seven others to receive the Critics' Choice Television Award for Most Exciting New Series.  On October 1, 2016, NBC cancelled the series after two seasons.   The series begins in 1967 Los Angeles. The story is inspired by actual persons and events but is also made up of fictional characters and story arcs. The show stars David Duchovny as Sam Hodiak, a fictional LAPD detective investigating the case of a missing teenage girl.  Along with his younger colleague, undercover narcotics officer Brian Shafe (Grey Damon), Hodiak finds himself coming up against Charles Manson (portrayed by Gethin Anthony) and his "family", a mostly ragtag group of hippies who follow Manson in drugs, sex, and rock-and-roll. Hodiak discovers that the missing girl, Emma Karn (Emma Dumont), is with Manson and The Family. The first season revolves around the rise of the Family and the second season focuses on the Tate murders and Helter Skelter. Series creator McNamara calls his show "historical fiction"  as it is inspired by Manson but not historically accurate. This is also expressed in the episodes' opening slate. It also contains completely fictional storylines in a period setting and involves historical events, politics, music, and social issues of the era.   NBC has published a blog of events from 1967 to provide context.  The soundtrack consists of songs from the 1960s.  The episode titles are names of famous songs, or Manson Family songs. These songs are included in the episode itself.  The title of the series is a song from 1967 (from the cult musical Hair), which gave its name to the era in which the series is set. Season 2 episode titles are names of Beatles songs. The series broadcast by NBC is TV-14.  It was planned to release an unrated version through other markets.  The DVD released in September 2015 contains nudity and language that was left out of the broadcast version to maintain its TV-14 rating.  The original vision was for the show to span six seasons.  NBC announced the renewal of Aquarius for a second season on June 25, 2015.    Aquarius premiered on May 28, 2015.    Following the premiere's broadcast, NBC released all 13 episodes of the first season on its website, the NBC mobile app, and Hulu for a four-week period. The episodes are also televised in their normal weekly timeslot.  In Australia, the series premiered on May 29, 2015 on streaming service Presto, with all 13 episodes being released for 28 days.   Its later television debut on the Seven Network (which co-owns Presto) aired on August 26, 2015.  Season 2 airs on the same day as the U.S., on Presto in Australia. Metacritic gives season 1 of Aquarius a score of 58/100 based on reviews from 36 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews".  Glenn Garvin of Reason praised the series for being more than just another retelling of the Manson story, noting "The epic battles over race, gender, drugs, and the Vietnam war are all on display here." He also praises the "killer 1960s soundtrack".  