Get Karl! Oh Soo-jung (Hangul: 칼잡이 오수정; RR: Kal Jabi O Sujeong) is a 2007 South Korean romantic comedy television series starring Uhm Jung-hwa and Oh Ji-ho. It aired on SBS from July 28 to September 16, 2007 on Saturdays and Sundays at 21:45 for 16 episodes. The series is based on the real-life love story of Lee Ju-young, the CEO of the drama's production company who reunited with her current husband ten years after breaking up with him. Moreover, Go Man-soo is the actual name of Lee's pro-golfer husband who incidentally instructed Oh Ji-ho on his golf swings in preparation for the role.    Throughout her school days, Oh Soo-jung (Uhm Jung-hwa) was the girl every boy wanted to date and every girl wanted to be. But having watched her poor family disintegrate after her mother abandoned her incompetent father, Soo-jung naturally became cynical and demanding when it came to picking her choice of man. She dates Go Man-soo (Oh Ji-ho), an Ivy League law student, despite the lack of physical attraction (he is overweight and nerdy). But the moment she finds out that he failed his bar exam, poor Man-soo gets dumped. But eight years later, the tables are turned. Soo-jung, now in her thirties, is no longer in demand. The former "it girl" has since fallen from grace. She manages the jewelry store owned by a less attractive schoolmate who married a lawyer and now barks at Soo-jung every chance she gets. Man-soo returns from the States a changed man; he has transformed into famous, rich, hunky pro-golfer Karl Go. He hires Jung Woo-tak (Kang Sung-jin) to play a wealthy bachelor, and once Soo-jungs fall in love with him, he's to jilt her at the altar, just like she did to Man-soo. Meanwhile, Karl pretends to be the debt-ridden boyfriend of Soo-jung's boarder Yook Dae-soon (Park Da-an). But his revenge plans go awry when he and Soo-jung fall in love with each other again. On her wedding day to Woo-tak, Soo-jung runs away and chooses Karl despite believing he's poor. Bitter that Karl chose a girdle-clad "old maid" over her, Dae-soon not only steals her creative ideas for jewelry design but reveals to Soo-jung that Karl has been making a fool of her all this time. In the end, Soo-jung triumphs over Dae-soon professionally, then proposes to Karl and they finally get married. 