Luis Miguel (stylized onscreen as Luis Miguel, la serie)  is an American biographical television series produced by Gato Grande Productions along to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios for Netflix and Telemundo.   It is an authorized version on the life of the Mexican singer Luis Miguel.  It stars Diego Boneta as the titular character.   Filming began on November 16, 2017.  On 22 April 2018, Karla Gonzales showrunner of the series confirmed that the show has been renewed for a second season.  Before being known as Luis Miguel. Micky, as his family called him, finds a great sastifaction of love and security alongside his beloved mother Marcela (Anna Favella) and his younger brother Alex (Juanpa Zurita). Singer of natural talent, he is gaining recognition and popularity until he turns 11, when his father, Luis Rey (Óscar Jaenada), obsessively gives himself the task of turning his son into the superstar that he himself did not manage to be. As Micky grows and becomes a pop star of the time, with the name of Luis Miguel (Diego Boneta) the problems associated with fame and the protection of his private life and his great loves begin. While the world falls in love with the masculine image of a tanned young man with a beautiful white smile and fascinating lifestyle in Acapulco, which was the hallmark of his career, what exists behind this reality is how fame and fortune can impact a family. On 9 April 2018, Telemundo published through its website Now Telemundo a preview of the first episode entitled "Primera Mirada".  The first episode of the series premiered on 12 April 2018 during an exclusive screening held in Beverly Hills, California,  as part of the presentation of the series,  Its official premiere was on 22 April 2018 on Telemundo at 9pm/8c, and in Spain and Latin America on Netflix after its broadcast on television, each episode is broadcast every Sunday.   The first soundtrack of the series, titled Luis Miguel La Serie Soundtrack, was released on 22 April 2018.   The soundtrack of the series only contains 21 songs available on Spotify. There are some songs that are not shown in the album and are listed below: 