Sons of Liberty is an American television miniseries dramatizing the early American Revolution events in Boston, Massachusetts, the start of the Revolutionary War, and the negotiations of the Second Continental Congress which resulted in the drafting and signing of the 1776 United States Declaration of Independence in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Directed by Kari Skogland, the three-part miniseries premiered on History on January 25, 2015. The series' theme music was composed by Hans Zimmer.   The miniseries centers primarily on the years (1765-1776) prior to start of the American Revolutionary War, and focuses on historical figures and pivotal events between the (then) British Colonies and the mother country of Great Britain to whom then British America owed its allegiance, particularly the events that led to resistance to the crown and creation of the Sons of Liberty, a group that coalesced to resist & disrupt  attempts by the British Parliament and crown to tax and govern the colonies. The actions of the Sons of Liberty were the first beginnings of what would eventually become the American or Continental Army. These take place mostly in and around Boston & the then colony of Massachusetts. Various American Revolutionary figures such as Samuel Adams, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Hancock, Paul Revere, George Washington and British General Thomas Gage are central characters in various episodes. Additionally, creation of the Colonial Congress, the Declaration of Independence and the eventual outbreak of the Revolutionary War are depicted. Tagline: (during the teaser trailer)  There's the revolution you know. And the one that's about to begin. According to The Hollywood Reporter, production on Sons of Liberty began in the summer of 2014.  The miniseries was also going to feature the minor story lines of Benedict Arnold and Patrick Henry.  The first teaser trailer was released on September 1, 2014, during Houdini, which incorrectly revealed a December 2014 release date and featured The Rolling Stones' "Paint It Black".  In Australia, Sons of Liberty aired on SBS One from February 5, 2015 as a six-part series.  In the United Kingdom, Sons of Liberty aired on History Channel from June 2, 2015, also as a six-part series. Sons of Liberty was released on DVD and Blu-ray on May 26, 2015. The History Channel billed the series as a "dramatic interpretation of events"  and a work of "historical fiction", arguing the goal of the miniseries was "to capture the spirit of the time, convey the personalities of the main characters, and focus on real events that have shaped our past".  Nevertheless, the series has attracted criticism for its historical inaccuracies.   