 The Bold Type is an American comedy-drama   television series created by Sarah Watson, starring Katie Stevens, Aisha Dee, and Meghann Fahy. It is inspired by the life of former Cosmopolitan editor-in-chief Joanna Coles. The series officially premiered with a two-hour episode on Freeform on July 11, 2017,  after the pilot episode was aired in a special preview on June 20, 2017.  On October 4, 2017, Freeform renewed the series for two additional seasons of 10 episodes each.  The second season premiered on June 12, 2018.  The series centers on three friends – Jane (Katie Stevens), Kat (Aisha Dee), and Sutton (Meghann Fahy) – who all work for Scarlet, a global women's magazine. The show explores their outrageous lives in New York City as they learn to find their own voices and explore their sexuality, identity, love, and fashion.  On April 7, 2016, Freeform announced they had given a pilot order to Issues, a series inspired by the life of former Cosmopolitan editor-in-chief Joanna Coles. The show was ordered to series by Freeform in January 2017, and was later renamed to The Bold Type.  On March 6, 2017, Freeform announced that The Bold Type would debut on Tuesday, July 11, 2017 at 9:00pm.  The pilot was aired as a special preview on June 20, 2017, three weeks before its official premiere date.  Freeform renewed the series for a second and third season, consisting of 10 episodes each, on October 4, 2017. At the same time it was announced that Amanda Lasher would assume the role of showrunner after series creator Sarah Watson had "creative differences with the network".  In the United Kingdom, Germany, France and Spain, the series premiered exclusively on Amazon Prime Video on February 9, 2018.   Sam Page who plays Richard Hunter, a member of the Scarlet board of directors and a lawyer for the magazine's publishing group, was the first cast member to be announced on August 16, 2016,  followed by Melora Hardin on August 18, 2016. Hardin was cast as Jacqueline, the quietly tough and confident Editor in Chief of Scarlet Magazine.  Katie Stevens, Aisha Dee and Meghann Fahy were announced as series leads, Jane, Kat, and Sutton on August 22, 2016. Stevens plays Jane, who has just landed her dream job as writer for Scarlet, Dee portrays Kat, the social media director at Scarlet, while Fahy plays Sutton, the last of her friends to still be in an assistant's job. Matt Ward rounds out the main ensemble as Alex, a fellow writer at Scarlet.  On March 30, 2017, it was announced that Nikohl Boosheri was cast to recur on the series as Adena El-Amin, a photographer who develops a complicated romantic relationship with Kat.  Emily C. Chang joined the cast on May 2, 2017, as Lauren Park, a blunt and overworked executive editor at Scarlet.  On March 8, 2018, it was reported that newcomers Luca James Lee and Siobhan Murphy wre tapped for recurring roles for second season. Lee plays Ben, a potential love interest for Jane, while Murphy portrays Cleo, a new board member at the publishing company. In addition, Dan Jeonnette returned as Pinstripe in a guest-role.  The series is shot in Montreal, Canada.  Filming for the second season began on February 18, 2018. [better source needed] In Canada, the series airs exclusively on ABC Spark.  In the United Kingdom, the series airs exclusively on Amazon Prime Video with new episodes the day after its broadcast on Freeform in the United States.  On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, season one holds an approval rating of 96%, with an average rating of 8/10 based on 24 reviews. The website's consensus reads, "Smart, hip, and exuberantly performed, The Bold Type sharply blends its soapy plotting with workplace drama that feels very of-the-moment."  Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 58 out of 100 based on 8 reviews, indicating "mixed or average reviews".  On Rotten Tomatoes, season 2 holds an approval rating of 100%, with an average rating of 7.1/10 based on 11 reviews. The website's consensus reads, "The Bold Type presents an aspirational yet refreshingly realistic portrait of young women's careers, friendships and love lives in a big city."  