  Chiappa Firearms, Armi Sport de Chiappa, is an Italian firearms manufacturing company based in Brescia. It was founded in 1958 by Ezechiele Chiappa as Armi Sport. Total unit production is around 60,000 per year. Its U.S. headquarters are in Dayton, Ohio.  Armi Sport is the firearms manufacturing branch.  Its target markets are target shooting, Cowboy Action Shooting, reenacting, collecting, and hunting. To this end, most of its firearms are reproductions of older, muzzle-loading guns and other classic arms (such as Winchester rifles), though it manufactures other designs, such as .22 LR versions of the M1911 pistol and a .22 upper receiver for the AR-15.  It also produces an original revolver, the Chiappa Rhino.   The following pistols are available in cal.22 LR, in multiple variants (various finishes or grips): The following pistols are available in defensive calibers, multiple variants (various finishes or grips): Kimar manufactures unlicensed blank-fire replica firearms, air guns, non-lethal weapons and small caliber guns made in Italy. Its focus is on producing blank-firing guns for training purposes, flare guns, starter pistols, and theater and movie prop guns. It also provides training for hunting and working dogs.  The following revolvers are available in two versions, cal.9mm R/.380 or 35gr (front firing "signal version") and cal.9mm R/.380 (top firing "starter version"), as well as in two variants (black or steel finish). The following pistols are available in two versions, cal.9mm PAK (front firing "signal version") or cal.8mm PAK (top firing "starter version"), as well as in two variants (black or steel finish). The following model is available in 6 mm (top firing "starter version") as well as in three variants (black, steel or gold finish). The following model is available in 6 mm (top firing "starter version") and only in black finish. The following CO2 pistol is available in cal.4.5mm/.177: The following single shot pistol is available in cal.4.5mm/.177 as well as in two variants (medium or large grip): The following single shot pistol is available in cal.4.5mm/.177: The following single shot pistol is available in cal.26.5mm/1 inch: A division of the group that specializes in the surface treatment of metal parts, an important consideration in the manufacture of firearms. Chiappa manufactures shotguns, including single shot (garden guns), lever-action, combination and triple-barrelled varieties.  