The Balkan Heritage Foundation (BHF) is a Bulgarian public, non-profit, non-governmental organization. It was established in 2008 by a team of a cross-institutional program implementing archaeological field schools since 2003. Its head office is located in Stara Zagora, Bulgaria. The BHF has a representative office located in Sofia and four branches located in Varna, Mezek, Dragoman and Emona, Bulgaria.  The Balkan Heritage Foundation’s mission is to support the protection, conservation, management and promotion of cultural and historical (both tangible and intangible) heritage of South-eastern Europe as necessary preconditions for sustainable development of the region.  The foundation collaborates on both the local and global level with universities, museums, research institutes, media, business companies, governmental and non-governmental organizations. It raises funds and consequently funds projects implemented by research institutes and scientific teams, museums, municipalities and local communities. Since it was established, the foundation has been implementing and financially supporting the following programs, projects and activities: The Balkan Heritage Field School (BHFS) is an archaeological field school annually providing a number of courses (projects) in archeology, anthropology and history of South-Eastern Europe, documentation, conservation and restoration of historic artifacts and monuments, taught in English and located within Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia.  The school admits both academic students and non-academic students. The BHFS, operating since 2003, was fully incorporated by the Balkan Heritage Foundation in 2008. The BHFS courses are affiliated with ongoing excavation (Neolithic settlement in Ilindentsi, Tell Yunatsite, Bresto, emporion Pistiros, Stobi, Bona Mansio and Apollonia Pontica conservation and documentation projects contributing to the study and preservation of the Balkan cultural heritage and are usually supplemented by trips to attractive historical sites and cities in Bulgaria, Macedonia, Greece, Serbia and Montenegro. The school concept envisions that every course combines three basic educational modules: theoretical (lectures, presentations and field trainings), practical (either excavation field work and lab work or conservation of historic artifacts and monuments) and excursions plus behind-the-scene visits. The BHFS courses are listed among the academic courses of New Bulgarian University, Queen's University, Kingston, Canada; and UCLA Extension, enabling their participants to obtain credit hours upon request. The BHFS functions as a legal part of the Balkan Heritage Foundation, a Bulgarian public, non-profit, non-governmental organization. Since 2003 the BHFS has organized 85 courses in the field of archaeology, documentation of medieval frescoes and conservation of Ancient Greek and Roman pottery, mural paintings and mosaics. These courses have been attended by more than 1500 students from 55 countries.  The Program's head office is located in Sofia, Bulgaria. Costs of courses and study materials can be found by viewing the website.  The BHFS admission fees support the Balkan Heritage Protection Fund. In 2008-2009 four volunteer work camps supporting preservation of cultural heritage took place in Bitola (Macedonia), Stara Zagora, Dragoman and Mezek (Bulgaria) in cooperation with Stara Zagora Regional Museum of History, municipalities of Dragoman and Svilengrad (Bulgaria) and Youth Cultural Center Bitola (Macedonia). 