A Medical Technologist (also known as Medical laboratory scientist, Clinical Laboratory Scientist, Medical Laboratory Technologist) is an allied health professional that analyzes and tests body fluids and tissues. This includes blood, urine, CSF, synovial fluid, all types of tissue samples, and almost any type of sample removed from a patient for testing. They are responsible for operating and maintaining complex analyzers that are used in a laboratory and ensuring the laboratory results of each patient are accurate and timely. A medical technologist typically holds a bachelor's degree and has been through an internship. The internship can either be a portion of the degree program or be done after the laboratorian has already completed their degree. In some countries, medical technologists may be called biomedical scientists, medical laboratory scientists, clinical laboratory scientists or medical laboratory technologists.  Several countries provide training for medical technologists: In Australia, testing is performed in clinical laboratories by trained and accredited Medical Scientists. Training involves a four-year bachelor's degree in Medical Laboratory Science (or equivalent), with the degree requiring accreditation from the Australian Institute of Medical Scientists.  Trained staff are referred to as Medical Laboratory Scientists, or simply a Medical Scientist. In India, various courses offered are as follows  1. Bachelor of Medical Laboratory Technology (BMLT) 2. M.Sc in Medical Laboratory Technology The basic eligibility criteria for Bachelor of Medical Laboratory Technology (BMLT) is 10+2 or equivalent with Physics, Chemistry & Biology. BSc in Medical Laboratory Technology is offered by the following universities http://www.sriramachandra.edu.in/university/academics.php?did=82 http://manipal.edu/soahs-manipal/programs/program-list/bsc-mlt-bachelor-of-science-in-medical-laboratory-technology.html School of Allied Health Sciences, Manipal In the United States, a medical technologist is typically certified by a national board of registry for the profession. Some common certification boards include the American Association of Bioanalysts (AAB),  the American Medical Technologists (AMT),  and the American Society for Clinical Pathologists (ASCP).   It is usually necessary to obtain certification from one of the above certifying boards in order to become employed. Each of the certifying boards have their own regulations pertaining to education and experience in the field. As of January 2015, 12 states and Puerto Rico (California, Florida, Georgia,  Hawaii, Louisiana, Montana, Nevada, New York, North Dakota, Rhode Island, Tennessee, and West Virginia) require medical technologists to be licensed.  Employment of medical technologists and technicians is projected to grow 22 percent from 2012 to 2022, much faster than the average for all occupations. An increase in the aging population will lead to a greater need to diagnose medical conditions, such as cancer or type 2 diabetes, through laboratory procedures.  