The National Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians is a US certification agency covering prehospital medical providers. NREMT was established in 1970 in response to a recommendation from President Lyndon Johnson's Committee on Highway Traffic Safety that a national certifying agency for Emergency Medical Technicians be created in order to establish and standardize training requirements.  Most states use or require NREMT testing for some level of state certification.    NREMT recognizes four levels of EMS: EMR, EMT, EMT-Advanced, and Paramedic (some states may have additional certifications).  NREMT certification at an EMT Intermediate level may or may not be sufficient for some state EMT-I requirements.  While NREMT certification may be mandatory for new state certification, it is not necessarily required for renewals.  These procedures and requirements vary from state to state. In 1986, military emergency rooms were required to certify all medical technicians through NREMT.  Highest level of certification through the NREMT.  This represents the highest level of national certification. Paramedics are considered Advanced Life Support (ALS) and can administer a range of medication, as well as perform advanced electrical and invasive surgical interventions (please see Paramedics for a full list of skills.) In the United States, NRP Paramedics typically consist of a one year program or two year associates degree program consisting of over 1800 hours of didactic and clinical education focusing on acute emergency stabilization and prehospital care. 1999 EMT-Intermediate National Standard Curriculum as defined by the Department of Transportation - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA)  This level can also provide certain drug therapies. This level of certification provides Basic Life Support (BLS). (please see Emergency medical technician for a full list of skills) This is the entry level into emergency medical services (EMS).  They are trained in CPR, advanced first aid, automated external defibrillator usage, and patient assessment.  Most police and fire services require their employees to be emergency medical responders at a minimum. This course is usually 40–60 hours in length. The NREMT has been criticized for failing to prevent cheating during some exams. The Washington, D.C. Fire Department  was investigated for cheating on the NREMT certification exam;  however, an extensive investigation  by the NREMT, Pearson VUE (the test administrator), with assistance from the DC Fire and EMS department  and the DC police, revealed no evidence of cheating at Pearson VUE’s LaPlata, MD testing center. The NREMT works with the EMS community to implement the National EMS System including the EMS Agenda for the Future,  EMS Education Agenda: A Systems Approach,  and National Scope of Practice Model.  