Contrakultura Films was an imprint of Iruña Films, SA a Buenos Aires film production studio dedicated to produce biographical documentaries on Latin American writers . The initiative eventually expanded to include visual artists such as Andrés Waissman and Humberto Calzada, and [social scientists] like León Rozitchner, Ismael Viñas, Juan Jose Sebreli and Jorge Lovisolo. Between 2002 and 2006Contrakultura produced approximately twenty-five documentaries. Most of these films are currently owned by [Heritage Film Project] , and distributed by Alexander Street Press. The initial "contrakultural series" was known as “Perfiles”,  and was made of thirteen biographical documentaries. The series was presented at the Biennial Northeast Regional Meeting "Luso-Hispanic Presence in the Changing Cultural Landscape of America", organized by the American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese at Yale University.  Several of the documentaries on the series Perfiles where directed by Eduardo Montes-Bradley. Somthe e of original titles are listed under a pseudonym inspired in legendary actresses of the silent era of Mexican Cinema such as Cándida Beltrán, Mimi Derba, Ana Lobos, Emma Padilla, Lupe Velez, Maria Laura del Rio, Ma. Laura Del Rio.  The series was initially publicized as directed by thirteen woman-directors by Eduardo Montes-Bradley.  Contrakultura also produced the series known as the NOA Trilogy, films produced by Contrakultura and directed by Norbert “Negro” Ramírez in the Jujuy and Salta provinces, on the Northwestern region of Argentina. Perfiles was a series of thirteen documentaries by Eduardo Montes-Bradley which had already produced biographical documentaries on Jorge Luis Borges, Julio Cortázar, Osvaldo Soriano and Osvaldo Bayer. The average budget for a documentary on Perfiles was $40,000 of which 25% came as advance distribution fees advance from Patagonia Film Group, LLC, and 75% was subsidized by the Ministry of Culture of Argentina through National Institute of Cinema and Audiovisual Arts. Series of three documentary films produced by Montes-Bradley with the support of the Ministry of Culture of Salta, and a grant from the National Institute of Cinema and Audiovisual Arts. The trilogy was directed by Norberto "Negro" Ramírez, a filmmaker born in Catamarca Province, and raised in Buenos Aires. During the dictatorship 1976-1983 Ramirez found refuge in the internal exile in the northwestern provinces of Argentina, a region known as NOA (Noroeste Argentino), also known as Puna, which mainly includes Jujuy and Salta provinces. 