Heritage Film Project is a film-production studio and film distribution company established in Charlottesville since 2010. It was founded by Eduardo Montes-Bradley and Soledad Liendo in 2008. Heritage Film Project produces documentaries on the arts, science and the humanities with a variety of academic and institutional partners. Recent titles include Julian Bond: Reflections from the Frontlines of the Civil Rights Movement, Rita Dove: An American Poet, and White: A Season in the Life of John Borden Evans.  Their lineup of documentary films includes  The University of Virginia Collection, Biographies, and The Latin American Collection.  Heritage Film Project documentaries are mainly distributed through Kanopy, and Alexander Street Press, also available from "Filmakers Library", Vimeo on Demand, and Amazon. Heritage Film Project also produces documentaries and photographic work on demand for organizations such as James Madison's Montpelier, UNESCO and a select number of individuals. Heritage Film Project has produced films and a photographic archive on the life of research and faculty members at the University of Virginia. These films have enjoyed a variety of distribution channels and the images produced have been included in the permanent collection of the Claude Moore Health Science Library at and the other archive resources. The collection of films includes interviews with, Teresa A. Sullivan, Jared Loewenstein, Julian Bond, Larry Sabato, Raul Baragiola, Rita Dove, and others. Many of the biographical-sketches resulting from these interviews have premiered on PBS affiliates such as WHTJ, are available throughout social media while public performance rights are licensed through Alexander Street Press. In association with the Curry School of Education and the Brown College, Heritage Film Project was awarded[clarification needed] by the Jefferson Trust to produce Monroe Hill, a one-hour documentary on the life of James Monroe during the period in which he occupied his first farm in Albemarle County. Heritage Film Project has produced biographical documentaries on a wide range of subjects, from Holocaust survivors and World War II veterans, to visual artists and institutions. Many of these biographical works started as projects generated by the Heritage Film Project and produced in-house, others have been produced in partnership with individuals and institutions such as Rotary Club, Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes, Aventura Turnberry Jewish Center, University of California Los Angeles, Beth Torah Benny Rok Campus, Ixtatán Foundation, Virginia Film Festival, James Madison's Montpelier, Embassy of Brazil, Washington, D.C..  Heritage Film Project has also produced the biographical portrayals "The Gillenwater Story" based on the life of Jay Y. Gillenwater   , "A Soldier's Dream" a film documenting the experiences of Private Milton Feldman at the Battle of the Bulge where he was captured and later transferred to a POW camp where he reminded until being liberated.   