This is a list of republics. For antiquity (or later in the case of societies that did not refer to modern terminology to qualify their form of government) the assessment of whether a state organisation is a republic is based on retrospective analysis by historians and political theorists. For more recent systems of government, worldwide organisations with a broad political acceptance (such as the United Nations), can provide information on whether or not a sovereign state is referred to as a republic. In modern usage, a republican system of government is loosely applied to any state which claims this designation.  For example, the Dominican Republic under Rafael Trujillo is considered a republic, as is the Republic of Iraq under Saddam Hussein and The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics under Joseph Stalin. The Kingdom of Sweden (which in 2006 ranked highest in the Economist's index of democracy)   is not a republic, but the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (i.e. North Korea, which ranks lowest in the same survey) is. Confederal republics are associations of sovereign states, usually having power over critical common issues such as defense and foreign policy: These are republics that use the word "democratic" in their official name. Their actual political systems can vary considerably. Federal republics are federal states in which the administrative divisions (states or provinces) theoretically retain a degree of autonomy which is constitutionally protected, and cannot be revoked unilaterally by the national government. Federal republics are not unitary states. Republics governed in accordance with Islamic law: People's republics were meant to be governed by the people, but the name is most often (but not always) used by communist states. These are republics that use the word "socialist" in their official name. Unitary republics are unitary states which are governed constitutionally as one single unit, with a single constitutionally created legislature. Unitary states are not federations or confederations. 