Some countries have multiple capitals. In some cases, one city is the capital for some purposes, and one or more others are capital for other purposes, without any being considered an official capital in preference to the others.  There are also cases where there is a single legally defined capital, but one or more other cities operate as the seat of some or all parts of government; while such cases are arguably not technically multiple capitals, the situation is similar, so they are included in this list. Some Kyoto natives also argue that Tokyo and Kyoto are both capitals of Japan at present; see Capital of Japan. Israel designates Jerusalem as its capital, and seats its government in that city. However, as Jerusalem's political status has not reached a final settlement, most countries locate their embassy in Tel Aviv.  Tel Aviv and Jerusalem served as de facto joint capitals of Israel from May to December 1948. The Israeli parliament and the supreme court are both located in Jerusalem, which makes it the legislative capital and judicial capital of Israel. Palestine also claims Jerusalem as its capital, but the current de facto seat of the internationally recognized Palestinian government is in Ramallah, while the seat of the Hamas-led government is in Gaza City. In Germany, the highest judiciary organs (Federal Court of Justice and Federal Constitutional Court) are located in Karlsruhe, whereas the nation's political capital is Berlin. Some ministries are still mainly located in Bonn, the former West German capital, which is still called "federal city" (Bundesstadt). The Honduran constitution statutes that Tegucigalpa and Comayagüela are both capitals in this country. However, all the branches of government are in Tegucigalpa. Comayagüela currently is part of Tegucigalpa Metropolitan Aera. In Peru, the Peruvian Constitution declared Cusco to be the "Historical Capital" (in Spanish Capital Histórica), a merely symbolic statement, because the national government continues to reside in Lima. Republika Srpska, a sub-national entity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, has a constitutional capital of Sarajevo, the same as the capital of the country, by the Dayton Accords; but in fact, their government is located in Banja Luka. Cetinje is a historical, the traditional, and the secondary capital of Montenegro. The city's status is specifically recognized by the constitution. While the official residence of the President of Montenegro is located in the city, the rest of the government is in Podgorica. Saint Petersburg, the former capital of the Russian Empire, is unofficially recognised as the Northern Russian capital. In 2009, the Constitutional Court of Russia moved from Moscow to Saint Petersburg, giving the latter city some of the expected functions of a capital. In South Africa, Bloemfontein is considered the de facto judicial capital, as it houses the Supreme Court of Appeal. The Constitutional Court is housed in Johannesburg, and is a higher appeal court in the case of  constitutional matters. Although there is only one capital, London, of the United Kingdom, there are also three other cities which serve as capitals of their respective nations. Belfast, Cardiff and Edinburgh are the capital cities of Northern Ireland, Wales and Scotland respectively, while London is also the capital of England. The government, parliament, royal residence and supreme court are actually located in the City of Westminster, Greater London rather than the City of London. Although not considered a country, the European Union has three administrative centres: Brussels (executive and part legislative), Luxembourg (judiciary), and Strasbourg (Parliament). Although not a sovereign country on its own, the Portuguese autonomous region of the Azores has three designated regional capital cities: Ponta Delgada at São Miguel Island (seat of the Autonomous Government); Horta at Faial Island (seat of the Legislative Assembly); and Angra do Heroísmo at Terceira Island (seat of the judiciary and the historical capital of the Azores, in addition to being the seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Angra). The Canary Islands, a Spanish autonomous community, has two official capitals, in Santa Cruz de Tenerife and in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. Many nations that have maintained only one capital at any given time have, nevertheless, over time, conferred capital status on more than one city. These current countries have had two cities that served as administrative capitals at the same time, for various reasons such as war, weather or partition. In some cases, the second capital is considered a temporary capital. 