 The following is a list of suicide rates by country according to data from the World Health Organization (WHO) and other sources. A country's rank is determined by its age-adjusted total rate (per 100,000 population) of deaths officially recorded as suicides in the most recent available year. The WHO statistics are based on the official reports from each respective country, therefore no more accurate than the record-keeping in the specific country, and revisions (updates) are usually performed as well.  About one person in 5,000–15,000 dies by suicide every year (1.4% of all deaths), with reported world rate of 10.7 per 100,000 population in 2015 (was 11.6 in 2008). In Western countries male and female rates of suicidal behaviors differ at a greater degree compared to those in the rest of the world.    Around 30% of global suicides are due to pesticide self-poisoning, most of which occur in rural agricultural areas in low- and middle-income countries consisting in about 80% world population; some of them are forbidden by United Nations (UN) conventions.   In high-income countries consisting of the remaining 20% world population most common methods are firearms, hanging and other self-poisoning. Europe is the most suicidal region in the entire world, while the Eastern Mediterranean the least.   A 2014 overview pointed at the economic crisis' years (2007-2008) as a period from which suicide rates surged globally. The study was about China's suicide rates which have been declining instead: in the 1990s China was among the countries with highest suicide rates in the world (above 20 per 100,000), but by the global economic crisis they kept dropping as significantly (as they were by the end of 1990s) with the main force having been migration from rural to urban areas.  The same years were also a turning point for reliability of data: before then, many countries had no official rates, particularly African countries (see map). Per recent WHO releases, social stigma, the taboo to openly discuss suicide, and low availability of data lead to poor data quality for both suicide and suicide attempts: "given the sensitivity of suicide – and the illegality of suicidal behaviour in some countries – it is likely that under-reporting and misclassification are greater problems for suicide than for most other causes of death."   In much of the world, suicide is stigmatized and condemned for religious or cultural reasons. In some countries, suicidal behaviour is a criminal offence punishable by law. Suicide is therefore often a secretive act surrounded by taboo, and may be unrecognized, misclassified or deliberately hidden in official records of death. Source: World Health Organization[note 1][note 2] The World Health Organization (WHO) divides the world into six WHO regions (more detailed sub-regional statistics are available at its official website). Incidence of suicide tends to be under-reported and misclassified due to both cultural and social pressures, and possibly completely unreported in some areas. Since data might be skewed, comparing suicide rates between nations can result in statistically unsound conclusions about suicidal behavior in different countries. Nevertheless the statistics are commonly used to directly influence decisions about public policy and public health strategies.  Male and female suicide rates are out of total male population and total female population, respectively (i.e. total number of male suicides divided by total male population). Age-standardized rates account for the influence that different population age distributions might have on the analysis of crude death rates, statistically addressing the prevailing trends by age-groups and populations' structures, to enhance cross-national comparability: based on age-groups' deviation from standardized population structures, rates are rounded up or down (age-adjustment). If rounded down means the median life expectancy is higher than average, and viceversa when rounded up. Though age-standardization is common statistical process to categorize mortality data for comparing purposes, this approach often results in rates differing from the official national statistics prepared and endorsed by individual countries, and crude rates are usually available as well. Age-adjusted rates are mortality rates that would have existed if all populations under study had the same age distribution as a "standard" population. Most countries listed below report a higher male suicide rate, as on average there are about 3 male suicides out of 4, or a factor of 3-4:1 (for example,  in the United States was 3.36 in 2015, and 3.53 in 2016). This Male:Female ratio is based on the age-standardized rates (so when rounded up means women's life expectancy is likely greater than that of men's for that country, and viceversa if rounded down). Graying is used to overlight countries most close to world average suicide rate (10.7 per 100 000), from 7.5 to 13.9.  