This is a list of countries by system of government. There is also a political mapping of the world that shows what form of government each country has, as well as a brief description of what each form of government entails. The list is colour-coded according to the type of government, for example: blue represents a republic with an executive head of state, and pink is a constitutional monarchy with a ceremonial head of state. The colour-coding also appears on the following map, representing the same government categories. The legend of what the different colours represent is found just below the map. Note that Afghanistan, Iran, Pakistan, and Mauritania  are Islamic Republics. The following states control their territory and are recognized by at least one UN member state. The following states/governments control their territory, but are not recognised by any UN member state. Note: this chart represent de jure systems of government, not the de facto degree of democracy. Several states constitutionally republics, broadly appear as authoritarian states. Italics indicate states with limited recognition. These are systems in which a president is the active head of the executive branch of government, and is elected and remains in office independently of the legislature. In full presidential systems, the president is both head of state and head of government. There is generally no prime minister, although if one exists, in most cases, he or she serves purely at the discretion of the president (with the exceptions being Belarus and Kazakhstan, where the prime minister is effectively the head of government).   The following list includes democratic and non-democratic states: The President have full of executive powers. Note: Iran may be considered to be a theocracy as the government is intertwined with the religious hierarchy  In semi-presidential systems, there is always both a president and a prime minister. In such systems, the president has genuine executive authority, unlike in a parliamentary republic, but the role of a head of government may be exercised by the prime minister.  The president chooses the prime minister and cabinet, but only the parliament may remove them from office with a vote of no confidence. The president does not have the right to dismiss the prime minister or the cabinet.The president chooses the prime minister without the confidence vote from the parliament, and the cabinet but must have the support of the parliament majority for his choice. In order to remove a prime minister or the whole cabinet from power, the president can dismiss them or the assembly can remove them by a vote of no confidence. A parliamentary republic is a system in which a prime minister is the active head of the executive branch of government and also leader of the legislature. The president's degree of executive power may range from being significant (e.g. South Africa), to little (e.g. India), to only having certain limited reserve powers (e.g. Ireland) or none at all (e.g. Germany). Where the president holds little executive power, his or her function is primarily that of a symbolic figurehead. A combined head of state and government is elected by the legislature in the form of an executive president, however they are not subject to parliamentary confidence during their term (although their cabinet may be); the exceptions are South Africa, where the president may be forced to resign by the Parliament's will,  and Kiribati, where the president is popularly elected and a successful parliamentary motion of no confidence automatically triggers a new presidential election. In the directorial system a council jointly exercises both state functions and governmental powers (the council is the collective head of state and government). The council is elected by the parliament, but it is not subject to political confidence during its term which has a fixed duration. These are systems in which the head of state is a constitutional monarch; the existence of their office and their ability to exercise their authority is established and restrained or held back by constitutional law. Systems in which a prime minister is the active head of the executive branch of government. In some cases the prime minister is also leader of the legislature, in other cases the executive branch is clearly separated from legislature although the entire cabinet or individual ministers must step down in the case of a vote of no confidence.  [dubious  – discuss] The head of state is a constitutional monarch who normally only exercises his or her powers with the consent of the government, the people or their representatives. The prime minister is the nation's active executive, but the monarch still has considerable political powers that can be used at their own discretion. Note: Andorra may be considered a theocracy as the monarch is a joint head of state alongside a religious figure  Specifically, monarchies in which the monarch's exercise of power is unconstrained by any substantive constitutional law. Note: Vatican City may be considered a theocracy as the monarch is elected by a religious body  States in which political power is by law concentrated within one political party whose operations are largely fused with the government hierarchy (as opposed to states where the law establishes a multi-party system but this fusion is not achieved anyway through electoral fraud or simple inertia). However, some do have elected governments. The nation's military control the organs of government and all high-ranking political executives are also members of the military hierarchy. States which have a system of government which is in transition or turmoil and are classified with the current direction of change. A state governed as a single power in which the central government is ultimately supreme and any administrative divisions (sub-national units) exercise only the powers that the central government chooses to delegate.  The majority of states in the world have a unitary system of government. Of the 193 UN member states, 165 are governed as unitary states. States in which the central government has delegated some of its powers to regional authorities. States in which the federal government shares power with semi-independent regional governments. The central government may or may not be (in theory) a creation of the regional governments. A union of sovereign states, united for purposes of common action often in relation to other states. Usually created by a treaty, confederations of states tend to be established for dealing with critical issues, such as defense, foreign relations, internal trade or currency, with the general government being required to provide support for all its members.The exact political character of the European Union is debated, some arguing that it is sui generis (unique), but others arguing that it has features of a federation or a confederation. It has elements of intergovernmentalism, with the European Council acting as its collective "president", and also elements of supranationalism, with the European Commission acting as its executive and bureaucracy.  But it is not easily placed in any of the above categories.   