The following is a list of self-declared Socialist states—that is to say, past and present states that have declared themselves Socialist or in the process of building socialism. Self-identification is the only criterion used by the list, therefore the list includes all countries that have claimed to be Socialist, even if their claims are disputed. All countries that have not claimed to be Socialist are excluded, even in cases where certain outside observers regarded those countries as Socialist. This list includes countries that assert in their constitutions that they are based on socialism, regardless of their economic or political system.  As a result, this list is best understood as a list of countries that explicitly claim to be Socialist and it does not reflect the actual economic systems themselves. The majority of self-declared Socialist countries have been Marxist–Leninist states, following the model of the Soviet Union or a variant of people's democracy. They share a common definition of "socialism" and they refer to themselves as Socialist states on the road to communism with a leading vanguard party structure. For this reason, they are generally, called "Communist states" albeit erroneously. Meanwhile, the countries in the non-Marxist–Leninist category represent a wide variety of different interpretations of the word "socialism". In many cases, they do not define what they mean by it. Modern uses of the term "socialism" are wide in meaning and interpretation. A sovereign state is a different entity from the political party that rules that state at any given time, thus a country may be ruled by a Socialist Party, but without the country itself claiming to be socialist. This has occurred in both one-party and multi-party political systems. In particular, there are numerous cases of social democratic and democratic socialist political parties winning elections in liberal democratic states and ruling for a number of terms until a different party wins the elections. For example, the Swedish Social Democratic Party has won most elections in Sweden since 1932, but the country never adopted socialism as its official ideology. This article does not list countries that do not have constitutional references to socialism, even in cases where Socialist Parties have governed those countries for a certain period of time. On the other hand, countries that do maintain constitutional references to socialism are always listed, even when those countries are ruled by non-Socialist Parties. For example, India is a liberal democracy that has been ruled by non-Socialist Parties on many occasions, but it is listed here because the Indian Constitution makes references to socialism. Certain other countries, such as Hungary,  Poland  and Croatia,  have constitutions that make references to their Communist and Socialist past by recognizing and condemning it, but without claiming to be socialist in the present. Section 1, Article 1: "The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is a socialist state of the whole people, expressing the will and interests of the workers, peasants and intelligentsia, the working people of all the nations and nationalities of the country"  7003971100000000000♠26 years, 214 days since revision These are territories which have claimed independence, declared themselves "socialist" under some interpretation of the term and created stable institutions of governance that have lasted for a considerable period of time, but which are not recognized as independent states by the international community. According to international law, these territories belong to other states. These are short-lived political entities that emerged during wars or revolutions (mostly in the aftermath of World War I) and declared themselves "socialist" under some interpretation of the term, but which did not survive long enough to create a stable government or achieve international recognition. 