This is a list of the UTC time offsets, showing the difference in hours and minutes from Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), from the westernmost (−12:00) to the easternmost (+14:00). It includes countries and regions that observe them during standard time or year-round. The main purpose of this page is to list the standard time offsets of different countries, territories and regions. Information on daylight saving time or historical changes in offsets can be found in the individual offset articles (e.g. UTC+01:00), or the country-specific time articles (e.g. Time in Russia). Places that observe daylight saving time (DST) during their respective summer periods are listed only once, at the offset for their winter (usually known as "standard") period; see their individual articles for more information. A source for detailed DST and historical information is the tz database. Note that there are many instances of unofficial observation of a different offset (and/or DST) than expected by areas close to borders, usually for economic reasons.  In the section names, the letter after the offset is that used in nautical time. If present, a dagger (†) indicates the usage of a nautical time zone letter outside of the standard geographic definition of that time zone. Some locations use the term GMT (Greenwich Mean Time) instead of UTC in their definition of local time. (For most purposes, including this article, this distinction is not significant; see the UTC article for details.) Some zones that are north/south of each other in the mid Pacific differ by 24 hours in time – they have the same time of day but dates that are one day apart. The two extreme time zones on Earth (both in the mid Pacific) differ by 26 hours. NOTE: The purpose of the "principal cities" list at the top of some of the time zone entries is to give a brief list of major cities. These should be limited to a maximum of one city per country (within each zone), and not all countries in a zone need to have a city listed. Similarly, time zones need not have any cities listed if there are no major cities in that offset. Principal cities: Papeete, Honolulu Principal cities: Anchorage Principal cities: Los Angeles, Vancouver, Tijuana Principal cities: Phoenix, Calgary, Ciudad Juárez Principal cities: Chicago, Guatemala City, Mexico City, San José, San Salvador, Winnipeg Principal cities: New York, Lima, Toronto, Bogotá, Havana, Kingston Principal cities: Caracas, Santiago, La Paz, Manaus, Halifax, Santo Domingo Principal cities: St. John's Principal cities: Buenos Aires, Montevideo, São Paulo Principal cities: Accra, Casablanca, Dakar, Dublin, Lisbon, London Principal cities: Berlin, Lagos, Madrid, Paris, Rome, Tunis, Vienna, Warsaw Principal cities: Athens, Bucharest, Cairo, Helsinki, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kiev Principal cities: Istanbul, Moscow, Nairobi, Baghdad, Doha, Khartoum, Minsk, Riyadh Principal cities: Tehran Principal cities: Baku, Dubai, Samara Principal cities: Kabul Principal cities: Karachi, Tashkent, Yekaterinburg Principal cities: Delhi, Colombo Principal cities: Kathmandu Principal cities: Almaty, Dhaka, Omsk Principal cities: Yangon Principal cities: Jakarta, Bangkok, Krasnoyarsk, Ho Chi Minh City Principal cities: Hong Kong, Beijing, Taipei, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Perth, Manila, Denpasar, Irkutsk Principal cities: Seoul, Tokyo, Ambon, Yakutsk, Pyongyang Principal cities: Adelaide Principal cities: Port Moresby, Sydney, Vladivostok Principal cities: Noumea Principal cities: Auckland, Suva Principal cities: Apia, Nukuʻalofa  