List of countries by intentional homicide rate per year per 100,000 inhabitants. [note 1] The reliability of underlying national murder rate data may vary.  UNODC data is used in the main table below.  In some cases it is not as up to date as other sources. See farther down as to why its data is used over other sources.  Intentional homicide demographics are affected by changes in trauma care, leading to changed lethality of violent assaults, so the intentional homicide rate may not necessarily indicate the overall level of societal violence.  They may also be under-reported for political reasons.  [page needed] A study undertaken by the Geneva Declaration on Armed Violence and Development estimated that there were approximately 490,000 intentional homicides in 2004. The study estimated that the global rate was 7.6 intentional homicides per 100,000 inhabitants for 2004.  UNODC (United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime) reported a global average intentional homicide rate of 6.2 per 100,000 population for 2012 (in their report titled "Global Study on Homicide 2013").   UNODC calculated a rate of 6.9 in 2010.  Intentional homicide is defined by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) in its Global Study on Homicide report:  Within the broad range of violent deaths, the core element  of  intentional  homicide  is  the  complete liability  of  the  direct  perpetrator,  which  thus excludes  killings  directly  related  to  war  or  conflicts, self-inflicted death (suicide), killings due to legal  interventions  or  justifiable  killings  (such  as self-defence),  and  those  deaths  caused  when  the perpetrator  was  reckless  or  negligent  but  did  not intend  to  take  a  human  life  (non-intentional homicide).  Though some discrepancies exist in how specific categories of intentional killings are classified, the definitions used by countries to record data are generally close to the UNODC definition, making the homicide rates highly comparable at the international level.  UNODC uses the homicide rate as a proxy for overall violence, as this type of crime is one of the most accurately reported and internationally comparable indicators.  Figures from the Global Study on Homicide are based on the UNODC Homicide Statistics dataset, which is derived from the criminal justice or public health systems of a variety of countries and territories.  The homicide rates derived from criminal justice data (typically recorded by police authorities) and the public health system data (recorded when the cause of death is established) may diverge substantially for some countries.  The two sources usually match in the Americas, Europe and Oceania, but there are large discrepancies for the three African countries reporting both sources.  For the 70 countries in which neither source was made available, figures were derived from WHO statistical models.  Deaths resulting from an armed conflict between states are never included in the count.  Killings caused by a non-international armed conflict may or may not be included, depending on the intensity of hostilities and whether it is classified as 'civil unrest' or a clash between organized armed groups.  All data in this section comes from the Statistics Online website of the Research and Analysis Branch of UNODC (United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime).  Rates are calculated per 100,000 inhabitants. The regions and region names in the table are based on the United Nations geoscheme since the table sources are United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) reports.   UNODC murder rates: murders per 100,000 inhabitants (2016). Rates. Click the "show" links next to the country names at the top left of each chart. The references are linked from the sources column. 