Job Corps is a program administered by the United States Department of Labor that offers free-of-charge education and vocational training to young men and women ages 16 to 24.  Job Corps' mission is to help young people ages 16 through 24, improve the quality and satisfaction of their lives through vocational and academic training.   The Job Core was originally designed by a task force establish by Labor Secretary Willard Wirtz reporting to his Manpower Administrator Sam Merrick.  In 1962, the youth unemployment rate was twice the non-youth employment rate and the purpose of the initiative was to create a program whereby Youth members of the program could spend 1/2 of their time improving national parks and forests and the other 1/2 of their time improving their basic education skills which were severely limiting their occupational accomplishments.  The Job Corps Task Force initially recommended that Job Corps programs be limited to Federal National Parks, National Forests, and other Fedral Lands. By the Kennedy assissination in 1963, the Job Corps oprational plans, costs, budgets and been well developed including coordination with the U. S. Forest Service and the U. S., Park Service, and Memorandua of Understandings (MOUs) executed among the agencies.  Initiating legislation and budgetory authorizations were drafted and submitted by the Kennedy Administration which in turn were submitted and introduced in both houses of Congress.  When President Jounson and his planning staff decided on the War on Poverty, most of the proposed programs would take more than a year to even start.  However the Job Corps idea was well along in the planning stage and could be deployed rapidly so the Labor Department Job Corps Task Force was appointed to the Task force for the War on Poverty , and the Job Corps was slated to be the initial operational program.  Job Corps was therefore initiated as the central program of the Johnson Administration's War on Poverty, part of his domestic agenda known as the Great Society. Sargent Shriver, the first Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity, modeled the program on the Depression-era Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC). Established in the 1930s as an emergency relief program, the CCC provided room, board, and employment to thousands of unemployed young people. Though the CCC was discontinued after World War II, Job Corps built on many of its methods and strategies. The first National Director of the Job Corps program was Dr. S. Stephen Uslan, who was appointed by President Lyndon Johnson and reported directly to Sargent Shriver.  The current national director of the Office of Job Corps is Lenita Jacobs-Simmons  The Job Corps program is currently authorized under Title I-C of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998.  Since its inception in 1964 under the Economic Opportunity Act, Job Corps has served more than 1.9 million young people.  Job Corps serves approximately 60,000 youths annually at Job Corps Centers throughout the country.  A person is eligible for Job Corps if he or she meets the following criteria:  Applicants to the Job Corps program are identified and screened for eligibility by organizations contracted by the U.S. Department of Labor.  Each student in the Job Corps goes through four stages of the program:  Outreach and Admissions (OA): This is the stage at which students visit admissions counselors and gather information, as well as prepare for and leave for their Job Corps Centers.  Transportation is provided to and from the centers by Job Corps. Career Preparation Period (CPP): This stage focuses on the assimilation of the student into the center, academic testing, health screening, and instruction on resume building and job search skills. Students are instructed on computer literacy, employability, and center life. This phase lasts for the first 30 days on center.  Career Development Period (CDP): This period is where the student receives all vocational training, drivers' education, academic instruction, and preparation for life outside of Job Corps, i.e. a repeat of CPP with an actual job search.  Career Transition Readiness (CTR): The period immediately after the student graduates. Career Transition Specialists outside the center assist in the graduate's job search and arrangement of living accommodations, transportation, and family support resources.  The following Career Technical Training programs are offered by Job Corps.  However, Job Corps continually adjusts program offerings in response to labor market demand, so the below list may not be fully complete or current.  Advanced manufacturing Automotive and machine repair Construction Extension programs Finance and Business Health care/allied health professions Homeland security Hospitality Information technology Renewable resources and energy Retail sales and services Transportation There are a total of 131 Job Corps centers, including at least one in every state, one in Washington, D.C. and three in Puerto Rico.  There are six Regional Offices of Job Corps:  In Program Year 2012, approximately 75 percent of Job Corps’ graduates were placed. Slightly more than 60 percent joined the workforce or enlisted in the military, while 13.5 percent of Job Corps’ graduates enrolled in education programs.  CBS This Morning reported in October 2014 that some Job Corps centers have been accused of falsifying job placements and student training, as well as ignoring violence and drug abuse.  In 1993, the DOJ commissioned an evaluation of the program based on randomized assignment of eligible applicants to the program. Results showed impacts on employment, wages, and crime rates 4 years after enrollment, but modest impacts afterwards. Youths assigned to the control group could enroll in other programs, therefore the results are to be interpreted as the impact on enrolling in Job Corps relative to potential enrollment in other programs.     ~~~~ 