Self access language learning centers are educational facilities designed for student learning that is at least partially, if not fully self-directed.  Students have access to resources ranging from photocopied exercises with answer keys to computer software for language learning. These centers are an outgrowth of a style of learning that can go by several names: learner-centered approach, learner autonomy or self-directed learning.  These centers exist primarily in Asia, Europe and North America. Use of such facilities and the pedagogical theory they are based upon has its advantages and disadvantages. Proper use can result in a feeling of empowerment and better learning outcomes, but getting to the point where students and teachers can exploit them effectively can be problematic. For this reason, the structure of established self access centers varies from completely student-directed work with classroom immersion to programs that provide primarily tutor or instructor guidance for student work. Self access language learning promotes the approach where students study independently choosing from among different resources that are available.  The theory behind this style of learning is that students, especially foreign language students, learn better if they have a say in how they learn.  Self-access language learning is closely related to learner-centered approach, learner autonomy and self-directed learning as all focus on student responsibility and active participation for his/her own learning.  This style of instruction is most often done in the setting of a self-contained learning environment or self-access center. Self-access centers can be as simple as a classroom set aside with dictionaries and shelves of paper-based exercises to state-of-the-art digital centers with various types of computer- and Internet-based resources. What resources are available and how students are guided to use them depend on the financial resources available and how much learner autonomy an institution decides to give students.  Some of the advantages of this form of learning is that students at the very least set the pace of their work.  Depending on the individual center, students can also set the level and content of their work.  Students can use these centers voluntarily or can have assignments to complete there.  The major advantage, therefore, is flexibility, with the purpose of giving the students themselves the opportunity to tailor the course more to their learning needs and styles than a more traditional mode of teaching.  Use of multiple technologies in a more independent setting has been shown to improve motivation and increase students’ ability to work independently by taking more responsibility for their own learning. Students also report feeling more “empowered” by such modes of instruction.  The major disadvantages of this mode has basically to do with the ability of both students and teachers to adapt and integrate this method effectively.  Many students are not used to working independently, creating the need to provide guidance as to the use of this kind of center, at least in the beginning.  One study reports that students do not seem to want too much freedom in their use of technology.  73% reported that they preferred a regularly scheduled lab time, with the facilitative presence of a teacher. Significantly less than half reported that they preferred completely free access to the lab or to do work at home on their own computer.  For teachers, the 'letting go' of control can be equally disorienting and it may seem that giving students such control depreciates teachers' skills and experience.  Traditionally, teachers are used to being the center of student activity, controlling how, when and why students do what they do. Students have been expected to work in "lock-step" with the teacher orchestrating what students do to a very high degree. Teachers, in turn, rely on textbooks that allow little variation.  Use of self-access center materials steer students way from the rigidity and "security" of this paradigm, causing teachers to lose their "all-powerful" and "all-knowing" position. This can cause problems integrating a self-access center due to political and institutional constraints.  Other possible problems have to do with availability of physical resources.  