Budapest Fashion Week is a fashion week trade show held annually in April  and October in Budapest, Hungary, usually after the five major fashion weeks. It is still aspiring to the level of big five fashion weeks (New York City, London, Paris, Milan and Berlin). Based on the concept of the international fashion week series, TONI&GUY Fashion Week Budapest is an event, where the leading Hungarian fashion designers and international designers gain platform to introduce their seasonal collections twice a year for the Hungarian and international fashion industry and the public as well. The event is usually held in the Palazzo Dorottya. Budapest Fashion Week's aim is to get together the talented young fashion designers with the innovative brands for a successful and most “talked about” event for communication and socially responsible purposes. Based on the concept of the international fashion week series, TONI&GUY Fashion Week Budapest is an event, where the leading Hungarian fashion designers gain platform to introduce their seasonal collections twice a year for the Hungarian and international fashion industry and the public as well. The long-term goal of the event is to build a position for the Hungarian designers on the local and also on the international markets and to revive Hungarian fashion and textile industry. The organizer of this event is BigBag PR Agency, which is a boutique strategic communications firm specializes in fashion and beauty. Based on industry experiences – with a background in fashion journalism – the agency develop programs that launch, grow, or re-establish brand’s presence and deliver consistent brand message. The agency’s aim is to reinvigorate the professional Hungarian fashion life, that is why the organizers created TONI&GUY Fashion Week Budapest.  Budapest Fashion Week became one of the first fashion week to fully embrace digital media when it offered by all designers who were showing their collections on the catwalk the opportunity to broadcast their shows live on the internet by UStream.  The video stream can be seen on Budapest Fashion Week's website an on UStream channels. General sponsor of the event is TONI&GUY global hairdressing and training business company and further major sponsors are the Mercedes-Benz, Samsung, MAC Cosmetics, Sony, UPC among others.   