Chrome Hearts  is a  brand of  high end   silver jewelry which also produces gold, diamond accessories, leather, clothing, furniture, incense,  and eyewear.   Founded in 1989 in Los Angeles and owned by  Richard Stark and Laurie Lynn Stark,    Chrome Hearts remains a made in USA operation and a family business.   The production site covers three blocks in the middle of Hollywood.   The brand makes nothing of chrome, and does not use hearts as a decorative symbol.  Richard Stark  and friend John Bowman started the  business in an L.A. garage in early 1988.  Bowman was a manufacturer of leather goods, and Stark was  selling top grade raw leathers.  Stark explained:  "We both rode bikes. We couldn't find jackets we really liked. So we made our own."  The third partner in the business was  master jeweler Leonard Kamhout, who used only sterling silver.  The company's first job was costume design for   Chopper Chicks in Zombietown,  costarring a girlfriend of one of the Sex Pistols; Stark took  the name of  the brand from the working title of the movie.  Stark and the other founders eventually had a falling-out, and they departed the brand.  (In 1994 Leonard Kamhout and Devon Wheeler founded  Lone Ones,  a private custom jewelry atelier.)  Laurie Lynn originally ordered a collection of leather swimsuits from the company, but  later  married Stark and  joined   as a partner.  In 1996, Chrome Hearts opened the first boutique in 159 East 64th Street, Manhattan.  In 2002, Chrome Hearts introduced a collaboration with The Rolling Stones featuring the band’s iconic “Lips and Tongue” motif.  In 2007, Japanese fashion brand Comme des Garçons has teamed up with Chrome Hearts, collaborated on a series of pendants and garments.  In 2010, Chrome Hearts partnered on  shoe design  with the Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation,  and Rick Owens.  The shoes are adorned with various silver embellishments.  In March 2014 Chrome Hearts bought a minority stake in high-end knitwear brand The Elder Statesman.  Chrome Hearts employed its hallmark silver accents in a customization of the iconic adidas Stan Smith in early 2016.   Bella Hadid used to visit the factory in LA as a teenager and collaborated with the brand on a 40-piece apparel and accessories collection released in 2017.  The CHROME HEARTS x BELLA collection debuted at Paris Fashion Week,  and is sold exclusively at Selfridges.   Bella's sister Gigi Hadid has modeled for the brand.  Steven Tyler,  Elton John, Karl Lagerfeld, Jaye Muller, Kanye West,  Cher, Kate Hudson, Carine Roitfeld, Britney Spears and Fergie are fans of the brand.  Slash, Sebastian Bach, and Melt-Banana have played music in the Chrome Hearts office space.  As of April 2017 Chrome Hearts has retail locations in:  