Fjällräven (Swedish pronunciation: [²fjɛlːˌrɛːvɛn], Swedish for Arctic fox) is a Swedish company specialising in outdoor equipment—mostly clothing and rucksacks. It was founded in 1960 by Åke Nordin (1936–2013).   Fjallraven is a subsidiary of Fenix Outdoor AB. Fjällräven's original product was an external frame rucksack. Nordin found that most backpacks in the market at the time were causing discomfort to his back, so he designed his own from tent fabric. This proved comfortable, durable, and, along with outdoor clothing made from the same fabric, made the brand well known in just a decade. Among its more well-known products are Greenland jackets, Vidda Trousers, Expedition Down Jacket and various versions of the Kånken rucksack. The company has a strong market presence in the Nordic countries. It is also represented in other European countries. Fjällräven products can be identified by their Arctic Fox logo, often found on the left sleeve of their tops and outerwear. The badge itself sometimes follows the outline of the fox logo, or is in a shield-like shape. Most Fjällräven products also possess a small Swedish flag, usually located on a seam. Most of Fjällräven's products are made from its G-1000 material. This is 65% polyester and 35% cotton. It comes in various types: Original, Silent, Lite and HeavyDuty, each with slightly different properties. The Fjällräven Kånken was originally designed in 1978 to help prevent back problems amongst Swedish school children. It is now sold worldwide, and is most popular with young females. Kånkens have a different logo to most other Fjällräven products, which are white and pink as opposed to brown (see picture above). As of April 2018, Fjällräven sell the Kånken in 54 different colourways. In 2016, the Re-Kånken, made entirely of polyester from recycled plastic bottles, was released. In the United Kingdom, Fjällräven jackets are popular amongst casual groups, along with brands such as Stone Island, C.P. Company and Adidas Originals. The idea for Fjällräven Polar began in the early 1990s when Fjällräven founder Åke Nordin met Kenth Fjellborg, one of Sweden's leading dog-sled drivers. Fjellborg had participated in Iditarod, the world’s most difficult dog sled competition through the harsh Alaskan wilderness, and this inspired Nordin. Nordin wanted to create a Swedish equivalent for ordinary people. In 1997, Fjällräven Polar took place in the Scandinavian Arctic for the first time. It provides an opportunity for Fjällräven to test out clothes, tents and other equipment in the environment they were made for: the winter wilderness of northern Scandinavia. The Fjällräven Classic concept is to encourage and enable more people to get out and enjoy trekking. It is not a competition or a race. It's a chance to socialise with other hikers and enjoy the trek of a lifetime. The idea came directly from Fjällräven founder Åke Nordin at the start of the 21st century. He had been inspired by the dramatic landscapes and breathtaking scenery of the Swedish mountains. He wanted others to explore the same landscapes and the feeling of freedom of spending a few days trekking on the trail. His solution was Fjällräven Classic. There were just 152 finishers at the first Swedish Classic in 2005. Nowadays, Fjällräven Classic does reach the masses. There were 2136 finishes ten years later in 2015. Fjällräven Classic now takes place in four different locations around the world: Sweden, Denmark, the US and Hong Kong. 