Gayatri Kachru (born December 7, 1981, Delhi, India) is an Indian theater performer, fashion model,  and an actress.  Gayatri Kachru has two elder brothers (Gaurav & Prashast Gautam). She went to Lady Shri Ram College for Women, in New Delhi. Gayatri is the only daughter and youngest child of Upendra Kachru, who is a professor at the Fore School of Management, Delhi and Purnima Kachru, who is a published author (Kashmiri Kitchen), both of whom are presently very active in the development of the diasporic Kashmiri community. She has now ventured into the SMM area for high fashion brands in India. Gayatri did her Bachelors Honours streamlining in English Literature from Lady Shri Ram College For Women (1997–2000) and school from Summer Fields School in Kailash Colony. While she was at Lady Shri Ram College For Women, she became very active in the college theatre cuircut. She was elected the President of the Dramatic Society and went on to win the Principals Award for Exemplary Contribution to Theatre. She went to The University of California, Berkeley in 2007 where she spent the next year completing her Management & Business Track (MBT) specializing in Marketing & Project Management. After, which she went on to do a course in Art History at Berkeley City College in 2009. Gayatri has acted and anchored many Indian TV series & short films. The Pocket Watch by Vibhu Puri, Speed for Ten Sports, Love Bites for Zoom TV and also did a couple of cameos in the BBC backed AIDS awareness Serial Jasoos Vijay. She has starred in three music videos: Raat Chup Chap Hai - Asha Bhonsle - Dil Padosi Hai, Lata Mangeshkar & Jagjit singh - Gham ka Khazana & Kailash Kher - Dilruba. She has starred in ad films for Hyundai Santro, Cadbury's, Wrigley's, Hide n Seek, Electrolux, Keo Karpin Hair Oil, Pepsi, Nestle, Mr.White Detergent, Times of India and BrylCream. She has also shot for Amrapali Jewellery, Gyans, Satya Paul, Meena Bazaar, Mehrasons Jewellers, GNIIT, Barista, W, Airtel, Bombay Selections, Samsung, ABN Amro, Muthoot, Usha Fans, Whirlpool, Rin   and more. Gayatri has been featured in magazines like Cosmopolitan, Femina, First City, Living Digital Media, Seventeen. She was featured as one of The 10 Most Beautiful Women in First City, as shot by Prabudhha Das Gupta. She has done calendars for Elite & Femina, and also a coffee table book for Art Karat.  