Milan Fashion Week (Italian: Settimana della moda) is a clothing trade show held semi-annually in Milan, Italy. The autumn/winter event is held in February/March of each year, and the spring/summer event is held in September/October of each year.   Milan Fashion Week, established in 1958, is part of the global "Big Four fashion weeks", the others being Paris Fashion Week, London Fashion Week and New York Fashion Week.   The schedule begins with New York, followed by London, and then Milan, and ending with Paris.  Milan Fashion Week is partially organized by Camera Nazionale della Moda Italiana (The National Chamber for Italian Fashion), a non-profit association which disciplines, co-ordinates and promotes the development of Italian fashion  and is responsible for hosting the fashion events and shows of Milan. The Camera Sindacale della Moda Italiana, was set up on 11 June 1958. This was the forerunner of the body which subsequently became the Camera Nazionale della Moda Italiana.  Proprietors of the most important establishments in Italy, including some private establishments, which, in those days, played a crucial role in the promotion of this sector, were present at the Memorandum of Association: Roberto Capucci, Emilio Schuberth, Maria Antonelli, Princess Caracciolo Ginnetti, Alberto Fagiani, Giovanni Cesare Guidi, Germana Marucelli, Simonetta Colonna Di Cesarò, Jole Veneziani, Francesco Borrello, Giovanni Battista Giorgini, and the lawyer Pietro Parisio. The events dedicated to women's fashion are the most important (Womenswear / Milan SS Women Ready to Wear, and Milano Moda Donna being the major fashion shows). The summer events dedicated to men include Menswear and Milano Moda Uomo.  In 2013 the autumn/winter Milan Fashion Week started on 20 January with Paola Frani, and was followed by shows from major fashion houses such as Armani, Roberto Cavalli, Dolce & Gabbana, Etro, Fendi, Ferragamo, Gucci, Jil Sander, Marni, Max Mara, Missoni, Moschino, Philipp Plein, Prada, Pucci, John Richmond, Tod's, Versace etc. but also by shows from new labels and younger designers such as Au jour le jour, Cristiano Burani, Gabriele Colangelo, Marco De Vincenzo, Stella Jean, Chicca Lualdi, MSGM, N°21, Fausto Puglisi, Francesco Scognamiglio etc. On 20 November 2013, Giorgio Armani announced he has decided to join the Italian Chamber of Fashion.  In April 2015, Carlo Capasa was named president of the Camera Nazionale Della Moda Italiana.  Certain shows are not held in conjunction with the Camera Nazionale Della Moda Italiana, including Dolce & Gabbana. The Camera Nazionale Della Moda Italiana has also been sharply criticized by designers such as Cavalli.  Milan fashion week including more than 40 shows each season transforms the city into a touristic hob by simply creating various venues for the shows selecting the most elegant and influential palaces to become the stage for design. Example of location are Palazzo Reale, palazzo serbelloni and many others In 2014 Greenpeace protested to demand "toxic-free fashion" by hanging signs in the Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II.  Chiara Campione of Greenpeace Italy said the demonstration was set up to "...ask Italian brands, especially Versace, because it has the highest level of hazardous chemicals in its products, to publicly commit to eliminate harmful substances from the various stages of production."  