Trashy Lingerie is a Los Angeles based custom-made lingerie store. It is well known for its celebrity clientele and lingerie models. A unique aspect to the business is that Trashy Lingerie requires a $2 annual membership fee in order to shop in the store.  Trashy Lingerie was started in 1973 by shoe designer Mitch Shrier and his wife Tracy. The store was named after a sling-back shoe called the “Trashy.” The Shriers entered the lingerie business by hand-dying stockings in bright colors, offering customers more than the limited choices of black, white or nude. Very quickly, the company developed a full line of lingerie resulting in offering of over 8,000 products including lingerie, costumes, and bathing suits. Until the company went online in 1998, they were Hollywood’s best kept secret[original research?] with a clientele that included Vanity, Cher, Madonna, Mariah Carey, Janet Jackson, Kim Basinger, Dolly Parton, Gwyneth Paltrow, Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz, Sheryl Crow, Kate Bosworth, Jenny McCarthy, Anna Nicole Smith, Paris Hilton, and others. Trashy Lingerie and its sister companies, Trashy.com and Trashy Girls, are owned and operated by Mitch Shrier, Randy Shrier, and Mary Loomis-Shrier respectively.  Trashy's designs have been seen in over 500 films, numerous television shows, commercials, concert tours, and hundreds of magazine features. All of the Trashy Lingerie designs are original, handmade and personally customizable.  The shop has been featured several times in the hit show The Girls Next Door where Hugh Hefner's then girlfriends bought their costumes for numerous Playboy Mansion parties. The exterior of the store was featured in The Go-Go's music video for Our Lips Are Sealed.  Gene Simmons selected it as the shooting location for his interviews in the documentary film The Decline of Western Civilization Part II: The Metal Years. The company has employed numerous well known models including; Masuimi Max,  Sophia Santi,  Miki Black, Laura Lee,   Ashley Gates,  Anya Monzikova,  Dita Von Teese,  Jennifer Lyons,  Julie Strain  and Bridget Silvestri.  Singer Zayra Alvarez, a former contestant on the TV show Rock Star: Supernova, revealed that most of her shocking outfits come from Trashy Lingerie.  