Franz Klainsek is an American contemporary artist. Klainsek addresses the societal programming and its systematic effect on the human mind through his work. Large scale paintings and installations often include references to man’s struggle to find Truth in the "programmed" society and his identification with mind. His endurance art pieces bring awareness to societal issues that "cause suffering or keep us from being free." Enthralled by the journey of suffering leading to enlightenment, he uses art as a vehicle to express his Truth, seeing the work as an eye opener, "an awakening", to what is overseen, rejected, or "numbed."   A requiring subject throughout the work are Nails of gold. Nails carry a history of representing suffering leading to enlightenment. These references can be found in Biblical, Buddhist and Hindu records. Franz uses nails as a means to represent the strength of the human spirit; nails of gold serve as his tool to bring attention to what we as a society bring suffering to ourselves through. Klainsek's work is based in conceptual art and shows some attributes of abstract expressionism, surrealism, and is infused with autobiographical, psychological, and societal content. Primarily based on oil and ink media, the abstract works create a contrast through the use of freely applied strokes and controlled fine lines of patterns and intricate movements of pointillism. Klainsek uses text in his paintings as a springboard to deeper truths about the society and individual. Klainsek had honed his signature painting style of obsessive movements of pointillism, scribbling, elusive symbols and characters initially in 2013. On his return from his first residence deep within the Amazon Jungle of Peru, where he had spent months in isolation, practicing shamanism with the Shipibo Indians. The obsessive work on a wooden table was Franz’s journal; the art was the language in which he had chosen to express his inner rumblings. (“Thru My Veins” 2014) "I feel while I work, I try not to think— it is the expression of what I feel in the moment.”The language created — the patterns that he calls Thru My Veins - has since been the dominant element within his work on canvas.   His endurance art pieces bring awareness to societal issues that "cause suffering or keep us from being free." Enthralled by the journey of suffering leading to enlightenment, he uses art as a vehicle to express his Truth, seeing the work as an eye opener, "an awakening", to what is overseen, rejected, or "numbed." An immersive performance art piece that evolves into a multidimensional installation. Franz Klainsek spends days placing thousands of gold nails on their heads, creating patterns choice by choice into a striking installation work. Presence is a visually emotional masterpiece that stands in the sophistication of simplicity. The piece creates a relationship with light and shadow that further brings this work to life. The concept of the piece is a full commitment to the present moment. Present with every choice; the performance art piece is fueled by moment to moment intention. The space where every breath is channeled into the creation of the piece. The installation ends with a final performance; when the work is destroyed and nails become nails again. This finale is channeled from the power of detachment. The very same space in which the Tibetan Buddhist monks create and then destroy the sand mandala.  An ongoing performance art piece by Klainsek. The performance series is documented in video, predominantly by the artist himself. Meant to establish a connection with the viewer while allowing them to connect with their individual Truth, the work is silent."Live in Truth; May you rest in Freedom."Public Art Project by Franz Klainsek. Launched in 2018. The work is intended to involve the public in the creation process of the art piece. Klainsek’s work on canvas depicts expressionist and surrealist motives. The abstract work often resembles aboriginal motives seen throughout the indigenous cultures. Klainsek spends months at a time living within various indigenous tribes. In particular that of Shipibo Indian and Quechua cultures. A predefined intention drives all work: visual, performance and installation pieces. Colliding the raw structure of spontaneity and calculated choice into oneness, Klainsek creates an experience. The work lives in the space of balance and imbalance, always striving towards unity.  Klainsek’s theories present the conflict between modern society and self, and the effects on the collective conscious. Klainsek’s thesis about society, self, and the concepts of "Breaking Free" hold that individuals progress by separating from societal programming. He believes that only by living in Truth, can one become truly free. “We live in a society where nobody knows themselves. Everybody has this obsessive identification with mind being who they are. With all the lies we"ve been told and all the lies we tell ourselves that keeps us from feeling and experiencing the truth, the end result being nobody knows who they really are. My work is a commitment to peeling the layers of lies that keep me from being and knowing my true self. I keep digging deeper and deeper into what’s real and what’s not. Breaking free from the lies to find myself closer and closer to being free. My work is an expression of Truth.”