Punchdrunk is a British theatre company, formed in 2000, by Artistic Director Felix Barrett MBE.   Since its inception, Punchdrunk has pioneered  a form of "immersive" theatre  in which the audience is free to choose what to watch and where to go.  This format is related to "promenade theatre". Artistic director Felix Barrett prefers the term "site-sympathetic" when describing their work.  Punchdrunk was founded by Felix Barrett, who continues to be the company’s Artistic Director and works closely with the company’s creative team. Punchdrunk’s Executive Director is Rebecca Dawson and Peter Higgin is Director of Enrichment and Punchdrunk Village. Company members include Associate Director and Choreographer Maxine Doyle, Creative Producer Colin Nightingale, Creative Director Stephen Dobbie, and Senior Designer Livi Vaughan. The company is a National Portfolio Organisation with Arts Council England.  In 2015, Punchdrunk founded a new production company, Punchdrunk International. Punchdrunk International produces artistic works created by Felix Barrett and the Punchdrunk creative team, including Sleep No More, Shanghai. The company also creates innovation-led partnerships with selected organisations on a bespoke basis. This includes a long term creative partnership with Samsung North America. Projects made in collaboration with the company include Believe Your Eyes, a VR experience for Cannes Lions Festival, 2016. The experience has since travelled to Art Basel Miami, Samsung 837 in New York and Phi Centre, Montreal. Believe Your Eyes was awarded a Silver Lion in the Entertainment category at Cannes 2017. Punchdrunk International also collaborated with Samsung and Rihanna.  on a major campaign for the launch of her eighth album, Anti. A cross-platform experience, ANTIdiaRy told the story of Rihanna's life and transformations, through a series of rooms audiences could journey through. Punchdrunk International gave creative direction to a series of TV films, a digital experience and live events throughout the US. ANTIdiaRy was awarded a Bronze Lion in the Integrated Campaign Led By Promo & Activation category at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity 2016. In 2008, Punchdrunk founded a new branch of the company focussed on outreach to communities and schools called Punchdrunk Enrichment. Punchdrunk Enrichment projects are mostly aimed at children and young people but they are created out of the same ethos as Punchdrunk’s main projects, with a similar ambition in terms of form, scale and design. Peter Higgin, Punchdrunk’s Director of Enrichment, described these projects as "transformative experiences with a wider educational focus and the trademark design and imagination that you’d get in bigger Punchdrunk shows."  Projects from Punchdrunk Enrichment include:  In 2017, Punchdrunk opened Fallow Cross , a unique research and development space at their home in Tottenham Hale. Set across 11,000 square feet, it has been developed as a space to  innovate, incubate and explore its future artistic and enrichment practice. It provides the canvas for the company to continue to push the boundaries of live performance and storytelling for a growing range of audiences.  Fallow Cross houses ideas that span the breadth of the company’s work including core artistic activity, enrichment projects, sensory work and the intersection with new technologies. It builds on the success of Punchdrunk’s ambitious and transformative projects in order to devise a new generation of remarkable productions and audience experiences. It is not a public or production space, but has been used projects such as Punchdrunk Enrichment's  The Oracles. It is also used for Punchdrunk's programme of workshops and masterclasses. In a typical Punchdrunk production, audience members are free to roam the performance site, which can be as large as a five-story industrial warehouse. They can either follow the performers and themes (there are usually multiple threads at any instant), or simply explore the world of the performance, treating the production as a large art installation.  Masks are another signature element of Punchdrunk's work. Barret says when the company "...introduced masks, suddenly inhibition fell away and people found a sense of freedom in their anonymity, allowing them to fully explore their surroundings and become totally absorbed in the world around them."   Former Secretary of State for Culture James Purnell cited Punchdrunk as an example of "access and excellence" in modern British theatre.  A re-imagined version of the original production (London, Boston and New York) set in 1930s Shanghai. Co-produced by SMG Live, Sleep No More tells Shakespeare's classic tragedy Macbeth through a darkly cinematic lens. Taking place over five floors in the Jing'An district in the city, the production is already the second longest running production in Shanghai theatre history. Sleep No More, Shanghai received the prestigious Best Breakthrough Act at Shanghai’s Annual TV & Culture Awards in June 2017 and a Thea Award for Outstanding Achievement in Connected Immersion Theatre in November 2017.  