The GigaMesh Software Framework is a modular software for display, editing and visualization of 3D-data typically acquired with structured light or structure from motion. It provides numerous functions for analysis of archaeological objects like cuneiform tablets, ceramics   or converted LiDAR data . Typically applications are unwrappings (or rollouts) , profile cuts (or cross sections)  as well as visualizations of distances and curvature, which can be exported as raster graphics or vector graphics. The name "GigaMesh" refers to processing of large 3D-datasets and relates intentional to the mythical sumerian king Gilgamesh and his heroic epic described on a set of clay tablets.  The central element of the logo is the cuneiform sign 𒆜 (kaskal) meaning street or road junction, which symbolizes the intersection of the humanities and computer science. The surrounding circle refers to the integral invariant computation using a spherical domain. The color red is used by the Heidelberg University, where GigaMesh is developed. The retrieval of text in 3D like damaged cuneiform tablets or weathered medieval headstones  using Multi Scale Integral Invariant (MSII) filtering is a core function of the software. Futhermore small or faint surface details like fingerprints can be visualized.   The polygonal meshes of the 3D-models can be inspected, cleaned and repaired to provide optimal filtering results. The repaired datasets are suitable for 3D printing and for digital publishing in a dataverse.  The initial development was inspired by the edition project Keilschrifttexte aus Assur literarischen Inhalts (KAL, cuneiform texts with literary content) of the Heidelberg Academy of Sciences and Humanities. In parallel it was applied within the Austrian Corpus Vasorum Antiquorum of the Austrian Academy of Sciences for documentation of red-figure pottery. Current projects are funded by the DFG and the BMBF for contextualization and analysis of seals and sealings of the Corpus der minoischen und mykenischen Siegel.   Analog to the developments for processing cuneiform tablets there are further approaches for adaption of the combined Computer Vision and Machine Learning methods for other Scripts in 3D. An example is the application within the Text Database and Dictionary of Classic Mayan.  