This article is a list of different language classification proposals developed for indigenous languages of the Americas. The article is divided into North, Central, and South America sections; however, the classifications do not always neatly correspond to these continent divisions. (See: Indigenous languages of the Americas for the main article about these languages.) An early attempt at North American language classification was attempted by A. A. Albert Gallatin published in 1826, 1836, and 1848. Gallatin's classifications are missing several languages which are later recorded in the classifications by Daniel G. Brinton and John Wesley Powell. (Gallatin supported the assimilation of indigenous peoples to Euro-American culture.) Families Languages 11. Straits of Fuca  (=Makah)   12. Natches  (=Natchez)  13. Wakash  (=Nootka)  14. Salish  (=Salishan)  15. Shoshonees  (=Shoshone)  16. Atnahs  (=Shuswap)  17. Kinai  (=Tanaina)  18. Koulischen  (=Tlingit)  19. Utchees  (=Yuchi) Families Languages   1. Adai    2. Alsean    3. Apache    4. Arapaho    5. Atakapa    6. Caddoan, Northern    7. Caddoan, Southern    8. Cayuse-Molala    9. Chinookan  10. Chitimacha  11. Comanche  12. Haida  13. Kalapuyan  14. Kiowa  15. Klamath  16. Koasati-Alabama  17. Kootenai  18. Kutchin  19. Maricopa (Yuman)  20. Natchez  21. Palaihnihan  22. Plains Apache  23. Sahaptian  24. Salishan  25. Shasta  26. Shoshone  27. Tanaina  28. Tlingit  29. Tsimshian  30. Ute  31. Wakashan, Southern  32. Wichita  33. Yuchi  John Wesley Powell, an explorer who served as director of the Bureau of American Ethnology, published a classification of 58 "stocks" that is the "cornerstone" of genetic classifications in North America. Powell's classification was influenced by Gallatin to a large extent. John Wesley Powell was in a race with Daniel G. Brinton to publish the first comprehensive classification of North America languages (although Brinton's classification also covered South and Central America). As a result of this competition, Brinton was not allowed access to the linguistic data collected by Powell's fieldworkers.   1. Adaizan     2. Algonquian    3. Athapascan    4. Attacapan  (=Atakapa)   5. Beothukan  (=Beothuk)   6. Caddoan    7. Chimakuan    8. Chimarikan  (=Chimariko)   9. Chimmesyan  (=Tsimshian) 10. Chinookan  11. Chitimachan  (=Chitimacha) 12. Chumashan  13. Coahuiltecan  14. Copehan  (=Wintuan) 15. Costanoan  16. Eskimauan  (=Eskimoan) 17. Esselenian  (=Esselen) 18. Iroquoian  19. Kalapooian  (=Kalapuyan) 20. Karankawan  (=Karankawa) 21. Keresan  22. Kiowan  (=Kiowa) 23. Kitunahan  (=Kutenai) 24. Koluschan  (=Tlingit) 25. Kulanapan  (=Pomoan) 26. Kusan  (=Coosan) 27. Lutuamian  (=Klamath-Modoc) 28. Mariposan  (=Yokutsan) 29. Moquelumnan  (=Miwokan) 30. Muskhogean  (=Muskogean) 31. Natchesan  (=Natchez) 32. Palaihnihan  33. Piman  (=Uto-Azetcan) 34. Pujunan  (=Maiduan) 35. Quoratean  (=Karok) 36. Salinan  37. Salishan  38. Sastean  (=Shastan) 39. Shahaptian  (=Sahaptian) 40. Shoshonean  (=Uto-Azetcan) 41. Siouan  (=Siouan–Catawba) 42. Skittagetan  (=Haida) 43. Takilman  (=Takelma) 44. Tañoan  (=Tanoan) 45. Timuquanan  (=Timucua) 46. Tonikan  (=Tunica) 47. Tonkawan  (=Tonkawa) 48. Uchean  (=Yuchi) 49. Waiilatpuan  (=Cayuse & Molala) 50. Wakashan  51. Washoan  (=Washo) 52. Weitspekan  (=Yurok) 53. Wishoskan  (=Wiyot) 54. Yakonan  (=Siuslaw & Alsean) 55. Yanan  56. Yukian  57. Yuman  58. Zuñian  (=Zuni) Below is Edward Sapir's (1929) famous Encyclopædia Britannica classification. Note that Sapir's classification was controversial at the time and it additionally was an original proposal (unusual for general encyclopedias). Sapir was part of a "lumper" movement in Native American language classification. Sapir himself writes of his classification: "A more far-reaching scheme than Powell's [1891 classification], suggestive but not demonstrable in all its features at the present time" (Sapir 1929: 139). Sapir's classifies all the languages in North America into only 6 families: Eskimo–Aleut, Algonkin–Wakashan, Nadene, Penutian, Hokan–Siouan, and Aztec–Tanoan. Sapir's classification (or something derivative) is still commonly used in general languages-of-the-world type surveys. (Note that the question marks that appear in Sapir's list below are present in the original article.) I. Eskimo–Aleut II. Algonkin–Wakashan III. Nadene IV. Penutian V. Hokan–Siouan VI. Aztec–Tanoan The Voegelin & Voegelin (1965) classification was the result of a conference of Americanist linguists held at Indiana University in 1964. This classification identifies 16 main genetic units.  6. Penutian phylum  7. Aztec–Tanoan phylum  8. Keres   9. Yuki  10. Beothuk  11. Kutenai  12. Karankawa  13. Chimakuan  14. Salish  15. Wakashan  16. Timucua  Chumashan, Comecrudan, and Coahuiltecan included in Hokan with "reservations". Esselen is included in Hokan with "strong reservations". Tsimshian and Zuni are included in Penutian with reservations. Campbell & Mithun's 1979 is a more conservative classification where they insist on more rigorous demonstration of genetic relationship before grouping. Thus, many of the speculative phyla of previous authors are "split". (preliminary) Families Isolates Stocks Penutian outside Mexico considered probably by many Siouan–Yuchi "probable"; Macro-Siouan likely Natchez–Muskogean most likely of the Gulf hypothesis Hokan: most promising proposals "Unlikely" to be Hokan: Subtiaba–Tlapanec is likely part of Otomanguean (Rensch 1977, Oltrogge 1977). Aztec–Tanoan is "undemonstrated"; Mosan is a Sprachbund. (Consensus conservative classification) Families Isolates Proposed stocks Terrence Kaufman's classification is meant to be a rather conservative genetic grouping of the languages of South America (and a few in Central America). He has 118 genetic units. Kaufman believes for these 118 units "that there is little likelihood that any of the groups recognized here will be broken apart". Kaufman uses more specific terminology than only language family, such as language area, emergent area, and language complex, where he recognizes issues such as partial mutual intelligibility and dialect continuums. The list below collapses these into simply families. Kaufman's list is numbered and grouped by "geolinguistic region". The list below is presented in alphabetic order. Kaufman uses an anglicized orthography for his genetic units, which is mostly used only by himself. His spellings have been retained below. Families: Isolates or unclassified: In addition to his conservative list, Kaufman list several larger "stocks" which he evaluates. The names of the stocks are often obvious hyphenations of two members; for instance, the Páes-Barbakóa stock consists of the Páesan and Barbakóan families. If the composition is not obvious, it is indicated parenthetically. Kaufman puts question marks by Kechumara and Mosetén-Chon stocks. "Good" stocks: "Probable" stocks: "Promising" stocks: "Maybe" stocks: Kaufman's largest groupings are what he terms clusters and networks. Clusters are equivalent to macro-families (or phyla or superfamilies). Networks are composed of clusters. Kaufman views all of these larger groupings to be hypothetical and his list is to be used as a means to identify which hypotheses most need testing. Morris Swadesh further consolidated on Sapir's North American classification and expanded it to group all indigenous languages of the Americas in just 6 families, 5 of which were entirely based in the Americas.  Joseph Greenberg's classification  in his 1987 book Language in the Americas is best known for the highly controversial assertion that all North, Central and South American language families other than Eskimo–Aleut and Na-Dene including Haida, are part of an Amerind macrofamily.  This assertion of only three major American language macrofamiles is supported by DNA evidence,  although the DNA evidence does not provide support for the details of his classification. In American Indian Languages: The Historical Linguistics of Native America, Lyle Campbell describes various pidgins and trade languages spoken by the indigenous peoples of the Americas.  Some of these mixed languages have not been documented and are known only by name. Lingua francas 