  Haunted locations: This is a list of reportedly haunted locations throughout the world, that are said to be haunted by ghosts or other supernatural beings, including demons. Reports of haunted locations are part of ghostlore, which is a form of folklore. Several sites in Canada are reputedly haunted, including Citadel Hill (Fort George) in Halifax. Several sites in China are reputedly haunted, including Chaonei No. 81, an abandoned mansion in Beijing's Chaoyangmen neighborhood, and the Wukang Mansion, formerly known as the Normandie Apartment, in Shanghai (named after the World War I battleship Normandie). Several sites in France are reputedly haunted, including the Château de Brissac, the Château de Trécesson in Brittany, the Catacombs  and Cemetery of Père Lachaise in Paris, Mont Saint-Michel, and the Château de Châteaubriant in western France. Several sites in India are reported to be haunted, including South Park Street Cemetery in West Bengal on Park Street, Kolkata, and Morgan House, a colonial-era mansion in Kalimpong that is considered to be one of the most haunted locations in India.  Several sites in Mexico are reputedly haunted, including the Palace of the Inquisition and the Plaza de las Tres Culturas in the City of Mexico, Hospicio Cabañas in Guadalajara, Mapimí Silent Zone in the state of Durango, Chautla Hacienda in Puebla, and the ancient Mayan city of Chichen Itza on the Yucatán Peninsula. Several sites in the Philippine Islands are reputedly haunted, including the historic Fort Santiago in Manila, the abandoned Diplomat Hotel in the northern city of Baguio, and Silliman University in Dumaguete of the Visayan Islands. Several sites in Romania are reputedly haunted, including historic Bánffy Castle in Bonțida and the Hoia Forest. Several locations in South Africa are reputedly haunted, including the Erasmus Castle in Pretoria and the Old Presidency in Bloemfontein. Many sites in Thailand are reputedly haunted, including Government House of Thailand, Phitsanulok Mansion, Lumphini Park, Sathorn Unique Tower (Bangkok), Ayutthaya Historical Park, and Mahidol University in central, or Lipe in southern etc. Many sites in the UK are reputedly haunted, including the Tower of London, 50 Berkeley Square (London), Belgrave Hall, Arundel Castle, and Bruce Castle in England, and Ardrossan Castle, Fyvie Castle, Glamis Castle, and Stirling Castle in Scotland. Many sites in the United States are reputedly haunted, including Dudleytown in Connecticut, the Cherry Hill Estate and 112 Ocean Avenue House, (a.k.a. the Amityville Horror House) in New York, Cliveden Manor, the First Bank of the United States, Fort Mifflin, Library Hall, Pennsylvania Hospital, and Powel House in Pennsylvania, the Octagon House (1801) and the White House in the District of Columbia, and El Adobe de Capistrano in California. 