The Hiker is a statue created by Theo Alice Ruggles Kitson.  It commemorates the American soldiers who fought in the Spanish–American War, the Boxer Rebellion and the Philippine–American War.  The first version of it was made for the University of Minnesota in 1906,  but at least 50 copies were made, and were erected very widely across the United States. "The Hiker depicts a hero stripped of his parade uniform and shown as a soldier reacting to the challenges of the battlefield."  When she created The Hiker, Kitson already had a reputation for sculpting war memorial statues. For the title of her work, Kitson used the term that American soldiers in both the Spanish–American War and the Philippine–American War gave themselves: "hikers". Leonard Sefing, Jr., a Spanish–American War veteran from Allentown, Pennsylvania, was selected as the model for the statue after a photograph of him was entered into a national contest.  The original statue was unveiled at the University of Minnesota on Memorial Day, 1906.  The statue stands in front of the armory at 15 Church Street. Also known as the "Student Soldier Memorial", it is a monument to the 218 University of Minnesota students who served in the Spanish–American War.  The statue is 9 feet (2.7 m) tall and stands on a 6-foot (1.8 m) granite base, depicting a soldier clad in a period uniform with a campaign hat and a Krag-Jørgensen rifle. Today this statue, now missing the muzzle of the rifle,  is popularly known as Iron Mike.  "Hiker Study - In Situ Measurement of Long-Term Monumental Bronze Corrosion", 2009 Kitson's work proved to be very popular,  largely because of its realism and historical accuracy.  In 1921, the Gorham Manufacturing Company, located in Providence, Rhode Island, bought the rights to the statue, and over the next 44 years Gorham cast at least 50 Hiker statues.  The earliest installations tended to be in the northeastern United States, with post-World War II statues installed mostly in the South and West.  Because of the wide distribution of the statues, they were used in a 2009 study measuring the effects of air pollution over the last century.  Erected by the City of Lynn to Commemorating the Valor and Patriotism of the Men of this City who Served in the War with Spain, Philippine Insurrection and China Relief Expedition 1898-1902.  Dedicated May 30, 1923 under the Auspices of General Joseph P. Sanger Camp No. 15. United Spanish War Veterans Dept. of Mass. Erected 1929 Veterans Committee Mayor John D. Driscoll, P.D.C., William H. Shay P.C., Sumner O. Smith P.C., William D. Gelder P.C., Leon A. Forrest P.C." This Hiker was featured in a Post Card for Wisner Park in Elmira, New York in 1937.  Dedicated November 11, 1934 Volunteers all by their service and their lives they gave the blessings of liberty and justice to the oppressed people of Cuba and the Philippines" Additionally, the placard lists the names of the citizens of Chelsea that were members of the 1st Mass. Heavy Artillery H Battery U.S. Volunteers, members of the U.S. Army, U.S. Navy, Marine Corp, and identifies that Corp. Daniel J. Dempsey was killed in action July 1, 1898 at the Battle of El Caney. The placard on the monument states, "Erected by the County of Lehigh, the City of Allentown and George H. Schwartz Camp, No. 2, United Spanish War Veterans - to commemorate the valor and patriotism of those who served in the war with Spain, the Philippine Insurrection, and the China Relief Expedition.  