This page seems to be locked for editing even by accepted Wiki editors (as I am - Eric Deeson); there are various copy-editing needs, including [at least] one where an editor has rightly asking for copy-editing; also I believe there should be a section on improvements to BMI and its interpretation (such as that of hall.md), eg taking account of gender and age in giving the 25 boundary. This article several times implies the need for more flexibility in the use of MBI. 14 Oct 2013 Eric Deeson (talk) 11:47, 14 October 2013 (UTC) Please make sure there is no duplicate content with obesity. JFW | T@lk 13:33, 22 December 2005 (UTC) http://www.isortagiol.com  — Preceding unsigned comment added by Siyahay (talk • contribs) 12:36, 11 March 2017 (UTC)  Can we get a cite or reference for this?  Google turns up mainly diet book propaganda. 24.2.48.202 17:43, 22 July 2007 (UTC) Like to call attention to the following information that i found on yahoo health news one day.  This oughtta be enough evidence to delete the high-glycemic claim. "    "Glycemic load" of diet has no effect on weight loss  By Amy NortonThu Apr 19, 11:44 AM ET  When it comes to losing weight, the number of calories you eat, rather than the type of carbohydrates, may be what matters most, according to a new study. The findings, published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, suggest that diets low in "glycemic load" are no better at taking the pounds off than more traditional -- and more carbohydrate-friendly -- approaches to calorie-cutting. The concept of glycemic load is based on the fact that different carbohydrates have different effects on blood sugar. White bread and potatoes, for example, have a high glycemic index, which means they tend to cause a rapid surge in blood sugar. Other carbs, such as high-fiber cereals or beans, create a more gradual change and are considered to have a low glycemic index. The measurement of glycemic load takes things a step further by considering not only an individual food's glycemic index, but its total number of carbohydrates. A sweet juicy piece of fruit might have a high glycemic index, but is low in calories and grams of carbohydrate. Therefore, it can fit into a diet low in glycemic load. However, the effort of figuring out what's an allowable carb might not be worth it, if the new study is any indication. Principal investigator Dr. Susan B. Roberts, of Tufts University, Boston, and colleagues found that a reduced-calorie diet, whether glycemic load was high or low, was effective in helping 34 overweight adults shed pounds over one year. Study participants who followed a low-glycemic-load diet ended up losing roughly 8 percent of their initial weight, as did those who followed a high-glycemic-load diet. "The bottom line is that in this study we don't see one single way to eat that is better for weight loss on average," Roberts told Reuters Health. Of course, that doesn't mean "anything goes" as long as you're cutting calories." A super-sized serving of French fries won't do any dieter any good, she noted. Both diets her team used in the study were carefully controlled. For the first 6 months, participants were provided with all the food they needed, and both diets were designed to cut their calories by 30 percent while providing the recommended amount of fiber, limiting fat and encouraging healthy foods like fruits and vegetables. The comparable outcomes suggest that, among healthy diets, no single one stands out as better, according to Roberts. So the focus should be on calories, rather than specific foods to avoid or include. "Focusing on calories is something we need more of, especially when portion sizes are so absurd," Roberts said, referring to the portions served at so many U.S. restaurants. This doesn't mean, however, that there's no place for diets that focus on glycemic load, according to the researcher. Some studies, for example, have found that low-glycemic index foods might help control blood sugar in people with type 2 diabetes. And in their own research, Roberts said she and her colleagues have found that low-glycemic index diets do seem more effective for overweight people who naturally secrete high levels of the hormone insulin, which regulates blood sugar. SOURCE: American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, April 2007." Somebody change the page, if u will. --89.54.27.39 00:06, 22 August 2007 (UTC) gone ahead and deleted the "glycemic" claim. --78.49.189.62 22:43, 9 October 2007 (UTC) The links in overweight are for obese and should be re-classified .pls double check user:Ayyah tubby  —Preceding unsigned comment added by 121.54.64.11 (talk) 11:10, 29 October 2007 (UTC)  The definition overweight contains the condition of obesity within it.--Doc James (talk) 23:12, 5 December 2008 (UTC) I was surprised to see that waist measurement was not included in the list of ways to assess if someone is overweight. I was under the impression that some studies have concluded that it is a more effective measure than BMI. Itsmejudith (talk) 11:53, 8 December 2007 (UTC) Physical excerise was already linked in the above section.68.148.164.166 (talk) 18:52, 19 June 2008 (UTC) As was mentioned above there is often confusion between the categories of Overweight and Obese.  As this is a page related to medicine my recommendation is that we primarily define the two as they are in the scientific literature ie. based on BMI.  I have made a few changes to reflex this. Jmh649 (talk) 18:02, 7 July 2008 (UTC) http://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20081222/hl_nm/us_heart_obesity_2 --Doc James (talk) 22:16, 22 December 2008 (UTC) "Psychological well-being is also at risk in the overweight individual. Discrimination against fat persons is common socially. This may affect their ability to find a mate or employment. Overweight people are most likely to have lower self-esteem than others. This may make them seriously depressed and emotionally disrupted. They might attempt to seal themselves from the outside world." I don't see any citations for this. Does anyone know of any sources? I would also like to have something added about the connection between overweight/obesity and happiness in life. --Deleet (talk) 08:20, 24 September 2009 (UTC) Merger of Overweight into Obesity has been proposed, on the grounds of naming conventions and redundancy.  See Talk:Obesity#Proposed merge for discussion. — SMcCandlish [talk] [cont]  ‹(-¿-)› 22:42, 26 November 2009 (UTC) I just changed the statement: to: because the claim is not supported by its own reference, which only reports a R² value of 0.68. There is no formal definition of what vale of R² is "highly correlated", so it is more useful to list the actual value and let people decide for themselves. However in most fields, 0.68 would be considered only moderate correlation. In particular it suggests that if some person were to make diagnoses of excessive body fat solely on the basis of BMI, such diagnoses would be wrong very frequently. (Full personal disclosure: my BMI is 31 ... and I am a distance runner, in preparation for my fourth marathon.) -- 202.63.39.58 (talk) 13:29, 14 September 2010 (UTC) I went to the WHO website (http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs311/en/) and there they stated that some "in 2008, 1.5 billion adults...were overweight", instead of the over 1 billion as stated on the wiki. Thought this should be fixed in the wiki.  — Preceding unsigned comment added by Kreutznaer (talk • contribs) 08:57, 22 January 2012 (UTC)  The article states: "Studies suggest that reducing calorie intake by itself (dieting) may have short-term effects but does not lead to long-term weight loss". In addition to needing a citation, this also flies in the face of thermodynamics; TEMPORARY alteration of one's diet, this holds true for, but the fact is, a maintained diet will result in maintained loss of adipose mass, even if not accompanied by exercise or a general increase in physical fitness. This sentence should at least be altered so that it makes physical sense. 216.82.142.13 (talk) 23:22, 17 August 2012 (UTC) I would like to write about overweight and how people can lose it on a safe way without medicines. Michaeltje123 (talk) 17:46, 19 September 2012 (UTC) File:Edinburgh 1120570 nevit.jpg This edit   removed updated content and added poorly sourced content. High quality secondary sources need to be used. Doc James (talk · contribs · email) 13:34, 23 December 2014 (UTC) Since when is overweight considered a noun? Any takers? VetLH (talk) 14:28, 25 March 2015 (UTC) The "Causes" section of this article is completely unreferenced. I think this is an unacceptable state.  — Preceding unsigned comment added by 188.103.174.112 (talk) 08:23, 1 May 2015 (UTC)  I can replace the dead link Giorgi3092 (talk) 05:45, 14 June 2016 (UTC) Number 8 in References is a dead link and I want to replace with my site link which has tips on how to lose weight. Change to: 31 Everyday Tips For Losing 10 Pounds  Link: http://www.hiferc.com/31-everyday-tips-losing-10-pounds/ Hifercweb (talk) 13:36, 24 June 2016 (UTC) Being overweight or fat is having more body fat than is optimally healthy. Being overweight is especially common where food supplies are plentiful and lifestyles are sedentary. As of  2003[update], excess weight reached epidemic proportions globally, with more than 1 billion adults being either overweight or obese.  In 2013 this increased to more than 2 billion.  Increases have been observed across all age groups. A healthy body requires a minimum amount of fat for proper functioning of the hormonal, reproductive, and immune systems, as thermal insulation, as shock absorption for sensitive areas, and as energy for future use. But the accumulation of too much storage fat can impair movement, flexibility, and alter the appearance of the body. The degree to which a person is overweight is generally described by the body mass index (BMI). Overweight is defined as a BMI of 25 or more, thus it includes pre-obesity defined as a BMI between 25 and 30 and obesity as defined by a BMI of 30 or more.   Pre-obese and overweight however are often used interchangeably, thus giving overweight a common definition of a BMI of between 25–30. There are, however, several other common ways to measure the amount of adiposity or fat present in an individual's body. The most common method for discussing this subject and the one used primarily by researchers and advisory institutions is BMI. Definitions of what is considered overweight vary by ethnicity. The current definition proposed by the US National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the World Health Organization (WHO) designates whites, Hispanics and blacks with a BMI of 25 or more as overweight. For Asians, overweight is a BMI between 23 and 29.9 and obesity for all groups is a BMI of 30 or more. BMI, however, does not account extremes of muscle mass, some rare genetic factors, the very young, and a few other individual variations.  Thus it is possible for an individuals with a BMI of less than 25 to have excess body fat, while others may have a BMI that is significantly higher without falling into this category.  Some of the above methods for determining body fat are more accurate than BMI but come with added complexity. If an individual is overweight and has excess body fat it can create or lead to health risks. Reports are surfacing, however, that being mildly overweight to slightly obese – BMI being between 24 and 31.9 – may be actually beneficial and that people with a BMI between 24 and 31.9 could actually live longer than normal weight or underweight persons.   While the negative health outcomes associated with obesity are accepted within the medical community, the health implications of the overweight category are more controversial. The generally accepted view is that being overweight causes similar health problems to obesity, but to a lesser degree. A 2016 review estimated that the risk of death increases by seven percent among overweight people with a BMI of 25 to 27.5 and 20 percent among overweight people with a BMI of 27.5 to 30.  The Framingham heart study found that being overweight at age 40 reduced life expectancy by three years.  Being overweight also increases the risk of oligospermia and azoospermia in men.  Katherine Flegal et al., however, found that the mortality rate for individuals who are classified as overweight (BMI 25 to 30) may actually be lower than for those with an "ideal" weight (BMI 18.5 to 25).   Being overweight has been identified as a cause of cancer, and is projected to overtake smoking as the primary cause of cancer in developed countries as cases of cancer linked to smoking dwindle.  Psychological well-being is also at risk in the overweight individual due to social discrimination.  However, children under the age of eight are normally not affected.[medical citation needed] Being overweight has been shown not to increase mortality in older people: in a study of 70 to 75-year old Australians, mortality was lowest for "overweight" individuals (BMI 25 to 30),  while a study of Koreans found that, among those initially aged 65 or more, an increase in BMI to above 25 was not associated with increased risk of death.  Being overweight is generally caused by the intake of more calories (by eating) than are expended by the body (by exercise and everyday activity). Factors that may contribute to this imbalance include: People who have insulin dependant diabetes and chronically overdose insulin may gain weight, while people who already are overweight may develop insulin tolerance, and in the long run develop type II diabetes. The usual treatments for overweight individuals is diet and physical exercise. Dietitians generally recommend eating several balanced meals dispersed through the day, with a combination of progressive, primarily aerobic, physical exercise. Because these general treatments help most case of obesity, they are common in all levels of overweight individuals. As much as 64% of the United States' adult population is considered either overweight or obese, and this percentage has increased over the last four decades.  