The Canadian Historical Association (CHA; French Société historique du Canada, SHC) is a Canadian organization founded in 1922 for the purposes of promoting historical research and scholarship. It publishes the Journal of the Canadian Historical Association, The CHA Bulletin and a well-respected series of booklets featuring concise treatments of particular aspects of Canadian history. Other activities include lobbying government agencies, libraries, and archives on matters related to document preservation and availability. The current president of the Canadian Historical Association is Adele Perry of the University of Manitoba. The Canadian Historical Association was founded in 1922 by Lawrence Burpee. In 1922, Burpee presented a new constitution for the Historic Landmarks Association, it was adopted and the organization changed its name and objectives.  Burpee's model for the Canadian Historical Association was based on the American Historical Association. The first Canadian Historical Association Executive and Council included George Wrong, Chester Martin, Arthur Doughty, Pierre-Georges Roy and James Kenny, Lawrence Burpee, William Douw Lighthall and Frederic William Howay.  Marius Barbeau, the anthropologist, was its founding Secretary. Lighthall nominated Burpee for the presidency of the Canadian Historical Association. Burpee was president from 1923 to 1925 and continued his involvement as chairman of the management committee until 1934.  Over the course of the 1920s, the Canadian Historical Association saw its annual meeting become a scholarly conference. It also became a social event for historians to reconnect with each other. In 1926, Frank Underhill wrote a letter to Charles Cochrane, the Secretary-Treasurer at the time, encouraging the Canadian Historical Association to model its annual meeting after the American Historical Association. Underhill later suggested that the annual meeting be organized around a particular theme. Cochrane agreed to both suggestions.  In 1927, the annual meeting was held at the University of Toronto. The format in 1927 became the basic format of the annual meeting. In 1928, the annual meeting was held in Winnipeg.  In 1929, the Honourable Rodolphe Lemieux became president, he was succeeded by the Right Honourable Robert Borden.  In 1931, Frederic William Howay became president and he was succeeded by Dr. John Clarence Webster in 1932.  In 1933, the Canadian Historical Association held its annual meeting in conjunction with the Canadian Political Science Association. They met separately, but gathered for a joint session and some social events.  In 1935, Norman Fee was the English Secretary-Treasurer.   Based on the success of their joint meeting in 1933, the Canadian Historical Association and the Canadian Political Science Association established a joint membership in 1936 for four dollars.  In 1937, the Canadian Historical Association was invited by the CBC to prepare a series of radio broadcasts on forgotten Canadians. The Canadian Historical Association created a Radio Committee with Toronto's George Glazebrook as chair. Over twelve months the committee paired specific historians with specific topics in a series of twenty-seven broadcasts.  In late 1939, the Royal Society of Canada approached the Canadian Historical Association and the Canadian Political Science Association with an offer to become subgroups of the Royal Society of Canada.  Donald Creighton and Reginald Trotter meet with representatives of the Royal Society of Canada and the Canadian Political Science Association to say that the Canadian Historical Association would not accept this offer.  The Canadian Historical Association created a microsite What Can you Do With a History Degree?  . This site profiles individuals who have put their history degrees to work. This site is fully bilingual. An affiliated committee of the Canadian Historical Association, the Canadian Committee on Labour History, publishes the journal Labour/Le Travail. It holds an annual conference together with other scholarly groups as part of the Congress of the Canadian Federation for the Humanities and Social Sciences (the "Learneds"). Other affiliated committees include: As part of its mandate to promote and recognize excellence in historical research, the Canadian Historical Association: 