The Transit Museum Society of British Columbia (TRAMS) is dedicated to the restoration and preservation of decommissioned transit vehicles in Vancouver and the adjoining areas. Based in Burnaby, TRAMS has a fleet of fourteen operational vehicles, and at least six vehicles pending restoration. These vehicles were previously in use by both public and private operating companies between 1925 and 2010.  Volunteers from TRAMS also operated the Vancouver Downtown Historic Railway and carried out restoration and maintenance of the historic electric interurban cars used on that line, until its operation was suspended indefinitely in 2012. See Vancouver Downtown Historic Railway.  The First Trolley Buses for Vancouver to replace Streetcar lines starting in 1948. The last of these vehicles was retired by BC Hydro & Power Authority in 1976.  Bought by BC Electric to assist with the “rails to rubber” conversion starting in 1947  The last of the Brill trolley buses purchased for Vancouver by BC Electric  Primarily used on the Macdonald / Knight Route. Later in 1977 the CD52A buses were repainted and used as “Shopper” buses that went between shopping centers in Vancouver and later in Victoria.  Primarily used on the Macdonald / Knight Route. Later in 1977 the CD52A buses were repainted and used as “Shopper” buses that went between shopping centers in Vancouver and later in Victoria.  Originally Purchased for Victoria. Later served Mission, Powell River, and other small communities in B.C. Restored externally, interior converted to mobile theater and historic display in 1990 for the transit centennial.  The first GM Newlook buses purchased by BC Hydro for Vancouver.   (ex-trolleybus 2649, converted to diesel for purpose of de-icing trolley wires); repainted back to "Metro Transit" yellow-and-orange-stripe livery and renumbered back to 2649 (June 2012)  35 of these buses were purchased along with the similar trolley buses. Some of these buses lasted into the new millennium.  These buses were the first buses for Vancouver with turbocharged 6V92TA engines and were used often for climbing the hills up Burnaby mountain to Simon Fraser University.   Purchased for long routes from Downtown Vancouver to White rock Tsawassen, and Ladner. Features Suburban seating and reading lights.  Purchased for long routes from Downtown Vancouver to White rock Tsawassen, and Ladner. Features Suburban seating and reading lights. In future TRAMS plans to acquire additional vehicles in the following five years, representing types which played a big part in the Vancouver transit system, including a New Flyer D40LF, and a 1974 MCI model 8 (MC-8) from Pacific Coach Lines. 