Poems by Julius Caesar are mentioned by several sources in antiquity.  None are extant. Tacitus considered their loss a happy accident for the dictator's literary reputation:  Plutarch says that verse compositions were among the entertainments Caesar offered the Cilician pirates who captured him as a young man in 75 BC.  Pliny places "the divine Julius" on his list of serious men who wrote not-so-serious poems.  Caesar's Dicta Collectanea, a collection of his memorable quotations, is assumed to have contained quotations from his verse as well as prose works.  The titles of two works Caesar wrote as a young man are known, a Laudes Herculis ("Praises of Hercules") and the verse tragedy Oedipus; their planned publication by the librarian Pompeius Macer was squelched by a "short and simple" — or perhaps "curt and direct"  — letter from Caesar's heir Augustus as incompatible with his program of deification. A third title, Iter ("The Journey"), dates from 46 BC,  composed during a 24-day trip from Rome to Spain during the civil war.  This verse travelogue may have been modeled after Lucilius's poem about a trip to Sicily.  Caesar's choice of writing as a pastime in prelude to the decisive and brutal Battle of Munda illustrates the dual preoccupations of the Late Republican aristocrat, with militarism and political power-plays balanced by elite intellectual and aesthetic aspirations.  A single incomplete line survives that might come from the Iter, quoted by Isidore of Seville  in discussing the word unguentum, "ointment": The quoted phrase corpusque suaui telino unguimus is part of a scazon or iambic trimeter.  Its author has also been identified as C. Iulius Caesar Strabo, the dictator's uncle.  In his Life of Terence, Suetonius preserves six lines of dactylic hexameter by Caesar praising the Roman playwright, along with a more lukewarm assessment by Cicero.  These two verse passages, with their similarity of purpose and wording, may have resulted from a school assignment, since both men studied with the teacher and grammarian Gnipho.  As such, Caesar's lines are probably not to be taken too seriously as literary criticism, but his notice of Terence as "lover of a pure conversational style"  points toward Caesar's own stylistic predilections and linguistic nationalism.  