H. Bruce Franklin  (born February 1934), is an American cultural historian and scholar. He is notable for receiving top awards for his lifetime scholarship in fields as diverse as American studies,  science fiction,   prison literature  and marine ecology.  He has written or edited nineteen books  and three hundred professional articles and participated in making four films. His main areas of academic focus are science fiction, prison literature, environmentalism, the Vietnam War and its aftermath, and American cultural history. He was instrumental in helping to debunk false public speculation that Vietnam was continuing to hold prisoners of war.  He helped to establish science fiction writing as a genre worthy of serious academic study. In 2008, the American Studies Association awarded him the Pearson-Bode Prize for Lifetime Achievement in American Studies.  A critic of the Vietnam War, he was fired from Stanford in 1972 for allegedly inciting to riot, and the termination brought nationwide attention to the issue of academic freedom. Since 1975, he is the John Cotton Dana Professor of English and American Studies at Rutgers University in Newark, New Jersey. Born in February 1934, Franklin held numerous jobs in Brooklyn while working his way through college.  From 1951 to 1952, he was a batch worker at the Mayfair Photofinishing Company.  In 1953, he was an upholsterer for the Carb Manufacturing Company, and was later promoted to foreman of the shipping department in 1954.  He graduated from Amherst in 1955.  In 1956, he married Jane Morgan with whom he has had three children. From 1955 to 1956, he was a tugboat deckhand and mate for the Pennsylvania RR Marine department, based in Jersey City, New Jersey.  He served in the United States Air Force from 1956 to 1959 as a navigator and intelligence officer.  In 1966, he resigned his commission in the Strategic Air Command as a protest against the Vietnam War.  Franklin got his doctorate from Stanford in 1961 and was hired at the university as an assistant professor of English in 1961, and was promoted to associate professor in 1965.  He was also a lecturer in San Jose, California's municipal adult education department from 1963 to 1964.  He became an expert on American writers, particularly Herman Melville and Nathaniel Hawthorne.  At one point, he served as president of the Melville Society. His first book, The Wake of the Gods: Melville's Mythology examined Melville's use of mythologies and intellectual milieu from Meso-American to Sanskrit. Franklin wrote a scholarly edition of Melville's The Confidence Man: His Masquerade, which traced obscure classical and "alien" references embedded in Melville's prose. Franklin traveled to Stanford's Paris campus and lived there with his wife from 1966-1967. They read Marxist theory and helped organize the Free University of Paris, and lectured there in 1967.   When he returned to the United States in the late 1960s, he became a prominent activist in the movement against the Vietnam War.  According to one report, Franklin "parlayed a long-bubbling political concern into a full-blown Communist analysis of literature", which included an analysis of Soviet leader Joseph Stalin.  He edited the anthology The Essential Stalin.   Franklin was one of four founders of the Revolutionary Union, a US-based Maoist organization that split from the Progressive Labor Party in 1971 over developments in the Chinese Cultural Revolution. The PLP denounced the efforts of Premier Zhou Enlai to rehabilitate purged party members and improve international relations as "revisionism" while the RU was more accepting of the cooling of the Cultural Revolution.  The RU later "declined into a cult", and was described as a "throwback to the Stalinism of the 1930s" according to one account.  The organization was infiltrated by the FBI which planted informers within the leadership of the group to heighten members' "suspicions of each other"  (although the extent of FBI activity in RU during the brief time Franklin was a member has not been established).   Doctrinal differences soon emerged between followers of Franklin and followers of Robert Avakian over revolutionary strategy, with the Franklin faction in favor of a strategy based on protracted urban guerrilla  warfare while the Avakian faction favored a strategy of building a revolutionary movement through recruitment and political confrontation.   In a matter of months Franklin, along with roughly half of RU's members, left to join  a Chicano-based leftist group called the Venceremos Organization, which also favored a doctrine based on pursuing guerrilla warfare.  The name Venceremos was based on Che Guevara's slogan meaning "overcome." Venceremos sought to recruit guerrilla fighters through its "prison outreach" project, targeting mainly black and Latino prisoners.  On October 6, 1972 four Venceremos operatives killed two unarmed prison guards who were transporting one of their prison contacts, Ronald Beaty, for a court appearance.  All of the operatives were arrested within three months and subsequently convicted of first or second-degree murder in 1973 and 1974.  Under the stress of legal troubles and factional infighting, Venceremos disintegrated and ceased to act as an organization by September 1973.   Another of their prison contacts, Donald DeFreeze, escaped Soledad Prison on March 5, 1973 and found shelter with members of Venceremos at the Peking House commune in San Francisco.  It was soon decided that the high profile of Peking House was a problem for hiding DeFreeze, so he was moved to shelter with lower profile associates in Concord, CA. At his new hideout he took upon himself the task of organizing an armed strike force including ex-Venceremos members named the Symbionese Liberation Army, under his command as "General Cinque." At Stanford, in 1971, Franklin was accused of inciting anti-war protests on campus.  At a campus rally on February 10, Franklin made a speech protesting a war effort by the United States during the Vietnam War to invade the neighboring nation of Laos.  According to the testimony of one witness, Franklin urged students assembled at the rally to disrupt university functions by shutting down its computer facility. Franklin concluded his speech at that rally by saying:  See, now what we're asking is for people to make that little tiny gesture to show that we're willing to inconvenience ourselves a little bit and to begin to shut down the most obvious machinery of war, such as, and I think it is a good target, that Computation Center. A report in the Stanford Daily student publication suggested that Franklin urged protestors to "resist police efforts" with the effect of "inciting a riot."  After his speech, students occupied the Stanford computer center and more than 100 riot police were summoned.  Stanford president Richard Lyman gave Franklin a letter, claiming that he violated an agreement entitled "Statement of Policy on Appointments and Tenure", with the specific complaint that Franklin "deliberately contributed to a disturbance which forced the cancellation of a speech by Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge at Dinkelspiel Auditorium".  A tenure-review committee was chosen, with professors from assorted academic departments. A lecture hall was converted into a makeshift courtroom. Stanford hired a major Los Angeles law firm, with lead attorney Paul Valentine, to argue the university's case, while Franklin, lacking funds from being unemployed, had to defend himself with advice from a law student. Evidence was heard, witnesses were cross-examined, summations were given, and the panel left to consider its verdict. Franklin was found guilty of three charges of "inciting student disruptions".  Accordingly, Stanford fired Franklin in 1972. He was the only tenured professor to be fired from Stanford.  The termination generated nationwide media exposure and brought attention to the issue of academic freedom and freedom of speech.   Afterwards, Franklin was out of work for the next three years.  Blacklisted, Franklin did not have regular employment during these years, although he had brief visiting faculty positions at Wesleyan and Yale from 1974 to 1975. A decade later, in 1985, with the help of a lawyer from the American Civil Liberties Union, Franklin appealed the termination, and sought back pay, damages, and reinstatement, but the effort was not successful.  A state court upheld Stanford's ruling, and the California Supreme Court refused to hear the case.  ACLU lawyer Margaret Casey said the ruling would have a "chilling effect" on the power of academics to express their thinking freely.  In 1975 Franklin was hired by Rutgers as a full professor with tenure. Since 1987 he is the John Cotton Dana Professor of English and American Studies.  Franklin's academic career has diverse areas of scrutiny which mostly relate to the topic of American cultural history. In 2014, he was influential in organizing Rutgers faculty to block the choice of Condoleezza Rice as commencement speaker.  This is a culture which gets much of its vision of reality from images projected on movie screens, television screens and computer screens.In 2014, Temple University scholar Carolyn Karcher summed up Franklin's achievements by saying that he has an "extraordinary gift for teaching us to read our history in our literature and to glean from both insights that can help us alter our future." Franklin has a lifelong passion for science fiction  and has been a guest curator on topics about Star Trek and Star Wars.  His book War Stars was cited by leftist philosopher and linguist Noam Chomsky, who bemoaned the prevalence of a recurring theme in popular literature that "we're about to face destruction from some terrible, awesome enemy."  Franklin's research explored America's fascination with superweapons.  He argued in War Stars: The Superweapon and the American Imagination that popular American books and novels in preceding decades and centuries, which dealt with the themes of superweapons, may have helped to shape national thinking on this subject.  When the movie Independence Day appeared in 1996, Franklin said "Fundamental to the historical experience of [American] culture are alien invaders who came armed with a superior technology and wiped out the culture that was here."  His book Future Perfect: American Science Fiction of the Nineteenth Century (1966) identified American authors including Washington Irving, Edgar Allan Poe, Nathaniel Hawthorne and Herman Melville as pioneers of this genre who wrote science fiction, contrary to popular understanding.  His Robert A. Heinlein: America as Science Fiction won the Eaton Award in 1981,  and contributed to Franklin receiving the Pilgrim Award for lifetime scholarship in 1983.  In his 1988 War Stars: The Superweapon and the American Imagination,selected by Choice as the Outstanding Academic Book of 1989, Franklin turned his interest in science fiction to an examination of the American fascination with superweapons.  His book presents a view that, ironically, from Robert Fulton's submarine Nautilus in the 18th century to the death-dealing weaponry of the late 20th century, superweapons ostensibly designed to end war have proved capable of exterminating the human species. The expanded 2008 edition explores how this cultural history led to the seemingly permanent state of warfare of the 21st century. War Stars is informed by Franklin's own earlier experience as a navigator and intelligence officer in the Strategic Air Command. In 1990 he was named the Distinguished Scholar for the International Association for the Fantastic in the Arts.  In 1991, he was Guest Curator for the Star Trek and the Sixties exhibit at the National Air and Space Museum of the Smithsonian Institution; this show subsequently traveled to the Hayden Planetarium. A recurring subject area for Franklin is the history of the Vietnam War and its role in American literature and culture since 1966. His books M.I.A., or Mythmaking in America and Vietnam and America: A Documented History (which he co-edited) have been used in courses on the Vietnam War. His Vietnam and Other American Fantasies (2000) synthesized his previous work and extended it into an overview of 21st-century American culture. One of Franklin's themes in writing about Vietnam is that the supposed existence of surviving American prisoners of war in Vietnam after the war was a myth created after 1980 with the tacit approval of the Reagan administration, and that the psychological foundations of the myth arguably originated from justifications for the war offered by the Nixon before 1973, in that the war had to continue in order to bring the prisoners of war home. In the 1980s and 1990s, many Americans believed, incorrectly, that there were many "prisoners of war are still being held in Indochina" and that the American government was lying to the public about their existence.  When Franklin was assembling an anthology in 1996 entitled The Vietnam War in American Stories, Songs and Poems, he sent a fax to musician Bruce Springsteen requesting the singer's permission to put the song Born in the U.S.A. in his anthology; he faxed the request en route to class, and Springsteen's office faxed back, agreeing, letting him use the image without charge.  His book Vietnam and America: A Documented History, which he co-edited with his wife Jane Franklin and Marvin Gettleman and Marilyn Young, was described by The New York Times as a "valuable anthology of crucial texts and records" which "tersely replays the bitter conflict."  A reviewer in The Nation described Franklin's writing about the M.I.A. issue as using "elegant economy".  Franklin believed that his students had incorrect ideas about the American involvement in Vietnam, such as that the United States lost the war because it "didn't try hard enough"; Franklin felt that his students were unaware of the extent of bomb damage.  His book chronicled how the supposed "missing" American soldiers were "known to be dead" but were "kept alive for bureaucratic reasons that backfired."  He described the post-war belief in still-held prisoners of war as a "manufactured issue" and criticized presidential contender Michele Bachmann for bringing up the issue as "pure opportunism."  Franklin was pivotal in helping to debunk the "Missing in Action" myths.   New York Times reviewer Todd Gitlin described Franklin's M.I.A. as "meticulously researched."  Franklin's research about a lesser fish in the food chain called the menhaden brought greater attention to their survival.  In The Most Important Fish in the Sea, Franklin examined marine food chains and argued for the importance of menhaden.  He showed that many species of fish, which humans eat, depend for their well-being on eating menhaden, and therefore their role in the food chain was vital.  Franklin's analysis was an interdisciplinary study in American environmental, economic, social, political, and cultural history from the 17th into the 21st centuries. It led to the introduction of two nature conservation bills in Congress. In a review in The Washington Post, his book was described as an "exhaustive examination of issues" using lucid prose "infused with an urgency that depends little on hyperbole and largely on careful documentation".  A major focus of Franklin's research has been the American penal system. Prison Literature in America (1989) established Franklin as an authority on American prison literature and has been cited by historians, penologists, literary critics, and sociologists. In books such as his 1998 anthology Prison Writing in 20th-Century America and Prison Literature in America, Franklin argued that convict authors and artists are "innovative creators who have had a deep influence on the mainstream of cultural production", according to the Los Angeles Times.  His work was cited in the Supreme Court's decision to overturn New York State's Son of Sam law. He has been an outspoken critic of the American penal system, in terms of violations of human rights. His anthology Prison Writing in 20th-Century America about "criminals turned raconteurs" was well received.  The typical American prison is designed and run to maximize degradation, brutalization, and punishment, overt torture is the norm. Beatings, electric shock, prolonged exposure to heat and even immersion in scalding water, shackled prisoners forced to lie in their own excrement for hours or even days, sodomy with riot batons, nightsticks, flashlights, and broom handles, months, years, even decades of solitary confinement in windowless cells, rape and murder by guards or prisoners instructed by guards—all are everyday occurrences in the American prison system .... Sexual humiliation is the norm, and rape is endemic .... the huge cost of prisons is diverting funds from education and rebuilding America's crumbling infrastructure.