Inez De Florio (born 1943) is a German applied linguist and educational psychologist whose work focuses on science-oriented teaching and learning with particular reference to multilingualism and intercultural competence. Inez De Florio is a proponent of (qualitative and quantitative) empirical research. Her critical view of evidence-based education leads her to a particular focus on individual aspects of teachers, learners and the learning context. In her introduction to Teaching and Learning English in the Digital Age (2018), she exemplifies how to implement digital media in foreign language classrooms. Furthermore, she shows that the rapidly increasing influences of digitization lead to more internationalized and globalized research-orientated teaching and learning approaches. After graduating from university, De Florio-Hansen taught foreign languages at the secondary school level as well as in adult education. She then worked at the education ministry in the German state of Hesse as adviser and teacher trainer for teachers of migrant students. She received her Ph.D in Literature from the University of Aachen in Germany in 1971.  Her post-doctoral thesis (Habilitation) at Goethe University in Frankfurt was an empirical study of vocabulary acquisition by adult learners.  After teaching at various German universities, she held a chair as Professor of Applied Linguistics at the University of Erfurt, Germany, between 1994 and 1996. In 1996, she became a Professor in the department of Humanities at the University of Kassel, Germany, retiring in 2008. De Florio-Hansen has published several books, more than a hundred and fifty featured articles, and a series of textbooks   . Among her well-known books in English are her volume on Effective Teaching and Successful Learning published by Cambridge University Press in 2016 an her newest release (2018) about the use of digital tools and the promotion of media competence in combination with reliable methods.  In 2011, she was honored with a Festschrift covering many fields of her research . 