Kevin Vincent Mulcahy is the Sheldon Beychok Distinguished Professor of Political Science and Public Administration at Louisiana State University, where he has taught since 1980. Dr. Mulcahy earned his Ph.d in Public Policy from Brown University in 1977. In early years, Dr. Mulcahy taught at Claremont McKenna College, Mills College, Queens College-CUNY, and the University of Colorado.   He joined the faculty of Louisiana State University in 1980, and has developed the study of Cultural Policy within the framework of Public Policy and Public Administration.  Dr. Mulcahy’s primary area of study focuses on cultural policy in the United States and abroad. Dr. Mulcahy has received an ATLAS (Award to Louisiana Artists and Scholars) grant for his book, Public Culture, Cultural Identity, Cultural Policy: Comparative Perspectives. The award committee enthusiastically endorsed his project, saying in part: In book, America’s Commitment to Culture Public Policy and the Arts, Dr. Mulcahy discussed the current state of arts funding in the U.S. and argue for the reorganization of the National Endowment for the Arts to include interdisciplinary panels for judging new grants in a system similar to that of the National Endowment for the Humanities. Prior to initiating his primary study of cultural policy, in the footsteps of his mentor Cecil V. Crabb, Dr. Mulcahy focused on American foreign policy.  Mulcahy and Crabb coauthored two books on the subject:  Presidents and Foreign Policy Making:  FDR to Reagan (1986), American National Security:  A Presidential Perspective (1990), and several articles. Book Chapters and Journal Articles (2007-2017)  In 2002, Dr. Mulcahy was selected as the Fulbright Distinguished Chair of American Studies (The Laszlo Orszagh Chair) at the Budapest University of Economic Sciences and Public Administration. The Fulbright Program is a merit-based grant program that encourages academic exchanges between the United States and other countries. In 2009, Mulcahy served as the Fulbright Senior Specialist in Cluj, Transylvania, Romania at Babeș-Bolyai University.  For the 2010-2011 award period, he was selected to serve on the review committee as the Fulbright Senior Specialist where he worked to select American scholars for international assignments.  Dr. Mulcahy also reviewed applications in Public Policy for the U.S. Romanian Fulbright Commission 2013.  Conferences (2007-2017) From the beginning of his career in 1978, Dr. Mulcahy has participated in major professional meetings and conferences at home and abroad.  His talks on cultural policy have taken him across the United States and abroad to Shenzhen, China; Athens, Greece; Jyvaskyla, Finland; Istanbul, Turkey; Quebec City, Quebec; Grenada, Spain; Kaohsiung and Taipei, Taiwan; and Haifa, Israel; Berger, Norway; Auckland, New Zealand; Brushland, Australia.  Visiting Professor and Scholar in Residence (2007-2017)  Since 1990, Dr. Mulcahy has served on the editorial board for the Journal of Arts Management, Law and Society (JAMLS), and served as Executive Editor from 1998-2016; Emeritus Executive Editor, 2017.Below is a list of journal editions edited and introduced by Dr. Mulcahy in issues of JAMLS. Dr. Mulcahy had an active role in cultural politics at the Louisiana State Legislature as a National Endowment for the Humanities, Humanities in State Legislature.  From 1980 to 1982, Dr. Mulcahy served as the Cultural Adviser to the Speaker of the Louisiana House of Representatives.  From 1982 to 1984, he served as Chairman of the Louisiana House of Representatives Arts Advisory Committee where he coordinated three museums and three public agencies in placing artwork in the House of Representatives and coordinated the State Capitol and a National Historic landmarks.  He continued serving on the committee from 1987 to 1992.  Dr. Mulcahy was awarded an Honorary State Legislator in 1982. In 2010, Dr. Mulcahy was commended for his service to the arts in a House Resolution.  In 1990, Dr. Mulcahy testified to a U.S. presidential commission in opposition to the existing peer review system on the National Endowment for the arts as an expert witness. The National Endowment for the Arts later reorganized into four purpose-based categories as  was advised the organization has since reverted to its pre-1995 structure.  For many years he reviewed great applications in for the Baton Rouge Arts Counsel. He was a member of community allocation and applications committee 1999-2006; Chair. Arts in Public Places Committee 2000-2006; Member, Board of Directors, Baton Rouge Arts Council, and adjudicated the case of a public art work deemed as a "satanic."   In addition to having served as a reviewer for tenure and promotional decisions at several American universities, he assisted several non-American universities including, the University of South Australia, Adelaide in reviewing Doctoral Dissertations and fulfilling the role of foreign reviewer. Deakin University, Melbourne, University of Singapore, and University of Maura.  At Louisiana State University, Professor Mulcahy currently lectures on political witch-hunts, genocide as cultural policy, public policy, and American Government. In the past, at Louisiana State University, he had served as an undergraduate advisor in the Department of Political Science and sat on the Organizational Relief Fund committee in the Faculty Senate, where he helped allocate aid to clubs on campus.  He also served on Committee on the Humanities Research and Development Group  in the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research by having served. Dr. Mulcahy served variously as President, First Vice-President and member of the Arts and Sciences Faculty Senate. He had also served as a Faculty Friend for the LSU Honors College.  In addition to the many awards and distinctions mentioned above, Dr. Mulcahy’s work in the fields of teaching and cultural politics has been recognized throughout his career. A select list of his honorariums not previously mentioned in this article is found below.  5. http://www.lsu.edu/hss/polisci/faculty_and_staff/mulcahy.php https://www.instagram.com/kevinmulcahylsu/ 