 Simon Harel is a Canadian intellectual born in Montréal in 1957. In addition to being a prolific writer and speaker and an adjunct professor at the Département d'études littéraires of the Université du Québec à Montréal, he is full professor at and Director of the Département de littérature comparée of the University of Montreal. At the end of the 1970s, Simon Harel pursued graduate studies at the Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM). While working with such professors as Madeleine Gagnon, he developed a keen interest in psychoanalysis, particularly in the works of Catherine Clément, Jacques Lacan, and René Major. In 1981, after his M.A., Simon Harel moved to France with the purpose of working on his PhD at the Department of Psychoanalysis at the University of Paris VIII. However, he arrived in Vincennes a few months after the dissolution of the École Freudienne de Paris. Simon Harel then obtained a Diplôme d'études approfondies at the Unité d'enseignement et de recherche de littérature française et comparée at the University Paris VII Diderot before undertaking, under the supervision of Julia Kristeva, a PhD in Humanities. His doctoral dissertation, completed in 1986, is entitled "L'écriture de la psychose dans les textes de Rodez d'Antonin Artaud". The interest that Simon Harel has for psychoanalysis deepened during his academic studies. Although he knew the works of the French psychoanalysts (Jacques Lacan, Serge Leclaire, and René Major) very well, he was greatly interested in English psychoanalysis, particularly in the reading that the French thinkers and writers did of the theories of Melanie Klein, Wilfred Bion, and Donald Winnicott. From 1986 to 1988, Simon Harel completed, under the supervision of Régine Robin, a post-doctoral degree at the Department of Sociology, UQAM. He then became an independent researcher, funded by FCAR from 1988 to 1989, when he was made an Adjunct Professor at UQAM. In 1993, he was promoted to Assistant Professor and, in 1997, to a tenured position. In 2001, Simon Harel co-founded, with Pierre Ouellet, the Montréal site of the Centre interuniversitaire d'études sur les lettres, les arts et les traditions (ELAT). He was its director from 2001 to 2007, and its interim director from September 2008 to August 2009. During his career, Simon Harel has been the head of many research networks and scientific projects funded by various organizations. He was also the principal investigator of the project Modalités du lien de confiance/Conditions of the Bonds of Confidence (2006–2008). Dr. Harel is Director of the research project Zones de tension : expressions de la conflictualité dans la littérature québécoise et canadienne 1981–2006/Zones of Tension: Expressions of Conflict in Canadian and Québécois Literatures 1981–2006 (2007–2011). A well-renowned researcher and speaker, Simon Harel has overseen 11 collaborative works and 7 special issues of periodicals. He has also published a collection of poems, 10 critical works, and more than 120 articles. Furthermore, he has given more than 250 talks and conferences, and he has organized approximately 25 conferences and major scientific events. Dr. Harel was awarded a prestigious Trudeau Fellowship Prize (2009–2012) and was named, in 2009, a member of the Royal Society of Canada. Harel has been a pioneer in the field of literary studies and cultural studies. He was one of the first scholars to describe the singularity of the migratory experience in Québec, which occurs to a great extent in a minority context. He has been interested in the study of interculturality, the stranger's place in society, and the precariousness of our life spaces. Conscious of the inadequacy or limited scope of certain scholarly research (with a focus on hybridity, and identity à la carte), he is now working on the unstable, often conflictual, forms of cultural mobility. More specifically, his work is rooted in the study of narratives, as well as in the study of verbal and social practices. Among Simon Harel's fields of expertise are the following: contemporary forms of narratives (autobiography and autofiction); multiculturalism and interculturality; contemporary Quebec literature; Québec literature of cultural communities; contemporary French literature; links between psychoanalysis and culture; cultural studies; narrative studies; intersections of psychic and geographical spaces; dialogues between architecture and literature; and anger in literature. 