Out in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics, Inc., abbreviated oSTEM, is a 501(c)(3) non-profit professional society dedicated to LGBTQ+ individuals within the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) community. In October 2005, IBM sponsored a focus group where students from across the United States convened at the Human Rights Campaign headquarters in Washington D.C. These students discussed topics relevant to LGBTQA communities at their own colleges and universities, and they debated how to structure an organization that serves students in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.  Founded in 2009 and achieving 501(c)(3) status in 2010, oSTEM, Inc. currently consists of more than 50 chapters across the United States and the United Kingdom. As an organization dedicated to community, oSTEM, Inc. strives to stay engaged to identify, address, and advocate for the needs of LGBTQA+ students and professionals within the STEM fields. oSTEM, Inc. fulfills these needs in many ways, including networking opportunities, mentorship connections, strategic collaborations and professional/leadership development, as well as an annual global conference.   oSTEM hosts annual conferences   that discuss LGBT+ topics in STEM as well as intelligence fields.  Topics discussed include inclusion, outreach, and diversity within the workplace.  Workshops, presentations, and networking events for LGBT+ individuals aim to facilitate integration and advancement  in their respective fields. oSTEM presents a variety of awards annually to individuals and organizations that demonstrate a strong dedication to advancing and empowering LGBT+ in STEM fields.  The oSTEM Global STEM Service Award is given to present and past oSTEM members who show strong dedication to inclusion, diversity, and equality for LGBT+ and other marginalized individuals in STEM fields.  The oSTEM Strategic Alliance Award is presented to a current sponsoring organization, community partner, or grant provider of oSTEM who demonstrates strong dedication, engagement, and support to oSTEM and its values. The oSTEM Partner Excellence Award is presented to individuals associated with oSTEM accomplished in their academic or professional lives who regularly advocate for the full inclusion of people of all marginalized identities. The Overall Student Chapter of the Year is given to oSTEM chapters that educate, empower, and engage a diverse community. These chapters contribute greatly to identifying, addressing, and advocating for LGBTQ students in the STEM community The Rookie Student Chapter of the Year celebrates achievements by oSTEM chapters that have been founded within two years of application submission. oSTEM is sponsored by industries involved in STEM fields as well as government entities and academic STEM programs.  