Change4Life is a public health programme in England which began in January 2009,  run by the Department of Health. It is the country's first national social marketing campaign to tackle the causes of obesity.  Change4Life aims to help families and middle-aged adults make small, sustainable yet significant improvements to their diet, activity levels and alcohol consumption. It uses the slogan "eat well, move more, live longer". Change4Life encourages people to adopt six healthy behaviours:  Change4Life also has six sub-brands that help intermediaries to promote a single issue with either a food or an activity focus (Bike4Life,  Breakfast4Life,  Let's Dance with Change4Life,  Play4Life,  Swim4Life  and Walk4Life ). A range of resources is provided to enable them to disseminate these healthy living messages within their own context.  Change4Life adopts an integrated marketing approach and uses a variety of marketing channels including television and radio, digital, social media, PR and direct marketing. It uses animated television advertising by Aardman Animations,  as part of a wider campaign. M&C Saatchi lead on the creative aspects of the campaign with additional input from a range of other agencies providing PR, digital, planning and data services. On Channel 4, Change4Life was a previous sponsor of The Simpsons. In addition to consumer marketing, Change4Life engages with intermediaries at a local level, including schools, NHS organisations, local authorities and others.  These local supporters are able to interact with the campaign audience in different ways and in different contexts to Change4Life’s central approach. Free resources including posters and leaflets are available to local supporters to enable them to do this effectively. Tesco has supported Change4Life using Spoon Guru's technology platform to support the campaign  . Change4Life Sports Clubs  were designed by Change4Life in 2011 to increase physical activity levels in less active children in primary and secondary schools by:  The Change4Life Sports Clubs programme is funded by the Department of Health and managed by the Youth Sport Trust. Start4Life  is a sister brand of Change4Life. It is aimed primarily at pregnant women and new mothers. It encourages a healthy lifestyle during pregnancy (activity,  healthy eating,  taking supplements,  quitting smoking,  and avoiding alcohol ) as well as a healthy start for new babies (breastfeeding,  introducing solid foods,  avoiding sugary foods,  and activity ).  It also encourages fathers,  friends and family members  to support pregnant women and new mothers in making healthy lifestyle choices. Free leaflets and posters are available to healthcare professionals to help them encourage their patients to make healthy lifestyle choices.  