 Vivek Hallegere Murthy (born July 10, 1977) is an American physician and was a vice admiral in the Public Health Service Commissioned Corps who served as the 19th Surgeon General of the United States.  Murthy, who founded the nonprofit Doctors for America, succeeded Boris Lushniak, who had been Acting Surgeon General since 2013.  Murthy was the first Surgeon General of Indian descent and, at age 37, was the youngest active duty flag officer in federal uniformed service when he assumed office. Murthy was born in July 10, 1977,  in Huddersfield, England, to immigrants from Karnataka, India. When he was three years old, the family relocated to Miami, Florida,  where Murthy was raised and completed his early education, graduating as valedictorian from Miami Palmetto Senior High School in 1994.  He then attended college at Harvard University, where he graduated magna cum laude in 1997 with a bachelor's degree in Biochemical Sciences.  In 2003, Murthy earned an MD from Yale School of Medicine and an MBA in Health Care Management from Yale School of Management, where he was a recipient of The Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans.   He completed his residency in Internal Medicine in 2006 at Brigham and Women's Hospital.  While a Harvard freshman in 1995, Murthy co-founded VISIONS Worldwide, which he led for eight years. The nonprofit organization focused on HIV/AIDS education in the U.S. and India. In 1997, he co-founded Swasthya Community Health Partnership to train women as community health workers in rural India.   Murthy completed his Internal Medicine residency at Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School in Boston, Massachusetts where he also led and managed medical care teams for over a decade as a faculty member.  He is also a founder and president of Doctors for America, a group of over 15,000 physicians and medical students supporting high quality affordable care for all.   As part of this work, he developed and led national and local initiatives around coverage and prevention. In 2011, Murthy was appointed by U.S. President Barack Obama to serve on the U.S. Presidential Advisory Council on Prevention, Health Promotion, and Integrative and Public Health within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  The group advises the National Prevention Council on developing strategies and partnerships to advance the nation's health through prevention.  Dr. Murthy is also the co-founder and chairman of TrialNetworks, a cloud-based Clinical Trial Optimization System for pharmaceutical and biotechnology trials that improves the quality and efficiency of clinical trials to bring new drugs to market faster and more safely.   He founded the company as Epernicus in 2008 to originally be a collaborative networking web platform for scientists to boost research productivity.  In November 2013, Murthy was nominated by President Obama for the post of United States Surgeon General.  His nomination met resistance in the Senate by some Democrats, Republicans and the National Rifle Association regarding previous comments Murthy made declaring gun violence as a threat to public health.    Murthy's nomination received broad support from over 100 medical and public health organizations in the U.S., including the American College of Physicians, the American Public Health Association, the American Cancer Society, the American Heart Association, and the American Diabetes Association.  His nomination was also endorsed by numerous op-eds and editorial boards including The New England Journal of Medicine and The New York Times.   He received the endorsements of two former Surgeons General, David Satcher and Regina Benjamin.  Another former Surgeon General, Richard Carmona, opposed the appointment based on, at the time, Murthy's age and "very limited public health education and experience."   On December 15, 2014, Murthy's appointment as Surgeon General was approved in a 51–43 Senate vote.  On April 21, 2017, Murthy was relieved of his duties by the newly elected President Trump. His deputy Surgeon General Rear Admiral Sylvia Trent-Adams was named acting Surgeon General.  Dr. Murthy is married to Alice Chen, an internal medicine physician who trained at Yale, Cornell and UCLA and was the former executive director of Doctors for America.   