Maternal mortality refers to the death of a woman during her pregnancy or up to a year after her pregnancy has terminated, if the death was related to her pregnancy.  The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) monitors maternal death per 100,000 live births. The CDC reported a baseline rate of 18.8 maternal deaths per 100,000 births in 2016,  which was higher than anticipated. In 2014 there was a 26.6% increase representing 23.8 maternal deaths per 100,000 births.   By 2010, although the United States was spending more on healthcare than any other country in the world, more than two women died every day during childbirth, therefore making maternal mortality the highest in the United States compared to 49 other countries in the developed world,  three times higher than neighboring Canada.  In 2016, as many as 900 women between the ages of 16 and 43, died from pregnancy- and childbirth-related causes.  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) declares that 60% of these deaths are preventable. In the U.S., hospital bills for maternal healthcare costs over $98 billion, and concerns about the degradation of the MMR resulted in a state-by-state breakdown. Race, location, and financial status all contribute to how maternal mortality affects women across the country, but Texas has the worst MMR, which caused the Department of State to create the Maternal Mortality and Morbidity Task Force in 2013. In 1986, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)  and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) created the Pregnancy-Related Mortality Surveillance System to monitor maternal death within a year of women giving birth and dying from any and all pregnancy and childbirth related causes per 100,000 live births. Prior to this change, the maternal mortality ratio monitored women 6 weeks postpartum per 100,000 live births.    In 2016 the CDC Foundation, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Association of Maternal and Child Health Programs (AMCHP) undertook a collaborative initiative—"Building U.S. Capacity to Review and Prevent Maternal Deaths"— funded by Merck under the Merck for Mothers program. They are reviewing maternal mortality to enhance understanding of the increase in MMR in the United States, and to identify preventative interventions.  Through this initiative, they have created Review to Action website which hosts their reports and resources. In their 2017 report, four states, Colorado, Delaware, Georgia, and Ohio, supported the development of the Maternal Mortality Review Data System (MMRDS) which was intended as a precursor to the Maternal Mortality Review Information Application (MMRIA).  The three agencies have partnered with Colorado, Delaware, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, North Carolina, Ohio, South Carolina, and Utah to collect data for the Maternal Mortality Review Information Application (MMRIA). The nine states submitted their first reports in 2018.   After decades of inaction on the part of the U.S. Congress towards reducing MMR, the United States Senate Committee on Appropriations voted on June 28, 2018 to request $50 million to prevent the pregnancy-related deaths of American women.  The CDC would receive $12 million for research and data collection. They would also support individual states in counting and reviewing data on maternal deaths.  The federal Maternal and Child Health Bureau would receive the remaining $38 million directed towards Healthy Start program and "life saving, evidence-based programs" at hospitals.  MCHB's Healthy Start was mandated to reduce the infant mortality rate.   A widely-cited 2016 study by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) statistician Marian F. MacDorman and others, reported a baseline rate of 18.8 maternal deaths per 100,000 births, which was higher than previously thought. In 2014 there was a 26.6% increase representing 23.8 maternal deaths per 100,000 births. :427 MacDorman et al concluded that, "the maternal mortality rate for 48 states and Washington D.C. from 2000–2014 was higher than previously reported, is increasing, and places the U.S. far behind other industrialized nations."   According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Foundation 2018 report, 60% of maternal deaths are preventable."  According to a 2016 article in Obstetrics and Gynecology by MacDorman et al, one factor affecting the US maternal death rate is the variability in calculation of maternal deaths. The WHO deems maternal deaths to be those occurring within 42 days of the end of pregnancy, whereas the United States Pregnancy Mortality Surveillance System measures maternal deaths as those occurring within a year of the end of pregnancy.  Some states allow multiple responses, such as whether death occurred during pregnancy, within 42 days after pregnancy, or within a year of pregnancy, but some states, such as California, ask simply whether death occurred within a year postpartum.   In their article, the authors described how data collection on maternal mortality rates became an "international embarrassment".  :427 In 2003 the national U.S. standard death certificate added a "tick box" question regarding the pregnancy status of the deceased. Many states delayed adopting the new death certificate standards. This "muddied" data and obstructed analysis of trends in maternal mortality rates. It also meant that for many years, the United States could not report a national maternal mortality rate to the OECD or other repositories that collect data internationally.  :427 In response to the MacDorman study, revealing the "inability, or unwillingness, of states and the federal government to track maternal deaths",  ProPublica and NPR found that in 2016 alone, between 700 to 900 women died from pregnancy- and childbirth-related causes. In "Lost Mothers" they published stories of some of women who died. They ranged in age from 16 to 43.    Amnesty International considers maternal mortality a healthcare crisis, based on their extensive research between 2008 and 2009.  Healthy People is a federal organization that is managed by the Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (ODPHP) at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). In 2010, the US maternal mortality ratio was 12.7 (deaths per 100,000 live births). This was 3 times as high as the Healthy People 2010 goal, a national target set by the US government.  According to a 2009 article in Anthropology News, studies conducted by but not limited to Amnesty International, the United Nations, and federal programs such as the CDC, maternal mortality has not decreased since 1999 and may have been rising.  By November 2017, Baltimore and Philadelphia, and New York City had established committees to "review deaths and severe complications related to pregnancy and childbirth" in their cities to prevent maternal mortality. New York's panel, the Maternal Mortality and Morbidity Review Committee (M3RC) doctors, nurses, "doulas, midwives and social workers".  New York City will be collaborating with the State of New York, the first such collaboration in the US.  In July 2018, New York City's de Blasio's administration announced that it would be allocating $12.8 million for the first three years of its five-year plan to "reduce maternal deaths and life-threatening complications of childbirth among women of color".  In the 2017 NPR and ProPublica series "Lost Mothers: Maternal Mortality in the U.S." based on a six-month long collaborative investigation, they reported that the United States has the highest rate of maternal mortality than any other developed country and it is the only country where the rate of women who die has been rising.  The maternal mortality rate in the United States is three times higher than that in neighboring Canada  and six times as likely to die of as Scandinavians.  In the 1950s the maternal mortality rate in the United Kingdom and the United States was the same—1 in 1000 pregnant and new mothers died. By 2018, the rate in the UK was three times lower than in the United States.   According to a 2015 WHO report, in the United States the MMR between 1990 and 2013 "more than doubled from an estimated 12 to 28 maternal deaths per 100 000 births."  By 2015, the United States had a higher MMR than the "Islamic Republic of Iran, Libya and Turkey".   Comparison of the US maternal death rate to the death rate in that of other countries is complicated by the lack of standardization. Some counties do not have a standard method for reporting maternal deaths and some count in statistics death only as a direct result of pregnancy.  In 2010, Amnesty International published a 154-page report on maternal mortality in the United States.  In 2011 the United Nations described maternal mortality as a human rights issue at the forefront of American healthcare, as the mortality rates worsened over the years.   According to a 2017 BBC report, Texas has the highest MMR in the United States and the lowest number of people covered by health insurance.  The Department of State created the Maternal Mortality and Morbidity Task Force in 2013. Maternal death can be traced to maternal health, which includes wellness throughout the entire pregnancy and access to basic care. In this context, the causes of maternal death can be illustrated as a continuum wherein "maternal health from wellness to morbidity to severe morbidity to death" is the cycle in which mothers often die of pregnancy related causes.  More than half of maternal deaths occur within the first 42 days after birth. According to Amnesty International's 2010 report, five medical conditions collectively account for 74% of maternal deaths in the US. These are Embolism (20%), Hemorrhage (17%), Pre-eclampsia and eclampsia (16%), Infection (13%), and Cardiomyopathy (8%). :4 Social factors and healthcare access issues also contribute to the maternal mortality rate. In no particular order, these factors include: Inconsistent obstetric practice (which can allow complications to progress to fatal conditions),  increase in women with chronic conditions, and lack of maternal health data all contribute to maternal mortality in the US. According to a 2015 WHO editorial, a nationally implemented guideline for pregnancy and childbirth, along with easy and equal access to antenatal services and care, and active participation from all 50 states to produce better maternal health data are all necessary components to reduce maternal mortality.  Recent improvements in pregnancy-related health care have focused on fetuses and newborns, which has left mothers neglected in comparison.  Mothers get 6% of federal block grants in this area, and even hospitals with intensive care units for newborns can be unprepared for maternal complications (like having platelets on hand for bleeding).  A significant proportion of physicians in maternal-fetal medicine programs are able to complete a program in without ever attending a labor.  The Hospital Corporation of America has found that a uniform guideline for birth can improve maternal care, thereby reducing the amount of "lower maternal and fetal injury, fewer c-sections and reduced litigation." However, no such mandated guideline currently exists.  To prevent maternal mortality moving forward, Amnesty International suggests these steps: According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics, out-of-hospital births (such as home births and birthing centers with midwifery assistance)  "generally provided a lower risk profile than hospital births."   Procedures such as Episiotomies and cesareans, while helpful in some cases, when administered unnecessarily increase the risk of maternal death.  Midwifery and mainstream obstetric care can be complementary,  which is commonly the case in Canada, where women have a wide arrange of pregnancy and birthing options, wherein informed choice and consent are fundamental tenants of their reformed maternity care.  The maternal mortality rate is twice as low in Canada than the United States, according to a global survey conducted by the United Nations and the World Bank.  The UK has had success drastically reducing preeclampsia deaths by implementing a nationwide standard protocol.  Gender bias and obstetric violence in the medical field are also important factors when discussing maternal wellness, care, and death in the United States.  American obstetric textbook from 1897 Black midwife holding twins in Tallahassee, Florida. 20th century. Delivery room of Loretto Hospital in New Ulm, Minnesota (October 1970). 