The College-Industry Council on Material Handling Education (CICMHE) is an academic/industry council of the Material Handling Industry  (MHI) that promotes increased awareness of material handling and logistics through a variety of educational and research activities. CICMHE was founded in 1952 and has served to connect practitioners with academics that teach and do research in material handling.   The main body of the Council is composed of fifteen college and university educators that are elected to a four-year term and is governed by a four-member executive committee. Additional members are drawn from material handling equipment manufacturers, distributors, users and consultants, representatives of the business press, and professional staff members of organizations concerned with material handling education. CICMHE is organized into two working committees:  CICMHE sponsors the following major activities for students, teachers, and researchers: In order to give students a unique opportunity to see the latest material handling and logistics solutions in person, CICMHE has partnered with the Material Handling Equipment Distributors Association (MHEDA) to offer a special program for students and professors in engineering, technology, manufacturing, operations, supply chain and logistics at the MODEX  and ProMat  trade shows sponsored alternate years by MHI. Research has shown that "Classroom Day, as a targeted experiential learning event, increased student appreciation, knowledge, and interest in the field of material handling and logistics."  CICMHE sponsors a Material Handling Teachers Institute  every two years for current and future faculty members who engage in material handling education in four year colleges and universities. MHTI 2017 will be held on the campus of Oregon State University in Corvallis, Oregon in July 2017. The Material Handling Teachers Institute has been traditionally held in the summer of odd-numbered years at the following locations: Since 1990, CICMHE has sponsored an International Material Handling Research Colloquium  that provides a forum for academic researchers to both present their work and to interact with leading companies within the industry. The research presented at each Colloquium is documented as a volume in the series Progress in Material Handling Research. Like the Material Handling Teachers Institute, the IMHRC Colloquium has been conducted on an every two-year cycle, with the Colloquium being offered in the summer of even-numbered years, alternating between locations in Europe and North America:  Since 1994, CICMHE has co-sponsored, along with the Order Fulfillment Solutions (OFS) council of MHI,  a team design competition for students interested in the design and analysis of material handling systems.  Cash prizes of $2000, $1500, and $1000 are awarded to the first, second, and third place teams, plus $500 for each placing department. Since 1952, there have been over 160 academic members. Notable alumni include distinguished faculty and university administrators: 