The National Association for Campus Activities (NACA) is an organization designed to provide information and resources for campus activities programmers throughout the United States and Canada.  Formed in 1960, NACA links the higher education and entertainment communities in a business and learning partnership, creating educational and business opportunities for our student and professional members. The National Association for Campus Activities (NACA) is a non-profit organization that hosts events which showcase musical artists, comedians, stage shows, and a variety of other acts. It is a member-based organization that works as the main connection between higher education institutions (called school members) and the entertainment community (called associate members). Through its regional conferences and National Convention, members of NACA have the opportunity to showcase their acts and meet with schools that are interested in having acts perform on their campus. NACA was founded in 1960. In 2010, it celebrated its 50th Anniversary at its annual National Convention. Each year there are seven regional conferences and one National Convention, as well as various workshops and Webinars. The National Convention is hosted each February. The four-day event provides networking opportunities with other campus activities professionals, students and the entertainment community. About 3,000 people attend the Convention each year, with hundreds of colleges and universities attending from around the United States. NACA’s National Convention is the nation's largest campus activities marketplace. The Convention hosts more than 80 live performances ranging from music and comedy to lecture and interactive programs. Another aspect of the NACA conferences are the Educational Sessions with topics ranging from motivation, to leadership or even self beneficial workshops. These sessions focus on professional and student leadership development, programming, multicultural education, campus organization dynamics and advising, and identification of current trends in the field of campus activities.  NACA’s Campus Activities Marketplace (CAMP) puts campus programmers in direct contact with the agents and/or artists. In the marketplace you can meet artists, watch small performances, get literature from the different agencies and get novelties personalized for you. NACA has seven regions: The NACA West region includes Alaska, Hawaii, Washington, Oregon, California, Nevada, Idaho, Arizona, Utah, Colorado, New Mexico, west of the 107th longitude (which roughly parallels the Rocky Mountains) and the Canadian Province of British Columbia. The NACA Northern Plains region includes Montana, Wyoming, Wisconsin, the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, Nebraska, Iowa, Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, and the Canadian Provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, and western Ontario.  The NACA Mid America region includes Michigan, Indiana, Ohio, West Virginia, Kentucky, and Illinois. The NACA South region includes Virginia (south of metro Washington DC), North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Tennessee, Mississippi, and US & British Virgin Islands. The NACA Mid Atlantic region includes New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Washington DC (and the surrounding metro area) and the Canadian Province of eastern Ontario. The NACA Northeast region includes Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, and the Canadian Provinces of New Brunswick and Quebec.  The NACA Central region includes Colorado and New Mexico east of the 107th longitude (which roughly parallels the Rocky Mountains), Kansas, Oklahoma, Missouri, Texas, Arkansas, and Louisiana. 