Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shikshak Sangh (UPMSS-Uttar Pradesh Secondary Teachers Association). The formation of UPMSS took place in 1956. Maheshwar Pandey was its founder president. Covering area of Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shikshak Sangh—up to each secondary school (all the districts of Uttar Pradesh) Each school will form a unit organization and will elect a council with a president,secretary and district delegates etc. Each district will form a unit. President, Secretary and district delegates of each school will form a district unit by secret poll and will elect district president,district secretary, state delegates etc. District President,district Secretary and state delegates will form a council of state including President, General Secretary etc. The first time the state president was elected directly by teachers was in 1972. Om Prakash Sharma won and became UPMSS President. Maheshwar Pandey was badly defeated in this election. In this election two waves were blowing i.e. east and west. Sharma was from Meerut district and was supported by western districts. Pandey was from the east and was supported by eastern districts. Kanpur district was major district in schools numbers so Kanpur was balancing and decider. Kanpur openly supported Sharma. As a result,  Pandey formed a new group within UPMSS known as UPMSS (Pandey Group). Three MLC`S of Teachers constituency and district president and secretary concerning district decide ticket for Teachers constituency election. Monopoly of Sharma  in this board. Eight seats of Teachers Constituency in Uttar Pradesh State. After general election of President of state in 1972, there was not any election. Sharma was continuously the  President of UPMSS without a general election. Due to lack of democracy R N Thakurayi formed new group of UPMSS and now it is called Thakurayi Group of UPMSS. Due to monopoly of Sharma, in 2010 Raj Bahadur Singh Chandel  MLC from Kanpur Teachers Constituency  formed another new UPMSS group called UPMSS (Chandel Group). 