The Odisha Society of the Americas, or OSA, is an organization whose stated goals are to promote the culture of the Indian state of Orissa in the United States and Canada, and to facilitate the exchange of information between Orissa and North America.  Founded in 1969, OSA is registered as a 501(c)(3) charitable organization in the United States. The main event of the organization is an annual convention which aims to bring members of the Odia diaspora together to celebrate their ethnic culture. It held an annual get-together called convention, where people of Oriya origin from different parts of USA and Canada mingled and shared experiences of ethnic living. Today[when?] OSA is a strong organization with 900 or more individual and family members. This is due to individuals stepping forward to support different activities with innovative ideas which, when implemented, benefit us[who?] all. The organization has now spread into thirteen regional chapters, which operate as a social umbrella for different regions in the US and Canada. The chapters arrange various activities such as religious festivals, social get together, cultural events and participate in the cultural life of the local community as representatives of Oriya culture. Besides these, the annual convention is the centerpiece of the society's activities. The society's vision is to promote and propagate Oriya culture in Americas by bringing together all the people interested in Orissa. The mission goals of The Orissa[clarification needed] Society of Americas are: · To provide a mutually supportive environment for the better interaction of Oriya immigrants of North American countries through socio-cultural growth, friendship and fellowship. · To enhance the awareness of Orissa and Oriya traditions in North America through cultural promotion, social events, and developmental activities. · To facilitate the exchange of information between Orissa and the United States/Canada. There are 14 chapters in USA and 1 chapter in Canada. A new chapter, California chapter is under formation. OSA Convention The annual convention of The Orissa Society of the Americas takes place during the July 4th weekend every year. The main responsibility of hosting the convention rests with the local chapters of OSA. At times when local chapters do not bid for the convention, Oriya communities under the leadership of an OSA life member and with 15 or more OSA members do take charge of organizing the convention. The convention serves to bring together people with roots in Orissa to share the pride in Oriya culture and heritage and pass it on to the next generation. Convention is the centerpiece of OSA's activities. The 44th OSA convention was held in Chicago, Illinois from 4 to 6 July 2013. The 45th OSA convention in 2014 has been scheduled to be held at Columbus, Ohio. Past/Future OSA Conventions OSA Regional Oriya Drama Festival OSA Drama Festival started in 2009 for the first time. Dr Gopal Mohanty was the festival coordinator. The concept of regional drama festival went into effect during the month of April 2009 at 3 sites, Texas, Michigan and Washington DC. OSA is planning to continue the tradition in its present form or in an improved form (combining music and dances) for the future. OSA Southwest Chapter Drama Festival-2013 was held at Austin on 14 September 2013. 