The U.S.- Italy Fulbright Commission is a bi-national, non-profit organization promoting the opportunities for study, research, and teaching in Italy and the United States. The commission acts as executor of the Fulbright Program to and from Italy. Since 1948, the commission has fostered mutual cultural understanding through educational exchange of persons, knowledge, and skills. The commission offers competitive, merit-based grants for students, scholars, teachers, professionals, scientists and artists.  Created in 1948, the U.S.-Italy Fulbright Commission is one of 50 bi-national organizations responsible for overseeing the international collaboration of the Fulbright Program, one of the most well-known and prestigious scholarship programs in the world. The commission is governed by a Board of twelve members: six US members, nominated by the United States Ambassador to Italy, and six Italian members, nominated by the Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs and the United States Ambassador to Italy are honorary presidents of the commission. The United States Department of State, the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, and the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, General Directorate for Cultural Promotion and Cooperation and General Directorate for the Americas, ensure financial coverage and jointly manage the program. The commission promotes study, research and lectureship opportunities in Italy and in the United States through the Fulbright scholarships for Italian and American citizens (approximately 100 scholarships a year). It organizes and sponsors cultural and educational activities with both a national and international outreach and offers an Information Service on the Fulbright Program and on study and research opportunities in both the United Statrs and Italy. Currently, the Fulbright Program is the largest program of international cultural exchanges in the United States. It was proposed by Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas; he believed that an international educational program could be an essential vehicle to promote peace and mutual understanding between individuals, institutions, and future leaders, wherever they may be.  The program operates in more than 155 countries worldwide, with approximately 294,000 participants awarded over the course of 60 years. Awards vary between study programs, research or teaching in the United States and other participating countries. Each year, approximately 7,500 Fulbright scholarships are awarded.  According to the Fulbright website, the following individuals are notable alumni of the U.S.-Italy program: 