Tandem language learning is a method of language learning based on mutual language exchange between tandem partners (ideally each learner is a native speaker in the language the proponent wants to learn). Many language schools in the world, organised as TANDEM International,  as well as many universities implement this approach. In Tandem Language Learning both partners can meet in person (face-to-face Tandem) or learn by e-mail, phone or other media (eTandem, also called Distance Tandem), placing emphasis on cultural integration as part of the language-learning process. Learning is supported in different ways, for instance, via worksheets, textbooks or simply informal conversation. There are distinct uses of the Tandem method which promote independent learning e.g. Tandem Partnerships (two people, supported by counsellors), and Binational Tandem Courses (for groups, organised by moderators). The classic style is that where partners equally share the available time during the exchange. For example, a Portuguese speaker and a German speaker can talk for half an hour in German and then for half an hour in Portuguese. In this way, through language exchange partnerships with native speakers, and extra social and cultural experiences, participants become fully immersed in the target language culture. The only condition for participation in self-directed Tandem is to be at a lower intermediate  level of language proficiency (Lower B1 Threshold). The Common European Framework of References for Languages ( CEFR ) Can-Do statements provide a clear description of language ability at the Threshold level (B1)  in several European languages. "Language learning by exchange" or the Tandem Approach is based on various systems of teaching exchange students abroad, such as: partner learning, "peer teaching", tutoring models and "Zweierschaften" (Steinig) or  'one-on-one discipleship'.  The following are some of the most important highlights:   Tandem is an approach that can benefit all ages, which can be implemented in different educational settings, but perhaps is best appreciated by language students with a lower intermediate proficiency or above. It can take place in the country of one course group, in the country of the other group, together in a third location, or over the Internet. Tandem unites many aims under one roof:  And offers self-directed learning with flexibility of content: conversation, narrative, reading, professional activities such as phone calls, interpretation, translation, as well as leisure activities, intercultural differences, etc. Tandem has developed from a language-learning method to an educational movement, as evidenced by the sources cited. Improvement in language skills At first, professional discussion primarily centred round the question of the effectiveness of Tandem in comparison with traditional language teaching methodologies. This initiated an investigation carried out in 1983 at the Madrid Goethe-Institute, in which Tandem pairs, a Tandem course and teacher-steered phases were connected with each other and the linguistic progress was compared to a control group, who were also preparing for the 'Zertifikat DaF'. Results showed that the Tandem participants got better results in listening comprehension and speaking skills while they were less successful in reading and writing, even if their performance in the certificate as a whole was just as good as the control group. Another advantage was mutual mistake correction, which was fostered by increased language intake. Development of intercultural competence Not only is Tandem concerned with language comprehension and learning, but equally with cultural understanding and knowledge. Accordingly, a critical analysis of its competence must also examine this second ‘leg’. In fact, it turns out that Tandem aids a change of perspective, with comparison of one’s own and foreign points of view. This is also very helpful during translator training. Moreover, native speakers report an increase of awareness about their own language in the course of the Tandem. Therefore, it seems to be suitable as a ‘confidence booster’ in learning contexts. Considerations for 121 Tandem With regard to the requirements and quality of the input, it is essential to give the following basic tools during the practical introduction to Tandem: • meta-communication formulas in the foreign language, for the learner's role, and • the most important explanation techniques in the first language, for the learning assistant's role. Considerations for Group Tandem Mediation with large numbers of participants, "cocktail mediation", in which many people form partnerships after an introduction to Tandem, has proved as effective as mediation via questionnaires and images. It can be recommended as a good way of finding learning partners, on the condition that for the remaining students the possibility of questionnaire mediation be made known before starting. Criteria for ‘good’ Tandems In another investigation, Tandem partners in Bolzano and Merano who had been learning for more than one year together, and can be seen accordingly as experts, were questioned about their experiences in order to infer criteria for ‘good’ Tandems. The results showed (in order of frequency, multiple answers possible): Several series of tandem handbooks have been published in many languages as a result of the European Union funded projects: Tandem and eTandem Handbooks and Teacher Guides  In order to compete in our digitally advanced world, the acquisition of 21st Century skills,  or Global skills has taken priority in the classroom. And as can be seen from its history, Tandem Language Learning has metamorphosed over time, reflecting these changes in our attitudes to learning. Today, with a focus on intercultural competence, a key global skill, Tandem Language Learning has been also called Online Intercultural Exchange (OIE) (O'Dowd, 2007),  Internet-mediated Intercultural Foreign Language Education (ICFLE) and Telecollaboration. Such exchanges, despite being held at distance, give participants access to different cultures and beliefs with an authentic audience, boosting student engagement. Benefits of virtual language exchanges Indeed, benefits of virtual exchanges  are seen to include Drawbacks of Virtual Language Exchanges  Key Pedagogical Implications for Successful Telecollaborative Activities (O'Dowd, 2013)  i. time for students to reflect on the experience (during and after the activity) ii. adequate resources iii teacher (pedagogical) leadership iv. pedagogical integration of the activity into the class and the learning process Digital Tools to Facilitate Telecollaborative Exchanges (Guth and Thomas, 2010)   Getting Started with Telecollaboration These virtual platforms allow easily observable and assessable student activity, and may provide access to virtual partnerships. One example is that of the Skype in the Classroom,  part of Skype, an online telephony platform. It hosts a ready-made activity called Mystery Skype, where classes have to guess where in the world their exchange-class is based. This is a simple, easily adaptable task that could be easily integrated into normal classroom activity. Video reviews of Tandem Language Learning  exchanges are available on YouTube.  Tandem Language Exchange  is an app, licensed by the TANDEM Fundazioa, which allows learners to connect and practice the Tandem method together via video chat and instant messaging. Other available solutions include Idyoma , HelloTalk, Bilingua, and Speaky .  Intercultural Communicative Competence in Telecollaboration and Tandem Telecollaboration enables the augmentation of cultural awareness and second-language acquisition by geographically distant individuals using computer-mediated communication tools.  A key objective of this exchange process is the development of Intercultural Communicative Competence (ICC) (O’Dowd, 2013 ), given that  previous research (see for example see Kern, 2000;  Fischer, 1998 ) has established that exposure to  different cultures via online communication may have bolstered perceptions of difference by reinforcing stereotypes, as opposed to facilitating deeper cultural awareness and understanding between participants in the online exchange. Moreover, Helm and Guth (2010)  hold that Telecollaboration is based in a globalised milieu where the ideas of culture and language may not be consistent with those of national identity; identity may derive from historical and geographical processes within a multicultural context that extends beyond national boundaries (Risager, 2007 cited in Helm and Guth, 2010, p. 71 ). This shift highlights the importance of facilitating an awareness of cultural diversity, in terms of how learners perceive their own and other cultures. Based on this research, fostering ICC is essential given today’s cultural diversity in education (Helm and Guth, 2010;  O’Dowd and Waire, 2009 ). Further, with the proliferation of Web 2.0 (and indeed Telecollaboration 2.0) students are increasingly immersed in situations where an awareness about their own and other cultures is essential to developing  communicative competence in a culturally-diverse setting. The key to the development of these competencies is collaboration within the wide array of communicative task-based activities used in Telecollaboration(O’Dowd, 2013 ). Telecollaboration Using Task-based Learning: Challenges for Instructors There are several challenges inherent in instructors’ choices of appropriate tasks in fostering ICC within Telecollaboration. Firstly, research has indicated that while instructors may be able to implement tasks aimed at fostering ICC, they may not be able to clearly conceptualize the intended outcome of the chosen tasks (Samuda and Bygate, 2008, cited in O’Dowd & Waire, 2009, p. 174 ). Secondly, collaboration between tandem instructors may create challenges in respect of differing views on task design, especially in relation to learner autonomy, that is, how much autonomy students should be given in choosing and completing tasks (O’Dowd & Waire, 2009 ). Thirdly, instructors’ differing views on their role in terms of intervention and management of the task may affect the task outcome (O’Dowd and Waire, 2009 ) as well as result in lengthy, time-consuming online exchange. Fostering ICC within Telecollaboration Using Task-based Learning: Task Types Research conducted by O’Dowd and Waire (2009)  highlighted 12 task types that could foster the development of such non-linguistic pedagogical objectives. These task types fall within 3 categories: According to Chang & Kuo (2009)   the Cormier method is based on instructions in which small groups of learners with different mother tongues interact for in-tandem learning to occur. Devised by Helene Cormier, a language teacher at Club d'échange linguistique de Montréal language school (CELM), the participants develop conversations that are aimed to consolidate developed skills in the areas of listening, comprehension, vocabulary and pronunciation. Participants of this language exchange can experience how native speakers interact through text, voice and video chat. The sessions take about roughly one hour, in which the participants speak in one language for thirty minutes and then switch to the other language for the following thirty minutes. Additionally, through this experience the learners have the chance to learn something from their peers’ culture by using the target language accordingly.   In Mullaiselvan Mohan’s (2016)   Google site, there are five recommendations that should be taken into account in order to develop sessions with the Cormier method. These include: Abdulezer et al (2007)   state that the Cormier method is implemented in mylanguageexchange.com, a formal language-learning site, which recommends the implementation of Skype since it is free, mobile and easy to install in most electronic devices that possess a webcam and a microphone. Through the use of Skype audio conferencing learners are able to formulate small groups and use the built-in timer in Skype to maintain the rotation of languages. Advantages: Disadvantages: As this method is primarily for practising, it should not be the main source of language learning and should be seen as a review or a tool that helps learners improve their language learning skills. Cormier’s method is a simple approach to e-tandem learning that has clearly had success, particularly with the use of Skype. Implementing such a method is possible with relative ease, but there are drawbacks as previously discussed. However, with an abundance of new technologies emerging, different and improved approaches to that of Cormier may have even greater success in the future. These tools could be utilised to incorporate language-learning beginners, as well as improve upon the accessibility to learners in countries where Skype may not be available. Alternative digital tools such as Google Hangouts, Viber, ooVoo, WeChat and many more means that e-tandem learning and telecollaboration will be an area of language learning that continues to grow and prosper. Tandem language learning is in theory a great idea that reaps various linguistic and cultural benefits. Students of different nationalities can learn from each other for free. However, there are various reasons that may not allow this to work (Drummer, 2012).  To conclude, in theory, language tandem is a great idea and at times it may be beneficial. However, it requires a mutual effort from both parties, time and synchronization. If one of the parties is not satisfied with the learning experience, the tandem language experience may not be a successful educational endeavour (Drummer, 2012).    