  The A24 is a major road in England that runs for 53.2 miles (85.6 km) from Clapham in south-west London to Worthing on the English Channel in West Sussex via the suburbs of south-west London, as well as through the counties of Surrey and West Sussex. Between Clapham and Dorking, the A24 closely follows the route of the old Roman road Stane Street. The Morden branch of the Northern line runs under the road from Clapham via Colliers Wood to Morden. Cycle Superhighway 7 also runs along the road from Clapham to Colliers Wood. The A24 starts at a junction with the A3 near Clapham Common and its tube station in the London Borough of Lambeth in Inner London. It heads south-west as Clapham Common South Side and passes Clapham South Underground station. It enters Balham in the London Borough of Wandsworth and changes name to Balham Hill. There are here shops on both sides of the road. It becomes Balham High Road and passes Balham station before reaching Tooting Bec Underground station and its junction with the A214. It enters Tooting and becomes Upper Tooting Road. It runs downhill and becomes Tooting High Street before heading past Tooting Broadway Underground station and its junction with the A217 Garratt Lane. It runs for a short distance before exiting Inner London. The road enters Colliers Wood in the London Borough of Merton going over the railway bridge between Haydons Road and Tooting railway station and the road becomes High Street Collier's Wood. Cycle Superhighway 7 finishes at Colliers Wood Underground station. The A24 then turns left away from the Northern line and becomes Christchurch Road. It turns right onto Merantun Way and passes the Industrial areas of Collier's Wood and Merton before going over the River Wandle. The road turns left onto Morden Road at a junction with the A219. It passes Morden Industrial Area, Morden Hall Park and the A297 before reaching Morden Underground station. It runs as London Road and it goes under the railway bridge by Morden South railway station. It passes a set of traffic lights with the A239 Central Road next to Morden Park before becoming Epsom Road. The road runs in Lower Morden for a short distance and passes by Morden Cricket club before exiting the borough. The road enters the London Borough of Sutton just before it reaches The Woodstock junction with the B279. It passes the Sutton Common area to the east and runs down the steep Stonecot Hill before it changes name to London Road. It passes St Anthony's Hospital as it heads into North Cheam and runs past a large branch of Sainsbury's before reaching the Queen Victoria junction with the A2043. The road then leaves the shopping environment and the area becomes more residential as it continues as London Road before exiting the borough and Greater London. The A24 continues as London Road, enters the borough of Epsom and Ewell in Surrey by Sparrow Farm Road in Stoneleigh and runs alongside Nonsuch Park. Two out of the three car parks for Nonsuch are on the road. The road reaches the Organ Crossroads with the A240 and the B2200. The road becomes the Ewell By-Pass. It passes a crossroads with the Ewell terminus of the A232 and the B2200 before running past the edge of the North East Surrey College of Technology it approaches a roundabout with Reigate Road and the A240. It heads towards Epsom and becomes Epsom Road, then East Street and passes Kiln Lane, an industrial area with a large Sainsbury's and various other shops. It also passes The Rainbow Leisure Centre as it heads into Epsom Town Centre. It passes a set of traffic lights by Hook Road immediately before it becomes Epsom High Street and goes around the one-way system by The Ashley Centre, Epsom Clock Tower and Epsom Playhouse before becoming South St and Dorking Road. It passes Epsom General Hospital, The Wells and Epsom Common before leaving the borough. The road enters Ashtead, a large village in the Mole Valley District and becomes Epsom Road. It passes Newton Wood and Ashtead Park before changing name to The Street in the centre of Ashtead. Once the road leaves the centre of Ashtead it becomes Leatherhead road and passes Ashtead Hospital. It then enters Leatherhead and crosses the M25 just before the road turns left at the Knoll Roundabout. This is where the A243 starts and it is the way to Junction 9 of the M25 and the B2122 heads into Leatherhead town centre. The A24 becomes Bypass Road (Leatherhead) the speed limit goes up from 30 mph (48 km/h) to 50 mph (80 km/h) as the road enters a more rural feel. It passes the B2033 (Reigate Road) at the Beaver Brook roundabout and continues for 0.6 miles (1 km) before turning left at the Givons Grove roundabout with the A246 and the B2450. It becomes Dorking Road, then the Mickleham By-pass and becomes a dual-carriageway. It passes the B2209 (Old London Road), the main road in Mickleham, a small village near Box Hill, and a way to get to the hill. The A24 runs next to Box Hill, passes two car parks and crosses the Burford Bridge over the River Mole. It then heads into the town of Dorking, passes the B2038 (Pixham Lane) and the A2003 (Ashcombe Road) near Dorking railway station. Just afterwards, the road passes near to Dorking (Deepdene) railway station, becomes Deepdene Avenue and runs on the Deepdene Roundabout with the A25. It exits central Dorking and becomes a lot less urban and enters North Holmwood just before another roundabout with the A2003 (Flint Hill) and Spook Hill. It continues south and passes the small villages of Mid Holmwood and South Holmwood and passes Holmwood railway station just before the northern end of the A29 and Newdigate Road. It changes name to Capel By-pass and passes near to the B2126 and Ockley railway station before it passes Capel village itself, which is 6 miles (9.7 km) south of Dorking. It passes Clark's Green roundabout, which includes what becomes the main road in Capel. It runs south for another 2 miles (3.2 km) before exiting Surrey. The A24 enters West Sussex before passing the small village of Kingsfold as the rural atmosphere continues. The road continues past a roundabout with the A264 where it turns right where it starts to by-pass the large town of Horsham. goes past Horsham, Ashington and Findon before terminating in the seaside resort of Worthing at the A259 in the town centre. Coordinates: 51°12′23″N 0°19′52″W﻿ / ﻿51.2065°N 0.3310°W﻿ / 51.2065; -0.3310﻿ (A24 road) 