Germany, Austria and Switzerland operate the largest interconnected 15 kV 16.7 Hz system, which has central generation, a special transmission network, central and decentral converter plants.  In Germany, the voltage of traction current grid is 110 kV. In the Northeastern parts of Germany there is no traction current grid, as decentralized converter plants situated at the substations are used. Switching stations without power conversion, generation or feeding of overhead wires. In these facilities AC from the public grid is transformed into single phase AC and fed into traction current grid. At some facilities, power is also fed to the overhead wires. Conversion is made by machines or by electronic means. In these facilities AC from the public grid is transformed into single phase AC and fed only to the overhead wires. Conversion is made by machines or by electronic means. In Switzerland, the voltage levels of the traction power grid are 132 kV/66 kV. At Muttenz and Etzwilen, there are transformers for coupling to 110 kV level of the traction power grid of Germany. In these facilities electricity is transformed down from 132 kV or 66 kV to 15 kV. There is no conversion or generation of power. In these facilities AC from the public grid is transformed into single phase AC and fed into the traction current grid. At some facilities, power is also fed to the overhead wires. Conversion is made by machines or by electronic means. Switching stations without power conversion, generation or feeding of overhead wires. In Austria, the voltage of traction current grid is 110 kV, except of the lines Meidling-Hütteldorf, Hütteldorf-Auhof, Hütteldorf-Florisdorf, Florisdorf-Simmering and Meidling-Simmering, which are operated with 55 kV. In these facilities electricity is transformed down from 110/55 kV-level of OBB to 15 kV. There is no conversion or generation of power. In these facilities, AC from the public grid is transformed into single phase AC and fed into the traction current grid. At some facilities, power is also fed to overhead wires. Conversion may be performed mechanically or electronically. 