The Field Archaeology Act is a state Act legislating the preservation, interpretation and protection of archaeology in  the state of Minnesota, United States of America. The Act is divided into twelve sections. The Act was first brought into force in 1963 and has undergone ten revisions since that time. The passage of the Field Archaeology Act in 1963 impacted the practice of archaeology in Minnesota in several critical ways. It provided proscriptions related to the practice of archaeology, banned unlicensed practitioners from conducting archaeological investigations on state sites, and enacted penalties for violations of the Act. It also officially established the Minnesota Office of the State Archaeologist, and outlined the licensing process and requirements for archaeologists seeking to work on state sites. In terms of physical archaeological remains and data recovered as a result of field archaeology, the Act explicitly granted ownership and title to the state.  The Act affords protection to state archaeological sites under Section 138.32, in that the state "reserves to itself the exclusive right and privilege of field archaeology on state sites, in order to protect and preserve archaeological and scientific information, matter, and objects".  The Act defines the position of the State Archaeologist, and dictates the lawful duties thereof. The Minnesota Office of the State Archaeologist is charged with the following duties: The Act provides that any archaeological work conducted on non-federal public land in Minnesota, requires a permit issued by the Office of the State Archaeologist. There are four kinds of licenses, including  The State archaeologist provides a review and vetting of an archaeologist's qualifications, and forwards the application onto the Minnesota Historical Society for license issuance. Burial grounds and cemeteries in Minnesota are governed by the Private Cemeteries Act. The Act was first enacted in 1976, and has been amended eight times, most recently in 2007. The State Archaeologist oversees the implementation of this Act and has the following associated duties:  Complete statute language National Register of Historic Places listings in Minnesota 