“Monumentalized Early Iron Age Landscapes in the Danube river basin”  Iron-Age-Danube is a cross-border project and is part of the Interreg Danube Transnational Programme of the European Union.  In the Iron-Age-Danube project the early Iron Age landscapes in the Danube river basin are explored with the help of modern technology and traditional archaeological tools. The participating partners from Austria, Croatia, Hungary, Slovakia and Slovenia work together to promote the concept of archaeological landscapes beyond single archaeological sites in these countries. The project is funded by the European Union with about 2.169.200 EUR from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF). These ERDF resources make 85% of the total project volume which is about 2.552.000 EUR. The Iron-Age-Danube project lasts from the 1st of January 2017 till the 30th of June 2019. The major goal of the project is to communicate a lively image of archaeological research and the Iron Age landscapes to the visitors and to raise the awareness for the importance of archaeological monuments for the human history.  The project Iron-Age-Danube ignores borderlines between the countries and researches the remains of the Hallstatt period (Iron Age) in the Danube region. The data of this research will help to understand the way of living in the past and the needs of the heritage today. Another goal is the protection of the monuments and landscapes as well as their sustainable use for the tourism. To strengthen the local tourism, already existing archaeological parks or trails will be revitalised. New visitor programs in form of digital and analogous tools will be developed and implemented in 9 micro-regions. The micro-regions are: Großklein and Strettweg (Austria), Jalžabet and Kaptol (Croatia), Poštela and Dolenjske Toplice (Slovenia) and Százhalombatta, Süttő and Sopron (Hungary). The project partners and associated partners in Austria, Croatia, Hungary, Slovakia and Slovenia are:   On the 31st of January 2018 the European Year of Cultural Heritage was officially launched by the European Commission   and the Iron-Age-Danube project was granted the honor to use the EYCH 2018 logo. In June 2018 the Iron-Age-Danube Project was selected by an Independent Jury as one of 21 finalists for the RegioStars Awards in the 2018 edition. The voting  for this year’s public choice award started on the 3rd of July 2018.  At the beginning of July the project partners in Vienna became a part of the road trip project and took the two young travellers with them to do some aerial archaeology.  