curator of art and music projects, collector of contemporary Belarusian art, patron, bibliophile, songwriter 17 May 1952 (1952-05-17) BSSR  SSSR →  Belarus Evgeny Antonovich Ksenevich (born May 17, 1952) is a collector of contemporary Belarusian art, bibliophile, curator of art and music projects, songwriter. He was born on May 17, 1952 in the village Zeleny Bor, Smolevichi District, Minsk Region in the family of teachers-philologists. He graduated from the Maxim Tank Belarusian State Pedagogical University (1974). Evgeny Ksenevich has been a curator of art projects since 1986. The most significant of them are:  "REFLECTIONS", solo show of Vladimir Akulov in the Yanka Kupala Central Library. Photos of the exhibition opening, June 2016. Curator Evgeny Ksenevich Curator Evgeny Ksenevich in front of his portrait painted by Vladimir Akulov 1994. Curator Evgeny Ksenevich, E. Kubyshkina, head of the Yanka Kupala Library Artist V. Chernobrisov and curator E. Ksenevich At the opening of an exhibition of O.Radkevich Photo of curator E. Ksenevich, artist D. Barsukov Photo of curator E. Ksenevich, professor I. Malevich Photo of Evgeny Ksenevich, curator of the exhibition "REFLECTIONS" Poster and press release of Vladimir Akulov's "REFLECTIONS". 2016 Photo of artist Vladimir Akulov and curator Evgeny Ksenevich in the Art Gallery of Slutsk. Analysing works of art.  "VITRAGES OF TIME", solo show of works of Vladimir Akulov in the Vitebsk Art Museum. Photos are made at the exhibition opening, April 2016. Curator Evgeny Ksenevich At the exhibition opening. Artist Petr Kirillin, university friend and course mate of Akulov, and curator Evgeny Ksenevich. Curator E. Ksenevich (second on the left) with graduate students from the artistic graphics faculty in the 70-80s - P. Kirillin, curator of Akulov's student group in university years, and artist G. Vasilyeva. In Vitebsk, the town of youth of Mark Shagal and Vladimir Akulov. On the photo in front of Shagal's graffiti portrait: P. Kirillin (right), artist from Vitebsk and Akulov's university friend, and curator E. Ksenevich. In front of the Vitebsk Art Museum, from left to right: artist P. Kirillin, member of the museum's staff, head of the museum O. Okunevich, E. Ksenevich, curator of Akulov's group in student years. At the exhibition opening - M.L. Tsybulsky, Ph.D. in History of Arts, associate professor of Vitebsk State University named after P.M. Masherov, and artist from Orsha N.I. Taranda At the exhibition opening - curator E. Ksenevich, head of the museum O. Okunevich, artist P. Kirillin, Akulov's course mate and university friend At the exhibition opening - curator E. Ksenevich (left) and artist A. Slepov Exhibition guests, fifth on the right - A.E. Dukhovnikov, head of Vitebsk Center of Contemporary Art. One-man exhibition of works of Vladimir Akulov in commemoration of the 60th birthday of artist, organized in the National Library of Belarus, Minsk, November–December 2014. Curator Evgeny Ksenevich Curator E. Ksenevich with V. Akulov at the opening of an exhibition. Artist V. Akulov at the opening of an exhibition. Art historian L.D. Finkelstein at the opening of Vladimir Akulov's one-man exhibition in the National Library of Belarus. T.V. Kuzminich, deputy head of the National Library of Belarus, at the opening of Vladimir Akulov's exhibition. Vladimir Akulov in the National Library of Belarus. Poster of V. Akulov's exhibition in the National Library of Belarus.  The exhibition "BEAUTY AND POWER" in the National Library of Belarus. 2004. Curator Evgeny Ksenevich From left to right: L.G. Kiryukhina, olympic medalist N.A. Alyekhin, olympic medalists E.D. Belova and A.V. Karshakevich, singer A. Solodukha, olympic medalist A.S. Portnov Front row from left to right: O. Smolyak, curator E.  Ksenevich, olympic medalists V. Portnov, A. Korshakevich, N. Alekhin Second on the left – I.V. Veldzhanov, doen of the diplomatic corps in the Republic of Belarus, third on the left - curator E.A. Ksenevich, fourth on the left - L.G. Kiryukhina Olympic medalist E.D. Belova, curator E.A. Ksenevich Singer Vladimir Provalinsky Singer A. Solodukha, curator E.A. Ksenevich The exhibition in the Pushkin Regional Library. Curator Evgeny Ksenevich. 2003. From left to right: artist Grigory Nesterov, artist Ivan Klimenko, curator of an exhibition E. Ksenevich. From left to right: artists G. Nesterov, I. Klimenko, curator E. Ksenevich, artists V. Kostyuchenko, S. Malishevsky and V. Pesin From left to right: artist S. Malishevsky, art¬ historian T. Bembel, artist V. Pesin Artist Ivan Klimenko in front of his works Artist Grigory Nesterov in front of his works Vasily Kostyuchenko's works at the exhibition Ivan Klimenko's works at the exhibition Ksenevich owns international patents of the Eurasian Union and the patent of the Russian Patent Office (replacement arthroplasty). Since the 1980s Ksenevich has been writing variety songs with lyrics by Russian and Belarusian speaking authors (more than 100 authors of lyrics): Rasul Gamzatov, Andrei Dementyev, Igor Severyanin, Anatoliy Poperechny, Nikolai Gumilyov, David Samoylov, Petr Vegin, Vasily Fyodorov, Yury Levitansky, Grigory Pozhenyan, Mark Lisyansky, Maria Petrovykh, Nina Krasnova, Olga Pavlova, Elizaveta Stuart, Veronika Tushnova, Nikolay Zinovyev, Eduard Asadov, Boris Maryev, Andrei Voznesensky, Nil Gilevich, Evgenia Yanishchits, Anatoly Grechanikov, Averyan Dzeruzhynsky, Kastus Tsvirka, Rygor Baradulin, Petrus Brovka, Gennady Pashkov, Arseny Tarkovsky, Petr Laman, Aleksandr Zaritsky and many others. In 2015 Ksenevich began to publish music books of variety songs. The first music book called "Lyot lebediny"  includes the following songs: "Lyot lebediny", "I gryanet slovno grom razluka", "Imya tvoe", "Ptitsa", "Pozdnie tsvety", "Dvazhdy dva", "Veryu v zhizn", "Pesnya dochke". The book is illustrated with the works of a Belarusian artist The second one, "Imya tvoe", includes the following songs: "Imya tvoe", "Vot ty uyekhala", "Rossiyskie poety", "I Pesnya dochke", "Znayu, chto ko mne ty ne pridyosh", "Mozhet byt’, kazhetsya", "Grust’ moya", "Lyot lebediny". The book is illustrated with the works of a Belarusian artist Vladimir Akulov. The second one, "Imya tvoe", includes the following songs: "Imya tvoe", "Vot ty uyekhala", "Rossiyskie poety", "I Pesnya dochke", "Znayu, chto ko mne ty ne pridyosh", "Mozhet byt’, kazhetsya", "Grust’ moya", "Lyot lebediny". The book is illustrated with the works of a Belarusian artist Vladimir Akulov. The third one, "Ptitsa", includes the following songs: "I Ptitsa"I, "I Proshchai, lyubov’", "Pogovori so mnoi", "Ya ne mogu tebya zabyt’", "Ne otpuskai menya", "Razve proshloe ushlo", "Mozhet byt’, kazhetsya", "Zima", "Belarus". The book is illustrated with the works of a Belarusian artist Valery Pesin. In 2016 Ksenevich published the fourth music book of variety songs named "Koni", which includes the following songs: "Koni", "Bely sneg", "Akh, eta noch’", "Ne vinovat", "Do svidaniya", "Sibirsky solovei", "I poka my vmeste", "Sokrovishche, dorogoi", "Belarus". The book is illustrated with the works of a Belarusian artist Vladimir Akulov. Since 1980s Ksenevich has been collecting rare and miniature books. These are books of the early 19th century, pocket-sized, containing a variety of subjects, including those published in different languages in Belarus and many other countries all over the world: composite books containing works of classics of Belarusian, Russian and world poetry, selected prose, reference books and encyclopedias, researches in the branch of history and art history, comic editions and children's books, books of the Bible and Christian literature, as well as cook, chess and philosophy books. Ksenevich considers a miniature book to be a high-water mark of printing art. Publishing of such books requires delicate cooperation of highly professional artists, print workers, designers. In an interview he pointed out the following: "miniature books are a trademark of the country's printing industry. And Belarus is famous for its books. First books were published pocket-sized in Minsk in 1833. And this tradition has existed ever since: many publishing houses issue wonderful miniature books, which win awards at international competitions". Evgeny Ksenevich more than once organized exhibitions of miniature books from his collection. The most significant exhibitions are: Exhibition in the Petrus Brovka State Literary Museum (2009); exhibition of miniature books in the State Museum of the History of Belarusian Literature, commemorating the 520th birthday of Francisk Skorina (2010). 