Stephen Helmuth Floersheimer (21 March 1925 - 6 April 2011) was a philanthropist, investment banker and Art Collector who created the Floersheimer Center for Constitutional Democracy.  Son of Walter and Charlotte Floersheimer,  he was born in Frankfurt, from where he was forced to escape to Belgium and the United States in 1933. After studies at Oxford and training at a bank, he moved with his family to Zurich, Switzerland in 1977. An avid fighter for justice and democracy he founded the Floersheimer Institute for Policy Studies, since 2007 called the Floersheimer studies,  at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1991, publishing studies in the field of society and governance in Israel. As an honorary doctorate in humanities from Yeshiva University, he established the Floersheimer Center for Constitutional Democracy at the Cardozo School of Law, for the understanding and improvement of modern democracies. He also founded the Walter Floersheimer Chair for Constitutional Law.  In 1989 he took charge of his father´s Art Collection which was periodically exhibited at the UBS Headquarters in Zurich. Part of the collection with works by Raoul Dufy, Camille Corot, Paul Gauguin, Chaim Soutine  and Edgar Degas was donated to the Israel Museum where it is displayed at the Lotte and Walter Floersheimer Gallery for Impressionist Art.  His continuous contributions of impressionist masterpieces to the collection, made it into one of the most important private collections in Switzerland. Displayed at Floersheimers country estate at the Casa Carlotta, Orselina, Switzerland the collection includes works by Claude Monet: Gran canale Venice, Pablo Picasso, George Braque, Alfred Sisley, Camille Pissarro, Titian, Oskar Schlemmer, Juan Gris, Fernand Leger and Alexander Archipenko, together with contemporary artists like Maurice Esteve, Daniel Garbade, Gaston Chaissac and Charles Lapique (fr). Sculptures by Aristide Maillol and Archipenko are shown in the sumptuous surrounding gardens. His two Arlequins, works by Juan Gris, where shown at the Juan Gris exhibit at the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, Madrid 2003.  Stephen Floersheimer  built his own 36m luxury sail super yacht in 1996, with Terence Disdale acting as a styling consultant. Designed and refitted in 2015 by Camper & Nicholsons, the Yanneke Too  was built using E-glass, Kevlar and epoxy with cedar core for the hull and foam for the deck. He won many races, like the Superyacht Cup in Antigua 2007  with Captain Charles Dwyer at the Helm. During more than 10 years he participated and  won several times the Puckets Invitational Superyacht Rendez-vous.  