This list of traditional territories of the original peoples of North America gives an overview of the names of the indigenous "countries" of North America. In this sense, "country" refers to the name of the land...the ground...the territory of a nation, rather than the name of the nation ("tribe") itself.  This article is only about the name for the land of a nation. For example, the traditional territory (country/land) of the Ho-Chunk (Winnebago) Nation is called Waaziija, meaning "the Grand Pinery". In English, the land of an indigenous nation was historically, and sometimes still is, referred to as a "country", such as "(the) Winnebago country". Some Latinate forms exist in English such as "Iroquoia", "Huronia", and "Apacheria". The distinction between nation and land is like the French people versus the land of France, the Māori people versus Aotearoa, or the Saami people versus Sápmi (Saamiland). "The Nishnawbe Aski territory" refers to the land of the amalgamated national identity which was formed in 1983 by the OjiCree-, Ojibway-, Cree-, and Algonquin-speaking bands which were party to the two treaties which cover Northern Ontario.  See also the entries for Ojibwewaki (Ojibwa country), Bodéwadmiakiwen (Potawatomi country), and Omàmiwininiwak (Algonquin) traditional territory. See also Tłı̨chǫ Ndè (Dogrib country). See also Kanién:ke (Mohawk country), Onayotekaonoga (Oneida country), Gweugwehonoga (Cayuga country), Nundawaonoga (Seneca country), Onundagaonoga (Onondaga country), and Dusgaowehonoga (Tuscarora country). "We Eskimo are an international community sharing common language, culture, and a common land along the Arctic coast of Siberia, Alaska, Canada and Greenland. Although not a nation-state, as a people, we do constitute a nation." —Inuit Circumpolar Council-Alaska  The existing Inuit-affiliated political divisions and regional corporations only partially reflect the traditional cultural and linguistic diversity of the Inuitic peoples.  For example, the boundaries of the Danish political entity Kalaallit Nunaat are bigger than the traditional territory of the Kalaallit proper (West Greenland Inuit). There are two other Inuitic peoples in Greenland: the Tunumiit (East Greenland Inuit), who live in Tunu  and the Inughuit (Polar Eskimos) of North Greenland. "The division of O'odham lands has resulted in an artificial division of O'odham society. O'odham bands are now broken up into 4 federally recognized tribes: the Tohono O'odham Nation, the Gila River Indian Community, the Ak-Chin Indian Community and the Salt River (Pima Maricopa) Indian community." (quote from the Tohono O'odham Nation website)  In contrast to the entire traditional territory, O'odham ha-jeweḍga refers to the political Tohono O'odham Indian Reservation.  Tohono ("Desert") is the O'odham name for the Tohono O'odham (Pagago) portion of O'odham Jeweḍ.  The Spanish name for this portion is Papaguería, which has also been used in English. The name "Tohono country",  "the tohono jewed",  "Papago country",  "the Papago country",  and "the Papago homeland"  are also attested. For the Akimel O'odham (Pima) portion of the traditional territory, the names "Pima country",  "the Pima country",  and "the Pima homeland"  are attested. For the purpose of this list, "nation" refers to the historic, whole national identities, rather than to the fragmented "reservation nations" or "bands". The whole nations are what John Beaucage, Grand Council Chief of the Anishinabek Nation, refers to as "true nations" in contrast with the fragmented "First Nations": —John Beaucage, “A Vision of a New Assembly of First Nations” (emphasis added), 2009  Or what the Government of Quebec calls "the 11 aboriginal nations of Québec" in contrast with their component "55 aboriginal communities".  And so the criteria for inclusion is not the same as what are named "Indian tribes" by the U.S. Federal Register and the National Congress of American Indians (NCAI), or what are called "First Nations" by the Canadian government and Assembly of First Nations (AFN). It would be interesting to compile the names for the "band territories" of the 633 fragmented First Nations of the AFN, or the names of the "reservation territories" of the 632 fragmented Indian Nations of the NCAI, but that is beyond the scope of this article, except as side notes in the "further information" column. So this list does not include the names for reservations or reserves, but only of the entire national homeland (or the homeland of a confederated identity such as the Haudenosaunee Confederacy or Colville tribes). For example, this list wouldn't give the Cherokee name for the Qualla Boundary reservation, but only the name for "the Cherokee country" as a whole. Ideally a single name could conceivably encompass not only the Contact-era ancestral territory, but also any area which at some time or another was conceived to be part of the national domain, such as post-Removal lands. —The Miami Tribe of Oklahoma.  The names do not have to be from olden days. The names could be recently coined and still be included in this list. Compiling a list such as this can be a difficult and controversial process, as it requires some discernment as to what are the "whole nations" — the "true nations" in Beaucage's words. 