An exam invigilator, exam proctor or exam supervisor is someone who is appointed by the examination board and services for maintaining the proper conduct of a particular examination in accordance with the exam regulations. It is the duty of the exam invigilator to watch the examination candidates to prevent cheating during the examination.  They are required to ensure that all the exams are carried out according to the rules set out by the exam board which allows each candidate to sit for the examination under equal conditions as other candidates throughout the country. Exam Invigilators are appointed to a position of trust and they should possess the quality of integrity and vigilance to conduct the examinations in exact accordance with the examination board’s instructions. They are appointed by different educational institutions to help prepare and carry out the examination procedures according to their rules and regulations of the examination board. The purpose of exam invigilation is to ensure that all candidates are under active surveillance for every moment of the duration of the examination. Invigilators should also try to provide a suitably pleasant and supportive atmosphere for candidates.  However, they must also ensure and prevent any kind of communication between candidates (by copying, whispering or any kind of signal, exchange of paper or objects) and any kind of access to books, papers or electronic media of any kind (unless specifically authorized) for the exam duration.  Invigilators also need to ensure the security of the examination hall before, during and after the examination.  From the moment the question papers are given out until all answers are collected, exam invigilators should patrol vigilantly. Particular emphasis should be given to multiple-choice and short-answer questions. The main goal should be to prevent possible candidate malpractice and administrative failures. The minimum number of invigilators required for different kinds of examinations depends on the type of examinations held.  For general written examinations, there should be at least one invigilator present against every 30 students for patrolling and vigilance at the examination hall.  The main duty of an exam invigilator is to support the Chief Invigilator, the Deputy Chief Invigilator, the Examinations Officer and the other invigilators at the examination venue. Some of the other general duties may include:  Before the start of the examination, exam invigilators must be fully briefed and trained before carrying out the task of invigilation in their respective venues. It is essential that exam invigilators familiarize themselves with the appropriate examination regulations and procedures before attending the examination hall. Exam invigilators should arrive at the examination hall at least one hour before the start of the examination to report for their duty and remain for an additional hour after the exams to collect and wrap up the examination scripts. Before the candidates arrive, exam invigilators must prepare the examination venue by placing the required answer booklets, reference booklets, candidate numbers and other supplementary materials on candidates' desks. They must make sure that the time of the clock at the examination venue is set correctly and necessary instructions are clearly displayed at the front of the examination hall for the candidates. They should also help direct students to their seats and prohibit the entrance of forbidden items such as cell phones, smart watch, headphones, portable audio/video/gaming devices and textbooks at the examination hall.  During the examination, all exam invigilators must give their whole attention to the examination process. At this time, they must be vigilant, mobile and attentive and should not perform any other tasks throughout the examination’s duration.  At this time, exam invigilators must respond to queries from candidates immediately and assist the candidates as per their needs. Within the first 30 minutes of the examination, the invigilators should take the attendance of the candidates in the attendance record sheet and sign it before submitting it to the Chief Invigilator. While checking the attendance, they must also check the candidate's name, candidate number, passport, admit card or examination entrance card etc.  Exam invigilators must deal with students who arrive late at the examination venue and record their attendance and consult with the Chief Invigilator to determine whether extra time will be granted to such candidates or not. Invigilators must not permit candidates to leave the examination hall room during the first 1-hour and the last 15 minutes of the examination. They should also take immediate actions in case of candidates caught cheating during the examination and report to the Chief Invigilator. If unauthorized materials are found inside the examination hall, they should remove them immediately. In the event of an emergency or fire alarm, invigilators should follow the  emergency exit procedures and lead the candidates safely outside the examination hall. Invigilators must be as quiet as possible during the examination duration but also remain vigilant to the candidates. They should not explain any questions asked by the candidates or allow any other person to ask questions of, or read answers to, the candidates.  After the examination is over, the exam invigilators should collect the scripts, question papers, stationery and other reference booklets from the candidates and check that all the required information (name, candidate number, venue, date etc.) have been filled out by the candidates on their scripts properly. When all the scripts are collected, invigilators should release candidates and direct them towards the exit of the examination hall in complete silence. 