In British education, a housemaster (or, less commonly, a housemistress) is a member of [male] staff in charge of a boarding house, normally at a boarding school (e.g., especially at a British public school). The housemaster is responsible for the supervision and care of boarders in the house and typically lives on the premises. The term houseparent is also sometimes used, most commonly when a married couple share the role. In addition, there is often an assistant housemaster (or assistant housemistress) acting as a deputy. The Housemaster's primary role is leading and running their boarding house, along with (if any) an assistant housemaster/mistress, resident tutors, senior prefects or a pupil 'head-of-house'.  The Housemaster has a vast range of duties and responsibilities, ranging from the pastoral care of their boarders to everyday basic maintenance, laundry and organisational tasks. His top priority is caring for his boarders' physical and mental well-being and he does this by getting to know his charges, guiding them daily and offering them support and advice. The Housemaster acts as the parent or leader of the house and deals with any problem the boarder may have. Depending on the size of the house he may or may not have a team of staff working with him, such as other pastoral staff, housekeeping/cleaning staff and medical.  The list of duties could consist of anything that a child needs help with, to the physical upkeep of the building and administrative work. The Housemaster additionally may be a teacher, sports coach, cadet forces instructor, or just a Housemaster, etc. In this way, he is often involved in the activities his boarders undertake. Often, as the post is almost always residential, a close bond develops between the boarders and Housemaster. The Housemaster has the care of his boarders, not only as his job, but - depending on the individual - will have it as a personal way of life. As boarders obviously live together and make friends with each other, a community spirit fosters between the boarders themselves and naturally the Housemaster leading them. Many boarding houses have names, sometimes of a famous person, or a person with a strong connection and important history within the school, or they may be more functional names. Many schools, like Shrewsbury, will have houses named after old-boys or important figures of the school, whilst others, like Eton, will refer to houses mostly by the initials of the housemaster.  Regardless of the name, with each house having an identity, a sense of pride develops for the Housemaster to see his house as a fine one, with good qualities as the fabric of it.  Many houses are known for certain attributes or characteristics, such as hard-working, kind, organized, good at sports, musical, academically-gifted or noble and brave. The Housemaster will have an important part in ensuring the good reputation and image that his house develops. The Housemaster is the master of discipline, as well as support, for the boarders. He maintains authority in his own manner within his house (and across the school). It is a semi-autonomous position and the Housemaster may have a wide range of ways in dealing with unruly or unwanted behaviour, such as official sanctions (such as detentions or extra duties), but must also recognise when negative behaviour may be covering something worse that his happening in his boarder's life, which will require more tact. The Housemaster will frequently be the first port-of-call for other members of staff, including non-boarding teachers and boarding staff, when they have queries of a boarder. So the Housemaster must be prepared to give an honest, accurate account of the boarder as a whole, as well as defend if necessary the boarder if he is in trouble.  In the boarders' eyes, the Housemaster is the ultimate (less parents or Headmaster/mistress) person who they know will always condemn or support certain behaviour and actions of the boarder. 