The first National Meeting of Black Women (Portuguese: I Encontro Nacional de Mulheres Negras, I ENMN) took place between 2 and 4 December 1988, in Valença, Rio de Janeiro, with the participation of 450 women from 17 Brazilian states.  The Encontro Nacional resulted from a great impulse to organize among black women, mainly the fluminenses, who already prepared the I Encontro Estadual de Mulheres Negras of Rio de Janeiro, in 1987.  The Encontro Estadual represented a mark in the feminist movement guaranteeing that only black women participated in the event, created the opportunity for constituting an "introspective organisation". That posture was challenging not only in front of some sectors of the feminist movement, as well as of traditional leaders of the black movement. Even with the caused tension, it was imperative that black women constituted their expressing spot in an independent way. The meeting, that occurred in the Brazilian city of Nova Iguaçu, counted with a considerable participation of state black women.  As a medium for the organisation of the Encontro Estadual, the fluminense black women also participated in the IX Encontro Nacional Feminista, in Garanhuns (PE). After a long road trip and the challenges imposed by the lack of resources, already in a first moment, they could note the racial thematic was not in the main subjects of the event.[clarification needed] As Sandra Bello tells, the class question was present in the meeting, because many feminists didn't accept the active participation of black women with a profile related to the suburban and to the favelas. Also, these women represented a rupture with the eurocentric feminist vision, through which white feminists "defined the quotas of participation of black women in the Meetings".  Versing about the preparation process of I ENMN, Joselina da Silva recognises that the IX Encontro Nacional Feminista made the responsibility of black women of Rio de Janeiro in relation to the enacting of the state event appear, while the same became part of the organisation of the Encontro Nacional that would unite Brazil's black women. As a participant of the organisation of the national event, Joselina highlights the high level of difficulty, both in financial, political and cultural aims, considering that the organising commission was integrated by women of different movements and day-to-day life experiences.  During the preparations for the national event, reunions followed gathering an ever greater participation of more Brazilian states, getting the presence of nine states in the reunion at São Paulo. In these occasions several organisational aspects and two commissions were created, one executive and one organisational. The Executive Commission was in charge of fourteen black women from Rio de Janeiro, elected by direct and secret vote. The Organisational Commission was formed by the States present in the national reunions. At the same time, several public activities were organised to offer divulgation and visibility to the Meeting, as well as a course for the selection of the visual identity of the event.  Joselina da Silva highlights that one of the problems found in the consecution of the national event was the place of its enaction, based in the available money.[clarification needed] In respect to the difficulty found by the Executive Commission to find a place where the event could be enacted, there was chosen a hotel where the activities would take place; while others scattered around the city of Valença would guard the participants and their families.  During the meetings that culminated in this first meeting at a national level, the organisers were able to bring to the discussion and listen to the demands of black women from the most diverse regions of the country and socioeconomic realities. During the meeting itself, black women found a space to fulfill their specific, everyday demands, derived from the intersectionality between, mainly, gender, race and class. If, on one hand, they could show the falsity of the abolition of slavery, in its centenary; on the other hand, also would denounce the domestic violence suffered by black women.  I ENMN was looking for a greater pluralisation of social demands, expliciting conflicts beyond those related to the dynamics of social classes. Everyday questions, intimately connected to relations of power, could be transformed. Under this view, new analytic possibilities would be capable of promoting collective transforming actions. This thought was important in defining one of the general objectives of the meeting: "make emerge the most diverse forms of fight and autodetermination against the forms of existing discrimination". Another general objective focused in the construction of new analytic places: "set an unitary perspective of fight inside the social, cultural and political diversity of the women present at the Meeting".  Generally, the Meeting covered six distinct methodologies, recognising the multiple identity aspects by offering voice to women belonging to different social, academic and political origins. To guarantee inclusion, it was necessary that a significant number of women would be inserted in the organisation team and that a division into different sectors would be needed. According to Joselina, the group of subjects present in the terms developed by the participants shows that race and gender were the analyses's deflagrators. Other contributions should also be received, because black women could be victims of different discriminatory manifestations on social subjects.  At the same time, according to the opening talk of the Meeting, spoken by Maria José Lopes da Silva (member of the executive commission), in that moment, the question of the black woman was essential in the reconstruction process of the Brazilian democracy: "In the process of review of the place of the woman in the Brazilian society, triggered by the women movement one decade ago, the question of the black women becomes constituting one of the fundamental agents of democratic reconstruction of this country. So, from this expectation, appears our first national meeting. Aside from reflecting the purpose of the black woman in the Brazilian reality it is pretended in this meeting to develop a discussion about the relation of black woman and main activities of social life with the necessity of improving that relation that involves the participation of women from various sectors like: black movements, women movements, syndicates, communitary associations and organised entities of the social movement that led to this first meeting having as its central theme the black woman. In the search for enrichening the debate and willing to widen its range, this meeting is opened to participation of delegations of the entire country, having the State of Rio de Janeiro the responsibility of hosting it."   In the context of this opening talk, itis inferred the big amplitude of this Meeting, making it the reflection point about the condition of black women in society. In this space, black activists could formulate strategies that “retrofed” their day-to-day fights against several lived exploitation forms.   