NANDA International (formerly the North American Nursing Diagnosis Association) is a professional organization of nurses standardized nursing terminology that was officially founded in 1982 and develops, researches, disseminates and refines the nomenclature, criteria, and taxonomy of nursing diagnoses. In 2002, NANDA relaunched as NANDA International in response to the broadening scope of its membership. NANDA International published Nursing Diagnosis quarterly, which became the International Journal of Nursing Knowledge in 2002. Other related international associations are ACENDIO (Europe), AENTDE (Spanish language), AFEDI (French language) and JSND (Japan). The Membership Network Groups foster collaboration among NANDA-I members in countries (Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, México and Nigeria-Ghana) and for languages: the German Language Group (Germany, Austria, Switzerland) and the Dutch Language Group (Netherlands and Belgium). In 1973, Kristine Gebbie and Mary Ann Lavin called the First National Conference on the Classification of Nursing Diagnoses. It was held in St. Louis, Missouri. Attendees produced a beginning classification, an alphabetized list of nursing diagnoses. The conference also created three structures: A National Clearinghouse for Nursing Diagnoses, located at Saint Louis University and led by Ann Becker; a Nursing Diagnosis Newsletter, edited by Anne Perry; and a National Conference Group to standardize nursing terminology and led by Marjory Gordon. In 1982 NANDA was formed. It included members from the United States and Canada. NANDA developed a nursing classification to organize nursing diagnoses into different categories. Although the taxonomy was revised to accommodate new diagnoses, in 1994 it became apparent that an overhaul was needed. In 2002 Taxonomy II, which was a revised version of Gordon's functional health patterns, was released. In 2002, NANDA became NANDA International in response to requests from its growing base of membership from outside North America. The acronym of NANDA was retained in the name because of the name recognition, but it is no longer merely "North American", and in fact boasts members from 32 countries as of 2010. The current structure of NANDA's nursing diagnoses is referred to as Taxonomy II and has three levels: Domains (13), Classes (47) and Diagnosis. 