The Association of Caribbean University, Research and Institutional Libraries (ACURIL) is a Caribbean library organization founded in 1969. It is based in the José M. Lázaro Library of the University of Puerto Rico.  The Association of Caribbean University, Research and Institutional Libraries (ACURIL) was first created in 1969 at a conference sponsored by the Association of Caribbean Universities and the Institute of Caribbean Studies at University of Puerto Rico.  The first leaders of the organization were: President Dr. Alma Theodora Jordan, Vice President Dr. Albertina Perez de Rosa, and Secretary/Treasurer Dr. Luisa Vigo-Cepeda.  ACURIL supports collaboration between university and research libraries. It believes in embracing different libraries which encompass research, including public libraries and special libraries.   ACURIL has been essential to professional inspiration for many librarians in the Caribbean region, providing them with continuing educational opportunities and creating a conducive environment for collaboration with other professionals.  Growth of regional bodies of international associations such as ACURIL has been attributed to greater international awareness after the Second World War and to the regular and affordable air transportation.  Its name was changed to the Association of Caribbean University, Research and Institutional Libraries in 1976.  The mission of ACURIL is to "facilitate development and use of libraries, archives, and information services and the identification, collection and preservation of information resources in support of the whole range of intellectual and educational endeavors throughout the Caribbean area".  Furthermore, the ACUIRL is determined to establish a distinct and effective organization of qualified individuals in the fields of archival and library science as well as to sustain an enduring presence within the Caribbean region with a unification of information professionals.  ACURIL's achievements include grouping together regional projects that work towards improving the retrieval of information that is created in the region.  Any type of library, archive, organization or individual in a country that borders the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean is eligible for membership in the ACURIL organization. There are four types of membership: institutional, organizational, personal and associate. Institutional membership includes libraries, archives and schools of library and information. Organizational membership includes national, regional and other special library organizations and associations. Personal membership is for practicing information professionals, students who are enrolled in information courses of study, non salaried librarians including retired and unemployed, and honorary members. Any individuals or organizations outside of the Caribbean and borders of the Gulf of Mexico are eligible for an associate membership.   The main official languages of ACURIL members include English, Spanish, Dutch, and French and encompass 26 nations.   Since 2000, ACURIL has given awards to three areas: Institutions, Information professionals, and the Caribbean information professional of the year. Each area encompasses several awards, which are given annually at ACURIL conferences.  The General Headquarters of the Association is in San Juan, Puerto Rico, and physically located at the Caribbean Regional Library and Latin American Studies, within the José M. Lázaro Library of the University of Puerto Rico, Río Piedras Campus. Its mailing address is P.O. Box 23317, UPR Station, San Juan, PR 00931-3317. Tel (787)790-8054; Fax (787)790-8054  