Eva Simone Hayward is a writer and a transdisciplinary faculty member of the Department of Gender and Women Studies at the University of Arizona.  Her work develops new ground, examining the role of visual representation in scientific knowledge, with particular attention to animal studies, psychoanalysis, aesthetic philosophy, and sexuality studies.   Hayward's research interests include aesthetics, environmental and science studies, and sexuality studies.  Hayward completed a B.A. in American Studies (summa cum laude) at the University of New Mexico  (UNM) in  2001.  She graduated in 2008 from the University of California, Santa Cruz (UCSC) with M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in History of Consciousness, advised by Donna Haraway. After she completed her doctorate, she worked as a research assistant at the Long Marine Laboratory.  Hayward was a post doctoral fellow for Women's Studies at Duke University.  She was an assistant professor for Cinematic Arts and helped to design the Interdisciplinary Film and Digital Media Program at the University of New Mexico.  While she was on leave as a guest researcher at the Centre for Gender Research at Uppsala University, Sweden, her colleagues at UNM cited her achievements in the department's program review, including her coordination of Sweden's "first-ever international conference on animality and visual culture".  Ester Ehnsmyr of Uppsala University said of her work, "Hayward has helped to develop new ground for transdisciplinary work – mixing art and visual representation with zoontology and feminist techno-science studies."  Hayward was a visiting professor at the College of Design, Architecture, Art and Planning at the University of Cincinnati prior to joining the faculty at the University of Arizona.  Hayward was a columnist for IndyWeek from June 2011 through February 2013, and published 20 essays as monthly columns, on topics ranging from "Why a sex change is not extraordinary" to "What Maurice Sendak taught us about facing our fears" to "Getting frank about our Frankenweather".  She has also published in other popular venues such as Yes! Magazine,  Women & Environments Magazine,  and AEQAI.  Editor Daniel Brown of AEQAI wrote to readers, "...we hope that you enjoy her brilliance and her humor as much as we do".  