Janet Currie is a Canadian economist. She is the Henry Putnam Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton University and the Director of Princeton's Center for Health and Wellbeing.   She served as the Chair of the Department of Economics at Princeton from 2014-2018.  She also served as the first female Chair of the Department of Economics at Columbia University from 2006-2009.  She was named one of the top 10 women in economics by the World Economic Forum in July 2015.  She was recognized for her mentorship of younger economists with the Carolyn Shaw Bell award from the American Economics Association in 2015.  Currie co-directs the Program on Families and Children at the National Bureau of Economic Research.  She is a member of various professional associations including being elected member of the National Academy of Medicine (NAM), and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, American Academy of Political and Social Science and the Econometric Society. She is past president of the Society of Labor Economists and of the Eastern Economics Association,  the in-coming President of the American Society of Health Economics, and previously served as vice-president of the American Economic Association. She has honorary degrees from the University of Lyon  and the University of Zurich.  She is also an affiliate of Institute for the Study of Labor (IZA) in Bonn, Germany. Currie has served as a member of the Advisory Committee on Labor and Income Statistics for Statistics Canada and as a consultant for the National Health Interview Survey and the National Longitudinal Surveys, and on the advisory board of the National Children’s Study. She served on the Board of Reviewing Editors for Science magazine from 2014-2018, and as the editor of the Journal of Economic Literature   from 2010-2013. Currie currently serves on the advisory board for the Journal of Economic Perspectives, and as Associate Editor for the Journal of Population Economics. She has previously held editorial roles for numerous economic peer-reviewed journals, including the Quarterly Journal of Economics, the Journal of Health Economics, and the Journal of Public Economics. Although Currie published several studies early in her career about collective bargaining in the public sector,  she is best known for her work on the impact of poverty and government anti-poverty policies on the health and well-being of children over their life cycle. She has written about early intervention programs, expansions of Medicaid program, public housing and food and nutrition programs. She is considered an expert on the topic of Head Start Program. In work with Duncan Thomas and Eliana Garces, she showed that children in Head Start made gains relative to their own siblings in terms of both test scores and longer-term measures of attainment. In work with Jonathan Gruber, she showed that expansions of public health insurance to low income women and children improved access to care and reduced infant mortality. Research on the effects of the safety net on American children is reviewed in her book, "The Invisible Safety Net." Currie has also investigated broader socioeconomic determinants of fetal and child health, including health care, child maltreatment, nutrition, pollution exposure, and maternal education and smoking behaviors. Her work showing that the adoption of EZ-Pass improved infant health in Pennsylvania and New Jersey received wide attention. Her work showing disparities in fetal exposure to pollution and their consequences is summarized in her 2011 Ely lecture to the American Economics Association.  In work with Anna Aizer and Hannes Schwandt, she has shown that inequality in mortality is falling among U.S. children, at the same time that inequality in mortality among adults has been increasing, and attributed this improvement to the protective effect of safety net programs. She is married to W. Bentley MacLeod, an economist at Columbia University, and together they have two children. 