The Young Scientist Challenge is a youth science and engineering competition administered by Discovery Education and 3M for middle school students in the United States, similar to the European Union Contest for Young Scientists. Students apply by creating a 1-2 minute video detailing their idea for a new invention intended to solve an everyday problem. Ten finalists are chosen annually to work alongside a 3M scientist during a summer mentorship and receive a trip to the 3M Innovation Center in St. Paul, Minnesota, to compete for $25,000 and the title of America’s Top Young Scientist. The entry period is from December until April each year. A panel of judges from Discovery Education and its partner organizations, educators, and science professionals score qualifying entry videos and choose 10 finalists and up to 51 merit winners, one from each state and the District of Columbia, based on the following criteria: Students are required to address an everyday problem and articulate how the problem directly impacts them, their families, their communities, and/or the global population.   The idea must be a new innovation or solution, and cannot be a behavioral change or a new use for an existing product. Judges also look for the level of understanding of scientific concepts and confidence in communicating science in general exhibited in the videos. The ten finalists undergo a summer menotoship and in the fall travel to 3M's headquarters in Minnesota to participate in the Young Scientist Challenge Final Event. They visit 3M labs, meet 3M scientists, and tour the 3M Innovation Center, and also participate in a series of other scored challenges to demonstrate their scientific knowledge and communication abilities. For their final challenge, they then present the innovation that they developed during their mentorship. Here the finalists are judged by a panel of judges selected by Discovery Education and its partner organizations according to the following guidelines: After the Final Event, participants attend an award ceremony and dinner, at which the winner of the title "America’s Top Young Scientist" is announced.  First Place (America's Top Young Scientist) Three Runner-Up Prize winners Six Second Prize winners Up to 51 Merit Winners (one from each state and the District of Columbia) Formerly known as the Discovery Channel Young Scientist Challenge (DCYSC), the Young Scientist challenge was created in 1999 as an engineering research and exhibit competition for students in grades 5 through 8.  It was sponsored primarily by Discovery Communications, Society for Science and the Public, and Elmer's Glue. Competitors were originally qualified for DCYSC by entering an International Science and Engineering-affiliated science fair and being nominated by a teacher or professional. Students completed an application that included several essays, which were then evaluated for communication abilities by DCYSC judges, who selected 400 semi-finalists and 40 finalists who received an all-expense-paid trip to Washington, D.C. to compete in the final competition. The finals consisted of two parts. The first was a research presentation, accounting for 20% of the total score, held at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History, the National Academy of Sciences, or another academic national association that varied from year to year. The second was a series of six science-related challenges at the National Institutes of Health or the University of Maryland. Each challenge concluded with some type of presentation (e.g., a radio show, a TV show, or a news conference) worth 10% of the students' total score. Students also presented a simple science experiment, known as a Whelmer, in front of cameras for 15% of their score. The remaining 5% came from teamwork, as the finalists were split into eight teams consisting of five members each for the science challenges. In 2008 the contest became the Discovery Education 3M Young Scientist Challenge. Students no longer have to be nominated and now submit a 1-2 minute video clip as their form of entry. Since 2003, themes for the Young Scientist Challenge have followed scientific curiosities and been built on the activities and innovations around them. 