Fedena is an open source school management software developed on the  Ruby on Rails Framework. It is web 2.0 web application  developed by Foradian Technologies.  Fedena is cloud based school ERP software used in schools for administration purposes. Fedena is being used by the Education Department of Government of Kerala to automate the system and process of over 15,000 schools in the state and is named as Sampoorna.  [user-generated source] Fedena is now used in more than 40,000 institutions in the world. [user-generated source][not in citation given] For the development and support of Fedena, Foradian won the MIT TR35 2012 India award for innovation in education domain. [not in citation given] Fedena Pro is the commercial version of this software and comes with add-on modules or the premium modules. The open source version of Fedena has not seen updates since version 2.3 in 2013. [non-primary source needed] Developed on Ruby on Rails frame work with MVC architecture. The application is composed of a basic module which satisfies all the necessary requirements of a simple SIS. Fedena is optimized for customization and there are many add on modules which can be installed easily to extend the power and usability. Fedena is currently integrated with Moodle, Google Apps and  Tally. Fedena supports multitenant architecture and is used to manage group of institutions. Fedena started the development in June 2009. It is currently in Version 3.5.3 which was released in March 2017.   The Fedena project is owned by Foradian Technologies, an internet engineering company based in Bangalore, India. The company raised $2 million funding from William Bissell, Managing Director of Fabindia in April 2014.  Foradian initiated and successfully implemented Fedena in the state of Kerala for all the government schools. The project was named as Sampoorna. The project was implemented in coordination with the Education Department of Government of Kerala, India to automate the system and process of over 15,000 schools in the state.  