Rediker Software is a company that provides school administrative software to PK – 12 schools. Rediker Software employs about 100 people and is headquartered in Hampden, Massachusetts. Other supporting offices are located in India and Ecuador. The software is used by public and private schools in every US state and more than 115 countries.  Founder and CEO Richard Rediker began the development of Administrator’s Plus,  the company's student information system, over 35 years ago. As a chemistry teacher and class advisor in 1980, he developed an early program on the Commodore PET computer to automatically generate tardy letters. This program eventually became Administrator's Plus.  In 1981, the first license for Administrator's Plus was sold to St. Mary High School in Westfield, Massachusetts. The school still uses the software to this day.  In 1998, the company moved into their office located in the center of Hampden, Massachusetts. In 2006, the offices were expanded, including larger training facilities and expanded technical support offices. This same year, Rediker Software introduced the School Office Suite. In 2007, Administrator’s Plus became a SIF-certified application.  In 2009, Rediker Software introduced Admissions Plus Pro, including online forms and applications, to help private schools increase enrollment and improve recruitment.  For the years of 2008 - 2016, the company has been named by the Affiliated Chambers of Commerce of Greater Springfield to their "Super 60" list of fastest-growing privately held companies in Western Massachusetts.    In July 2012, Rediker Software rebranded with a new logo to reflect the company's move towards cloud-based solutions and also its commitment to the advancement of schools through educational technology solutions.  On June 3, 2013, Andrew Anderlonis, former Director of Business Development and Operations and son-in-law to CEO Richard Rediker, was appointed President of Rediker Software.  Rediker Cares Project is Rediker Software’s volunteer program that gives employees the ability to volunteer at local organizations and events during company time. The program empowers employees to work together to give back to the local community and to help those in need. As a result, Rediker employees have made significant contributions to local organizations including Open Pantry  and Links to Libraries.  The project also donates school supplies to schools in developing countries and runs food drives and fundraisers for local non-profits. 