Computer-assisted interventions (CAI) is a field of research and practice, where medical interventions are supported by computer-based tools and methodologies. Examples include: The basic paradigm of patient-specific interventional medicine is a closed loop process, consisting of  The experience gathered over many patients may be combined to improve treatment plans and protocols for future patients. This process has existed since ancient times. Traditionally, all these steps have taken place in the physicians head. The ability of modern computer-based technology to assist humans in processing and acting on complex information will profoundly enhance this process in the 21st Century. your text here your text here your text here your text here your text here your text here In order to gain an explicit and formal understanding of surgery, the field of analyses and modelling of surgical procedures has recently emerged. The challenge is to support the surgeon and the surgical procedure through the understanding of Operating Room (OR) activities, with the help of sensor- or human-based systems. Related surgical models can then be introduced into a new generation of Computer-Assisted Interventions systems to improve the management of complex multimodal information, improve surgical workflows, increase surgical efficiency and the quality of care in the OR. Models created by these different approaches may have a large impact in future surgical innovations, whether for planning, intra-operative or post-operative purposes.  This idea of describing the surgical procedure as a sequence of tasks was first introduced by MacKenzie et al. (2001).   and formalised in Jannin et al., 2001.  The term Surgical Process (SP) has been defined as a set of one or more linked procedures or activities that collectively realise a surgical objective within the context of an organisational structure defining functional roles and relationships.  This term is generally used to describe the steps involved in a surgical procedure. A Surgical Process Model (SPM) has been defined as a simplified pattern of an SP that reflects a predefined subset of interest of the SP in a formal or semi-formal representation. It relates to the performance of an SP with support from a workflow management system. Surgical process models are described from observer based acquisition,   or sensor-based acquisition (such as signals,      or videos,   ). Related terms: Surgical workflow analysis, … your text here your text here your text here your text here your text here your text here your text here your text here your text here The international society Medical Image Computing and Computer Assisted Intervention Society (the MICCAI Society) is dedicated to the promotion, preservation and facilitation of research, education and practice in the field of medical image computing and computer-assisted medical interventions including biomedical imaging and robotics, through the organization and operation of regular high quality international conferences and publications which promote and foster the exchange and dissemination of advanced knowledge, expertise and experience in the field produced by leading institutions and outstanding scientists, physicians and educators around the world. The  International Society for Computer Assisted Surgery (ISCAS) is a non-profit association. Its mission is to encourage all scientific and clinical advancement of computer-aided surgery and related medical interventions throughout the world. Its primary goals are: Its scope encompasses all fields within surgery, as well as biomedical imaging and instrumentation, and digital technology employed as an adjunct to imaging in diagnosis, therapeutics, and surgery. MICCAI organizes an annual conference and associated workshops. Proceedings for this conference are published by Springer in the Lecture Notes in Computer Science series.  General topics of the conference include medical image computing, computer-assisted intervention, guidance systems and robotics, visualization and virtual reality, computer-aided diagnosis, bioscience and biology applications, specific imaging systems, and new imaging applications. International Conference on Information Processing in Computer-Assisted Interventions (IPCAI) is a premiere international forum for technical innovations, system development and clinical studies in computer-assisted interventions. IPCAI includes papers presenting novel technical concepts, clinical needs and applications as well as hardware, software and systems and their validation. The Computer Assisted Radiology and Surgery (CARS) congress is the annual event for a distinguished international community of scientists, engineers and physicians to present and discuss the key innovations that shape modern medicine on a worldwide basis. Founded in 1985, CARS has played a leading role in medical and imaging informatics for more than 25 years by focusing on research and development on novel algorithms and systems and their applications in radiology and surgery. Its growth and impact is due to CARS’s close collaboration with the ISCAS and EuroPACS societies, and CAR, CAD and CMI organizations. 