OnPage Corporation is a provider of SaaS-based Incident Management Systems and Clinical Communications Platforms. The company offers clients the ability to receive persistent alerts on their smartphone to apprise them of emergency or critical situations and ensure that critical messages are never missed.  The company was founded in 2011 by Judit Sharon and is based in Waltham, Massachusetts. It also has IT and development employees in Israel. Before pivoting to become OnPage Corporation, the company was named Onset Technology.  OnSet Technology was founded in 1997 and focused on facilitating communications for employees at big corporations and enabling them to communicate across multiple devices and channels. The company then pivoted and in 2011 turned to focus on pager replacement for the healthcare industry. The company called its product OnPage.  In 2015, the company rebranded and called itself OnPage Corporation. Today, the company is a SaaS-based platform that provides operation and incident management tools for operators in healthcare, manufacturing, IOT and managed services (MSPs). OnPage can work as either a smartphone app or as an app in conjunction with a console. By using the console, administrators are able to access functionalities required for larger groups such as  on-call grouping, escalations and reporting. In healthcare, the app and console enable users to receive secure, HIPAA compliant alerts and communications. The alerts can also be programmed to come from other OnPage users, administrators or individuals without an OnPage account. For IT and MSP functions, users often receive alerts based on alerts triggered from ticketing systems, monitoring systems or directly from the failed technology.  Alerts will continue for as long as 8 hours but will end as soon as the recipient views the message waiting for them. OnPage’s service is accessible through a Software as a Service online platform or through a developer API. Customers are required to sign up for a yearlong contract. 