  Technology ("science of craft", from Greek τέχνη, techne, "art, skill, cunning of hand"; and -λογία, -logia) is first robustly defined by Jacob Bigelow in 1829 as: "...principles, processes, and nomenclatures of the more conspicuous arts, particularly those which involve applications of science, and which may be considered useful, by promoting the benefit of society, together with the emolument [compensation ] of those who pursue them". The simplest form of technology is the development and use of basic tools. The prehistoric discovery of how to control fire and the later Neolithic Revolution increased the available sources of food, and the invention of the wheel helped humans to travel in and control their environment. Developments in historic times, including the printing press, the telephone, and the Internet, have lessened physical barriers to communication and allowed humans to interact freely on a global scale. Technology has many effects. It has helped develop more advanced economies (including today's global economy) and has allowed the rise of a leisure class. Many technological processes produce unwanted by-products known as pollution and deplete natural resources to the detriment of Earth's environment. Innovations have always influenced the values of a society and raised new questions of the ethics of technology.  Examples include the rise of the notion of efficiency in terms of human productivity, and the challenges of bioethics. Philosophical debates have arisen over the use of technology, with disagreements over whether technology improves the human condition or worsens it. Neo-Luddism, anarcho-primitivism, and similar reactionary movements criticize the pervasiveness of technology, arguing that it harms the environment and alienates people; proponents of ideologies such as transhumanism and techno-progressivism view continued technological progress as beneficial to society and the human condition. More...   More...  More...       The Falkirk Wheel is a rotating boat lift that connects the Forth and Clyde Canal with the Union Canal in Scotland. More...  Technological aspect of idea concepts and issues –  Appropriate technology • Clean technology • Diffusion of innovations in science • Doomsday device • Ecotechnology • Environmental technology • High technology • History of science and technology • History of technology • Industry •  Innovation • Knowledge economy • Persuasion technology •  Pollution • Posthumanism • Precautionary principle • Research and development • Science, technology, and society • Strategy of technology • Superpowers • Sustainable technology • Technocapitalism •  Technocriticism • Techno-progressivism • Technological convergence •   Technological evolution • Technological determinism • Technological diffusion •  Technological singularity • Technology acceptance model •  Technology assessment • Technology lifecycle •  Technology transfer •  Technology Tree • Technorealism • Timeline of invention • Transhumanism Technologies and applied sciences – Aerospace •  Agriculture, Agricultural science & Agronomy •  Architecture •  Artificial intelligence •  Automation • Automobile •  Big Science • Biotechnology •  Cartography •  Chemical engineering • Communication • Computing (Computer science, List of open problems in computer science, Programming, Software engineering, Information technology, Computer engineering) • Construction •  Design •  Electronics •  Energy development •  Energy storage •  Engineering •  Ergonomics •   Firefighting • Forensics •  Forestry •  Free software • Health sciences •  Health Informatics •  Industry •  Information science •   Internet •  Library and information science •  Machines •  Management • Manufacturing •  Mass communication • Mass production • Medicine (Unsolved problems in neuroscience) •  Military science •  Military technology and equipment •  Mining •  Nanotechnology •  Nuclear technology •  Packaging and labeling • Processes • Robotics •  Space exploration • Technology forecasting • Telecommunications •  Tools •  Transport • Vehicles •  Weapons The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database All Portals Overview Glossaries Indices Lists Outlines Categories   Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology    