Live conferencing refers to the live streaming of interactive audio and video presentations, lectures, meetings, and seminars to the global audience with the help of a camera and conferencing equipment.  Such equipment lets businesses connect and coordinate with remote workforces located in different region, engage them in productive real-time discussions, and record individual or group responses. Live conferencing enables presenters to transmit and share information beyond geographical boundaries with anytime, anywhere access. The prominent live conferencing solution or equipment manufacturers include: Panasonic, Sony, Polycom, Avermedia, Accordent, MediaPointe, ClearOne, LifeSize,  Tandberg,  Kedacom, etc. The live conferencing services allow presentations, events, lectures, and meetings to be recorded and shared at the same time to a geographically dispersed audience – on or off office or corporate work facility. The Live Conferencing   leverages instant sharing of information from one place to another with just an internet connection and personal computers such as desktops, laptops, and tablet computers using the popular TCP/IP connection. The cutting edge design and interface of the equipment combined with cloud technologies, enables both individual and group participation in the session. Individual or a group of individuals can interact using a single PC with the remote presenter(S) to share information, brainstorm ideas, and analyze data. Enhancing existing communication infrastructure and corporate collaboration, Live conferencing forwards following typical features: As of  2010[update], live conferencing is becoming ubiquitous. It is influencing users with the influx of knowledge, communication edge provided. Live conferencing equipment includes hardware and software aspects to bring complete solutions. However, some software based live conferencing solutions require no hardware infrastructure except a camera and computer to stream, record, and evaluate the audience. These software applications work independently of dedicated hardware and make installation and operations faster and easier with user-friendly Web based or local area network. Both hardware and software based solutions bring the most common features of live conferencing as stated above. Live conferencing equipment with cutting edge technologies and comprehensive features provide several benefits:  