  Tile is an American consumer electronics company which produces key finder devices which use Bluetooth 4.0. The devices work with a companion mobile app for Android and iOS, which allows users to locate lost items through Bluetooth or where they were last seen.  In September 2015, Tile launched Generation 2 hardware that includes find-your-phone functionality and other feature upgrades, which by January 2016 sold over 4.5 million units.   In August 2017, two new versions of the Tile were launched, the Tile Sport and Tile Style.  By attaching a Tile hardware device to a keychain or other item, a user can later use the Tile app to help locate the item if the object is lost.  The Tile application uses Bluetooth Low Energy 4.0 radio technology to locate Tiles within a 150-foot range.  Each Tile comes with a built-in speaker so the user can hear it within close range. Generation 2 of the Tile device has a volume of 90 decibels,  three times louder than Generation 1's volume.  The Gen 2 adds a "find your phone" feature.  Tiles are 1.5 square inches and waterproof.  The application can locate Tiles beyond the 100-foot Bluetooth range, using "crowd GPS":  If an item with an attached Tile device  is reported lost and comes within range of another user's Tile application, the nearby user's application will send the item's owner an anonymous update of that item's location.    Alternatively, a user can share their tile with another user, to let both users locate the tile.  The Tile Mate can pair with Bluetooth devices running  Android or iOS. One can only pair up to 250 Tiles to one account. Further, tile mate is meant for a single owner i.e. once you have paired tile with your account, you need to directly email the company with device information to un-pair it and let someone else use it.  Tile's built-in batteries begin to wear out after one year of use. Users are automatically notified when the batteries are nearing depletion, and can receive a discount on a replacement product.  The used Tile can then be sent back to be recycled.   Tile has partnered with Blunt Umbrellas to create a "smart" umbrella that can be located through Tile when it gets lost.  Tile's developers used Selfstarter, an open source website platform, to crowdfund the project through pre-orders. As of July 7, 2013, Tile had raised over US$2.6 million by selling preordered Tiles directly to 50,000 backers through their website.  In 2014, Tile raised additional Series A funding of US$13 million led by GGV Capital and a further US$3 million from Khosla Ventures in 2015.   Tile's founder Nick Evans was sued, along with his company Reveal Labs, on November 7, 2013, for allegedly stealing the Tile idea while Nick was under employment by Jonathan C. Coon. The case was eventually settled out of court.  