HealthifyMe  is an Indian digital weight loss platform that provides fitness services. Developed for both Android and iOS platforms, the application provides calorie tracking, water tracking  and on-the-cloud fitness coaching. In addition to these, the app takes the gamified approach to keep users motivated. Users with premium subscription get to choose from a team of in-house nutritionists, fitness trainers and Yoga coaches, who are certified by international organizations and certifications such as International Sports Science Association (ISSA), American Council on Exercise (ACE) and others. Through this, HealthifyMe combines human assistance with wearable technology as the app syncs with activity trackers.   The company, founded by Tushar Vashisht(University of Pennsylvania alumnus),  Mathew Cherian(MIT Graduate) and Sachin Shenoy(former Google engineer),  is based out of Bangalore, India. HealthifyMe raised $6 million as a part of their Series-A round in April 2016  from IDG Ventures, Inventus Capital Partners & Blume Ventures.  In June 2017, HealthifyMe partnered with Manipal hospitals.  The company said that it provided access to the world’s first and largest Indian food database.It has developed a calorie counter for regional foods and an exercise tracker for logging in physical activities.   In late 2017, the company announced the launch of “Ria”, touted as the world’s first AI powered virtual nutritionist to augment the services of their human coaches.  Ria learns from the 150 million food logs and 50 million workout logs on the platform.  The AI nutritionist also happens to be multilingual, capable of conversing in English, Hindi, Spanish, Italian, German and French.  Early 2017, HealthifyMe released a report on insights based on food logs recorded by over a million users on the app.  The objective of the report was to be an independent provider of diet consumption, fitness, and health insights about the country. HeathifyMeter is based on insights derived from 60 million+ food records  and 40 million+ exercises, steps, hydration logs tracked on the HealthifyMe app.    On the occasion of International Women's Day 2017, HealthifyMe also released a Gender Watch report that highlighted the disparity in protein consumption among men and women across various states in India.    Started in 2012, CEO & Founder, Tushar Vashisht says that it was his personal weight loss after working for Unique Identification Authority of India (UID) in 2010 that spurred him to start HealthifyMe. He along with Mathew began putting together a list of foods and their calorie values as they attempted to build a service that would help people eat and live healthier.  A year into establishing HealthifyMe, Sachin joined the team as Co-Founder and Head of Engineering.  On 1 May 2015, HealthifyMe along with Godrej Nature’s Basket, Manipal Hospitals, Medanta, Apollo Centre launched the HealthifyIndia movement, aimed to pledge Indians to a healthy lifestyle while bringing attention to lifestyle disorders.  On 17 June 2015, it was announced that HealthifyMe closed its pre-Series A round with an undisclosed amount from a group of individual investors. This was clubbed along with the investment funds from handset maker Micromax earlier.     On December 2015, the app was awarded the Google Play Top Developer Badge. In addition to this, HealthifyMe was chosen as one of Google Play’s “Best Apps of 2015” and a 'Made in India' feature on the App Store.  In December 2016, HealthifyMe received the Google award for best apps on the Playstore in the Health & Fitness category for the second time in a row.  In December 2017, the company received the Google "Editor's Choice" award in the Health & Fitness category, apart from being named amongst the best apps of the year for the third time in a row.   In February 2018, HealthifyMe raised a Series B funding round of USD 12 million led by Sistema Asia Fund and Samsung’s AI focussed fund - NEXT (their first investment in India). Atlas Asset Management (Singapore), Dream Incubator (Japan) and existing investors (IDG Ventures, Inventus Capital Partners & Blume Ventures, NB Ventures) also participated in the funding round.    HealthifyMe also works in partnership with various medical institutions such as Medanta, Apollo Hospitals and Manipal Hospitals, with the aim to treat and prevent clinical obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular problems and other lifestyle diseases.  The company has also made its presence in the "corporate wellness space", serving clients like Philips, Cognizant, Unilever, PMC and General Electric.  