  The DC Extended Universe (DCEU) is an unofficial term[a] used to refer to an American media franchise and shared universe that is centered on a series of superhero films, distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures and based on characters that appear in American comic books by DC Comics. The shared universe, much like the original DC Universe in comic books and the television programs, was established by crossing over common plot elements, settings, cast, and characters. The films have been in production since 2011 and in that time Warner Bros. has distributed five films. The series has grossed over $3.7 billion at the global box office, currently making it the fourteenth highest-grossing film franchise. The films are written and directed by a variety of individuals and feature large, often ensemble, casts. Several actors, including Henry Cavill, Amy Adams, Ben Affleck, Gal Gadot, Ezra Miller, Jason Momoa, and Ray Fisher, have appeared in numerous films of the franchise, with continued appearances in sequels planned. In May 2016, DC's chief creative officer Geoff Johns and Warner Bros. executive vice president Jon Berg were appointed to co-run the DC Films division and oversee creative decisions, production and story-arcs in order to create a cohesive overarching plot within the films. In January 2018, Walter Hamada was appointed the president of DC Films, replacing Berg. The first film in the DCEU was Man of Steel (2013) followed by Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016), Suicide Squad (2016), Wonder Woman (2017), and Justice League (2017). Future films with scheduled release dates include: Aquaman (2018), Shazam! and Wonder Woman 1984 in 2019. Cyborg, Green Lantern Corps, and The Flash are scheduled for release in 2020. A multitude of other projects are in various stages of development. In 2002, Wolfgang Petersen was set to direct a Batman vs. Superman film from a script by Akiva Goldsman.  Warner Bros. canceled development to focus on individual Superman and Batman projects after J. J. Abrams submitted another draft for Superman: Flyby.   In February 2007, Warner Bros. hired husband and wife duo Michele and Kieran Mulroney to write a script for a Justice League film.  Christian Bale, who starred as Batman in Batman Begins (2005), was not approached to reprise the role,  nor was Brandon Routh, who starred as Superman in Superman Returns (2006).  George Miller was hired to direct the film,  reportedly titled Justice League Mortal,  with Armie Hammer cast as Batman, D. J. Cotrona as Superman, Adam Brody as Flash, Santiago Cabrera as Aquaman, Common as Green Lantern, Megan Gale as Wonder Woman, Hugh Keays-Byrne as Martian Manhunter and Jay Baruchel as Maxwell Lord.  The project was put on indefinite hold in January 2008, after failing to secure tax breaks for filming in Australia, as well as the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike preventing progress on the script.  In 2013, a reboot of the Superman franchise, Man of Steel, was set to lay the groundwork for future DC films.  The film contained references to other characters in the DC Universe, so if it were a success, it could launch a shared universe.   Days before Man of Steel's release in June, it was reported that director Zack Snyder and screenwriter David S. Goyer would be returning for a sequel, which was being fast-tracked by Warner Bros.  In July, at San Diego Comic-Con, it was revealed that the sequel would include Batman in a main role, thus establishing the shared universe.   In October 2014, Warner Bros. announced a slate of ten DC films.  While the rival Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) includes television productions, the DC's new crossover film series is a shared continuity for films. Several television series featuring DC characters and storylines have their own shared continuity, frequently referred to as the Arrowverse.  DC's chief creative officer Geoff Johns explained DC's difference in approach to Marvel Studios and their cinematic universe, saying, "We look at it as the multiverse. We have our TV universe and our film universe, but they all co-exist. For us, creatively, it’s about allowing everyone to make the best possible product, to tell the best story, to do the best world. Everyone has a vision and you really want to let the visions shine through ... It's just a different approach."  In June 2015, Warner Bros. president of creative development Greg Silverman expanded on DC's approach to their cinematic universe, saying, "We ... take these beloved characters and put them in the hands of master filmmakers and make sure they all coordinate with each other. You'll see the difference when you see ... the things that we are working on."  In May 2016, following criticism of Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, Warner Bros. established a DC Films division with Geoff Johns and Warner Bros. executive vice president Jon Berg as its heads,  which oversees production to form a cohesive creative direction for the franchise.   DC Films will not be fully autonomous, with Johns reporting to DC president Diane Nelson and Berg reporting to Silverman.  Charles Roven was also moved from his day-by-day producer role on future DC films, which he had served since 2005's Batman Begins, to an administrative executive producer role.  In December, Silverman was ousted from his role in Warner Bros., and Toby Emmerich was promoted to president and chief content officer, in his place.  By January 2017, Johns and Berg reported to Emmerich.  Following the financial and critical success of Wonder Woman in June 2017, Johns stated that moving forward the films will focus on the heart, humor, hope, heroics, and optimism of the characters.  DC also decided to begin deemphasizing the shared nature of their films, with Diane Nelson stating, "Our intention, certainly, moving forward is using the continuity to help make sure nothing is diverging in a way that doesn't make sense, but there's no insistence upon an overall story line or interconnectivity in that universe... Moving forward, you'll see the DC movie universe being a universe, but one that comes from the heart of the filmmaker who's creating them."  As a result of Justice League's underperformance at the box office, Berg left his position by January 2018 and became a production partner with Roy Lee.   In January 2018, Walter Hamada was appointed the President of DC Films and the new co-runner of the DCEU, replacing Berg.  The following month, Chantal Nong was hired as Vice President of the film studio, additionally overseeing the production of the franchise.  The pair were hired to oversee the future of the franchise with Johns, as the key production team managers. However, in June of the same year, Johns stepped down from his role as co-head of DC Films and co-runner of the DCEU. He will remain with the studio as co-chairman, while starting his own studio where he will take on a greater hands-on role with film media as a producer and screenwriter. His production company, Mad Ghost Productions, will produce future films in the franchise, as well as comic book and television media.  Kal-El / Clark Kent, who arrived on Earth years ago as an infant from Krypton, struggles with why he was sent to Earth. Raised by his adoptive parents, Jonathan and Martha Kent, Clark adopts the persona "Superman", and learns if his abilities are meant to maintain peace or conquer the world.  During story discussions for The Dark Knight Rises, David S. Goyer told Christopher Nolan his idea regarding how to present Superman in a modern context.  Impressed with Goyer's concept, Nolan pitched the idea to the studio,  who hired Nolan to produce and Goyer to write based on the financial and critical success of The Dark Knight.   Zack Snyder was hired in October 2010 to direct the film.  In January 2011, Henry Cavill was cast as Clark Kent / Superman.  Other cast members included Amy Adams as Lois Lane,  Michael Shannon as the villain General Zod,  Diane Lane as Martha Kent,  Kevin Costner as Jonathan Kent,  Russell Crowe as Jor-El,  and Laurence Fishburne as Perry White.  Principal photography began on August 1, 2011.  Man of Steel released in North America on June 14, 2013.  Gotham City-based vigilante Batman travels to Metropolis to preemptively combat Superman, fearing what would happen if the latter is kept unchecked, while another threat endangers humankind.  In June 2013, it was reported that Snyder and Goyer would be returning for a sequel to Man of Steel, which was being fast-tracked by Warner Bros.  Nolan was involved in an advisory role as executive producer.  In July, at the San Diego Comic-Con, Warner Bros. announced that Superman and Batman would meet for the first time in a cinematic format in the film, which would be the follow-up to Man of Steel and a reboot of the Batman film series.   According to Snyder, the film took inspiration from the comic The Dark Knight Returns.  Cavill, Adams, Lane, and Fishburne reprised their roles.  In August, Ben Affleck was cast as Bruce Wayne / Batman.  In December, Gal Gadot was cast as Diana Prince / Wonder Woman, marking the character's first appearance in a live-action theatrical film.  Later in the month, Chris Terrio was hired to rewrite Goyer's script.  In January 2014, the film was delayed from its July 17, 2015, release date to May 6, 2016, to give the filmmakers "time to realize fully their vision, given the complex visual nature of the story".  Later that month, Jesse Eisenberg and Jeremy Irons joined the cast as Lex Luthor and Alfred Pennyworth, respectively.  In May 2014, the film's title was revealed to be Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice.  Initial filming occurred on October 19, 2013, at East Los Angeles College,  before full principal photography began on May 21, 2014, in Detroit.  Production also took place in Illinois, New Mexico, Africa and the South Pacific.   After another date change, the film was released in North America on March 25, 2016.  The film is set 18 months after the events of Man of Steel.  Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice introduced Ezra Miller as Barry Allen / The Flash,  Jason Momoa as Arthur Curry / Aquaman,  Ray Fisher as Victor Stone / Cyborg,  and Joe Morton as Dr. Silas Stone.  The film also introduced Steppenwolf, who served as the main antagonist in Justice League, through a brief scene. The scene was not included in the film's theatrical release, but instead was revealed online by Warner Bros. on March 28,  before being included in the Ultimate Edition home video release.  After the death of Superman, a secret government agency recruits imprisoned supervillains to execute dangerous black ops missions and rescue the world from a powerful threat, in exchange for clemency.  In February 2009, prior to the development of the DCEU, Warner Bros. was developing a Suicide Squad film, with Dan Lin producing and Justin Marks writing the script.  In October 2014, Suicide Squad was announced by Warner Bros., with David Ayer confirmed as director.  In December, it was revealed that Ayer would also be writing the screenplay.  The main cast included Will Smith as Deadshot, Margot Robbie as Harley Quinn, Jared Leto as the Joker, Jai Courtney as Captain Boomerang, Jay Hernandez as El Diablo, Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje as Killer Croc, Karen Fukuhara as Katana, Cara Delevingne as Enchantress, Viola Davis as Amanda Waller, and Joel Kinnaman as Rick Flag.  Tom Hardy was originally cast as Rick Flag, but dropped out due to scheduling issues with his film The Revenant.  Principal photography commenced April 13, 2015,  and took place in and around Toronto.  Filming concluded August 28, 2015.  Suicide Squad was released in North America on August 5, 2016.  The film is set after the events of Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice.  Affleck as Bruce Wayne / Batman and Miller as Barry Allen / The Flash made appearances in the film.  In a mid-credits scene, Waller meets Wayne in a restaurant and hands him a dossier containing information on future members of the Justice League.  Diana of Themyscira, an Amazon warrior who also is the demigoddess daughter of the god Zeus, uses her talents and abilities in order to help humanity during World War I. Israeli actress and model Gal Gadot was cast as Diana Prince/Wonder Woman in December 2013 and signed a three-picture deal which included a solo film.   In October 2014, Wonder Woman was announced by Warner Bros.  In November, Michelle MacLaren was confirmed to direct the film from a screenplay by Jason Fuchs.   In April 2015, MacLaren left the project due to creative differences.  Later that month, Patty Jenkins was announced as the new director of the film.  In July, Chris Pine was cast as Steve Trevor.  Other cast members include Connie Nielsen as Queen Hippolyta, Robin Wright as General Antiope, Danny Huston as Erich Ludendorff, Elena Anaya as Doctor Poison, and David Thewlis as Ares.   Filming began in November 2015, and was shot in the United Kingdom, France and Italy.  Wonder Woman was released in North America on June 2, 2017.  Motivated by Superman's death at the hands of Doomsday, Batman and Wonder Woman assemble a team of metahumans to face a new catastrophic threat.  In June 2013, it was reported that Goyer would be writing Justice League as part of a three-film deal he signed for Man of Steel.  In April 2014, it was announced that Snyder would return as director.  The film was announced in October as Justice League Part One.  In March 2016, it was confirmed that Chris Terrio had written the script, who said that the film would not be as tonally dark as Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice.  In June, Geoff Johns announced that the title had been changed to simply Justice League.  Affleck, Cavill, Gadot, Momoa, Miller, Fisher, Irons, Lane, Adams, Eisenberg, Nielsen, Wright, and Morton reprised their respective roles from previous films.    Ciarán Hinds provides the voice and performance capture for the villain Steppenwolf.  Beginning on April 11, 2016, filming took place at Warner Bros. Studios, Leavesden, in England, as well as locations around London and in Iceland.  Filming concluded in October 2016.  In May 2017, Snyder stepped down from his duties on the film due to his daughter's death; Joss Whedon filled his position on post-production, with additional scenes being written and directed by him.  Though Whedon was not officially credited for his role as post-production director, he completed enough additional work for a screenwriting credit on the film.  Justice League was released worldwide on November 17, 2017.  Justice League introduced various characters, including J. K. Simmons as James Gordon,  Amber Heard as Mera,  and Billy Crudup as Henry Allen;  both Kiersey Clemons as Iris West and Willem Dafoe as Nuidis Vulko were to be introduced but their scenes were ultimately cut from the film.   Joe Manganiello as Slade Wilson / Deathstroke was also introduced in a post-credits scene, teasing an alliance between him and Lex Luthor.  Following the events of Justice League, Arthur Curry / Aquaman must fight to retain the Atlantean throne from opposing threats. In June 2014, Jason Momoa was cast as Arthur Curry / Aquaman.  By August, Will Beall and Kurt Johnstad were writing competing scripts for the character's solo film.  Aquaman was announced in October.  In June 2015, James Wan was hired as director, as well as to oversee the screenplay by Johnstad.  The film's plot takes place after the events of Justice League.  In November 2015, David Leslie Johnson was hired to write a new script.  In July 2016, Beall returned to write the script, based on a story treatment by Wan and Geoff Johns.  In December, Patrick Wilson was cast as Orm / Ocean Master, the half-brother of Aquaman and the main antagonist of the film.   In January 2017, Yahya Abdul-Mateen II was cast in the role of villain Black Manta.  In March, Nicole Kidman confirmed that she will play Queen Atlanna, Aquaman's mother.  In April, Dolph Lundgren was cast as the villain King Nereus.  In June, Deadline Hollywood reported that Johnson had returned to the project to work on a rewrite of Beall's script with Wan and producer Peter Safran.  Heard will reprise her role as Mera from Justice League.  Other cast members include Willem Dafoe as Nuidis Vulko,  Temuera Morrison as Aquaman's father Tom Curry,  and Ludi Lin as Murk, an ally of Aquaman.  Principal photography began on May 2, 2017, in Queensland, Australia,  and wrapped on October 21, 2017.  Aquaman is scheduled to be released in North America on December 21, 2018.  By shouting "Shazam", a 14-year-old foster child, Billy Batson, can turn into an adult superhero, courtesy of an ancient wizard. He attempts to master his powers and defeat the evil forces controlled by Doctor Sivana.  In August 2014, Dwayne Johnson announced his attachment to a project about the superhero Shazam, formerly known as Captain Marvel.  In September, Johnson was revealed to be portraying the anti-hero Black Adam, Shazam's nemesis in the film, with Darren Lemke set to write the script.  In October, Warner Bros. announced Shazam as a film in its upcoming slate.  By January 2017, Henry Gayden was working on the script.  In July, David F. Sandberg was confirmed as director of the film.  It was also confirmed that month that, despite the initial announcement, Dwayne Johnson will not appear as Black Adam in Shazam!, but will instead star in his own solo film.  Pre-production began with the casting process for the titular hero's child-age alter ego Billy Batson in August.  By October, Zachary Levi was cast as the titular role. In November, Grace Fulton joined the cast as the title character's foster sister, Mary Bromfield.  Fulton is reteaming with the director after Annabelle: Creation.  The film's primary villain will be Doctor Sivana, with actor Mark Strong cast in the role.   Later that month, Asher Angel was cast as Billy Batson.  In December, Jack Dylan Grazer was cast as Frederick "Freddy" Freeman, Batson's foster brother and best friend. Later that month, Jovan Armand, Ian Chen, and Faithe Herman were cast as Batson's foster siblings Pedro Peña, Eugene Choi, and Darla Dudley respectively,    while Cooper Andrews and Marta Milans will portray Billy's foster parents.   By January 2018, Ron Cephas Jones was in negotiations to portray the wizard, Shazam, who gives Billy his powers,  but was replaced by Djimon Hounsou.  The film began principal photography in Toronto on January 29, 2018, and wrapped on May 11, 2018,    with most of the filming taking place at Pinewood Toronto Studios, among other locations around the city.  Shazam! will be released in North America on April 5, 2019.  By June 2017, Geoff Johns and Patty Jenkins had begun work on the story treatment for a Wonder Woman sequel.  By July, Johns announced that he is working on the script for the film.  That same month, the sequel was officially announced at San Diego Comic-Con.  Gadot will reprise her role as the title character.  By September, Jenkins signed a deal to return as director,  and brought on David Callaham to pen the script with her and Johns. The film was reported to take place in the Cold War, and was confirmed, in April 2018, to be set in 1980's.   Jenkins said that the film will be another great love story with a new love interest being cast.  Pre-production had begun by early-December 2017, with filming scheduled to start in June 2018, under the working title Magic Hour.   By March 2018, Kristen Wiig was cast to portray the film's primary antagonist, Barbara Ann Minerva / Cheetah.   That same month, Pedro Pascal was also cast in a key role.  The plot of the film will take place during the 1980s.  Production began on June 13, 2018 around the District of Columbia and Northern Virginia.  Other filming locations include the Warner Bros. Studios, Leavesden in the United Kingdom and the islands of Tenerife and Fuerteventura in Spain.     Wonder Woman 1984 is scheduled to be released in North America on November 1, 2019.  In April 2014, Ray Fisher was cast as Victor Stone / Cyborg.  In October, Warner Bros. announced the character's solo film, Cyborg.  Joe Morton will reprise his role as Dr. Silas Stone.  In November 2017, Fisher stated that the film is still in development and that the story would have an intimate angle, focusing on the character, so that the audience does not wonder why the rest of the Justice League does not appear in the film.   The actor stated that the film will have a lot of diversity in its production team, as well as its cast.  In August 2018 Joe Morton, who plays Cyborg's father, stated that he believed Cyborg scenes that were scrapped from Justice League were going to be reworked into the film. Additionally, the last update he had received was that the film would begin production in 2020,  while other sources still report that Cyborg is scheduled to be released in April 3 of that year.  In October 2014, Warner Bros. announced a Green Lantern film.  The title was revealed as Green Lantern Corps in July 2015 at San Diego Comic-Con.  In January 2017, David S. Goyer and Justin Rhodes were hired to co-write the screenplay, based on a story draft by Goyer and Geoff Johns, with Goyer also serving as producer. The film was described by the studio as "Lethal Weapon in space"  and will feature Hal Jordan and John Stewart as protagonists.  In January 2018, Goyer reaffirmed that the film was still in development despite the studio's leadership shakeup.  By June 2018, Geoff Johns was hired to rewrite the film's script in addition to his producing role on the project, with the story reported to be influenced by the writer's work on the characters during The New 52 comic books.  Green Lantern Corps is scheduled to be released in North America in 2020.  By November 2016, Birds of Prey, based on the female superhero team of the same name, was in development with Christina Hodson signed on as screenwriter.  By April 2018, Warner Bros. selected Cathy Yan as director, with Margot Robbie, Sue Kroll, and Bryan Unkless serving as producers for the project. Robbie will reprise her role from Suicide Squad, with the film being the first theatrical R-rated installment in the franchise which will be made with a significantly smaller budget than some of the other films.  The team roster will reportedly include Robbie as Harleen Quinzel / Harley Quinn, as well as undisclosed actresses portraying Dinah Laurel Lance / Black Canary, Helena Bertinelli / Huntress, Cassandra Cain, and Renee Montoya.  Roman Sionis / Black Mask will serve as the film's primary villain.  The film began pre-production in late July 2018,  with principle photography scheduled to commence on January 15, 2019 in Los Angeles under the working title Fox Force Five.    By July 2013, Greg Berlanti was developing a film that centered around Barry Allen / The Flash.  In October 2014, The Flash was announced with a scheduled 2018 release date.   The initial script was drafted by Berlanti, Chris Brancato, Michael Green and Marc Guggenheim.  In April 2015, a story treatment was written by Phil Lord and Christopher Miller based off of the previous draft, with the intent being that the duo would also direct the film.  Over the next two years, Seth Grahame-Smith and Rick Famuyiwa, had individually dropped out of the project due to creative differences with the studio.   In January 2017, Joby Harold was hired to do a page-one rewrite of the script, which previously had drafts written by Grahame-Smith and Famuyiwa.  In July 2017, the title for the film was changed to Flashpoint,  based on the comic book story arc of the same name.  In March 2018, the filmmaking duo of John Francis Daley and Jonathan Goldstein were hired to direct the film.   The following month, Dan Mazeau had also contributed to the script.  Zack Snyder, Alex Gartner, Geoff Johns, Dan Mazer, Richard Suckle, Deborah Snyder, Phil Lord, Chris Miller, Jon Berg, and Denise Di Novi will serve as producers on the project. Principle photography is scheduled to begin February 5, 2019 in Atlanta and Leavensden, England and conclude in May, with the directors reportedly looking to Back to the Future as inspiration.     By August 2018, Grahame-Smith and Brancato were listed on Production Weekly as co-screenwriters.  The Flash is planned to be released in 2020 and has to be officially confirmed.  In October 2014, a Batman standalone film was announced by Warner Bros.  By 2016, Ben Affleck was set to star in, produce, direct, and write the project. Geoff Johns was hired as co-writer.    The film was on track to begin shooting in 2017,  until Affleck stepped down as director in January 2017, in order to more efficiently focus on starring as the eponymous role.  In February 2017, Warner Bros. announced the title as The Batman and revealed that Matt Reeves would direct and co-produce the film.  By July of that year, Reeves confirmed that the script was being rewritten.  The story has reportedly been reworked to focus on Batman earlier on in his career as a vigilante.  The film will be character-driven and stylistically noir, and will explore Batman's experiences as the world's greatest detective; Reeves stated that film will feature this aspect to a greater extent than previous Batman films.  In August 2018, Reeves announced that the script is near its final draft, and that principal photography is planned to begin early 2019.  Affleck remains attached to the project and will serve as producer alongside Johns.   By September of that same year, it was reported that the final draft of the script was completed and turned in.  In January 2017, it was announced that Dwayne Johnson will feature as the antihero Black Adam in a film focusing on the character.  By October 2017, Adam Sztykiel was hired as the screenwriter.  In July 2018, Johnson announced that production is planned to begin the following year, with principal photography set for late 2019.    Later that year, producer Hiram Garcia confirmed further development on the script stating that the adaptation will be gritty and violent, similar to the source material.  DC Films has a variety of DCEU films in varying stages of development. Warner Bros. has scheduled release dates of February 14, 2020, and June 5, 2020, for untitled DC films.  In order to expand and build the universe the films are set in, some additional material has been released, such as additional scenes or bonus material included in the home releases of the films. The purpose of said material is also to set up and tease the overarching narrative that future installments of the franchise will adhere to. In the case of additional scenes, on March 28, 2016, Warner Bros. released to the public via its YouTube channel, a scene not shown in theaters from Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, titled "Communion", which teased the events that would be depicted in Justice League; the scene was later integrated in the Ultimate Edition home release of the film. Similarly, in the Blu-ray disc home release of Wonder Woman, an epilogue is included in the form of a short titled "Etta's Mission", which details a final incident that transpired after the events of the film. Etta teases the existence of a Mother Box, which is crucial to the storyline of Justice League.  Also, in the Blu-ray home release of Justice League, two additional scenes not shown in the theatrical cut are included, which further flesh-out the return of Superman and him joining the League. Furthermore, the various special featurettes and documentaries included in the Blu-ray home releases of the films feature concept arts and designs, as well as background information that greatly expands the shared universe; giving detailed insight into the fictional history, technology, worlds and cultures that appear in the films. Although not all the films in the franchise resort to this practice, some of them make use of post-credits scenes to further develop character relationships and establish the plot elements that will influence future installments, such as Suicide Squad and Justice League. This table only includes characters that have appeared in multiple DCEU films. 