Comics is a medium used to express ideas by still images, often combined with text or other visual information.  Comics frequently takes the form of juxtaposed sequences of panels of images.  Often textual devices such as speech balloons, captions, and onomatopoeia indicate dialogue, narration, sound effects, or other information.  Size and arrangement of panels contribute to narrative pacing.  Cartooning and similar forms of illustration are the most common image-making means in comics; fumetti is a form which uses photographic images.  Common forms of comics include comic strips, editorial and gag cartoons, and comic books.  Since the late 20th century, bound volumes such as graphic novels, comic albums, and tankōbon have become increasingly common, and online webcomics have proliferated in the 21st century. The history of comics has followed different paths in different cultures.  Scholars have posited a pre-history as far back as the Lascaux cave paintings.  By the mid-20th century, comics flourished particularly in the United States, western Europe (especially in France and Belgium), and Japan.  The history of European comics is often traced to Rodolphe Töpffer's cartoon strips of the 1830s, and became popular following the success in the 1930s of strips and books such as The Adventures of Tintin.  American comics emerged as a mass medium in the early 20th century with the advent of newspaper comic strips; magazine-style comic books followed in the 1930s, in which the superhero genre became prominent after Superman appeared in 1938.  Histories of Japanese comics and cartooning (manga) propose origins as early as the 12th century.  Modern comic strips emerged in Japan in the early 20th century, and the output of comics magazines and books rapidly expanded in the post-World War II era with the popularity of cartoonists such as Osamu Tezuka.  Comics has had a lowbrow reputation for much of its history, but towards the end of the 20th century began to find greater acceptance with the public and in academia. The English term comics is used as a singular noun when it refers to the medium and a plural when referring to particular instances, such as individual strips or comic books.  Though the term derives from the humorous (or comic) work that predominated in early American newspaper comic strips, it has become standard also for non-humorous works.  It is common in English to refer to the comics of different cultures by the terms used in their original languages, such as manga for Japanese comics, or bandes dessinées for French-language comics.  There is no consensus amongst theorists and historians on a definition of comics; some emphasize the combination of images and text, some sequentiality or other image relations, and others historical aspects such as mass reproduction or the use of recurring characters.  The increasing cross-pollination of concepts from different comics cultures and eras has further made definition difficult. The Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) is an American media franchise and shared fictional universe that is centered on a series of superhero films, independently produced by Marvel Studios and based on characters that appear in publications by Marvel Comics. The franchise has expanded to include comic books, short films, and television series. The shared universe, much like the original Marvel Universe in comic books, was established by crossing over common plot elements, settings, cast, and characters. Clark Gregg has appeared the most in the franchise, portraying Phil Coulson, a character original to the MCU. The first film released in the MCU was Iron Man (2008), which began the first phase of films, culminating in Marvel's The Avengers (2012). "Phase Two" began with Iron Man 3 (2013), and concluded with Ant-Man (2015). The universe began to expand with the release of the first official tie-in comics in 2010, and saw further expansion with the Marvel One-Shots direct-to-video short films in 2011 and the television series Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. in the 2013–14 television season from Marvel Television. Marvel has multiple films and television projects in various stages of development. The franchise ranks as the highest-grossing film franchise both in the United States and worldwide, and has inspired other film studios with comic book character film rights to attempt to create similar shared universes. More... A caption (the yellow box) gives the narrator a voice.  The characters' dialogue appears in speech balloons.  The tail of the balloon indicates the speaker. Superheroes have been a staple of American comic books (Wonderworld Comics #3, 1939; cover: The Flame by Will Eisner). Rakuten Kitazawa created the first modern Japanese comic strip. (Tagosaku to Mokube no Tōkyō Kenbutsu, 1902) What are WikiProjects?  More...  The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database  