Rolling Stars and Planets is an Austrian visual art project of exhibitions and performances with sphere objects. The project mastered by Elisabeth Ledersberger-Lehoczky is joined by about 25 artists who come mostly from Austria, but also from Hungary and Germany.  The Rolling Stars and Planets are spherical art objects, standardized in size and basic material, but individually designed by each artist. The globes are painted, or designed as objects. The circumfluent frame, concepted by Ledersberger-Lehoczky, consist of ring-shaped Aluminium-hoops with a diameter of about 100 cm. This frame is associated with the orbits of Celestial bodies. It provides the reservation of the artworks and allaviates the moving. The inner Parts with a diameter of about 75 cm have been designed by the artist individually using themes like Astronomy, Astrology, Mythology and Legends. In Autumn 2008 Ledersberger-Lehoczky and István Jankovics organized an Symposium in the Gothard Observatorium of Astrophysics of the Eötvös Loránd University in Szombathely.  The main Theme was "Men in space". During this event sculptures of five sculptors have been shown. During the "Planetra Science Congress" 2008 in Münster Ledersberger-Lehoczky presented an art project which was decided to accompany the Year of Astronomy 2009. A collective action with individual designed sphere-objects was arranged during a meeting in Vienna between Günther Frank and Elisabeth Ledersberger-Lehoczky. Günther Frank suggested the moving of the globes in public spaces. In the Year of Astronomy 2009 25 visual artists, many of them members of the Austrian association of professional art in Vienna and Graz, designed spherical paintings and objects. The artists used techniques like Painting, Collage or Object Art.  Adapted to each globe painting the executing artist made a description, in which he declared his technique and the matter of his artwork. The first event started on April 4, 2009 in front of the Kunsthistorischen Museum in Vienna.  The artists rolled their artworks around the Maria Theresia-monument.   In May 2009 the BiondekBühne Theater- und Tanzwerkstatt in Baden near Vienna created a choreography for a group of 14 dancers, the "Ladies-First-Ladies". This choreografy concerned with the Rolling Stars and Planets was shown in Baden and in Linz while this City was European Capital of Culture. The performancers SF - SlowForward showed the choreography "Breath of the Cosmos", which had been especially created for the Rolling Stars and Plandets.  Linz September 3, 2009  