Buddy Bears is the name given to painted, life-size fiberglass bear sculptures developed by  Klaus and Eva Herlitz, in cooperation with  sculptor Roman Strobl. The raised arms of the standing Buddy Bears are aligned on the dissemination of friendliness and optimism, and thus mediate a positive mood.  "The Buddy Bear has become an unofficial ambassador for Germany and is a symbol of Berlin since 2001. The story of the Buddy Bears started with an artistic event in Berlin in 2001. Inspired by the idea of bringing art in the streets of a metropolis like the cow parade in Zurich and New York."  In addition to the Classic Buddy Bears presented far beyond Berlin’s city limits, the circle of United Buddy Bears came into being in 2002. The Exhibition travel around the world promoting  "peace, international understanding and tolerance among the nations, cultures and religions of this world".  The first activities were presented as the Buddy Bear Berlin Show. In 2001, artists painted approximately 350 bears to appear in the public domain, as decorative elements in the streets of Berlin. Four different bear designs (one standing on all four paws, one standing on two legs, one standing on its head and one in a sitting position) took part in this activity in the city centre of Berlin.   Afterwards, many of the bears were sold at auctions in aid of child relief organisations.  Nowadays, these Berlin Buddy Bears are exclusively presented on private premises, in front of hotels and embassies as well as in the foyers of various office buildings. There have already been exhibitions of the original Buddy Bears  — designed by local artists — in the cities of Shanghai (2004), Buenos Aires (2005) and St. Gallen / Switzerland (2006). United Buddy Bears is an international art exhibition with more than 140 two metre tall fiberglass bears. Under the motto: "We have to get to know each other better, it makes us understand one another better, trust each other more, and live together more peacefully", more than 140 countries acknowledged by the United Nations are represented, promoting  "tolerance, international understanding and the great concept of different nations and cultures living in peace and harmony". The bears stand "hand in hand" in a "peaceful circle" (The Art of Tolerance ). The bears were on display between June and November 2002, in a circle around the Brandenburg Gate. Around 1.5 million people visited this first exhibition. On 6 November 2002, the bears were moved to new locations, including their respective countries embassies in Berlin, or back to country that they were based on. Some of the bears were auctioned off to raise money for UNICEF. After the circle of "United Buddy Bears" had been such an overwhelming success in 2002, a new circle was created in 2003. The idea was to send the circle on a global tour.  On their global tour, the "United Buddy Bears" promote peace, love, tolerance and international understanding. The circle changes every time it reaches a new city. This is not only due to the local conditions, but also to their constantly changing order, as the bears are always set up in alphabetic order, following the local language of the host country. This always leads to new and sometimes politically very interesting proximities. Entry to the exhibitions is always free. This makes it possible for many school classes to visit the exhibitions in the morning — as part of their lessons — to explore and learn a lot about the culture, history, landscape, economy and music of all five continents in a playful manner. During past exhibitions more than 40 million visitors have already admired the colorful United Buddy Bears. In every metropolis, the United Buddy Bears exhibitions are supported by the government, the foreign ministries, the mayors and the UNICEF organisations. Heads of state – for example the Japanese Prime Minister, Junichiro Koizumi, the German Federal President, Horst Köhler and First Lady of Egypt, Suzanne Mubarak as well as UNICEF Goodwill Ambassadors such as Sir Peter Ustinov,  Jackie Chan,  Christiane Hörbiger, Mia Farrow,  Iris Berben and Ken Done have opened these exhibitions all over the world. United Buddy Bears Special Ambassador is the actress Dennenesch Zoudé.  The bears have been displayed at the following Stations since the beginning of the tour: Exhibition Istanbul, Tepebaşı Pera Square 2004/2005 Exhibition Tokyo, Roppongi Hills 2005 Exhibition Seoul, Olympic Park 2005 Exhibition Sydney, Circular Quay 2006 Exhibition Pyongyang, Moranbong 2008 United Buddy Bears, Exhibition Kuala Lumpur 2011/2012 United Buddy Bears St Petersburg 2012 Rio de JaneiroCopacabana 2014 Havana (Cuba) Plaza San Francisco de Asís 2015 Santiago de Chile, Vitacura Parque Bicentenario 2015 Penang (Malaysia) George Town 2016 Berlin 2017/2018 Walter-Benjamin-Square Riga 2018 Dome Square In the autumn of 2003, the circle of United Buddy Bears-The Minis  — was presented in Berlin for the first time.  Since then, this circle has been shown in Frankfurt/Main, in Potsdam and at the Sony Center in Berlin — to name just a few locations. Since 2012, they have also been travelling to destinations outside of Germany, e.g. Bratislava in  Slovakia, Borås  in  Sweden, Calais in  France  and in  Russia in Yekaterinburg  and Kazan.  Buddy Bear activities and help for children in need have formed an inseparable unit.  New United Buddy Bears are often[quantify] designed to replace the previous unique sculpture of a particular country. Many countries are already represented with the third or fourth bear. The previous bears designed on behalf of the respective countries are generally sold at auctions. As of  December  2016[update] donations and selling Buddy Bears at auction had generated a total of Euro 2,200,000  in aid of UNICEF and of local organisations helping children in need.  In the early years, the Bears were designed by regional artists and Berlin celebrities for the exhibition Art in the City.  From 2002 onwards, thanks to support from Lufthansa, Air Berlin and the Berlin Hotel Association, artists from all five continents took part in the international project United Buddy Bears. More than 240 artists from over 150 countries have taken part in this project to date,  such as, for example Arik Brauer, René Cadena Ayala, Hernando León, Ibrahim Hazimeh, Carlos Páez Vilaró, Seo Soo-Kyoung, Helge Leiberg, Leda Luss Luyken, Ludmila Seefried-Matějková – this is also echoed by the artist and UNICEF Australian National Ambassador, Ken Done.  