  This biennial award has been named for A. W. Martin  (1926–2002) and is administered jointly by the Australian National University and the Australian Historical Association.  The award is to encourage "early career historians" for work relating to Australian History.   Submissions for this award are to be work that is being prepared for publication and can be in any form, e.g. a monograph, a series of academic articles, an exhibition or documentary film, or some mix of these.  The publishers, Blackwell Publishing Asia, have sponsored a prize for the best postgraduate paper at a Regional Conference. The AHA information states that the "prize will be judged on two criteria: 1) oral presentation of the paper 2) written version of the conference paper. The written version of the conference paper (not a longer version) is to be submitted at the start of the conference. The winner of the prize will be announced at the close of the conference."  The WK Hancock Prize is run by Australian Historical Association (AHA)  with the Department of Modern History, Macquarie University.  It was instituted in 1987 in honour of Sir Keith Hancock and his life achievements. The award is for the first book of history by an Australian scholar and for research using original sources.  It is awarded biennially for a first book published in the preceding two years with the award presented at the AHA's National Biennial Conference. The Jill Roe Prize is awarded annually to a postgraduate student for the best unpublished article of historical research. It was inaugurated in 2014 in honour of the late Jill Roe. The John Barrett Award for Australian Studies is for the best written article published in the Journal of Australian Studies, in the categories: the best article by a scholar (open) and the best article by a scholar (post-graduate). John Barrett Award: Open Category John Barrett Award: Postgraduate Category Inaugurated in 2004, this award is named for Kay Daniels (1941–2001),  historian and public servant,  and recognises her interest in colonial and heritage history. The biennial award will be administered by The Australian Historical Association.  The Serle Award was first presented in 2002.  The award was established through the generosity of Mrs Jessie Serle for the historian Geoffrey Serle (1922–1998).  The Serle Award is for the best thesis by an "early career researcher" and will be payable on receipt of publisher’s proofs, which must be within twelve months of notification of the award. The biennial award will be administered by The Australian Historical Association.  