FreshMinistries is a non-profit organization based in Jacksonville, Florida whose goal is to eradicate poverty, improve race relations and build stronger communities. The group focuses on economic development, job training and health initiatives in core-city Jacksonville and is also engaged in international projects.  The organization was founded in 1994 by the Rev. Dr. Robert V. Lee, III, an Episcopal priest who was rector at Church of Our Saviour (Jacksonville, Florida) for more than a decade. In its early years, the group focused on programs to promote financial literacy, youth mentoring, housing development and crime prevention, particularly in East Jacksonville. Dr. Lee continues to serve as CEO of the organization. FreshMinistries has worked to achieve the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals (MDG) to eliminate poverty through a number of initiatives. Current projects include:  In the wake of the 2010 Haiti earthquake, FreshMinistries and its international arm, Be The Change International (BTCI) were asked by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to coordinate a major aid and relief operation there. The organizations' emergency relief effort shipped to the Haitian people many supplies, including three ambulances (one of which was delivered to the Haitian government), emergency aid, food, water, water purification systems, clothing, school supplies, large generators, and 147 large tents to serve as temporary schools and shelter. Tom and Betty Petway made a $1 million gift donation in December, 2003. The couple had worked with the organization since the late 1990s and respected the work the group does. Petway was CEO of Zurich Insurance Services and said at the time: "We're impressed with the work FreshMinistries has done in Jacksonville in creating opportunities for people of all races and faith traditions to participate economically and socially in our community. The organization needs the financial backing to continue the work it has started in the community, including assisting with other service organizations and ministries in the city." FreshMinistries used the money for several existing programs, including the Beaver Street Enterprise Center business incubator, youth programs, college internships and financial literacy initiatives.  The organization has also received considerable support from Jacksonville philanthropists Delores and Wayne Weaver. The organization's east Jacksonville community center, the Weaver Center for Community Outreach, is named in honor of the couple. FreshMinistries receives ongoing state support through the Florida Department of Children and Families, as well as private contributions.  FreshMinistries received $10 million of $100 million in abstinence-focused grants awarded by the United States Agency for International Development, part of the President Bush's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief. The grant funded Siyafundisa, an initiative to provide onoing HIV/AIDS prevention programs in Africa.  The grant is the largest the ministry has received.  Relief for Haiti - Following the 2010 Haiti earthquake, the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) in Washington, D.C. asked FreshMinistries and Be The Change International, to coordinate a large-scale effort to bring desperately needed doctors, medical technicians, translators and pharmaceuticals to Haiti.  FreshMinistries and Be The Change International responded quickly and efficiently, delivering much needed goods to the country. Crime rate drop in Jacksonville's Eastside - In late 2009, Jacksonville Sheriff's Office Officer Stephen Gallagher announced at a community meeting on the Eastside that violent crime in the area was down 34 percent and property crime was down 32 percent from 2008. Gallagher credited the Eastside Neighborhood Association, an initiative of FreshMinistries, as an "extremely important" part of the drop in crime. Also responsible for the drop in crime were neighborhood cleanups and several neighborhood anti-crime walks organized by FreshMinistries to include Jacksonville Sheriff John Rutherford, local council persons, area patrol officers and neighborhood leaders. Jacksonville chosen for Financial Access Pilot - In April 2008, Jacksonville, FL was chosen as one of eight cities in the U.S. to participate in a new pilot program to "increase financial education and bank and credit union accounts for Americans currently outside of the financial mainstream." The pilot was recommended by several members of the President's Council on Financial Literacy, including Dr. Lee. Jacksonville Mayor John Peyton said, "We're honored to have Jacksonville chosen to participate in this worthwhile new initiative. Our existing efforts, under the leadership of FreshMinistries, recognized in 2005 by the U.S. Treasury for Excellence in Financial Literacy … will be able to reach more low-to-moderate income families and help them save for the future." Change Agent - In 2006, The Rev. Dr. Robert V. Lee III, founder and CEO of FreshMinistries, was named a "Change Agent" by the Florida Times-Union for creating FreshMinistries and, "helping people start businesses, revitalize their neighborhoods and get out of debt." Operation New Hope - In 1999, FreshMinistries launched an initiative, called Operation New Hope, to train "forgotten" adults (those with troubled backgrounds) in Jacksonville in the construction industry, leading to employment opportunities. Aside from restoring individuals the program also restored neighborhoods and provided low income housing opportunities for core city residents. Operation New Hope is now no longer affiliated with FreshMinistries, having become its own separate, sustainable entity, and has since expanded its reach and operations in Jacksonville to include the re-entry and training of recently incarcerated individuals. Klutho building restoration - In 1998, the City of Jacksonville asked FreshMinistries to take over the restoration of an important historical landmark, The Klutho Apartment Building, designed by Henry John Klutho, as part of a city-wide effort to revitalize economic growth in the Springfield neighborhood. The building now houses nonprofits and small businesses that are also working to restore Springfield. 