The DC Animated Movie Universe (DCAMU) is a term used for a series of animated films initially based on The New 52 continuity.   This universe was first teased in the post-credits scene of Justice League: The Flashpoint Paradox, with its events continued in Justice League: War.  These films are part of the DC Universe Animated Original Movie series but don't share the same continuity with films outside of sequels to Justice League: War and Son of Batman.   Barry Allen wakes up in an alternate timeline, later known as Flashpoint, where he isn’t The Flash and meets Thomas Wayne, who is the Batman of the timeline. As he works his way to restore his old timeline, Barry must also contend with Professor Zoom, who appears to be behind everything. The film was released on DVD and Blu-Ray July 30, 2013 and is based on the comic book series “Flashpoint” by Geoff Johns. During an investigation in Gotham City, Bruce Wayne / Batman encounters Hal Jordan / Green Lantern who together discover a motherbox which prompts Clark Kent / Superman to attack the duo. They later meet Diana Prince / Wonder Woman, Barry Allen / The Flash, Victor Stone / Cyborg and Billy Batson / Shazam to team up and take down the posing threat of Darkseid who is in search of the three scattered Mother Boxes which the Apokolipians plan to use to terraform Earth. The film was released on January 21, 2014 and is based on the comic book “Justice League: Origin” by Geoff Johns and Jim Lee. It features the voice talents of Jason O'Mara as Batman, Alan Tudyk as Superman, Michelle Monaghan as Wonder Woman, Christopher Gorham as The Flash, Justin Kirk as Green Lantern, Shemar Moore as Cyborg, Sean Astin as Shazam, Steven Blum as Darkseid, and Rocky Carroll as Dr. Silas Stone.  It is the first film in the DC Animated Movie Universe.  A sequel to the film, Justice League: Throne of Atlantis, was released January 13, 2015. Bruce Wayne discovers he has a violent son named Damian who was raised by a secret organisation called the League of Assassins led by Ra’s al Ghul. Meanwhile, Slade Wilson / Deathstroke hunts down Damian for revenge because he took his place as heir to the demon. The film was released on April 22, 2014 and is based on the comic book “Batman and Son” by Grant Morrison and Andy Kubert. The film introduces Damian Wayne to the universe. A sequel to the film, Batman vs. Robin, was released in April 22, 2015. When Atlantean warriors attack Gotham, Arthur Curry / Aquaman must team up with the Justice League to stop his evil brother, Orm Marius / Ocean Master, who leads the attack, and also plans to steal the throne of Atlantis for himself.  The film was released on January 13, 2015 and is based on comic book “Throne of Atlantis” by Geoff Johns and Ivan Reis. The film introduces Aquaman to the universe. Batman trains his son Damian to become a new version of Robin although doesn’t completely agree with his father’s “No Killing” rule and believes his own destiny lies within a secret society. The film was released on April 7, 2015. The film features the Court of Owls. The film is loosely based on the comic book “Batman: The Court of Owls”. A sequel to the film, Batman: Bad Blood, was released in January 2016 With Bruce Wayne missing, Dick Grayson takes up the mantle of Batman but finds himself teaming up with Damian Wayne and the mysterious Batwoman and Batwing to face a new threat involving the mysterious Heretic and Damian's mother Talia al Ghul. The film was released on January 20, 2016. It features an original story by J.M. DeMatteis. It introduces Batwoman and Batwing to the universe.   Batman encourages Damian to join a group of young heroes  known as the Teen Titans lead by Koriand’r / Starfire that consist of Raven, Beast Boy, and Blue Beetle. Meanwhile, a demon known as Trigon possesses the Justice League who are forced to be confronted by the Titans. The film premiered at WonderCon in Los Angeles on March 26, 2016. It introduces the Teen Titans to the universe.  It features an original story by Bryan Q. Miller. After a series of demonic attacks over Gotham, Batman and the Justice League request John Constantine for help who recruits a team of supernatural heroes consisting of Zatanna, Boston Brand / Deadman, Jason Blood / Etrigan the Demon and Alec Holland / Swamp Thing to stop it. The film was released digitally on January 24, 2017 and on DVD and Blu-ray on February 7, 2017.    It is an adaptation of Peter Milligan's "Justice League Dark" series and introduces the team of the same name to the universe.  The Titans gain a new team member, Terra, who seems to have ulterior motives as they take on the mercenary, Slade Wilson / Deathstroke, and a terrorist cult led by Brother Blood. The film was released April 4, 2017 and is based on the comic book "The Judas Contract" by Marv Wolfman and George Perez. Amanda Waller recruits a team of criminals known as Task Force X which consists of Floyd Lawton / Deadshot, Harleen Quinzel / Harley Quinn, George Harkness / Captain Boomerang, Ben Turner / Bronze Tiger, Sameer Park / Copperhead and Crystal Frost / Killer Frost to retrieve a mystical object while they are confronted by other villainous masterminds who are also after that artifact, including an immortal being known as Vandal Savage and Zoom. It features an original story  by Alan Burnett and "what’s promised to be an amazing voice cast".  When a monster, nicknamed Doomsday, crashes down to Earth, it begins a destructive rampage which triggers the Justice League and later Lex Luthor to come and stop it. When all attempts fail, they come to realization they need Superman to kill it. Despite the story being previously adapted in the first animated movie (though not in the DCAMU), Superman: Doomsday, this said movie greatly altered and condensed the original comic story to fit it within a 75-minute runtime. The Death of Superman was written to be much more faithful to the original story; according to DC's Tim Beedle, the film is "much less condensed and will include many of the fan-favorite moments from the story that were left out of Doomsday".  A decade after a tragic mistake, family man Chas and occult detective John Constantine set out to cure Chas’s daughter Trish from a mysterious supernatural coma. City of Demons is a film version of the web series of the same name, itself based on the graphic novel All His Engines. The film will be composed of all 12 episodes of the series, as well as 20 minutes of additional footage.  Reign of the Supermen will be the second part of  a two part film that started with The Death of Superman and will be released early 2019. The film will be based on the comic book of the same name which was a follow up to the Death of Superman comic. The film will feature Superboy, Steel, the Eradicator and Cyborg Superman.  Nightwing and Robin is a one-minute short film set during the events of Justice League: War.  The digital-first series Suicide Squad: Hell to Pay was released on March 21, 2018, and features 12 digital issues. It serves as a sequel to film of the same name.   On August 1, 2018, DC announced a 12-part, weekly digital comic series titled The Death of Superman, Part 1.   This series, written by veteran Superman writer Louise Simonson serves as prequel to the film. In the US, retailer Best Buy offered an exclusive "Deluxe Edition" Blu-Ray containing a hardcover graphic novel titled The Death of Superman: The Wake.   This four-chapter series, also written by Simonson picks up shortly after the events of the film.  Some aspects of this series contradict events previously established in the DC Animated Movie Universe, most notably the Parademon invasion as depicted in Justice League: War. Constantine: City of Demons is an animated web series from executive producers Greg Berlanti and David S. Goyer based on the DC Comics character John Constantine, a demon hunter and occult detective. According to J. M. DeMatteis the series is not a continuation of Constantine, but is in the same universe as the 2017 film Justice League Dark. He added that "time will tell" whether the show is part of the Arrowverse.  Sales figures below represent DVD sales and, when available, Blu-ray sales in the United States. International sales, digital sales, and rentals are not included. 