The Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development (until 2015: Digital Development) was established in May 2010 as a joint initiative by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to promote Internet access,  in particular, broadband networks in order to help achieve United Nations development goals, such as the Millennium Development Goals (until 2015).  The Commission was renamed the Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development, following the adoption of the UN's Sustainable Development Goals in September 2015.   The commission is jointly chaired by H.E. Paul Kagame President of Rwanda and America Movil owner Carlos Slim, and jointly vice-chaired by the heads to the two founding UN agencies, the Secretary-General of the International Telecommunication Union Houlin Zhao, and UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay. Members of the commission include, policy-makers and government representatives, international agencies, academia and organizations concerned with development.   In addition to its chairs and vice-chairs,  51 commissioners included Jeff Sachs, Muhammad Yunus, Hans Vestberg, Mo Ibrahim and Martin Sorrell. The Broadband Commission engages in high-level advocacy to promote broadband in developing countries and underserved communities.  One of the Commission’s stated goals is to advocate that broadband infrastructure be given the highest priority level in future development policy and city planning frameworks.  To date, the Commission’s output has included several major reports,  including “A 2010 Leadership Imperative: The Future Built on Broadband” presented to then United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in September 2010, before the 2010 United Nations MDG Summit in New York. The document constitutes a concise, high-level report that directly reflects inputs from the Commission’s community of high-level business executives and policy-makers and contains a number of policy recommendations and "Declaration of Broadband Inclusion for All". As part of it's advocacy work, in 2011 the commission established a framework of four "ambitious but achievable" targets that countries should strive to meet by 2015 in order to help achieve the MDGs through digital development.  With the fifth target being added in 2013, designed to spur female access to the power of information and communication technologies (ICTs).  In 2018, the commission launched a framework of now seven "ambitious but achievable" targets, that countries should strive to meet by the year 2025.  Since 2012 the Commission has published an annual State of Broadband report, positioned as a snapshot of the global broadband industry.  The reports are issued every year during a high-level meeting on the side of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, and are specifically targeted at government policy-makers, as well as those engaged with setting the UN’s Post 2015 development agenda. Each report includes a country ranking based on key indicators for Internet-user penetration and Internet access affordability. In addition to its annual reports, the Broadband Commission employs working groups to address specific action items or focus areas. Working groups examine such issues as Science, Health, Climate Change, Youth, Education, Gender and Finance and Investment; and reflect the wide ranging impact of broadband technologies across multiple sectors. Past outputs from working groups include reports, consultations and workshops.  During the countdown to 2015 and the due date for the MDGs, the Commission’s advocacy and policy outreach has increasingly been directed towards actors responsible for setting the Post-2015 Development Agenda, to recognize the importance of ICT/broadband infrastructure, networks, applications and services for sustainable economic, social and environmental development. In April 2013 the, group issued an Open Letter to United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon’s Panel of Eminent Persons,  as well as a broadband manifesto  in September at the 69th session of the General Assembly. Donors include Grupo Carso, Digicel Group, Bharti Enterprises, Intel, Ooredoo, Ericsson, Cisco and the Mo Ibrahim Foundation.  In September 2015, the Broadband Commission released a report on "cyber violence" against women, which addressed online harassment targeted at women.  The report has been criticised by some for being anti free speech and advocating internet censorship.   Others have criticised the report for providing questionable information that has been poorly cited, which included non-existent sources and a source linking to a file on the author's computer hard drive.  