The Seville Statement on Violence is a statement on violence that was adopted by an international meeting of scientists, convened by the Spanish National Commission for UNESCO, in Seville, Spain, on 16 May 1986. It was subsequently adopted by UNESCO at the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference on 16 November 1989. The statement, then known as a 'Statement on Violence', was designed to refute "the notion that organized human violence is biologically determined".  The statement contains five core ideas. These ideas are: The statement concludes: "Just as 'wars begin in the minds of men', peace also begins in our minds. The same species who invented war is capable of inventing peace. The responsibility lies with each of us."  The following is a list of the scientists who founded the statement: Once it was drafted and signed by the founding group in May, 1986, the Statement on Violence was disseminated around the world, as described in the newsletter that was issued three or four times a year from 1986 through 1994 as well as two occasions later in 2002 and 2003.  The Statement has been published in over 150 scientific and popular journals, including versions translated into more than 20 languages.  UNESCO decided to disseminate the Statement widely in a decision of the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference on 16 November 1989.  In 1991, this led to publication and dissemination of a UNESCO brochure in English  as well as in Spanish, French and Arabic. .  The brochure, with the subtitle "Preparing the Ground for the Constructing of Peace" helped prepare the ground for the UNESCO Culture of Peace Programme [better source needed] By the time UNESCO published its brochure, the Statement had been endorsed or disseminated by 75 organizations , including formal endorsements by three of the major social science organizations of the United States, the American Anthropological Association , the American Psychological Association   and the American Sociological Association  Belief concerning the relationship between warfare and biology may have practical implications.  It has been shown that if one believes that war is biologically determined, he or she is less likely to engage in activities to promote peace.  Conversely, if one believes that war is not biologically determined, one is more likely to work for peace. . In fact, about half of all young people believe that war is biologically determined according to international surveys in 1972 , replicated by studies in Finland  and the United States .  If anything, the proportion may have increased in recent years  Steven Pinker has criticized the Seville Statement as being an example of the moralistic fallacy.  Some scientists believe both evolutionary psychology  and neuropsychology  suggest that human violence does indeed have biological roots.    Pinker has used the Seville Statement as an example of the idea of biological determinism, the incorrect idea that genes are solely responsible for any of our behaviors.  A 2008 article in Nature by Dan Jones stated that "The decades since have not been kind to these cherished beliefs. A growing number of psychologists, neuroscientists and anthropologists have accumulated evidence that understanding many aspects of antisocial behaviour, including violence and murder, requires the study of brains, genes and evolution, as well as the societies those factors have wrought." Evolutionary psychologists generally argue that violence is not done for its own sake but is a by-product of goals such as higher status or reproductive success. Some evolutionary psychologists argue that humans have specific mechanisms for specific forms of violence such as against stepchildren (the Cinderella effect). Chimpanzees have violence between groups, which has similarities to raids and violence between groups in non-state societies. Several studies have found that the death rates from inter-group violence are similar for non-state societies and chimpanzees. On the other hand, intra-group violence is lower in humans living in small group societies than in chimpanzees. Humans may have a strong tendency to differ between ingroup and outgroup, which affects altruistic and aggressive behavior. There is also evidence that both intra-group and inter-group violence were much more prevalent in the recent past and in tribal societies, which suggests that tendencies to use violence in order to achieve goals are affected by society. Reduced inequalities, more available resources, and reduced blood feuds due to better functioning justice systems may have contributed to declining intra-group violence.  