UNESCO Chair of Telemedicine (UNES_CT) is a portion of UNESCO that was founded in 1999. It undertakes international activities related to the promotion of the information society and fights against technology transfer problems having the role of an “intermediate body”. The Chair is the first UNESCO Telemedicine Chair, and his activity is related with development and diffusion of Telemedicine and Information Society in Health Care in developing areas and undeveloped countries particularly South-America and Africa. The expertise of the UNESCO chair of Telemedicine as a University Institution is based in the previous CATAI’s expertise founded in 1994 in the field of Information Society/Telemedicine with which is collaborating closely and from which received part of the sponsorship. Activities include: training and teaching aspects, to gain a minimal structured knowledge in Medical Informatics, have established the “Telemedicine Body of Knowledge” covering sociology, economics, technology transfer, technology and organizational issues, standardization, security and liability aspects in co-operation with the Universities of Queens-UK, Aveiro-PT, Belfast-IRL, Genova-IT, Innsbruck-AU, Udine-IT, Berlin-D, Athens-GR. CATAI published the first text-book of Telemedicine in English, complemented with a CD multimedia material particularly designed for developing countries, worldwide known by Winter and Summer Courses of Telemedicine training following the “Telemedicine Body of Knowledge". At the present moment the book is translated into 6 languages (SP, E, IT, GR, FR, D) and is published in Spanish (PanAmerican Editorial) with title : “Telemedicine” 2001.  Is participating in all editions of the European Telemedicine Glossary edited by the EC-DG Information Society. In the 4th Ed-2002 is the author of the Electronic Clinical Record. CATAI developed the Videophone network in the Canary Islands in 1991 for distant support. At the present it includes the best practice implementation pilots in phone medicine (oncology -particularly home-care- and psychiatry -particularly childhood psychiatry), Tele-ECG and Tele-ultrasounds -particularly obstetrics & gynaecology. First in the world (1991) to carry out distant DNA quantitation, it was applied to image analysis prognostic factors in breast cancer. Objective image analysis and prognostic factors have been incorporated into the regional breast cancer registry of 3000 patients (see above); CATAI was the promoter of the Centre of Excellence in Telemedicine, sponsored by Science Park DG-XIII, with enrolment of 3 continents: Europe, Africa and America to concentrate best practice examples as well as top experts to implement real world applications and development of hardware-software systems ready to be used. These activities link mainly technological firms of the UK and Germany. The UNESCO chair was leader of two EU projects (Leonardo-DG XXII ; Science Park-DGXIII) and participating in other two (DGXIII- Teleultrasound for developing countries; Leonardo-DGXXII Teaching Medical informatics). Leader in Canary Islands and in the main land - Barcelona- of a project on Telephonic Medicine. Partner in 5 EU projects ( Smart-USB; KOD or knowledge on demand, ASKLEPIOS, CHS or Citizen Home Services, CATAI-CTC) UNESCO Chair of Telemedicine was involved in developing countries health support through the Midjan group-ITU-D working group of Telemedicine, TeleInViVo ultrasound devices with pilots in Katastan, Mali and Uganda. Additionally, the UNESCO chair was promoted the network of Telemedicine together with Argentina, Venezuela, Peru, and participated in ITU-Developing Word Congress in Malta 1997, and Georgia Telemedicine meeting in 1999. Is currently actively working with South-America ( Venezuela, Argentina, Cuba, Chile, Peru) and Africa (Uganda, Kenya) 