The UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning (formerly: UNESCO Institute for Education) is one of six educational institutes of UNESCO. It is a non-profit international research, training, information, documentation and publishing centre on literacy, non-formal education, adult and lifelong learning. By linking educational research, policy and practice in these areas, UIL makes a special contribution in enhancing access to learning, and improving the environment and quality of learning for all in all regions of the world.  UIL provides services in literacy, non-formal education, adult and lifelong learning to UNESCO's Member States, NGOs, and grassroots and community organizations, but also to partners in civil society and the private sector. In doing so, the Institute works in close collaboration with its Paris headquarters, with UNESCO field offices in different countries, with sister institutes and with national and international partners. UIL is based in Hamburg, Germany. The Senate (government) of the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg provides the Institute with premises close to the University, in a historic villa, which was built for the shipping magnate Albert Ballin. In February 2007, a country agreement was signed which defines the terms and conditions under which the UIL is hosted by the Federal Republic of Germany. UIL's mission is to see to it that all forms of education and learning – formal, non-formal and informal – are recognized, valued and available for meeting the demands of individuals and communities throughout the world. UIL responds to these demands and helps meet the challenges facing humanity (peace and democracy, sustainable development and poverty eradication, nurturing diversity, defeating HIV/AIDS, protecting the environment) with policy-driven research, capacity-building, networking, publications and technical services for Member States and non-governmental and civil society organisations, as well as private providers at their request. UIL’s research covers appropriate concepts, good practice, favourable conditions and innovative approaches in the areas of literacy, non-formal education, adult and lifelong learning in different cultural contexts, including all modes of learning (formal, non-formal and informal), with a view to the creation of lifelong learning environments, the making of literate societies and the building of learning societies. All research activities aim at promoting adult and lifelong learning and at highlighting the contribution of learning to poverty alleviation, sustainable human development, democracy and critical citizenship. Research work is mainly policy-driven and action-oriented. The research carried out by the Institute may take the form of individual case and country studies, comparative analyses, regional and cross-regional syntheses, international surveys, conceptual and position papers, co-operative and joint investigations with academics, partner institutions, governmental organizations, NGOs and CSOs, etc. Specific research questions and themes relate to the following: 