The UNESCO Associated Schools Project Network, or ASPNet for short, is a programme established in 1953 to encourage schools worldwide to educate students on issues related to UNESCO's "overarching goal of promoting peace and international understanding". As of  2008[update], it includes nearly eight thousand educational institutions in over 170 countries. ASPnet schools conduct their own projects, often linking with schools from other countries, or may become involved in a UNESCO-coordinated activity, such as the "World Heritage in Young Hands" project. A national coordinator, typically housed at the National Commission, serves as the liaison between the schools and UNESCO.  In 2014-2015, the American International School in Dubai carried out the project “I have the right to...?” that promoted human rights and freedom of expression. The ASPnet school developed an action plan to raise students’ awareness of their rights in relation to learning, health care and expressing their opinions.  Singing together to make a difference – an inspiration for 53 students from the UNESCO ASPnet school Atheneum Koekelberg in Brussels, Belgium to found a choir and participate in the international project “Thousand voices for peace”. “Thousand voices for peace” brought together 39 choirs from 18 countries for a series of concerts in Belgium in November 2014 in commemoration of World War I. One hundred years ago, their countries were confronting each other in World War I. Now, more than 1,000 professional and non-professional singers were standing side by side to raise their voices for peace.  Inspired by a workshop with the Thousand voices for peace project manager Anthony Heidweiller and Brussels Philharmonic first cellist Luc Tooten, 53 ASPnet students started their own choir “Colom” (dove in Catalan) in spring 2014. Singing can make a real difference, they discovered, when discussing how the Baltic states regained their independence through the 1989 Singing Revolution. Even though they had never sung or listened to classical music before, the diverse group of young students from Brussels set out to prepare their participation in the international project.  From 3 to 9 November 2014, the young singers mingled with the Estonian choir Voces Musicales. A week of exchange and singing together culminated in a common concert. All 1,300 participating singers, accompanied by the Brussels Philharmonic, joined in an inspired plea for peace in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart (Koekelberg Basilica) in Brussels.  Schools from London, the United Kingdom and Algarve, Portugal used school radio broadcasting as a means to promote global citizenship. Two new radio programmes in Lagos school clusters were set up during the project, Radio Naus and Radio Tecnodantas FM. The “school radio for learning” project was designed to support teachers in developing the necessary ICT skills and methodologies to undertake broadcasting activities with their students. Students and teachers focused on producing content on peace and global citizenship education for their school radio. As part of the project, schools from both regions celebrated World Radio Day on 13 February. Teachers networked and exchanged good practices at joint conferences. The Aculco Radio of London (Ambassadors for Peace), and the Dr Rui Grácio Teacher Training Centre of Lagos (UNESCO Associated School) provided training for the schools’ teachers.  Ecological projects created by students from Colegio Carol Baur in Mexico City aim to offer sustainable solutions to the problems the world faces today. Starting in kindergarten, children actively discover the joys of learning and knowledge through games. They observe, investigate and research, becoming creative and innovative. Activities are focused on transforming our environment, using science to serve humanity and helping to preserve the planet. Some Carol Baur high school students, for example, constructed a hydroponic river, making compost with organic trash, and then planted vegetables and strawberries. Given increasing pollution and a fast- growing population, they tried to find solutions not only to reduce trash and promote recycling, but also provide a cheap alternative way to produce healthy food. Other students developed a project on the domestic production of mushrooms as an alternative food source related to urban water management. Their homegrown mushrooms are easy and cheap to produce. After 30 to 35 days the mushrooms, rich in protein and low in fat, can be harvested and used for many dishes, including tortillas. Yet another group of students produced ecological homemade tiles, which at the same time help diminish air and water pollution. Highlighting the importance of relating to nature to inspire feelings of love and responsibility for its protection, the Piensa Verde project takes students out of the classroom to clean the lake in the Carol Baur Ecological Park, using canoes to reach and collect the trash.  The Gambian ASPnet developed the Adopt a Village Project for inland ASPnet schools to raise awareness in village schools and communities on local climate and environmental changes and on ways to preserve and conserve natural resources. Targeting non-coastal communities that are affected by environmental problems like sand and gravel mining, deforestation, bush burning, hunting and waste management, the project aims to build capacities of local teachers, students, youth and senior citizens to reduce human activities that promote climate change in the village, and to empower them to observe, analyze and wisely manage their environment. The Adopt a Village Project was a key activity under the 2012-2013 UNESCO Participation Programme in the Gambia that mobilized ASPnet schools in the country to address issues relating to Education for Sustainable Development and to strengthen their capacities to respond to contemporary challenges such as climate change.  To raise the awareness of students and the local population in Quimper, Brittany (France) regarding the protection and development of the local coastal areas at the tip of Western Europe, the ASPnet school Le Likès has been partnering with the Iroise Natural Marine Park. Every year, Le Likès students start off the project with a visit to local companies and the Marine Life center Haliotika in Le Guilvinec, to get their first insight into sea protection activities on Brittany’s coasts. Afterwards, all participating teachers discuss various aspects of coastal protection with their students in the classroom. This includes not only science teachers, but also those teaching economics, history, geography and English. The classroom activities are followed by a one-day workshop session with scientists from the Iroise marine park, giving students the opportunity to meet different park staff members, learn from their experience and also exchange ideas with people living in and around the park.  On World Philosophy Day 2014, students from the ASPnet school Nesibe Aydın, Turkey engaged in discussions on what it means to be a global citizen and reflected on how to take action to help find solutions to current and future global challenges. Issues discussed included the responsibility for helping others, respecting the rights of others, learning new things about the world, and treating people fairly.  O.P. Jindal School-Raigarh, India undertakes a wide range of activities related to environmental protection, responsible consumption and ecological awareness. With ecological sustainability being a mainstay of the school’s curriculum, O.P. Jindal provides its students with an inspiring educational environment. Its “green school” project comprises different activities throughout the year on water conservation, biodiversity and consumer education. For example, the environmental service learning programme helps to improve students’ academic performance in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM subjects) by inspiring students’ reflection on their environment and innovative greening methods. As part of an exchange with the Abbey Grange Church of England Academy in Leeds, United Kingdom, students designed and presented posters on the importance of preventing water pollution, saving electricity etc. Within the “green school” project, students produce green bags to help their community replace plastic grocery bags, thus reducing waste and promoting recycling. To increase the activity’s impact, O.P. Jindal students encourage partner schools to participate in the green bag production. Students also visited the local consumer forum to learn about its activities in support of consumer protection. After the interactive exchange with the president and two members of the forum, many students resolved to be more aware of their rights and duties as consumers.   This article incorporates text from a free content work.  Licensed under CC-BY-SA IGO 3.0 License statement: Schools in action, global citizens for sustainable development: a guide for students, 22-28, UNESCO, UNESCO. UNESCO. To learn how to add open license text to Wikipedia articles, please see Wikipedia:Adding open license text to Wikipedia. For information on reusing text from Wikipedia, please see the terms of use. 