The World Federation of Engineering Organizations (WFEO) Executive Board Meeting in Paris, France, (March 16-17, 2009), culminated in the acceptance of the Committee for Capacity Building (CCB) proposal to establish a Young Engineers/ Future Leaders (YE/FL) Task Group.  The current chair is Zainab Garashi from Kuwait. Vice Chair is Kathryn Johnson from United States and secretary is Christopher Chukwunta from Nigeria. The YE/FL was to be constituted by young engineers of the WFEO member countries and its council members are to be official delegates by national engineering associations of WFEO countries. CCB’s goal is the involvement of young engineers in the world’s leading activities to gain and share knowledge and experience, and to get the YE/FL abreast of global policies, which prepares them to take on future leadership roles. At the World Engineers Congress (WEC) in Kuwait, 2009 (“Alternative Energy Application Option or necessity?”), the CCB encouraged the WFEO member countries to organise their young engineers for participation at the first YEFL council meeting at the WEC 2010 held in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Aligning with the CCB YEFL vision, the Executive Committees of the engineering organizations of respective national member countries nominated and sponsored young engineers to the first YE/FL task group and council meetings in Argentina, September 2010. Young Engineers / Future Leaders (YE/FL) is a now standing technical committee of the WFEO gathering young engineers, students and council members as official members from the engineering associations of national member countries. YE/FL is democratic committee, which decision taking process is based on majority votes by the YE/FL council. The YE/FL Council is the highest decision making board. Each national engineering association is asked to appoint one official delegate for the YE/FL Council. The Council meets at the regular committee meeting. While absence of the YE/FL council the chair manages the main tasks, which are to guide the committee through its work, take care of administrative YE/FL responsibilities in between official meetings, to moderate official meetings, and set mile stones to help handle matters on time. 