mainzed ([maɪ̯nt͡sed]; acronym for Mainz  Centre for Digitality in the Humanities and Cultural Studies) is a joint initiative of six scientific institutions to promote digital methodology in the humanities and cultural sciences in Mainz, Germany.  It was founded in the context of the academic annual celebration of the Academy of Sciences and Literature Mainz on 6 November 2015.   Partners of mainzed are the Academy of Sciences and Literature Mainz (ADW), the  Mainz University of Applied Sciences (HS Mainz), the Institute for Historical Regional Studies at the University of Mainz (IGL),  the Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz (JGU), the Leibniz Institute of European History Mainz (IEG) and the  Romano-Germanic Central Museum Mainz – Archaeological research institute (RGZM).   mainzed is based on different long-term cooperations between various institutions in Mainz. The research and development institution for digital humanities of the Academy of Sciences and Literature Mainz, Digitale Akademie, was founded in 2009 and is connected to the Institute of Historical Regional Studies at the University of Mainz, the Leibniz Institute of European History and the universities of Mainz. Since 1997, the Romano-Germanic Central Museum Mainz and the i3mainz – Institute for Spatial Information and Surveying Technology have operated the Competence Centre for Spatial Information Technology in the Humanities at the Mainz University of Applied Sciences. In autumn 2013, the informal Network DHMainz  was created with the help of the Mainz Research Alliance.  The network was responsible for the preparation of the Digital Humanities Day 2014 in Mainz  where first drafts were made for the continuation of the initiative.   mainzed was founded in order to accompany and practically implement the transformation of the humanities and cultural studies in the course of digitisation in Mainz. mainzed works in research, the support of research, qualification and transfer. Furthermore, it constitutes a social research infrastructure by offering a network of scientific exchange with regard to the development of projects and research foci for scientists of all qualification levels. Range of competences represented in the network: mainzed developed the inter-university master’s degree program Digital Methods in the Humanities and Cultural Studies in terms of organization and concept.  Since 2016, each winter term 24 students have been able to begin the course of studies comprising four semesters provided that they have a bachelor’s degree in the humanities, cultural studies or with a focus in computer science.   The head of this degree program and director of mainzed Kai-Christian Bruhn received the academy price of the federal state Rhineland-Palatinate on 5 December 2017 in recognition of his interdisciplinary work in teaching and research.   mainzed is initiator of many events promoting the dialogue with the public. An example of this is the  fishbowl discussion about the topic digitalität und diversität – die Geisteswissenschaften im Jahr 2026 that took place in 2016.  Mainzed has organised similar annual events with national and international guest lecturers like Mercedes Bunz and Joscha Bach.    mainzed is organised into an executive board composed of the founding director Kai-Christian Bruhn as well as his deputy Klaus Pietschmann, a scientific advisory board with representatives of the partner institutions and an executive office managed by Anne Klammt. 