ONE: The Movie is an independent documentary that surveys beliefs on the meaning of life, culminating with the view that "we are all one". The movie was created and directed by Michigan filmmakers Scott Carter, Ward M. Powers and Diane Powers, and featured interviews with Deepak Chopra, Robert Thurman, Thich Nhat Hanh, Jaggi Vasudev, and others. It was originally released in movie theaters in North America with accompanying promotional events in late 2005 through 2007.  An (English version in US) was released on DVD in 2007. The documentary was a focus of discussion in the Global Spirit series' episode Oneness: The Big Picture on LinkTV.  The filmmakers asked twenty questions of religious and spiritual teachers as well as artists, authors, atheists, and people on the street. The answers are accompanied by the image of a "nameless traveler" who has grown weary with the suffering and negativity of the world, and who begins a search for meaning and truth.  The documentary covers a range of spiritual and philosophical themes such as the source of fear, enlightenment, spirit, the meaning of life, compassion, life after death, diversity, the nature of God and Heaven, and religion (including Islam, Judaism, Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism, Sufism, Taoism, New Age, New Thought Spirituality, Hare Krishna, Native American spirituality, Catholicism, Protestantism, and Christian fundamentalism). ONE also explores contemporary themes of war, conflict, terrorism, peace, global change, social responsibility, and environmental concerns. Prior to editing the movie, the filmmakers consulted with American philosopher Ken Wilber, founder of the Integral Institute. The 20 questions asked of participants were: Participants included Deepak Chopra, Ram Dass, Thich Nhat Hanh (Thay), Thomas Keating, Barbara Marx Hubbard, Riane Eisler, Robert Thurman, Jaggi Vasudev, Llewellyn Vaughan-Lee, Mantak Chia, the late Bhakti Tirtha Swami, Richard Rohr, Sister Chan Khong, Hassan Al-Qazwini, the late Wayne Teasdale, Rabbi Arnie Sleutelberg, and Muruga Booker.  