The Marcel Bezençon Awards were first handed out during the Eurovision Song Contest 2002 in Tallinn, Estonia honoring  the best competing songs in the final. Founded by Christer Björkman (Sweden's representative in the 1992 Eurovision Song Contest and current Head of Delegation for Sweden) and Richard Herrey (member of the Herreys, Eurovision Song Contest 1984 winner from Sweden), the awards are named after the creator of the annual competition, Marcel Bezençon.  The awards are divided into 3 categories: In 2008, a special award was presented, the Poplight Fan Award, as voted by fans on the Swedish website poplight.se and presented to their favourite debuting artist (under age 25).   In 2010 the Eurovision Song Contest added a new category, the commentator's vote. Previously, this category was awarded by the former winners, but logistical problems has made the organisers change the basis of the vote. It has been too difficult to get hold of past winners, and some of them don't watch the contest. On the other hand, the commentators follow the rehearsals intensely and are regarded as a more reliable group for the voting. The commentators vote for the "Artistic Awards."  Although sanctioned by Eurovision Song Contest, the awards are not presented during the final event broadcast, rather they are handed out during the official contest after party. In 2009, however, the trophies were awarded prior to the event final. Sweden's Melodifestivalen also presents the awards during their own competition proper. Since 2010, the show commentators have replaced the previous winners as the selection jury for the winners. This award was first presented in 2004, replacing the Fan Award. The Fan Award was handed out in 2002 & 2003, and voted on by the members of OGAE, the Eurovision international fan club. It was discontinued and replaced by the Composer Award in 2004. In 2008, a special award, called the Poplight Fan Award, was introduced and  was voted on by ESC fans (see above). It has not been awarded since then. Since 2005 Sveriges Television (SVT) has awarded Marcel Bezençon Awards during its national selection Melodifestivalen. These awards follow the same format as that for the Eurovision awards, with awards given to songs that competed in the final of the contest. Songs that won the Eurovision Song Contest are indicated in bold.   As with for the 2008 Eurovision Song Contest a fan award was also given out for the 2008 Melodifestivalen. 