 Angry Video Game Nerd (abbreviated as AVGN) is an American web television series of comedy-themed retrogaming reviews, created by and starring James Rolfe. The show revolves around reviews that involve acerbic rants about low quality video games. From the beginning of season 2, new episodes were aired first on GameTrailers.com, but are since now aired at Cinemassacre.com, with episodes later being re-aired on Rolfe's own YouTube channel. Episodes are usually scheduled for release on the first or second Wednesday of each month; originally, Rolfe's early work schedule allowed for two episodes per month, but other work commitments changed this to its present arrangement.   Three AVGN episodes, although still available for viewing, were never officially made it to/remain on YouTube. One of these, Atari Porn, was removed after the site flagged it for inappropriate content per its community guidelines, while the other two was the two part review of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 3. Two other episodes were later removed for using movie clips from copyrighted films – Rocky and Super Mario Bros. 3 – but were later reuploaded to YouTube after being amended and changed to comply with YouTube policies. Notes: This episode was originally created on May 25, 2004 and previously only available as a part of a film compilation tape with other short films created or directed by James Rolfe.  Notes: This episode was originally created on May 28, 2004 and previously only available as a part of a film compilation tape with other short films created or directed by Rolfe.  This is the first time James Rolfe appeared on screen as the Nerd.  Notes: This episode was intended to be last to be made by Rolfe, before the online series took off.  Notes: The DVD version of this episode edited out clips from the first Back to the Future film. Notes: This is the first episode to feature the Nerd's theme song, created by Kyle Justin. Notes: The DVD version of this episode and its re-release feature an additional scene in which the Nerd calls the Wally Bear hotline. Guest Stars: Mike Matei as Jason Voorhees. Guest Stars: Mike Matei as Freddy Krueger (voice provided by James Rolfe).  Notes: While the DVD edition contained new music in place of that from Nightmare on Elm Street, an edited edition for ScrewAttack featured both an alternate opening and ending to the episode, along with the song "Welcome to My Nightmare" by Alice Cooper over the end credits. The review itself featured on the second disc of Never Sleep Again: The Elm Street Legacy. Notes: Up until this episode, the show was known as "The Angry Nintendo Nerd", before Rolfe changed the name to allow him to focus on games on other systems. Notes: Both the Season 1 DVD and the YouTube re-release feature an alternative ending to the review, involving the Nerd throwing the game off the stairs at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Some elements of the review were edited out for the DVD version. Notes: This review was divided into two parts for the ScrewAttack website. Notes: Due to violating the terms of use, the review was removed from YouTube; it was made available on both the Cinemassacre and ScrewAttack websites as a direct result, with the former combining both parts into one episode. Much of the episode was not included on the AVGN Volume 2 DVD due to copyright reasons. Notes: This episode was the first to be featured on GameTrailers, and the first to include the standard intro sequence used on the web series. Due to technical reasons, James Rolfe was not able to properly do a review of the Atari 5200, due to issues with both an Atari 5200 controller and Trak-Ball controller he tried to use with the console. Guest Stars: Kyle Justin (voice-only). Notes: Both the YouTube and DVD versions feature a mimic version of the Ghostbusters theme, while due to copyright issues, clips from the movie were replaced with still images for both versions. Notes: Due to copyright issues, both the YouTube re-release and DVD versions saw the clips from Ghostbusters being replaced with artwork by Mike Matei. Both the DVD and YouTube re-release version feature different soundtracks to the original, while copyright issues meant that clips from the Ghostbusters' movie were replaced by still images from it's poster. Guest Stars: Kyle Justin as Spider-Man. Guest Stars: Mike Matei as Bugs Bunny. Guest Stars: Kyle Justin. Guest Stars: Kyle Justin as Cousin Itt. Guest Stars: Mike Matei as Leatherface and Chop Top; and Steven J. Klaszky  (credited as Jimmie Jim Slugg) as the hillbilly. Guest Stars: Michael Mulvey and Lil' Liam Mulvey as "the kids"; Mike Matei as Michael Myers; and Nicole Mulvey as "the neighbour". Guest Stars: Co-founder of ScrewAttack.com, Stuttering Craig, as the Ghost of Christmas Past; and Handsome Tom as Ghost of Christmas Present (Part 2). Notes: According to James Rolfe, who introduces the episodes, this episode was a previously unreleased episode originally written in November 2006. Notes: This episode was originally planned to include a review of Jack Bros., but at the time of production, James Rolfe did not own the game in his collection. A review of the game was later included for both the DVD and YouTube editions. Due to copyright reasons, a clip from the film Waterworld was deleted from both versions. Guest Stars: Mike Matei as the Cowardly Lion. Guest Stars: Kyle Justin. Notes: Both parts were merged into one episode for the DVD version. Notes: For copyright reasons, re-releases of this episode do not feature the review of the movie, although it is still mentioned in the game review. The episode's opening segment consisted of a medley of fan-made theme song renditions. Guest Stars: Mike Matei as a Klingon and a Metron. Notes: James Rolfe included a brief review of the Vectrex for this episode. Notes: James Rolfe included a brief review of the Commodore 64 for this episode. It was also technically the last episode to have filming done in Rolfe's gaming room in New Jersey, before production focused on its new site in Pennsylvania. Guest Stars: Mike Matei as the Joker. Notes: The opening sequence for these episodes was specially themed around a parody of the 60's Batman TV series opening, and was animated by Matei. Notes: This episode was made through fan-based input requested by Rolfe, asking for fans to submit their experiences with the game and the dialogue they would use for the review. Those whose input was chosen for the review, were credited at the end of the episode. Guest Stars: Kyle Justin. Notes: The YouTube version was edited with an additional minute of content. Notes: James Rolfe included a short review of Commodore VIC-20 for this episode. A scene that featured in one of the reviews was edited out in the DVD version for copyright issues. Guest Stars: Mike Matei as Franken-Nerd. Notes: This was the first AVGN episode to be filmed in 720p HD and produced to be shown in widescreen. Notes: Due to hardware failure, James Rolfe was unable to include reviews of games for the Jaguar CD. Notes: Because of the game being reviewed, the opening intro sequence, designed by Mike Matei, were themed around the opening credits for The Terminator. Notes: Like the previous episode, the intro sequence, designed by Mike Matei, was themed around the opening credits for Terminator 2: Judgment Day. Notes: James Rolfe included a short review of the Famicom and the Family Computer Disk System for this episode. Guest Stars: Mike Matei as Bugs Bunny/Woody Woodpecker; and Kyle Justin as himself. Notes: James Rolfe included a brief review on the Godzilla movies for this episode. The last three games featured, were not given a detailed review in the episode. Notes: Due to copyright issues, clips from the Wayne's World films and a clip from Borat were edited out of the DVD version. Notes: James Rolfe included a short review of the TurboGrafx-16 for this episode. In addition, the episode's opening sequence featured a montage of the title cards created by Mike Matei used in the past series of episodes between 2006–09. Guest Stars: Kevin Finn as "a ninja". Notes: Following this episode, James Rolfe switched from using the NES Top Loader, for the Nintoaster – a specially designed NES made out of a household toaster, that was given to Rolfe by its creator, Richard Daluz. Notes: Due to copyright issues, a scene in the review was edited out for the DVD version. Guest Stars: Kevin Finn as the Game Graphic Glitch Gremlin. Notes: The opening sequence for this episode was deliberately glitched, to keep it in line with the episode's theme. Notes: James Rolfe included a short review of The Legend of Zelda for this episode. Notes: The title card made for this episode is based upon a poster for the 1931 film version of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Notes: This episode features many hand drawn illustrations created by Mike Matei. In addition, composer Bear McCreary arranged a special parody version of "You're a Mean One, Mr. Grinch" , incorporating NES-styled audio elements, for this episode. Notes: The intro for this episode features clips from previous episodes along with a montage of all the title cards created for it by Mike Matei. Until the 139th episode, this was the last one to feature a title card by Matei, due to personal opinions on their usage.  The music for this episode was created by John Jennings Boyd and Lachlan Barclay. Notes: A teaser for Angry Video Game Nerd: The Movie was shown at the end of the episode, intended to advertise the movie before unforeseen difficulties in filming pushed back its release date. Guest Stars: Pat Contri as "Pat the NES Punk". Notes: Contri helped to co-write this episode. This was the last episode to be filmed in 480p.  Notes: This is the first episode to be filmed in 1080p HD. Guest Stars: Kyle Justin. Guest Stars: Lloyd Kaufman, co-founder of Troma Entertainment. Notes: This episode served as a precursor for the AVGN movie, that was later released that year. Notes: Although basically a clip from the movie, this episode differs from it in that it featured actual footage from the game; in the movie, the game was represented by specially-made animation of the game, due to a lack of licensing rights to the original version. Guest Stars: Mike Matei as himself. Notes: This episode was dedicated to Leonard Nimoy, the narrator for the English-language version of Seaman, who died that year. Guest Stars: Nathan Barnatt as Keith Apicary. NOTE: In the episode's commentary, James stated that this episode is the most expensive episode to date, with a final budget being $3,614. This was due to the set construction, the elf costume, the props, decorations, and the travel costs to fly Nathan to the East Coast. James also said that the biggest expense was the breakaway props, which he spent $1,000. Another factor was the accessories, and that the accessories seen had to be looked up on eBay. Notes: This episode's intro is designed as a parody of the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers theme song. The episode was also made to celebrate the then-upcoming film Power Rangers. Notes: This episode was sponsored by Full Sail University. NOTE: This episode was made to commemorate the then-upcoming movie of War for the Planet of the Apes. Notes: This episode was originally released as a series of mini segments on the "Cinemassacre Plays" channel, between October 19th to the 24th, and in the form of a daily found footage diary. The full release of this episode included an extended ending scene. Notes: This episode was sponsored by Vikings: War of Clans. Notes: This episode features brief footage of Star Wars Episode I: Racer for the Nintendo 64, but James Rolfe did not include a review of it for this episode. The episode was made to celebrate the then-upcoming release of Star Wars: The Last Jedi. Notes: This episode was not originally intended to be an AVGN episode, but rather a personal review for James Rolfe to enjoy. It was later edited to be one and advertised by Rolfe on Cinemassacre's YouTube channel, with the video initially made available on Amazon Prime a week before it was released on YouTube. At the end of the Spielberg Games review, it was implied that E.T. would be reviewed in The Angry Video Game Nerd: The Movie. Eventually, at TooManyGames 2011 and Magfest 2012, Rolfe confirmed that he would review E.T. in the film.   E.T. programmer, Howard Scott Warshaw, also makes an appearance in the film. The film premiered July 21, 2014.  The following collection of videos features appearances by either James Rolfe, or his character The Nerd: Notes: Although technically not a video involving the Nerd, two characters from the film would later go on to feature in the AVGN series. Notes: This video included a brief cameo by Rolfe's character, the Nerd. Notes: Before the episode was posted onto YouTube, it was originally available as part of the AVGN DVD Vol. 4. Notes: This video later spawned five more Nerd Memories segments for GameTrailers.com. Notes: A combined version of the two parts was later released on August 17, 2012. Notes: Prior to its release on YouTube, the video was a part of the AVGN Volume 6 DVD. The following collection of videos features appearances by either James Rolfe, or his character The Nerd: The following collection of videos features appearances by either James Rolfe, or his character The Nerd. This includes Channel Awesome's collection of videos from the special crossover series between Angry Video Game Nerd and Nostalgia Critic: Notes: This special cross-over episode with the Angry Video Game Nerd, featured a cameo appearance by Kyle Justin, performing an alternate version of the AVGN theme. Notes: Until it was posted online to Channel Awesome, this video was an exclusive feature on the film's Blu-ray release. The following collection of videos feature appearances by James Rolfe's character, the Nerd: The following collection of videos features appearances by either James Rolfe, or his character The Nerd: The following collection of videos features appearances by either James Rolfe, or his character The Nerd: The following collection of videos features appearances by either James Rolfe, or his character The Nerd: Notes: Because of the family friendly nature of Captain S, James Rolfe had to tone down the nature of his character for this special episode. In addition, no review is made of Wrath of the Black Manta, despite it featuring in this episode. In 2015, from December 1 to December 25, a series of mini episodes was released in the style of an advent calendar, in which the Nerd comments on poor examples of video game cover art. The following list these episodes: These DVD and Blu-Ray's have not been sold in stores, with the exception of the ScrewAttack store. 