Computer and video game collector and limited editions (commonly referred to as CE and LE's) are video games packaged with bonus materials and enhancements not available in the standard release.  Such bonuses can range from special packaging to printed artwork to extra discs containing additional content.  These versions are typically of a predetermined limited release and act as promotional tools for the publisher, and items of value for collectors.  Not all titles released as a "Special/Collector's/Etc. Edition" are necessarily in any substantial way superior to the standard edition. True Collector's and Limited Editions are those released with extra materials or content, that were limited in every case.   For example, most Game of the Year, Gold, or Platinum editions are re-releases and rarely contain anything of extra value nor are of particular limited release, and thus are not generally considered Collector's or Limited Editions.  Known as the 'Notre Dame' Edition in PAL regions. Embossed Steelbook Case, Leather Wallet, Limited Edition Poster, Digital Soundtrack & Bonuses. Later, a variant of the release was distributed to Hollywood Video as part of a pre-release promotion in which the game could be rented along with a console before it’s official launch. This variant of the game allowed saving and included a case and manual. The disc, game manual cover, and spine of the case all state “Limited Edition” and the artwork differs slightly from the standard edition release. Due to its exclusive distribution through a rental chain many of the original game cases were lost or destroyed and replaced in whole or in part with cases or manuals from the standard edition release, also many discs were tagged with a “Hollywood Video” security sticker. The "Collector's Pack" released in Japan contains a CD with the original soundtrack, a set of tarot cards, a copy of the game with the instruction manual, and an illustration signed by the artist Akihiko Yoshida.   CollectorsEdition 