Kinderstern/Star for Children, is an artwork the German artist Imi Knoebel has created since 1988. The artwork is entirely donated to projects for children in need. The Star for Children has so far collected donations of four million Euros and is the only artwork worldwide which proceeds go a 100% to children in need. The "Star for Children in Need" receives support through artists and collectors, musicians and actors/actresses,  museums like Deutsche Guggenheim in Berlin and Sammlung Grässlin in the Blackforest   and art fairs.   Kinderstern stands for the Children's rights . The Kinderstern  is a Social sculpture,   realizing the extended notion of art, formulated 1967 by  Joseph Beuys, by which art also ought to change society. Donations given to Kinderstern transform the donated money to being a Bearer of the Right of a Child, exposing a deeper purpose of money: Bearer of Human Rights. Kinderstern stands for the Rights and dignity of all Children. It stands for the right of a home, of food, of generous attention, medical care, and education. This patronage unifies unredeemed Rights of Children,  Kinderstern is their artwork in times of need. In 1988, the Star for Children was printed for the first time as silkscreen in red. This print was, next to original prints from the artists Sol LeWitt, Jörg Immendorff,  Sigmar Polke, Max Bill, Heinz Mack, Keith Haring, part of a portfolio created under the auspices of Lothar Späth,  minister-president of Baden-Württemberg/Germany. Title of the portfolio: „Kinderstern“/Star for Children . Its proceeds supported the financing of accommodations for parents close to pediatric clinics. Imi Knoebels artistic intention that lead and tied him to the Star for Children went beyond the first project. His intention aimed at continuity and expansion. Star for Children became the aggenda with the promise to actively step into the breach in the name of children. In the same year with headquarters in Düsseldorf a non-profit organization was founded under the name Kinderstern/Star for Children . Their responsibilities included detecting projects of non-profit organizations already carried out serving children in need. Imi Knoebel, as the artistic initiator not a member, committed himself to continuously producing stars for the non profit organization. Almost every year new Stars for Children are released in limited colors. These Stars for Children are donated as an appreciation to all contributors who support the agenda of the Star for Children. 