Cheerleading is a physical activity with increasing popularity in the United Kingdom.  Some schools offer cheerleading as a sport or extracurricular option; a 2010 Department of Education report said that 37% of schools were offering cheerleading as an extracurricular option physical education choice.     One particular cheerleading program, the Ascension Eagles of the London Borough of Newham, has received attention and awards for its positive impact in its economically disadvantaged neighbourhood.   In April 2014 Crimson Heat Tigers Cheer based in Reading, won the COA (Cheerleaders of America)  National title in Florida, gaining the USA Champions title.  Crimson Heat, who hold UK National and European titles were also official cheerleaders for the London Games and are the first UK team to achieve the COA National Title.  The top teams in the country, competing at Level 6, are Aviator Allstars F22 Raptors as well as Aviator Allstars F35 Lightning (all-girl). The main organisations hosting competitions in the UK are Scotcheer, BCA, ICC, Future Cheer, UKCA and Legacy Cheer and Dance. The governing body is SportcheerGB, recognised by the International Cheer Union (ICU) which is promoting cheerleading as a sport to the Olympic bodies. Cheerleading is conducted through all-star, university and school teams. Many of these teams compete against other cheerleading teams at regional and national levels. Cheerleading is not classified as a BUCS sport. There are also squads attached to some football and Rugby League teams;  however, these often involve more dancing than the gymnastics and stunting elements of cheerleading, such as the London Cheerleaders Zoo Riot who are a professional as well as competitive cheerleading team based in Waterloo, London. In April 2017, Team England’s All Girl Elite became England’s first ever world champion cheerleading team when they were awarded first place at the  ICU international cheerleading championships.    The following year, Team England's Coed Elite won first place at the 2018 ICU international cheerleading championships.    