The International Federation of Cheerleading (IFC) was formed in 1998  and is a non-profit federation based in Tokyo, Japan. The IFC is an Associate Member of the World DanceSport Federation (WDSF)  which is recognised by the International Olympic Committee (IOC)  and a member of SportAccord,  the Association of IOC Recognised International Sports Federations (ARISF),  the International World Games Association (IWGA)  and the International Masters Games Association (IMGA).  The IFC's primary activities are organized through standing Commissions that are each responsible for some aspect of the development of cheerleading worldwide. The IFC sponsors a variety of international cheerleading competitions, including the Cheerleading World Championships.  The IFC was formed in 1998 during the 3rd meeting between the European Cheerleading Association (ECA) and the Japan Cheerleading Association (JCA) on July 5, 1998 at the Sky Bridge Hotel in Malmo, Sweden.  At the Annual General Meeting in Oslo, Norway in 2006 the ICF members voted to change from ICF to IFC to disambiguate from the International Canoe Federation (ICF).  The objectives of IFC are to promote cheerleading worldwide, to spread knowledge of cheerleading and to develop friendly sporting relations among the member associations/federations. The IFC has an elected President, a Senior Vice-President, two Vice-Presidents, and other council members. Day-to-day operations of the IFC are the responsibility of the IFC Secretariat and Assistant to the Secretariat. Several standing commissions of the IFC are responsible for the development of cheerleading worldwide. These commissions include: IFC is open to all recognised national associations/federations controlling cheerleading at a national level.  However, cheerleading organisations in countries or regions where there is no approved or recognised national association/federation in existence may also apply for membership. Fundamentally, any applicant must be non-profit and only one member from each country or region may be affiliated, and such a member shall be recognized by the IFC as the only national governing body for all cheerleading in such a country or region. 