Stunts are defined as building performances displaying a person's skill or dexterity. Stunting in cheerleading has been previously referred to as building pyramids. Stunts range from basic two-legged stunts, to one-legged extended stunts, and high flying basket tosses. There are numerous variations of each stunt, multiple entries and dismounts out of the stunt. Stunts vary at each level (level 1–6 according to the USASF). Each level increases the difficulty of the stunt. There are few recognized styles of stunting, coed, all-girl, and hybrid. Cheerleading teams are restricted to specific stunt rules based on the guidelines of certain associations and organizations; Therefore, some stunts may be permitted in certain divisions but illegal in others due to the different stunt regulations. The level of difficulty depends on where the teams stunt and practice as well as the organization they are a part of since cheer associations want to maintain the safety of the cheerleaders by restricting them to try stunts that are too advanced for their level. A flyer, 2 bases (usually, side and main base), and a backspot. Sometimes there may be a frontspot as well.  A partner stunt will involve two athletes: one flyer and one base.  A third athlete, a spotter, will be involved depending upon the skill level of the stunt executed and the rules and regulations for that skill. Every person in the group is important. The stunt will not be performed or practiced if one person is missing.  In cheerleading, stunting is typically a dominant part of the sport in which participants lift each other up through various mediums displaying various skills.This is the person that's lifted into the air during a stunt---the flyer can also be referred to as the "top". The flyers are usually (but not always) the smallest people on a cheerleading squad. Before beginning to stunt a flyer must learn the correct posture. A flyer must hold their own weight by pushing off of the bases shoulders and keep their chest up.  The flyer must control their own weight by keeping their abdominal muscles tight to stabilize the spinal column while in the air. In addition, they need to use their shoulders and their upper bodies to pull their weight off their bases underneath them. Flyers also need to learn to tuck their legs when loading into a stunting position in order to be completely stable off of the ground.  They also need to lock out their legs. If they don't stay tight, there is a greater risk of them becoming off of their center of balance and falling. It is also vital that the flyer knows how to properly dismount from the stunt. The flyer must stay tight and keep legs straight while the bases pop them, which is when the bases bend their knees and release the flyers feet from their hands. The flyer places their arms in a T formation and let the bases catch them in a piked position.  They must keep a steady focus on what they are doing. A strong core and good sense of balance are key qualities for a flyer to possess. In order to keep everyone as safe as possible while practicing stunts it is the groups best interest to have a coach always present. Flyers may be extremely flexible and have a good sense of balance. In order to do accomplish more advanced skills flyers need to be flexible so they can maintain their balance and position on one leg while pulling other tricks with the other leg.  Therefore, the more flexibility a flyer has the more successful their stunts will be. Flyers are typically the shorter and leaner people on the team, but other members can act as a flyer depending on their exceptional abilities.   The flyers must always look up and never down. Flyers tend to look out, whether it’s into the crowd, or staring at a point on the wall but looking straight ahead will help keep them balanced. If flyers feel like they are going to fall because they cannot hold their balance, be sure to stay tight by keeping legs and arms tight next to the body so they don’t hit or hurt the cheerleaders under the flyer holding them in the air. Bases are the athletes that hold the flyer or top in the air during the stunt. They are responsible for keeping their flyer in the air, as well as making sure she is safe at all times. Bases are very strong and are usually assigned together based on height to create level platform for the flyer to perform an action. There are few recognized styles of stunting: coed, all-girl, and hybrid. There are no gender requirements for a base, both males and females can be bases.    A base must be in direct contact of the floor where a stunting skill is being performed.  Bases have the responsibility of carrying out the stunt and keeping the flyer in the air.  The bottom person needs to complete every stunt to the exact way it’s supposed to be performed in order for it to work every single time, especially when it needs to count the most in a sports game or a competition.  Their most important tool is their legs because they use it too extend cradles and basket tosses higher.  Both bases at all times, should be looking at their flyer in the air because it is their responsibility to hold them up and keep them safe.  If at any time the flyer is falling, both bases should actively try to stop the flyer from touching the floor so they don’t get seriously injured. Spotters should stand behind the stunt with their hands together and ready to catch if the stunt for some reason must come down. This base has the majority of the flyer's foot and the majority of her weight. The main base will be almost directly under the stunt until it is cradled or brought down. In a one leg extension stunt, the main base will lift the toe and heel of the foot to increase stability from moving forwards or backwards. With single base extensions the main base with grip onto the heel of the flyers foot having a nice and stable transition. The main base is the "powerhouse" of one legged stunts because she/he holds a majority of the weight but keeps their arms somewhat towards the center of the stunt to share the rest of the weight with the secondary base. The main base cups the flyers foot from toe to heel, creating a "floor" for the flyers foot and stability. The term second base only applies when doing a one-legged stunt, this position can also be considered a "side base." The second bases catches the flyer's foot during a prep or a "sponge." The secondary bases help lift the flyer up into the air and support the flyer's foot. The hand position for the side base can vary depending on preference. The more common placement, which is also more reliable and sturdy, is to have one hand under the middle of the foot and the other hand pushing up on the wrist of the main base to lift from underneath.  The other approach is to have one hand under the middle of the foot and the other hand on top of the foot for stability. The problem with keeping the hand on top of the stunt is that the side base can tend to push down on the stunt instead of pulling up because they might not be as tall as the rest of the stunt to get their hand on top enough, which can create extra weight for the other cheerleaders on the bottom of the stunt. The second base's hand positioning functions to lift and to stabilize the flyer's foot from shifting from side to side.  The back spot is also called a "third".  They call each stunt. Example: "Twist up, ready, 1,2" OR "Cradle, ready, 1,2" This is the person actively stabilizing the stunt from the back. They help to position the flyer in the bases' hands upon entry. They support most of the weight of the flyer. They do so by using their hands to support the flyer's buttocks and ankles, and then push her up from her butt into the air. Once in the air, they will hold the flyer's ankles with both hands, pulling the ankles up to loosen the weight of the flyer for the bases and providing support. When the flyer cradles, they catch her under the arms to support the upper back and neck area. Since the center of gravity for a flyer is their hips, the back spot will always look at the hips while the stunt is happening. The back spot can determine the stability of the stunt by watching the flyer's hips. If the back spot follows the hips with her eyes, they can tell where the rest of the body will follow—that is why they must make sure that the hips are centered between the shoulders and ankles.  If the flyer falls backwards, it is crucial for the back to attempt to catch the head and shoulders to prevent head/spinal injury. Due to the back's responsibilities, they are generally the tallest members of the team. This is the person standing in front of the stunt facing the back base preventing the flyer from falling forward. The front spot often provides extra support to wrists of the bases in higher stunts such as extensions. The front spot has somewhat of the job of the back spot. Though the front spot is there, a flyer should never fall forward, rather backwards. There is not always a front spot at the front  use front spots for basket tosses because it helps to throw straight upwards and gives the stunt more height. Front spots are typically the smaller people of the squad, who are not flexible enough to be a flyer, and are also not at the right height and strength to side or back. Front spots increase the stability of a stunt to make it perfect.   This person is mostly unnecessary to the stunt group. They do not actually touch the stunt unless something goes wrong. The free standing spot can stand behind, in front, or beside the stunt. Eyes stay on the stunt at all times even though the stunt is not touched unless the flyer is falling. If spot must touch a stunt, points are deducted, but this only applies during a competition. Additional spots are typically used as a safety precaution. These spots are used mainly when a stunt group is trying a new stunt or position that they have not experimented with prior or when the group is new to each other. This reassures that if something were to go wrong with in the stunt that everyone would get out of the stunt safely, and that the flyer would safely return to the ground and land on her feet. Only recommended for unstable and first time stunts, and mandatory for competitions. For best results use four corner spotting. This stunt uses both bases, a backspot, and a flyer. Sometimes a front spot.  The rules for cheerleading are majority of the time the same but there could also be differences at the same time, the meaning behind this is that cheerleading has different levels for this sport so for the levels like high school, college, and all-star competitive cheerleading are different rules.   For instance, high school cheer has different rules for stunting like there must be more than one spotter around the stunt group, unlike college and all-star cheer. High school cheer cannot do the same level skills in stunting like college and all-star cheer because someone could get very hurt or they might not be as trained in that skill like college or all-star cheerleaders are. College and all-star cheer are also different as well college cheerleading is more of level 5 through 6 skills and college cheerleading coaches do not just want someone who can just throw these skills sometimes, the athletes must be consistent in their skills each and every day because the skills that college cheerleaders are throwing could be very dangerous and the coaches need to know that they can depend on the athletes who already know how to do the skills when asked too.  All-star cheer has different levels l from 1 through 6 but all-star cheer really depends on the tumbling skill that determine what level the athlete would be on then from there the athletes would work on stunting skills.  All-star also care about stunting skills as well, but the coaches think you can work on stunting skills when it comes time to doing it and will try to perfect the stunting skills later in the season, the coaches are more instead in tumbling more than anything now and days. The stunting skills in all-star cheerleading depend on the level team you are on at the time, so you cannot really know what stunting skills you are doing until you make a team then that’s when the coaches will ask you do the appropriate skills for that level. The rules for high school, college, and all-star competitive cheerleading are the same for the safety in the sport for all athletes. The safety rules for the sport of cheerleading are to ensure the safety of each athlete and encompass all aspects in any given routine. The safety rules are meant to ensure the athletes are trained correctly in each aspect of the sport.   Athletes may typically practice up to 2–3 hours a day when learning new skills for their routine and must always have spotters present. The coaches or at least one coach must be present at every practice, tumbling class, stunting class, and competition; if the coaches or one coach is not present, then the athletes may not practice due to the potential risk of injury. The athletes that go in the air which is call the “flyer” must way the proper weight for the girls who are at the bottom to keep them up in the air are called the “bases”, so no one will get hurt during the process of the skill they are learning and all of the members in the stunt group must pay attention to what they are doing so no one falls or get hurt doing the skills.  Another safety rule for the athletes, are the athletes must learn the skills that are appropriate for their ages and maturity level as well because it’s important for everyone to do the right skill level for their correct age, so no one can get hurt. The main reason why safety rules where created is to make sure every athlete is safe and okay during their routine, game days, and practices at the end of the day.  All of the body positions can be done at prep or extension level. Lib : One (or more) base(s) holds up the flyer by the standing foot (usually the right foot) and the flyer balances weight on the standing leg.  The flyer's other leg is bent at a 90 degree angle, and the toe is pointed and touching the right knee. This stunt is named for the way it looks similar to the Statue of Liberty. The name of this stunt is often shortened to 'Lib'. 