  Pep Flags, also known as flaggies, short flags, small flags, or twirl flags is the performing art of twirling one or two flag(s) as part of a choreographed routine. In recent years, some schools have implemented a third and even fourth flag in routines. This performing art is mainly prominent in Southern California high schools in various school districts. It is mainly in high schools but a few are in elementary, middle school and college/university levels. Although pep flags has been around for many decades (and has evolved much since then), it has been gaining more and more popularity. This particular style of pep flags has spanned out to other areas in Northern California and Nevada and has been known to have similar styles in Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Wisconsin. Twirling has also reached other countries such as Australia, Canada, Hungary, Japan, South America, St. Kitts and the United Kingdom. Depending on the place, pep flags may be classified with baton (flag baton), majorettes or precision/prop. Usually, pep flags is often associated with cheerleading, as it is one of the main aspects of school spirit: cheerleading, songleading/pom pom, mascots and pep flags). Not to be confused with auxiliary or colorguard, pep flags is a separate discipline. However, much like other auxiliary and spirit teams, Pep Flags takes much hand and eye coordination, athleticism, showmanship and overall teamwork and good sportsmanship. Many flag routines involve choreography to music, dance/cheer elements (such as kicklines, pyramid mounts, etc.), numerous combinations of twirls, flag tricks, and flag tosses (also known as exchanges). Many schools that have a Pep Flag squad can generally be seen performing at school pep rallies, football games (pre-game, half-time or even along the sideline with the cheerleaders), and cheering at other sporting events during the fall. Some may be seen marching with their school's band during parade season.  In the spring, teams compete in several indoor competitions against other schools. Some of the main competitions that occur are United Spirit Association (USA) Regionals and Nationals, Miss Dance Drill/Team USA, Sharp competitions as well as smaller school-sponsored competitions throughout the Southern California area. Generally, these competitions have two separate divisions for one flag and two flag routines. In addition, they may also include solo, duet, and trio divisions as well. Pep flags, or the use of pep flags, can be seen in: Musicals Music videos Television Movies (Two Flag Division) (One Flag Division) (Two Flag - Novice Division) (Two Flag Division) (One Flag Division) 