The Center for Computer-Assisted Legal Instruction, also known as CALI, is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit that does research and development in online legal education. CALI publishes over 1,000 interactive tutorials, free casebooks, and develops software for experiential learning. Over 90% of US law schools are members which provides students with unlimited and free access to these materials. CALI was incorporated in 1982 in the state of Minnesota by the University of Minnesota Law School and Harvard Law School.  The cost of membership to CALI is US$7,500 per year for US law schools; free for legal-aid organizations, library schools, state and county law librarians; and US$250 per year for law firms, paralegal programs, undergraduate departments, government agencies, individuals, and other organizations.  CALI Lessons are interactive tutorials written by law faculty and constantly kept up to date.  They can be assigned as a study aid or to test your students' knowledge.  The materials are rigorous, but short, taking 20-40 minutes to complete each lesson. CALI's eLangdell Press publishes free casebooks and book chapters authored by law faculty.  All are available under a Creative Commons license so that faculty and students can use and remix the materials to suit their educational needs. Classcaster® is CALI's blogging and podcasting platform for law faculty who don't want commercial advertising on their course websites.  Faculty who register at the CALI website can create a website for their courses, scholarship or podcast. LessonLink is a service that law faculty can use to create a unique URL for a CALI Lesson that allows the professor to track the students' scores and usuage down to the individual question.  LessonLink lets faculty use CALI Lessons as formative assessment. QuizWright™ helps Faculty track what students are learning it lets professors write Multiple Choice, True/False, and Yes/No questions as formative assessments for their students that can be run inside or outside the classroom. CALI's CALIcon is a two-day conference where faculty, law librarians, tech staff and educational technologists gather to share ideas, experiences and expertise. The conference is almost always held at a newly constructed law school.  www.cali.org/cali-conference Who Attends CALIcon? Our attendees are a mixture of law professors, law librarians and library directors, law school IT staff and law clinic faculty. We are also beginning to see attendees from the legal technology world. They are early-adopters, socially connected and highly influential in technology purchasing decisions. We expect 250- 350 attendees this year. Who Exhibits at CALIcon? CALIcon exhibitors have traditionally been those in the education software and legal research industries. However, with the increasing emphasis on creating “practice ready law students," we are also beginning to see companies from the legal practice world use CALIcon as a way to introduce themselves to the new market. Informative Sessions Sessions are all 1 hour long, with 30 minute breaks between each to allow for networking, conversation, reflection and, of course, snacks! The sessions range from beginner to advanced and cover a wide range of topics, from Assessment to Video Technology and many topics in between. The sessions are conducted by real people sharing real experiences creating, using, designing and implementing technology in support and practice of legal education.  CALI first hosted The Conference for Law School Computing in 1991 (then known as the Conference for Law School Computing Professionals) at Chicago-Kent.  From 1991 to 1994 the conference was hosted at Chicago-Kent, and since 1995 the conference has been hosted on-site by various CALI member law schools.  The CALI Excellence for the Future Award® is given to the top scoring student in each course at a law school as determined by the professor.  CALI Award winners receive a certificate suitable for framing and a permanent URL/Virtual Award that students can tag to resumes, CVs, biographies and social media accounts.   A2j Author® is a cloud based software tool that delivers greater access to justice for self-represented litigants. A2J Author can be used as an experiential learning tool in law school courses to expose students to expert systems and document automation.  Free training and technical support for your courses and students are available. 