The Hazaraspids (Persian: هزاراسپیان‎) (1155–1424), was a Kurdish Sunni Muslim dynasty   that ruled the Zagros Mountains region of southwestern Iran, essentially in Lorestan and the adjacent parts of Fars which flourished in the later Saljuq, Ilkhanid, Muzaffarid, and Timurid periods.  Although the founder was Abu Tahir ibn Muhammad, the dynasty is named after the latter's son and successor, Malik Hazarasp. The name of the dynasty is of Iranian origin, and means "thousand horses".  The founder of dynasty was Abu Tahir ibn Muhammad, a descendant of the Shabankara chieftain Fadluya, who was initially a commander of the Salghurids of Fars and was appointed as the governor of Kuhgiluya,  but eventually gained independence in Luristan and extended his realm as far as Isfahan and assumed the prestigious title of atabeg.  His son, Malik Hazarasp fought a successful campaign against Salghurids and assisted Jalal-al-din Khwarezmshah in his struggle against the Mongols. Another Hazaraspid ruler Takla, accompanied Hulagu on his march to Baghdad, but deserted because of the murder of the last caliph. He was eventually caught and executed on Hulagu's order. Yusuf Shah I received Ilkhan Abaqa's confirmation of his rule and added Khuzestan, Kuhgiluya, Firuzan (near Isfahan) and Golpayegan to his domain. Afrasiab I attempted to extend his control to the coast of Persian Gulf but faced stiff opposition from the Mongols who defeated his army at Kuhrud near Kashan. He was reinstated by Ilkhan Gaykhatu but was executed by Gazan in October 1296.  The capital of Hazaraspids was located at Idaj located in present-day northern Khuzestan. Yusuf Shah II annexed the cities of Shushtar, Hoveizeh and Basra in the first half of fourteenth century.  During the reign of Shams-al-din Pashang, the dynasty faced attacks from the Muzaffarids and the capital Idaj temporarily fell into their hands, until the occupiers had to retreat due to their own internecine fighting. During the Rise of the Timurids, the Hazaraspids were the first Kurds which came in contact with the Empire and later along with other Kurds, the Kurds made an Alliance with the Timurid Empire In 1424, the Timurid ruler Shahrukh Mirza overthrew the last Hazaraspid ruler Ghiyath al-Din thereby ended the dynasty. 2 Centuries later, the Kurds from Khuzestan and Bushehr were deported to Khorasan by the Safavid Empire due to the Shia-Sunni Conflict between the Ottoman Empire and Safavid Empire, instead bringing Arab Shias from the Ottoman Empire to this Region, making the beginning of the De-Kurdification and Arabization for the next 100 years. The Lurs-Bakhtiari are the only Kurds left in Khuzestan and Bushehr. Since 1794, the Kurds from Khorasan are not allowed to return to their ancestral Land. 