Politeness theory accounts for the redressing of affronts to a person's 'face' by face-threatening acts.   The concept of face was derived from Chinese into English in the 19th century.   Erving Goffman would then go on to introduce the concept into academia through his theories of 'face' and 'facework'.   Although politeness has been studied in a variety of cultures for many years, Penelope Brown and Stephen Levinson's politeness theory has become very influential.  In 1987, Brown and Levinson proposed that politeness was a universal concept,  which has had some disagreement within academia.   Politeness is the expression of the speakers' intention to mitigate face threats carried by certain face threatening acts toward the listener.  Another definition is "a battery of social skills whose goal is to ensure everyone feels affirmed in a social interaction".  Therefore, being polite can be an attempt for the speaker to save their own face or the face of who he or she is talking to. Face is the public self-image that every person tries to protect. Brown and Levinson defined positive face two ways: as "the want of every member that his wants be desirable to at least some others executors" (p. 62), or alternatively, "the positive consistent self-image or 'personality' (crucially including the desire that this self-image be appreciated and approved of) claimed by interactants" (p. 61).   Negative face was defined as "the want of every 'competent adult member' that his actions be unimpeded by others", or "the basic claim to territories, personal preserves, rights to non-distraction—i.e. the freedom of action and freedom from imposition".   Whereas positive face involves a desire for connection with others, negative face needs include autonomy and independence.  Ten years later, Brown characterized positive face by desires to be liked, admired, ratified, and related to positively, noting that one would threaten positive face by ignoring someone.  At the same time, she characterized negative face by the desire not to be imposed upon, noting that negative face could be impinged upon by imposing on someone.  Positive face refers to one's self-esteem, while negative face refers to one's freedom to act.   These two aspects of face are the basic wants in any social interaction; during any social interaction, cooperation is needed amongst the participants to maintain each other's face.  Participants can do this by using positive politeness and negative politeness, which pay attention to people's positive and negative face needs respectively.  According to Brown and Levinson, positive and negative face exist universally in human culture; it has been argued that the notion of face is the actual universal component to their proposed politeness theory.    A face threatening act is an act that inherently damages the face of the addressee or the speaker by acting in opposition to the wants and desires of the other. Face threatening acts can be verbal (using words/language), paraverbal (conveyed in the characteristics of speech such as tone, inflection, etc.), or non-verbal (facial expression, etc.). Based on the terms of conversation in social interactions, face-threatening acts are at times inevitable. At minimum, there must be at least one of the face threatening acts associated with an utterance. It is also possible to have multiple acts working within a single utterance.  Negative face is threatened when an individual does not avoid or intend to avoid the obstruction of their interlocutor's freedom of action.  It can cause damage to either the speaker or the hearer, and makes one of the interlocutors submit their will to the other. Freedom of choice and action are impeded when negative face is threatened. Positive face is threatened when the speaker or hearer does not care about their interactor's feelings, wants, or does not want what the other wants.  Positive face threatening acts can also cause damage to the speaker or the hearer. When an individual is forced to be separated from others so that their well being is treated less importantly, positive face is threatened. ✨ In their study of refusals to requests, Johnson et al. argue refusals can threaten both the positive and negative face of the refuser (the person who was asked a favor), and the positive face of the requester (the person asking for a favor). Obstacles, or reasons for non-compliance with a person's request, can "vary on three dimensions: willingness-unwillingness, ability-inability, and focus on-focus away from the requester".  The willingness dimension differentiates between refusals where the refuser states, "I don't want to help you" and "I'd like to help." Ability differentiates between, "I'm short on cash" and "I have some extra money." Focus on-focus away from requester differentiates between, "It's your problem, so you take care of it" and "It's terrible that your mom won't give you the money." When a person makes a request, their positive face is threatened mostly along the ability and unwillingness dimensions. People tend to make requests of "intimates," people they are supposed to know well/have a good relationship with. Threat to the requester's positive face increases when the requester chooses a person who has low ability/inability to fulfill the request or is unwilling to comply (the person being asked has to refuse the request); choosing a person with low ability suggests the requester has poor relational knowledge.  On the other hand, choosing a person with high ability decreases threat to the requester's positive face because it shows the requester's competence; choosing a person with high willingness reinforces the requester's choice and decreases threats to positive face.  Choosing to refuse or not refuse a request can threaten the requester's positive and negative faces in different ways. When a person refuses to comply with a request from an intimate, they are violating relational expectations and increasing threat to their positive face; however, focusing attention away from the requester can decrease threat to the requester's positive face even if they are unwilling to help.  In contrast, focusing attention on the requester can increase threat to positive face since it highlights the requester's unwillingness. Accepting a request is the least threatening act. Threats to the refuser's negative face vary along the ability and focus dimensions. Focusing away from the requester allows the refuser to maintain their autonomy while maintaining the relationship; this leads to less face-threat if the refuser has high ability because they can choose whether to comply or not.   Focusing on the requester would threaten their relationship with the requester and their long-term autonomy (the requester may be unwilling to comply to future requests when the roles are reversed); however, if the refuser has low ability, focusing on the requester can actually decrease threats to negative face by showing they are unable to comply even if they wanted to.  *Note: the requester and refuser would be analogous to the "speaker" and "hearer" roles discussed earlier in the section "Face-threatening acts". Politeness strategies are used to formulate messages in order to save the hearer's positive face when face-threatening acts are inevitable or desired.  Brown and Levinson outline four main types of politeness strategies: bald on-record, negative politeness, positive politeness, and off-record (indirect) as well as simply not using the face-threatening act. or statements of general rules Bald on-record strategy does not attempt to minimize the threat to the hearer's face, although there are ways that bald on-record politeness can be used in trying to minimize face-threatening acts implicitly, such as giving advice in a non-manipulative way.  Often using such a strategy will shock or embarrass the addressee, and so this strategy is most often utilized in situations where the speaker has a close relationship with the listener, such as family or close friends. Brown and Levinson outline various cases in which one might use the bald on-record strategy, including:  Positive politeness strategies seek to minimize the threat to the hearer's positive face.  These strategies are used to make the hearer feel good about themselves, their interests or possessions, and are most usually used in situations where the audience knows each other fairly well.   In addition to hedging and attempts to avoid conflict, some strategies of positive politeness include statements of friendship, solidarity, compliments, and the following examples from Brown and Levinson:  Positive politeness strategies can also emerge in situations where the speakers do not know each other well. For example, Charlotte Rees and Lynn Knight  have explored the role politeness theory plays in general practice consultations.  They found that, in an effort to remain polite, patients agreed to the presence of a student observer during a general practice consultation even when the patient preferred a private consultation. Rees and Knight concluded that politeness strategies in the medical field can inhibit patients from providing complete and accurate information. Another use of positive politeness is polite or formal speech such as Japanese honorifics. Again, this type of formal speech can be used to protect the hearer's positive face. Negative politeness strategies are oriented towards the hearer's negative face and emphasize avoidance of imposition on the hearer. By attempting to avoid imposition from the speaker, the risk of face-threat to the hearer is reduced.  These strategies presume that the speaker will be imposing on the listener. Additionally, there is a higher potential for awkwardness or embarrassment than in bald on record strategies and positive politeness strategies.  Negative face is the desire to remain autonomous so the speaker is more apt to include an out for the listener through distancing styles like apologies or indirect speech.   The use of negative politeness strategies assume a direct relationship between indirectness and politeness.   Examples from Brown and Levinson include:  Favor seeking, or a speaker asking the hearer for a favor, is a common example of negative politeness strategies in use.  Held observes three main stages in favor-seeking: the preparatory phase, the focal phase, and the final phase:  McCarthy and Carter  provide an example of negative politeness using the following dialogue from the Australian television soap opera, "Neighbours": All of this is done in attempt to avoid imposition on the hearer. Negative politeness is concerned with proceeding towards a goal in the smoothest way and with sensitivity to one's interlocutors.  In English, deference ('Excuse me, sir, could you please close the window') is associated with the avoidance or downplaying of an imposition; the more we feel we might be imposing, the more deferential we might be.  It is clearly a strategy for negative politeness and the redressing of a threat to negative face, through actions such as favor-seeking. The final politeness strategy outlined by Brown and Levinson is the indirect strategy; This strategy uses indirect language and removes the speaker from the potential to be imposing. For example, a speaker using the indirect strategy might merely say "wow, it's getting cold in here" insinuating that it would be nice if the listener would get up and turn up the thermostat without directly asking the listener to do so.  This strategy relies heavily on pragmatics to convey the intended meaning while still utilizing the semantic meaning as a way to avoid losing face (see below in Choice of strategy). Paul Grice argues that all conversationalists are rational beings who are primarily interested in the efficient conveying of messages.  Brown and Levinson use this argument in their politeness theory by saying that rational agents will choose the same politeness strategy as any other would under the same circumstances to try to mitigate face. They show the available range of verbal politeness strategies to redress loss of face. Face-threatening acts have the ability to mutually threaten face, therefore rational agents seek to avoid face-threatening acts or will try to use certain strategies to minimize the threat.  It should be noted that in certain situations, an over application of any particular strategy may actually achieve the opposite of the intended effect, as "certain speakers consistently evaluate polite behavior as unnecessary and offensive."  Speaker (S) will weigh:  In most cooperative circumstances where 3. is greater than 2., S will want to minimize the face-threatening act. The greater potential for loss of face requires greater redressive action.  If the potential for loss of face is too great, the speaker may make the decision to abandon the face-threatening acts completely and say nothing. The number next to each strategy corresponds to the danger-level of the particular face-threatening act.  The more dangerous the particular face-threatening act is, the more S will tend to use a higher numbered strategy.  In deciding which strategy to use, the speaker runs through the individual payoffs of each strategy.  Although Brown and Levinson's theory is widely applicable, some weaknesses in their theory have been noted: Additionally, Brown and Levinson do not discuss all types of speech acts in their framework of politeness, including some that are very common in discourse (such as refusals of requests).  Scholars suggest power differences vary between strangers and acquaintances, which in turn, shape the effects of the politeness strategies. Social similarity and intimacy are other aspects to consider, as these connections create an increased awareness of the other person's meaning and request and therefore minimize the face-threatening act.  In 1964, socio-psychologist Edward E. Jones wrote a book on ingratiation and defines it as "a class of strategic behaviors illicitly designed to influence a particular other person concerning the attractiveness of one's personal qualities."   The concept of ingratiation has helped spur further investigation into how it power dynamics play into Brown and Levinson's politeness theory.  The claim has been made that Brown and Levinson's theory does not take into account the effect unique dynamic power relations and rankings has on the way people interact with one another (i.e. ingratiation). An article written by Akio Yabuuchi argues a case for a new trichotomous politeness system to replace politeness theory's dichotomous politeness system; hierarchy politeness   The proposed system is made up of fellowship politeness (similar to Brown and Levinson's positive politeness), autonomy politeness (similar to Brown and Levinson's negative politeness), and hierarchy politeness.   Hierarchy politeness recognizes ingratiation as a way to communicate within power dynamics. As discussed in the first shortcoming of politeness theory, academia's main critique of Brown and Levinson's theory is their claim of universality.  Many sociologists criticize that politeness theory is heavily based on Western cultures where individualism is highly valued compared to many non-Western cultures where group identity is valued over the individual.   One example of this is the Japanese honorific system which is used in even non face threatening circumstances, which goes against the theory that the politeness strategies are used to mitigate face threats.   However, defendants of Brown and Levinson's theory reason that people have been socialized so that the absence of these forms would be considered a face threat, qualifying these forms as mitigating a face threatening act.  In a series of interviews conducted by Blum-Kulka, House and Kasper in 1989 of fifty-two Israeli families representing a wide spectrum of Israeli society, varying in terms of parents' ages (from early twenties to late fifties), socio-economic status (lower to upper middle class) and degree of religious observance, definitions and descriptions of polite and impolite speech and behavior were elicited by the researchers.  They asked for verbalizations and evaluations of modes of situated speech performance, and encouraged exemplification via personal narratives.  Both nimus and adivut are translation equivalents of 'politeness' and definitions offered by the families interviewed for both terms of  "politeness" showed a positively association with tolerance, restraint, good manners, showing deference and being nice to people, but simultaneously referred to in a negative manner as something external, hypocritical, unnatural.  Their analysis concluded that systems of social politeness seem to represent culturally colored interpretations of basic notions of tact, (e.g., face concerns) as conventionalized in any given culture or even speech event type. As suggested already by the semantic definitions offered for the term "politeness" by Israelis, the constituents of "tact" and its appropriate modes of expression are very much subject to cultural interpretation.   Despite some shortcomings in the theory, it cannot be argued that the politeness theory is certainly a unique area of study within the communication field; it is very applicable and helpful in guiding individuals in ways to improve their speech and actions.  Two qualities in particular stand out: Although the politeness theory originated from the curiosity of linguistics and language forming, scholars are beginning to see its other benefits: its ability to not only help with interpersonal relationships, workplace environments, and beyond. One study by Cynthia Dunn observed a Japanese business that required etiquette training for their new employers.  Employers were taught the company's definition of politeness; they were expected to incorporate these beliefs into their day-to-day behavior, such as "kindness," "consideration for others," and "deference and respect".  However, self-presentation was also a critical feature employers wanted their employees to improve upon. An attractive self-presentation through various nonverbals and word choice would not only reflect the individual's politeness but the corporation's as well.  This decision had very positive consequences in the workplace environment. Through new studies there is the possibility that the politeness theory may penetrate deeper areas. For example, maybe more businesses will begin to take on these concepts and incorporate them into their discussion and conflict-resolution strategies. These could be effective in achieving long-term goals. Whatever the case may be, the politeness theory has a solid foundation in the field of communication and will certainly contribute positively to the assimilation of language and civility. In his 1967 work, Interaction Ritual: Essays on Face-to-Face Behavior, Goffman posits numerous times that with every remark people make, they risk maintaining their face and the face of others.  Politeness theory is generally applied when assessing speech acts or remarks.  However, a study conducted by Jurgita Sribaitė looked at politeness theory as it applied to written art reviews.  The study focused on art reviews in Lithuania in the early and mid-1970s and analyzed the different strategies used by the art reviewers as they attempted to critique pieces of art while maintaining their face as well as the face of the artists.   The study was able to identify face-saving acts and all four politeness strategies at work.  The author states, "Reviewers usually appear to have in mind the addressee's positive face (the desire to be liked and be approved of) as well as his negative face (the desire to be left free to act as he chooses)."  The examples given show that even the reviewers, who hold the obvious advantage over the addressees, cared to save both their face and the face of the artists. Positive politeness strategies are used as a way of giving someone a sense of belonging and as seen in the politeness strategies section, jokes are considered a positive politeness strategy.  Therefore, joking can be a way of making someone feel as if though they belong.  However, some contemporary researchers have noted that humor is complex and not all jokes can be considered polite.  In fact, many instances of humor usage can negatively affect face for a number of reasons: the hearers ability to understand the joke is tested,  the hearer may interpret verification of the willingness to hear a joke as aggressive,  and the hearer can be threatened even by non aggressive humor if it tests their ability to understand the joke or their emotions.   In a study conducted by Marta Dynel, in 2016, different occasions of humor used in the television show, House, were assessed and analyzed as polite or (im)polite.   In reference to the conclusions of study Dynel states, "Specifically, humor may serve politeness and/or impoliteness depending on the speaker's intention and awareness of the consequences his/her utterance may carry, the hearer's recognition of the speaker's intention, as well as his/her ultimate amusement or taking offense."    In general, humor can provide face-saving tactics that enable solidarity, but it can also be a risky strategy to use because the speaker and the hearer must be on the same page. When delivering bad news the speaker has a lot to consider regarding his or her own face and the face of the hearer.  In 2015, Miroslav Sirota and Marie Juanchich conducted a study on uncertainty communication with negative outcomes.  The authors suggest "First, speakers making a prediction may intend not only to inform about a probability level, but also to manage the hearer's faces or their own...Second, speakers perform face-managing intentions by altering (e.g. lessening or magnifying) the explicitly communicated probablility of a negative outcome...Thus, politeness theory posits that speakers use uncertainty quantifiers to pursue informative intentions and also to sugar-coat threatening news to manage the hearers' or their own faces."  The study conducted required people to communicate bad news to a friend regarding two scenarios.  In the first scenario the subjects had to communicate a 50% probability that their friend's new car was going to break-down, and in the second scenario the subjects communicated a 50% chance that their friend's stock were going to lose their value.   The subjects of the study reported that "speakers intended to manage hearer's faces from threatening news or to manage their own facees from being wrong...speakers communicated an altered (in the case of our scenarios, lower) outcome probability when they intended to be tactful or cautious than when they intended to be informative."  In 2002, an oncologist by the name of Jerome Groopman wrote an article entitled, Dying Words; How should doctor's deliver bad news?.   In his article he recalls one of the first experiences in which he had to tell a young woman that she has malignint terminal cancer.  He said to her, "Claire, with this disease, a remission would ordinarily last three to six months.  A person could expect to survive between one to two years."  He found that this type of strategy (bald on-record) deeply shook the patient (negatively threatened her negative face).  He now uses different strategies and realized that with sensitive information tact must be used, but also that the patient must be aware of the true probability of negative outcome.  Many doctors, he argues, do not find that balance and tend to hedge information, "More than forty percent of oncologists withhold a prognosis from a patient if he or she does not ask for it or if the family requests that the patient not be told.  A similar number speak in euphemisms, skirting the truth."   This statement reads similarly to the Sirota and Juanchich study; bad news is very frequently sugar-coated in attempt to save face. Three sociological factors affect the choice of politeness strategy and the seriousness of the face threatening action, social distance between speaker and listener, the power difference between the speaker and listener, and the seriousness of the face threat.   In his book, Outliers, Malcolm Gladwell wrote a chapter entitled, "The Ethnic Theory of Plane Crashes."  The chapter attempts to explain why so many planes that crash end up crashing from human error, and not mechanical issues.  One of the most prominent reasons, Gladwell points out, is the lack of effective communication due to the power dynamic between the captain and the first officer.   He uses numerous examples of black box recordings in which the first officer hints at a problem instead of addressing it outright.  He introduces the linguistic term, mitigated speech, and states, "We mitigate when we're being polite, or when we're ashamed or embarrassed, or when we're being deferential to authority."   First officers tend to use mitigated speech when addressing their captain and this has caused plane crashes in the past. Linguists Ute Fischer and Judith Orasanu conducted a study with a group of captains and first officers.  They gave them a scenario in which they had to communicate to each other the need to change course to avoid a thunderstorm.  Overwhelmingly the captains used commands, or what Brown and Levinson would consider bald on-record politeness strategy, to communicate with their first officer.  On the other hand, the first officers only used hints, similar to what politeness theory would consider an off-record politeness strategy, to communicate with their superior, the captain.   Airlines have been taking this issue seriously and have made strides in teaching officers and first captains how to communicate with each other effectively. 