Alexander Tsiaras is an American photographer, painter, and journalist who made 120 covers for various magazines and was a founder of TheVisualMD.  He was born in Nashua, New Hampshire, in 1953, and educated at  Phillips Andover, Amherst College. Tsiaras is the founder, CEO and Editor-in-Chief of TheVisualMD.com. Mr. Tsiaras grew TheVisualMD.com out of his journalism enterprise. His self-styled journalistic career began in 1972 when, at the age of 19, he co-authored his first book Death Rituals of Rural Greece (Princeton University Press), and went on to Conception to Birth, Architecture and Design of Man and Woman and the InVision Guides to Healthy Heart, Sexual Health and Life Blood. He has won awards including the World Press Award, Webby Award and the Satava Award for his work in the improvement of medicine through advanced technology. His work has been featured on the covers of Time, New York Times Magazine, Smithsonian Magazine, Life magazine and the London Sunday Times Magazine.  He taught himself mathematics and physics and developed his own lenses, including one for a microscope that was used to photograph the first images of human eggs in an in vitro fertilization program. Another lens was used for the endoscope that can photograph the fetus from outside the amniotic sac. The images resulting from this became cover stories for Life Magazine. In 1989 Mr. Tsiaras realized the potential of computer generated imaging and learned UNIX, then C and C++ to write his own programs transferring his knowledge of light moving through physical space to light moving through tissue in virtual space. He was offered an adjunct professorship at both Brown and Yale University Medical schools. Working with Yale he received funding from NASA to write algorithms for virtual surgery, so that astronauts could be cut in robotics pods for deep space flights.  Tsiaras has lectured and keynoted conferences including the National Library of Medicine (NLM/NIH) Scientific Visualization Conference, TED, TEDMED, Ink Conference (in association with TED India), Google Health Conference "ThinkHealth 2012", Medicine Meets Virtual Reality (MMVR) and has lectured with Stephen Hawking at the MIT Media Lab.  Mr. Tsiaras’ latest works are, 'Conception to Birth and TheVisualMD Wellness Program, A Scientific Approach to Losing Weight, Preventing Illness and Reversing Chronic Diseases eBooks and wellness programs.  