The King Edward VII Memorial Hospital in Stanley, Falkland Islands is the base for the Falkland Islands Government Health Service. Health services are funded by fish licence revenue and by income tax. They are entirely free at the point of delivery to Islands residents and to British residents under a reciprocal health agreement.  In 2003 the provision of the service cost £950 per head of population per year, similar to the cost in the UK.  Services are provided to about 3000 residents. The military base provides its own health care, but makes use of the hospital facilities as necessary. This is the only hospital on the Islands. All the islands' medical, dental and community health services are based there.  There are 18 acute beds, one maternity bed, a single bedded isolation unit, a two bedded intensive care unit and seven long-stay nursing beds.   It was rebuilt in 1987 after a fire destroyed the earlier wooden building.  The range of equipment and facilities is surprisingly comprehensive, as it has to be almost entirely self-sufficient and takes referrals from Tristan da Cunha, South Georgia, and Antarctica.  Before 1982 medical services on the islands were very basic, but there has been considerable investment since.  Colorectal cancer was particularly common on the islands, linked to a very unusual gene mutation and a three-yearly colorectal screening programme was introduced in 1997. It reached 99% of the population and appears to have virtually eliminated colorectal carcinoma. There are four full-time GPs and one part-time.  A consultant surgeon and consultant anaesthetist do four month tours of duty on the Islands. A radiographer, a biomedical scientist, and a dental hygienist are seconded from NHS trusts. There are 2 practice nurses, a part-time nurse practitioner, 2 casualty nurses, ward nurses and healthcare assistants. The GPs have to provide all medical care apart from surgery or anaesthesia, supported by visiting specialists, mostly from the UK who help to keep them up to date. Consultations take place by telephone for patients in remote locations.  There are weekly visits by GPs to patients outside Stanley. There are three midwives, and about 30 babies are born  each year. A medicine chest is provided for these patients and replenished as necessary.   Patients, or doctors, can be transported by the Falkland Islands Government Air Service if necessary. Serious emergencies are taken to Chile. Dr Constant Ndjapa-Ndamkou,  the chief medical officer. They use EMIS software for medical records.  Sir Jack Hayward contributed to the repairs of the hospital  after the 1982 Falklands War. Coordinates: 51°41′31″S 57°52′06″W﻿ / ﻿51.6920°S 57.8682°W﻿ / -51.6920; -57.8682 