Reproductive coercion (also called coerced reproduction) is threats or acts of violence against a partner's reproductive health or reproductive decision-making and is a collection of behaviors intended to pressure or coerce a partner into initiating, keeping, or terminating a pregnancy.  Reproductive coercion is a form of domestic violence, also known as intimate partner violence, where behavior concerning reproductive health is used to maintain power, control, and domination within a relationship and over a partner through an unwanted pregnancy.  It is considered a serious public health issue.   This reproductive control is highly correlated to unintended pregnancy.  The most common forms of reproductive coercion are pregnancy pressure, pregnancy coercion, and birth control sabotage; they can exist independently or occur simultaneously. Not complying with the partner's wishes may result in the partner acting out violently.   Pregnancy pressure is enacted by a woman's sexual partner when he pressures her into having unprotected sex in order to become pregnant, or into continuing or terminating the pregnancy.  It might involve pregnancy coercion, which are threats or acts of violence if the woman does not comply with the perpetrator's demands or wishes.      Reproductive pressure behaviors may result in several unintended pregnancies that are then followed by multiple coerced abortions. Women who seek abortions are nearly three times as likely to have experienced reproductive pressure by a partner in the past year, compared to women continuing their pregnancies.  A Guttmacher Institute policy analysis states that forcing a woman to terminate a pregnancy she wants or to continue a pregnancy she does not want violates the basic human right of her reproductive health.  Reproductive coercion can take the form of birth control sabotage, either as verbal sabotage, behavioral sabotage, and/or acts as an active interference with contraceptive methods.  Direct actions are taken to ensure the failure of birth control (such as poking holes in or breaking condoms) or complete removal of contraception (such as flushing birth control pills down the toilet or removing contraceptive rings or patches from the body).  Partners can also forbid women from using family planning or force them to have sex without protection.   Birth control sabotage is frequently associated with physical or sexual violence, and is a contributor to high pregnancy rates—especially teenage pregnancy rates—among abused, disadvantaged women and teenagers.  Studies on the birth control sabotage performed by males against female partners have indicated a strong correlation between domestic violence and birth control sabotage. These studies have identified two main classes of the phenomenon:  14% of surveyed young mothers reported undergoing birth control sabotage.   A separate study found that 66% of teen mothers on public assistance who had recently experienced intimate partner violence disclosed birth control sabotage by a dating partner.  When women did try to negotiate condom use with their abusive partners, 32% said they were verbally threatened,  21% reported physical abuse, and 14% said their partners threatened abandonment.  Gender and sexual power dynamics and coercion associated with sexual power dynamics are both linked to condom nonuse.   Even women with high STI knowledge are more likely to use condoms inconsistently than women with low STI knowledge when there is a high level of fear for abuse.  Teenage girls in physically violent relationships are 3.5 times more likely to become pregnant and are 2.8 times more likely to fear the possible consequences of negotiating condom use than non-abused girls. They are also half as likely to use condoms consistently compared to non-abused girls, and teenage boys perpetrating dating violence are also less likely to use condoms.  There are actions girls and women can take if their contraception has been stealthed or sabotaged:  In the US, Plan B (the morning after pill) can be acquired by girls 15 years or older. When taken within 72 hours, it can help prevent an unwanted pregnancy. It is approximately 95% effective when taken within 24 hours and is approximately 89% effective when taken within 72 hours. Teenage mothers are nearly twice as likely to have a repeat pregnancy within 2 years if they experienced abuse within three months after delivery.  26% of abused teenage girls reported that their boyfriends were trying to get them pregnant.  Domestic violence, also called "intimate partner violence", is monitored by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  Their survey on domestic violence measures five types of domestic violence, including control of reproductive health, citing pregnancy pressure and birth control sabotage specifically.  While research remains fragmentary, women in abusive relationships appear to be at higher risk of reproductive coercion and unintended pregnancies.  The Center for Disease Control found that:  A typical assessment of women's reproductive health includes the following questions:  Due to the findings related to reproductive coercion and its prevalence, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has called for its members to be vigilant for reproductive coercion.    Clinical implications discovered through case studies are the following: to assess for reproductive coercion as a part of a routine family planning care; to assess reproductive coercion before discussing contraceptive options; to offer discreet birth control methods; and to assess safety.   Some believe that all reproductive health care settings should have a written protocol for identifying and responding to domestic violence that includes reproductive coercion, and agencies that already have a protocol should be reviewed and expanded to address reproductive coercion.  In Mexico, the government permits abortion, which is otherwise illegal, for women who have been coerced into pregnancy.  