Art Aia - Creatives / In / Residence is an international art residency  located near the comune of Sesto al Reghena in the north-eastern Italian region Friuli-Venezia Giulia. It's a place for artistic production and research that focuses on the development of the creative process and facilitates cultural exchange across borders. Art Aia - Creatives / In / Residence is located three kilometers from Sesto al Reghena, in the locality of "Banduzzo" (which in local dialect means "Place Banned") and from the mid-nineteenth century has been an agricultural center of the Morassutti Family.  In the garden of Art Aia - Creatives / In / Residence stands the nineteenth century Church of St. Anthony of Padua,  erected by the owners of these lands and it contains the contemporary altar-piece which represents Saint John the Baptist and Saint Antony of Padua. Art Aia - Creatives / In / Residence currently promotes cultural and artistic activities at a local and International level. In the past few years several teaching artists have been collaborating with the venue like American Master Drama Teacher John Strasberg, son of Lee Strasberg, who held two International acting workshops  as well as Italo-Palestinian artist Mustafa Sabbagh who thought a photography masterclass  in 2014. Several artist collectives have also been hosted in the center like Marsala 11  and the Institut für Alles Mögliche of Berlin  among others. Art Aia Creatives / In / Residence has various working spaces at the disposal of the visiting artists. Spacious rooms and outdoor spaces are available for production, exhibiting, exchange and leisure, including the Art Aia guest house, the Art Aia studio, the garden, the multi purpose and cross-diciplinary art centre (in progress), the Art Aia rehearsal space, the fields and the vineyard where installations and performances can be realised. Every summer, Art Aia-Creatives / In / Residence, offers a cross-disciplinary Artist in Residence program open to international artists that culminates with an exhibiting event which is generally open to the local public. Arts Territory Exchange Residency in Sustainable Practice Since 2018, Art Aia - Creatives / In / Residence collaborates with the Arts Territory Exchange in the Residency in Sustainable Practice which is an off shoot programme that has been formed in collaboration with the Centre for Sustainable Practice in the Arts (CSPA). Two artists per year have the opportunity to develop their practices in relation to ideas of ecology and sustainability by attending a one week residency at the Italian art center. In 2016 was founded   in Berlin, Art Aia-La Dolce Berlin,  which is a project space in the turkish area of Wedding that hosts artists from all over the world and give them an opportunity to showcase their work. Art Aia -La Dolce Berlin promotes Friulian wine and food as well and it is the German location of Art Aia. Coordinates: 45°51′33″N 12°47′13″E﻿ / ﻿45.8591703°N 12.786933°E﻿ / 45.8591703; 12.786933 