The following sortable table lists land surface elevation extremes by country. Topographic elevation is the vertical distance above the reference geoid, a mathematical model of the Earth's sea level as an equipotential gravitational surface.     Of all countries, Lesotho has the world's highest low point at 1,400 m.  Other countries with high low points include Rwanda (950 m) and Andorra (840 m).  The Maldives have the world's lowest high point at 2.4 m.  Other countries with very low high points include Tuvalu (5 m) and the Marshall Islands (10 m).  These island countries also have the smallest range between their lowest (sea level) and highest points, and are very sensitive to rise in sea level. The highest and lowest points in China constitute the greatest elevation range within any single country at 9,002 m.  The elevation ranges are also great in Nepal (8,789 m), Pakistan (8,611 m), and India (8,588 m). Monaco's elevation range is among the greatest relative to surface area.  Within its 2.02 km² territory, there is a difference of 140 m between its highest and lowest points, equivalent to an average gradient of 69 m for every km².  In Australia's 7,686,850-square-kilometre (2,967,910 sq mi) area there is only a 2,244-metre (7,362 ft) difference between the highest and lowest points, which is equivalent to an average gradient of 292-micrometre (0.292 mm) gradient per km². The summit of Mount Everest is the highest point on Earth. The summit of K2 is the highest point of Pakistan. The summit of Kangchenjunga is the highest point of India. The summit of Gangkhar Puensum is the highest point of Bhutan. The summit of Ismoil Somoni Peak is the highest point of Tajikistan. The summit of Noshaq is the highest point of Afghanistan. The summit of Jengish Chokusu is the highest point of Kyrgyzstan. The summit of Khan Tengri is the highest point of Kazakhstan. The summit of Aconcagua is the highest point of Argentina, the Americas, the Western Hemisphere, and the Southern Hemisphere. The summit of Ojos del Salado is the highest point of Chile. The summit of Huascarán is the highest point of Peru and the Tropics. The summit of Nevado Sajama is the highest point of Bolivia. The summit of Chimborazo is the highest point of Ecuador and the farthest point from the center of the Earth. The summit of Denali is the highest point of the United States and North America. The summit of Mount Logan is the highest point of Canada. The summit of Kilimanjaro is the highest point of Tanzania and Africa. The summit of Mount Vinson is the highest point of Antarctica and the Antarctic. The summit of Puncak Jaya is the highest point of Indonesia, the Island of New Guinea, and all ocean islands. The summit of Gunnbjorn Fjeld is the highest point of Greenland and the Arctic. Lago Enriquillo is the lowest point of the Dominican Republic and all ocean islands. The Badwater Basin in Death Valley is the lowest point of the United States and North America. The Qattara Depression is the lowest point in Egypt. Aydingkol is the lowest point of China. Lake Asal is the lowest point of Djibouti and Africa. The Dead Sea is the lowest point on Earth. 