An Asian quota is a type of racial quota limiting the number of people of Asian descent in an establishment, a special case of Numerus clausus. In particular, it refers to alleged educational quotas in United States higher education admissions, specifically Ivy League universities, targeting Asian Americans, specifically persons of East Asian and South Asian descent, starting in the late 1980s and ongoing, as of  2017[update]; such allegations are denied by the universities in question. Asian quotas are compared to the earlier Jewish quotas, which limited admissions of a model minority from the 1910s to the 1950s, and was denied at the time, but whose existence is now not disputed;     some have thus called Asian-Americans "The New Jews" of university admissions.  More generally, by various measures admissions have a bias against Asian applicants, though not necessarily a strict quota: for example, successful Asian applicants have on average higher test scores than the overall average.  The perceived bias against applicants of Asian descent has been termed a "bamboo ceiling" or "Asian penalty".  Alleged Asian quotas have been the subject of government investigations and lawsuits, with some minor conclusions of their existence, though no major judgements, as of  2017[update].  The primary evidence in favor of the existence of an Asian quota in United States universities admissions is statistical: over the 1990s and 2000s, when the college-age population of Asian-American roughly doubled (and the overall college-age population increased much less), the percentage of admitted Asian-Americans at Ivy League schools not only declined, but converged to a narrow range across different schools, and has stayed relatively constant from year to year.  By comparison, at schools that had race-blind policies, such as in the University of California system (notably its prestigious campuses at Berkeley, UCLA, San Diego, Davis, and Irvine) and the California Institute of Technology, Asian-American admissions increased in line with population, and at academic contests, such as International Science Olympiads, Asian representation increased substantially over this period.  Regarding Harvard admissions, Ron Unz writes:  Harvard had always had a significant Asian-American enrollment, generally running around 5 percent when I had attended in the early 1980s. But during the following decade, the size of America's Asian middle class grew rapidly, leading to a sharp rise in applications and admissions, with Asians exceeding 10 percent of undergraduates by the late 1980s and crossing the 20 percent threshold by 1993. However, from that year forward, the Asian numbers went into reverse, generally stagnating or declining during the two decades which followed, with the official 2011 figure being 17.2 percent. Even more surprising has been the sheer constancy of these percentages, with almost every year from 1995–2011 showing an Asian enrollment within a single point of the 16.5 percent average, despite huge fluctuations in the number of applications and the inevitable uncertainty surrounding which students will accept admission. By contrast, prior to 1993 Asian enrollment had often changed quite substantially from year to year. It is interesting to note that this exactly replicates the historical pattern observed by Karabel, in which Jewish enrollment rose very rapidly, leading to imposition of an informal quota system, after which the number of Jews fell substantially, and thereafter remained roughly constant for decades. On the face of it, ethnic enrollment levels which widely diverge from academic performance data or application rates and which remain remarkably static over time provide obvious circumstantial evidence for at least a de facto ethnic quota system. While California is more Asian than other regions of the United States, it admits students nationally and internationally, and thus the above numbers are not solely reflective of regional demographics. By contrast, in New York City, which has the country's largest urban Asian population, the prestigious specialized high schools of Stuyvesant High School and Bronx Science have majority Asian student bodies, which increased over the 1990s and 2000s, but at Columbia University, which is in the Ivy League, the Asian undergraduate population fell from 22.7% in 1993 to 15.6% in 2011.  Ivy League universities deny that there is an Asian quota.  Due to the sensitivity of college admissions and racial preferences generally, and legal concerns (government investigations, court decisions, and ongoing  or future litigation),  official statements are largely blanket denials, and a defense of holistic admission, rather than specific answers to charges. Some historians  and former admissions officers  likewise deny that there is an Asian quota or a bias against Asian applicants, or conclude as much. More generally, the bias in test scores (the fact that successful Asian applicants have higher test scores than successful applicants overall) is ascribed to applicants being judged on more than test scores.  Stated formally, rather than higher test scores among successful Asian applicants meaning that an individual Asian applicant must meet a higher bar than an otherwise identical non-Asian applicant, it may simply be a reflection that Asians have relatively higher test scores: compared to the overall applicant pool, Asians have higher test scores, and a borderline Asian applicant will have higher test scores, but be lower on all other non-academic measures, than the average borderline applicant. Racial quotas are illegal in United States college admissions, but race can be used as a factor in admissions decisions (affirmative action), as decided in Regents of the Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke (1978) and re-affirmed in Fisher v. University of Texas (2013). Lawsuits have been filed on this basis, including: Harvard University was sued in 2018 for allegedly downgrading Asian Americans application scores to reduce amount of admission.  The United States Justice Department later stated that Harvard did not demonstrate that they did not discriminate during admissions based on race.  