The Grant Study is part of the Study of Adult Development at Harvard Medical School. It is a 75-year longitudinal study of 268 physically- and mentally-healthy Harvard college sophomores from the classes of 1939–1944.  It has run in tandem with a study called "The Glueck Study," which included a second cohort of 456 disadvantaged nondelinquent inner-city youths who grew up in Boston neighborhoods between 1940 and 1945.  The subjects were all male and of American nationality. The men continue to be studied to this day. The men were evaluated at least every two years by questionnaires, information from their physicians, and in many cases by personal interviews. Information was gathered about their mental and physical health, career enjoyment, retirement experience and marital quality. The goal of the study was to identify predictors of healthy aging. The study, its methodology and results are described in three books by a principal investigator in the study, George Vaillant. The first book  describes the study up to a time when the men were 47 years of age, and the second book  to when the inner-city men were 70 years old and the Harvard group were eighty. In 2012, Vaillant and Harvard University Press published Triumphs of Experience, sharing more findings from the Grant Study.  The study is part of The Study of Adult Development, which is now under the direction of Dr. Robert J. Waldinger  at Massachusetts General Hospital. The study included four members who ran for the U.S. Senate. One served in a presidential Cabinet, and one was President John F. Kennedy.  The study is unique partly because of the long time span of the cohort, and also partly because of the high social status of some of the study participants. George Vaillant, who directed the study for more than three decades, has published  a summation of the key insights the study has yielded: Vaillant's main conclusion is that "warmth of relationships throughout life has the greatest positive impact on 'life satisfaction'". Put differently, Vaillant says the study shows: "Happiness is love. Full stop." 