Option Grid  is the name for a tool for patients and providers to use together when they are discussing and deciding what best to do about possible options, either treatments or tests.     The grid is published in the form of a summary table to enable comparisons between multiple potential treatments or options.  The grids do this by using questions that patients frequently ask (FAQs), and are designed for use in face-to-face clinical encounters or to be given to patients to read for a few minutes, ahead of a conversation with a provider. The key to the grids is the use of frequently asked questions (FAQs) that relate to the most common or most important concerns of patients. It is important to choose these FAQs carefully and to limit them to those that can be considered briefly. These FAQs are based on evidence where possible, and final versions are developed by teams of patients, clinicians, and editors. All Grids are written at a reading level of 10–12 years, in accordance with the plain English campaign guides. The evidence summaries upon which Option Grids are based are available for public review at the official Option Grid website. A number of option grids exist including: The Option Grid Collaborative is a not-for-profit group of over 90 people, made up of patient representatives, medical experts, and clinicians involved in supporting shared decision making via the creation of Option Grids. The Collaborative welcomes new members who wish to create new Option Grids according to the group’s agreed-upon process, which involves a thorough review of best available evidence and user testing process. Interested members should visit the Official Website in the links below for more information about how to get involved. Collaborative members receive support and guidance for Option Grid development from Dartmouth College throughout the process. The Collaborative operates under a Creative Commons license, which is a type of public copyright license that enables authors to give others the right to collaborate and build upon their work according to guidelines specified by the author. The Collaborative’s specific license, CC-BY-NC-ND, allows others to download the group’s work and share it so long as they credit the source, do not make changes, and do not use it commercially. 