Zavoloka (full name, Kateryna Zavoloka) is a contemporary experimental music and electronic music composer, sound artist, improviser, performer and graphic designer from Kiev, the capital of Ukraine. She was born in 1981. The word zavoloka means deep fog and also maverick in Ukrainian. Zavoloka's main interests in music are to mix ancient Ukrainian traditions with modern electronic music technology. She combines melodic experimental electronic music with self-recorded Ukrainian folk music. In 2003, the Nexsound label released her first album Suspenzia. At the end of 2003 the CD "I" appeared on the American label Zeromoon. Her full-length CD "Plavyna" was debuted at the beginning of 2005 under the Austrian label Laton and under the Ukrainian label Nexsound. The CD took an honorary mention at the Prix Ars Electronica in 2005. In the June 2007 issue of The Wire (magazine)  there was an article detailing Zavoloka's music. In addition, one collaborative track with Kotra appeared on the magazine's Wire Tapper 16 and her solo composition "Inhale", from Viter, was featured on the Wire Tapper 20. In 2011 Zavoloka released "Vedana" CD and in 2007 Viter on the label Kvitnu, 2 of the series of albums dedicated to Elements of Air, Water, Earth and Fire. In 2008 Zavoloka received the "Gaude Polonia" grant, hosted by National Centre for Culture, Ministry of Culture in Poland, and worked at the Electroacoustic Studio at the Cracow Music Academy. She has also worked at the different studios, including EMS in Stockholm, Sweden and the INA-GRM studio in Paris. Zavoloka is a graphic designer for Kvitnu, also has designed works for the Detali Zvuku festival, Kvitnu Fest, for Seefeel "Seefeel" album, "Faults" EP and others. Zavoloka performs live regularly and has played at many international music festivals around the world like: Presences Electronique (Groupe de Recherches Musicales, INA-GRM), club transmediale  , Kvitnu Fest, Madeiradig, Unsound NYC, Detali Zvuku festival, Being the Future, Les Urbaines, Stimul, Garage, Unsound, Femmes, Cimatics, Interferenze, Radius, Nuit Bleue, EME07, AudioVisiva and others. In 2011 Zavoloka was specially invited by Aphex Twin (UK) to support his audiovisual rave shows in UK and Denmark.  Zavoloka "Plavyna" (CD) was honorary mentioned at the Prix Ars Electronica in 2005. 