  The National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters Ltd (known as NAATI) is the national standards and accreditation body for translators and interpreters in Australia. NAATI's mission, as outlined in the NAATI Constitution, is to set and maintain high national standards in translating and interpreting to enable the existence of a pool of accredited translators and interpreters responsive to the changing needs and demography of the Australian community. The core focus of the company is issuing credentials (known as accreditations or recognitions) for practitioners who wish to work as translators and interpreters in Australia. NAATI is a profit company that is jointly owned by the Commonwealth, State and Territory governments of Australia. It is governed by a board of directors who are appointed by the members. The members of NAATI are the nine ministers who are responsible for multicultural affairs and/or citizenship in the Commonwealth, State and Territory governments. Members may appoint a representative to exercise any of their powers in relation to NAATI. These Member Representatives are separate to the NAATI board of directors. The current members of NAATI include: NAATI provides eight key services to assist individuals gain and maintain a credential to work as a translator or interpreter in Australia. These services include: There are two types of NAATI credentials – accreditation and recognition. NAATI accreditation is an acknowledgement that an individual has demonstrated the ability to meet the professional standards required by the translation and interpreting industry. NAATI assesses practitioners and aspiring translators and interpreters against these standards so that English speaking and non-English speaking Australians can interact effectively with each other. There are a couple of different ways you can gain NAATI accreditation, including: NAATI recognition is granted in emerging languages or languages with very low community demand for which NAATI does not offer accreditation. The granting of NAATI recognition is an acknowledgement that an individual has recent and regular experience as a translator and/or interpreter with no defined skill level. Under NAATI's current system, there are ten different types of credentials. These are listed in the table below. NAATI translator accreditation (professional level or higher) is usually awarded in one of the following directions: NAATI interpreter accreditations (at all levels) are awarded in both directions. Occasionally, NAATI has awarded accreditation in a language combination that does not feature English at the Conference Interpreter or Advanced Translator level e.g. Advanced Translator French to German or Conference Interpreter (Senior) French to/from Russian. This sort of accreditation can only be awarded on the basis of a professional membership of an international association such as AIIC or AITC. 