"The Internationale" ("French: L'Internationale") is a left-wing anthem. It has been a standard of the socialist movement since the late nineteenth century, when the Second International adopted it as its official anthem. The title arises from the "First International", an alliance of workers which held a congress in 1864. The author of the anthem's lyrics, anarchist Eugène Pottier, attended this congress. The original French refrain of the song is C'est la lutte finale / Groupons-nous et demain / L'Internationale / Sera le genre humain. (English: "This is the final struggle / Let us group together and tomorrow / The Internationale / Will be the human race."). "The Internationale" has been translated into many languages. "The Internationale" has been celebrated by communists, socialists, anarchists, democratic socialists, and social democrats. The original French words were written in June 1871 by Eugène Pottier (1816–1887, previously a member of the Paris Commune)  and were originally intended to be sung to the tune of "La Marseillaise".  In 1888 Pierre De Geyter (1848–1932) set the earlier lyrics to a new melody, composed especially for Pottier's lyrics.  De Geyter's melody was first publicly performed in July 1888,  and soon thereafter Pottier's lyrics became closely associated with, and widely used with, De Geyter's new melody. Thus "The Internationale" gained an identity that was entirely distinct, and no longer in any way directly tied to the French national anthem, the Marseillaise. In a successful attempt to save Pierre De Geyter's job as a woodcarver, the 6,000 leaflets printed by Lille printer Bolboduc only mentioned the French version of his family name (Degeyter). In 1904, Pierre's brother Adolphe was induced by the Lille mayor Gustave Delory (fr) to claim copyright, so that the income of the song would continue to go to Delory's French Socialist Party. Pierre De Geyter lost the first copyright case in 1914, but after his brother committed suicide and left a note explaining the fraud, Pierre was declared the copyright owner by a court of appeal in 1922.  In 1972 "Montana Edition", owned by Hans R. Beierlein (de), bought the rights to the song for 5,000 Deutschmark, first for the territory of the former West Germany, then in the former East Germany, then worldwide. East Germany paid Montana Edition 20,000 DM every year for its rights to play the music. Pierre De Geyter died in 1932, causing the copyrights to expire in 2002.  Luckhardt's German text is public domain since 1984. As the "Internationale" music was published before 1 July 1909 outside the United States of America, it is in the public domain in the United States.  As of 2013, Pierre De Geyter's music is also in the public domain in countries and areas whose copyright durations are authors' lifetime plus 80 years or less.  Due to France's wartime copyright extensions (prorogations de guerre), SACEM claims that the music was still copyrighted in France until October 2014.  As Eugène Pottier died in 1887, his original French lyrics are in the public domain. Gustave Delory once acquired the copyright of his lyrics through the songwriter G B Clement having bought it from Pottier's widow.  Debout, les damnés de la terre Debout, les forçats de la faim La raison tonne en son cratère C'est l'éruption de la fin Du passé faisons table rase Foule esclave, debout, debout Le monde va changer de base Nous ne sommes rien, soyons tout  Chorus C'est la lutte finale Groupons-nous, et demain L'Internationale Sera le genre humain.  Il n'est pas de sauveurs suprêmes Ni Dieu, ni César, ni tribun Producteurs, sauvons-nous nous-mêmes Décrétons le salut commun Pour que le voleur rende gorge Pour tirer l'esprit du cachot Soufflons nous-mêmes notre forge Battons le fer quand il est chaud.  Chorus  L'État comprime et la loi triche L'impôt saigne le malheureux Nul devoir ne s'impose au riche Le droit du pauvre est un mot creux C'est assez, languir en tutelle L'égalité veut d'autres lois Pas de droits sans devoirs dit-elle Égaux, pas de devoirs sans droits.  Chorus  Hideux dans leur apothéose Les rois de la mine et du rail Ont-ils jamais fait autre chose Que dévaliser le travail ? Dans les coffres-forts de la bande Ce qu'il a créé s'est fondu En décrétant qu'on le lui rende Le peuple ne veut que son dû.  Chorus  Les rois nous saoulaient de fumées Paix entre nous, guerre aux tyrans Appliquons la grève aux armées Crosse en l'air, et rompons les rangs S'ils s'obstinent, ces cannibales À faire de nous des héros Ils sauront bientôt que nos balles Sont pour nos propres généraux.  Chorus  Ouvriers, paysans, nous sommes Le grand parti des travailleurs La terre n'appartient qu'aux hommes L'oisif ira loger ailleurs Combien de nos chairs se repaissent Mais si les corbeaux, les vautours Un de ces matins disparaissent Le soleil brillera toujours.  Chorus Stand up, damned of the Earth Stand up, prisoners of starvation Reason thunders in its volcano This is the eruption of the end. Of the past let us make a clean slate Enslaved masses, stand up, stand up. The world is about to change its foundation We are nothing, let us be all.  Chorus This is the final struggle Let us group together, and tomorrow The Internationale Will be the human race.  There are no supreme saviours Neither God, nor Caesar, nor tribune. Producers, let us save ourselves, Decree the common salvation. So that the thief expires, So that the spirit be pulled from its prison, Let us fan our forge ourselves Strike the iron while it is hot.  Chorus  The State oppresses and the law cheats. Tax bleeds the unfortunate. No duty is imposed on the rich; The rights of the poor is an empty phrase. Enough languishing in custody! Equality wants other laws: No rights without duties, she says, Equally, no duties without rights.  Chorus  Hideous in their apotheosis The kings of the mine and of the rail. Have they ever done anything other Than steal work? Inside the safeboxes of the gang, What work had created melted. By ordering that they give it back, The people want only their due.  Chorus  The kings made us drunk with fumes, Peace among us, war to the tyrants! Let the armies go on strike, Stocks in the air, and break ranks. If they insist, these cannibals On making heroes of us, They will know soon that our bullets Are for our own generals.  Chorus  Workers, peasants, we are The great party of labourers. The earth belongs only to men; The idle will go to reside elsewhere. How much of our flesh have they consumed? But if these ravens, these vultures Disappear one of these days, The sun will still shine forever.  Chorus The German version, "Die Internationale", was used by East German anti-Stalinists in 1953 and again during the 1989 protests which toppled SED rule. When numerous East Germans were arrested for protesting the 40th anniversary celebrations for the GDR, several of them sang the hymn in police custody to embarrass their captors, and imply that they had abandoned the socialist cause they were supposed to serve.  Luckhardt's version, the standard German translation, of the final line of the chorus tellingly reads: "Die Internationale erkämpft das Menschenrecht". (The Internationale will win our human rights.) It was coupled with the chant: "Volkspolizei, steh dem Volke bei" (People's police, stand with the people!)  "The Internationale" in Chinese (simplified Chinese: 国际歌; traditional Chinese: 國際歌; pinyin: Guójìgē), literally the "International Song", has several different sets of lyrics. One such version served as the de facto anthem of the Communist Party of China,  the national anthem of the Chinese Soviet Republic,  as well as a rallying song of the students and workers at the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989.  The Russian version was initially translated by Arkady Kots in 1902 and printed in London in Zhizn, a Russian émigré magazine. The first Russian version consisted of three stanzas (as opposed to six stanzas in the original French lyrics, and based on stanzas 1, 2 and 6) and the refrain. After the Bolshevik Revolution in Russia, the text was slightly re-worded to get rid of "now useless" future tenses – particularly the refrain was reworded (the future tense was replaced by the present, and the first person plural possessive pronoun was introduced). In 1918, the chief-editor of Izvestia, Yuri Steklov, appealed to Russian writers to translate the other three stanzas and in the end, the song was expanded into six stanzas.  In 1944, the Soviet Union adopted the "Hymn of the Soviet Union" as its national anthem. Prior to that time, "The Internationale" served as the principal musical expression of allegiance to the ideals of the October Revolution and the Soviet Union (the "Internationale" continued to be recognized as the official song of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, and the post-1919 Soviet version is still used by the Communist Party of the Russian Federation). The full song is as follows: Вставай, проклятьем заклеймённый, Весь мир голодных и рабов! Кипит наш разум возмущённый И в смертный бой вести готов. Весь мир насилья мы разрушим До основанья, а затем Мы наш, мы новый мир построим, – Кто был ничем, тот станет всем.  Chorus Это есть наш последний И решительный бой; С Интернационалом Воспрянет род людской!  Никто не даст нам избавленья: Ни бог, ни царь и не герой! Добьёмся мы освобожденья Своею собственной рукой. Чтоб свергнуть гнёт рукой умелой, Отвоевать своё добро, – Вздувайте горн и куйте смело, Пока железо горячо!  Chorus  Довольно кровь сосать, вампиры, Тюрьмой, налогом, нищетой! У вас — вся власть, все блага мира, А наше право — звук пустой ! Мы жизнь построим по-иному – И вот наш лозунг боевой: Вся власть народу трудовому! А дармоедов всех долой!  Chorus  Презренны вы в своём богатстве, Угля и стали короли! Вы ваши троны, тунеядцы, На наших спинах возвели. Заводы, фабрики, палаты – Всё нашим создано трудом. Пора! Мы требуем возврата Того, что взято грабежом.  Chorus  Довольно королям в угоду Дурманить нас в чаду войны! Война тиранам! Мир Народу! Бастуйте, армии сыны! Когда ж тираны нас заставят В бою геройски пасть за них – Убийцы, в вас тогда направим Мы жерла пушек боевых!  Chorus  Лишь мы, работники всемирной Великой армии труда, Владеть землёй имеем право, Но паразиты — никогда! И если гром великий грянет Над сворой псов и палачей, – Для нас всё так же солнце станет Сиять огнём своих лучей.  Chorus Vstavay, proklyat′yem zakleymyonny, Ves′ mir golodnykh i rabov! Kipit nash razum vozmushchyonnyy I v smertnyy boy vesti gotov. Ves′ mir nasil′ya my razrushim Do osnovan′ya, a zatem My nash, my novyy mir postroim, – Kto byl nichem, tot stanet vsem.  Chorus Eto yest nash posledniy I reshitel′nyy boy; S Internatsionalom vospryanet rod lyudskoy!  Nikto ne dast nam izbavlen′ya: Ni bog, ni tsar′ i ne geroy! Dob′yomsya my osvobozhden′ya Svoyeyu sobstvennoy rukoy. Chtob svergnut′ gnyot rukoy umeloy, Otvoyevat′ svoyo dobro, – Vzduvayte gorn i kuyte smelo, Poka zhelezo goryacho!  Chorus  Dovol′no krov′ sosat′, vampiry, Tyur′moy, nalogom, nishchetoy! U vas — vsya vlast′, vse blaga mira, A nashe pravo — zvuk pustoy! My zhizn′ postroim po-inomu – I vot nash lozung boyevoy: Vsya vlast′ narodu trudovomu! A darmoyedov vsekh doloy!  Chorus  Prezrenny vy v svoyom bogatstve, Uglya i stali koroli! Vy vashi trony, tuneyadtsy, Na nashikh spinakh vozveli. Zavody, fabriki, palaty – Vsyo nashim sozdano trudom. Pora! My trebuyem vozvrata Togo, chto vzyato grabezhom.  Chorus  Dovol′no korolyam v ugodu Durmanit′ nas v chadu voyny! Voyna tiranam! Mir Narodu! Bastuyte, armii syny! Kogda zh tirany nas zastavyat V boyu geroyski past′ za nikh – Ubiytsy, v vas togda napravim my zherla pushek boyevykh!  Chorus  Lish′ my, rabotniki vsemirnoy Velikoy armii truda, Vladet′ zemlyoy imeyem pravo, No parazity — nikogda! I yesli grom velikiy gryanet Nad svoroy psov i palachey, – Dlya nas vsyo tak zhe solntse stanet siyat′ ognyom svoikh luchey.  Chorus' Stand up, ones who are branded by the curse, All the world's starving and enslaved! Our outraged minds are boiling, Ready to lead us into a deadly fight. We will destroy this world of violence Down to the foundations, and then We will build our new world. He who was nothing will become everything!  Chorus This is our final and decisive battle; With the Internationale humanity will rise up!  No one will grant us deliverance, Not god, nor tsar, nor hero. We will win our liberation, With our very own hands. To throw down oppression with a skilled hand, To take back what is ours – Fire up the furnace and hammer boldly, while the iron is still hot!  Chorus  You've sucked enough of our blood, you vampires, With prison, taxes and poverty! You have all the power, all the blessings of the world, And our rights are but an empty sound! We'll make our own lives in a different way – And here is our battle cry: All the power to the people of labour! And away with all the parasites!  Chorus  Contemptible you are in your wealth, You kings of coal and steel! You had your thrones, parasites, At our backs erected. All the factories, all the chambers – All were made by our hands. It's time! We demand the return Of that which was stolen from us.  Chorus  Enough of the will of kings Stupefying us into the haze of war! War to the tyrants! Peace to the people! Go on strike, sons of the army! And if the tyrants tell us To fall heroically in battle for them – Then, murderers, we will point The muzzles of our cannons at you!  Chorus  Only we, the workers of the worldwide Great army of labour, Have the right to own the land, But the parasites — never! And if the great thunder rolls Over the pack of dogs and executioners, For us, the sun will forever Shine on with its fiery beams.  Chorus The traditional British version of "The Internationale" is usually sung in three verses, while the American version, written by Charles Hope Kerr with five verses, is usually sung in two.   The American version is sometimes sung with the phrase "the internationale", "the international soviet", or "the international union" in place of "the international working class". In English renditions, "Internationale" is sometimes sung as /ɪntərnæʃəˈnæli/ rather than the French pronunciation of [ɛ̃tɛʁnasjɔnal(ə)]. Billy Bragg was asked by Pete Seeger to sing "The Internationale" with him at the Vancouver Folk Festival in 1989. Bragg thought the traditional English lyrics were archaic and unsingable (Scottish musician Dick Gaughan  and former Labour MP Tony Benn  disagreed), and composed a new set of lyrics.  The recording was released on his album The Internationale along with reworkings of other socialist songs. Arise, ye workers from your slumber, Arise, ye prisoners of want. For reason in revolt now thunders, and at last ends the age of cant! Away with all your superstitions, Servile masses, arise, arise! We'll change henceforth the old tradition, And spurn the dust to win the prize!  Chorus So comrades, come rally, And the last fight let us face. The Internationale Unites the human race.          No more deluded by reaction, On tyrants only we'll make war! The soldiers too will take strike action, They'll break ranks and fight no more! And if those cannibals keep trying, To sacrifice us to their pride, They soon shall hear the bullets flying, We'll shoot the generals on our own side.  Chorus  No saviour from on high delivers, No faith have we in prince or peer. Our own right hand the chains must shiver, Chains of hatred, greed and fear. E'er the thieves will out with their booty, And to all give a happier lot. Each at his forge must do their duty, And we'll strike the iron while it's hot.  Chorus Stand up, all victims of oppression, For the tyrants fear your might! Don't cling so hard to your possessions, For you have nothing if you have no rights! Let racist ignorance be ended, For respect makes the empires fall! Freedom is merely privilege extended, Unless enjoyed by one and all.  Chorus So come brothers and sisters, For the struggle carries on. The Internationale Unites the world in song. So comrades, come rally, For this is the time and place! The international ideal Unites the human race.  Let no one build walls to divide us, Walls of hatred nor walls of stone. Come greet the dawn and stand beside us, We'll live together or we'll die alone. In our world poisoned by exploitation, Those who have taken, now they must give! And end the vanity of nations, We've but one Earth on which to live.  Chorus  And so begins the final drama, In the streets and in the fields. We stand unbowed before their armour, We defy their guns and shields! When we fight, provoked by their aggression, Let us be inspired by life and love. For though they offer us concessions, Change will not come from above!  Chorus Arise, ye prisoners of starvation! Arise, ye wretched of the earth! For justice thunders condemnation: A better world's in birth! No more tradition's chains shall bind us; Arise, ye slaves, no more in thrall! The earth shall rise on new foundations: We have been nought, we shall be all!  Chorus 'Tis the final conflict; Let each stand in his place. The International working class Shall be the human race!          We want no condescending saviors To rule us from a judgment hall; We workers ask not for their favors; Let us consult for all. To make the thief disgorge his booty To free the spirit from its cell, We must ourselves decide our duty, We must decide, and do it well.  Chorus  Toilers from shops and fields united, The union we of all who work: The earth belongs to us, the workers, No room here for the shirk. How many on our flesh have fattened! But if the noisome birds of prey Shall vanish from the sky some morning, The blessed sunlight still will stay.  Chorus The most common and official Chinese version is the de facto anthem of the Communist Party of China.  It was first translated on 15 June 1923 from the Russian version by Qu Qiubai (Chinese: 瞿秋白),  a leading member of the Communist Party of China in the late 1920s. His translation has transliterated "The Internationale" as Yīngtènàxióngnài'ěr (simplified Chinese: 英特纳雄耐尔; traditional Chinese: 英特納雄耐爾) when singing the phrase in Standard Chinese. When the Chinese Soviet Republic was established in 1931, it was decided to be its national anthem.  As he was executed by the Kuomintang in 1935, his Chinese translation is in the public domain wherever the duration of copyright is an author's lifetime plus up to 70 years, including Chinese-speaking Mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan (lifetime plus 50 years in these places), and Singapore (lifetime plus 70 years). The three Chinese lyrics roughly correspond to the three Russian lyrics by Arkady Kots and the first, second, and sixth French lyrics by Eugène Pottier. The fourth and fifth stanzas are not used in the official Chinese version and the PRC forbids the use of them in public performances of the song.   The song was a rallying anthem of the demonstrators at the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, and was repeatedly sung both while marching to the Square and within the Square....many hundreds of people (not only students) appeared on the street. They ran after the trucks and shouted protest slogans. A few stones were thrown. The soldiers opened fire with live ammunition. The crowd threw themselves on the ground, but quickly followed the convoy again. The more shots were fired, the more the crowd got determined and outraged. Suddenly they started singing "The Internationale"; they armed themselves with stones and threw them towards the soldiers. There were also a few Molotov cocktails and the last truck was set on fire. 起來，饑寒交迫的奴隸， 起來，全世界受苦的人！ 滿腔的熱血已經沸騰， 要為真理而鬥爭！ 舊世界打個落花流水， 奴隸們起來起來！ 不要說我們一無所有， 我們要做天下的主人！  Chorus 這是最後的鬥爭， 團結起來到明天， 英特納雄耐爾 就一定要實現。  從來就沒有什麼救世主， 也不靠神仙皇帝。 要創造人類的幸福， 全靠我們自己！ 我們要奪回勞動果實， 讓思想衝破牢籠。 快把那爐火燒得通紅， 趁熱打鐵才能成功！  Chorus  是誰創造了人類世界？ 是我們勞動群眾。 一切歸勞動者所有， 哪能容得寄生蟲！ 最可恨那些毒蛇猛獸， 吃盡了我們的血肉。 一旦把他們消滅乾淨， 鮮紅的太陽照遍全球！  Chorus 起来，饥寒交迫的奴隶， 起来，全世界受苦的人！ 满腔的热血已经沸腾， 要为真理而斗争！ 旧世界打个落花流水， 奴隶们起来起来！ 不要说我们一无所有， 我们要做天下的主人！  Chorus 这是最后的斗争， 团结起来到明天， 英特纳雄耐尔 就一定要实现。  从来就没有什么救世主， 也不靠神仙皇帝。 要创造人类的幸福， 全靠我们自己！ 我们要夺回劳动果实， 让思想冲破牢笼。 快把那炉火烧得通红， 趁热打铁才能成功！  Chorus  是谁创造了人类世界？ 是我们劳动群众。 一切归劳动者所有， 哪能容得寄生虫！ 最可恨那些毒蛇猛兽， 吃尽了我们的血肉。 一旦把他们消灭干净， 鲜红的太阳照遍全球！  Chorus Qǐlái, jīhánjiāopò de núlì, Qǐlái, quánshìjiè shòukǔ de rén! Mǎnqiāng de rèxuè yǐjīng fèiténg, Yào wèi zhēnlǐ ér dòuzhēng! Jiù shìjiè dǎ gè luòhuāliúshuǐ, Núlìmen, qǐlái!, qǐlái! Bú yào shuō wǒmen yìwúsuǒyǒu, Wǒmen yào zuò tiānxià de zhǔrén.  Chorus Zhè shì zuìhòu de dòuzhēng, Tuánjié qǐlái, dào míngtiān, Yīngtènàxióngnài'ěr Jiù yídìng yào shíxiàn.  Cónglái jiù méiyǒu shénme jiùshìzhǔ, Yě bú kào shénxiān huángdì. Yào chuàngzào rénlèi de xìngfú, Quán kào wǒmen zìjǐ. Wǒmen yào duóhuí láodòng guǒshí, Ràng sīxiǎng chōngpò láolóng. Kuài bǎ nà lúhuǒ shāo de tōnghóng, Chènrèdǎtiě cái néng chénggōng.  Chorus  Shì shéi chuàngzào le rénlèi shìjiè? Shì wǒmen láodòng qúnzhòng. Yíqiè guī láodòngzhě suǒyǒu, Nǎnéng róngde jìshēngchóng! Zuì kěhèn nàxiē dúshéměngshòu, Chījìn le wǒmen de xuèròu. Yídàn bǎ tāmen xiāomiè gānjìng, Xiānhóng de tàiyáng zhào biàn quánqiú.  Chorus Arise, slaves afflicted by hunger and cold, Arise, suffering people all over the world! The blood which fills my chest has boiled over, We must struggle for truth! The old world shall be destroyed Arise, slaves, arise! Do not say that we have nothing, We shall be the masters of the world!  Chorus This is the final struggle, Unite together towards tomorrow, The Internationale Shall certainly be realised.  There has never been any saviour of the world, Nor deities, nor emperors on which to depend. To create Humankind's happiness We must entirely depend on ourselves! We shall retake the fruits of our labour, And let the mind burst free from its prison cell. Let the flames in the furnace burn red-hot, For only when the iron is hot will we succeed in forging it!  Chorus  Who is it that created the world of humankind? It is us, the masses. Everything is for workers, How can parasites be accommodated! The most detestable are those poisonous snakes and savage beasts Eating up our flesh and blood. Exterminate them all at once, The red sun will shine all over the globe!  Chorus Note that the lyrics above were translated from the first, second and sixth (last) stanza of the French original. When commemorating the 55th anniversary of the Paris Commune on 18 March 1926, the National Revolutionary Army printed a music sheet with three lyrics of "The Internationale" in Chinese, roughly corresponding to the first, second, and sixth French lyrics by Eugène Pottier. When singing refrain twice after each lyric, "The Internationale" is transliterated first as Yīngtè'ěrlāxióngnà'ěr (Chinese: 英特爾拉雄納爾) and second as Yīngtè'ěrnàxióngnà'ěr (Chinese: 英特爾納雄納爾). 起來飢寒交迫的奴隸， 起來全世界上的罪人！ 滿腔的熱血已經沸騰， 作一最後的戰爭！ 舊世界打他落花流水， 奴隸們起來起來！ 莫要說我們一錢不值， 我們要做天下的主人！  （副歌） 這是最後的爭鬥， 團結起來到明天， 英特爾拉雄納爾 就一定要實現。  從來沒有什麼救世主， 不是神仙也不是皇帝。 更不是那些英雄豪傑， 全靠自己救自己！ 要殺盡那些強盜狗命， 就要有犧牲精神。 快快的當這爐火通紅， 趁火打鐵才能夠成功！  （副歌）  誰是世界上的創造者？ 只有我們勞苦的工農。 一切只歸生產者所有， 哪裡容得寄生蟲！ 我們的熱血流了多少， 只把那殘酷惡獸。 倘若是一旦殺滅盡了， 一輪紅日照遍五大洲！  （副歌） 起来饥寒交迫的奴隶， 起来全世界上的罪人！ 满腔的热血已经沸腾， 作一最后的战争！ 旧世界打他落花流水， 奴隶们起来起来！ 莫要说我们一钱不值， 我们要做天下的主人！  （副歌） 这是最后的争斗， 团结起来到明天， 英特尔拉雄纳尔 就一定要实现。  从来没有什么救世主， 不是神仙也不是皇帝。 更不是那些英雄豪杰， 全靠自己救自己！ 要杀尽那些强盗狗命， 就要有牺牲精神。 快快的当这炉火通红， 趁火打铁才能够成功！  （副歌）  谁是世界上的创造者？ 只有我们劳苦的工农。 一切只归生产者所有， 哪里容得寄生虫！ 我们的热血流了多少， 只把那残酷恶兽。 倘若是一旦杀灭尽了， 一轮红日照遍五大洲！  （副歌） Qǐlái, jīhánjiāopò de núlì, Qǐlái, quánshìjiè shàng de zuìrén! Mǎnqiāng de rèxuè yǐjīng fèiténg, Zuòyí zuìhòude zhànzhēng! Jiù shìjiè dǎ tā luòhuāliúshuǐ, Núlìmen, qǐlái, qǐlái! Mò yào shuō wǒmen yìqiánbùzhí, Wǒmen yào zuò tiānxià de zhǔrén.  (Fùgē) Zhè shì zuìhòu de zhēngdòu, Tuánjié qǐlái dào míngtiān, Yīngtè'ěrlāxióngnà'ěr Jiù yídìng yào shíxiàn.  Cónglái méiyǒu shénme jiùshìzhǔ, Búshì shénxiān yĕ búshì huángdì. Gèng búshì nàxiē yīngxióng háojié, Quán kào zìjǐ jiù zìjǐ! Yào shājìn nàxiē qiángdào gǒumìng, Jiù yào yǒu xīshēng jīngshén. Kuàikuài de dāngzhè lúhuǒ tōnghóng, Chènhuǒdǎtiě cái nénggòu chénggōng!  (fùgē)  Shéi shì shìjièshàng de chuàngzàozhě? Zhǐyǒu wǒmen láokǔ de gōngnóng. Yíqiè zhǐ guī shēngchǎnzhě suǒyǒu, Nǎlǐ róngde jìshēngchóng! Wǒmen de rèxuè liúle duōshǎo, Zhǐ bǎ nà cánkù èshòu. Tǎngruòshì yídàn shāmiè jìnliǎo, Yìlún hóngrì zhào biàn wǔdàzhōu.  (fùgē) Arise, slaves afflicted by hunger and cold, Arise, persecuted all over the world! The blood which fills my chest has boiled over, Make one last war! The old world, it shall be destroyed. Arise, slaves, arise! Do not say that we are worth nothing, We shall be the masters of the world!  Refrain This is the final struggle, Unite together towards tomorrow, The Internationale Shall certainly be realised.  There has never been any saviour of the world, Nor deities, nor emperors. Not even those heroes, Entirely depend on ourselves to save ourselves! To fully kill those bandits' crestless lives Requires sacrificing spirit. Quickly, while this furnace burns red-hot, For only when the iron is fired will we succeed in forging it!  Refrain  Who is the creator of the world? Only us, hard working labours and farmers. Everything is for producers only, Where can parasites be accommodated! How much hot blood of ours have bled, Only to handle that cruel and evil monster. If it is someday fully killed, A red sun will shine all over the five continents!  Refrain The third, fourth, and fifth French stanzas are not sung in Chinese in the above two versions of Qu and the National Revolutionary Army. Chinese translator Shen Baoji (simplified Chinese: 沈宝基; traditional Chinese: 沈寶基, 1908–2002) has made a complete Chinese translation, published in 1957, of all six French stanzas,.  Shen's translation has transliterated "The Internationale" as Yīngdāi'ěrnàxī'àonà'ěr (simplified Chinese: 因呆尔那西奥纳尔; traditional Chinese: 因呆爾那西奧納爾) in the stanzas, different from the transliterations of Qu and the National Revolutionary Army. As the Copyright Law of the People's Republic of China grants individuals copyright for their lifetime plus 50 years, Shen's translation is expected to remain copyrighted there until the end of 2052. In addition to the Mandarin version, "The Internationale" also has Cantonese  and Taiwanese Hokkien  versions, occasionally used in Hong Kong and Taiwan. The word "Internationale" is not translated in either version. Sources  