Manipal Academy of Higher Education,Manipal- Dubai Campus previously known as Manipal University (MU), Dubai is a branch campus of Manipal University,  India, one of the largest private universities in the country enrolling over 25,000 students across disciplines. Manipal University, Dubai established its presence in UAE in the year 2000 and currently enrolls over 2000 students from over 40 nations across the globe. Since it is a branch campus it awards the same degree as the Indian campus The campus is located in Dubai International Academic City. Manipal Academy of Higher Education Dubai’s campus,  that spreads over 750,000 sq ft in Dubai International Academic City (DIAC), houses a sprawling library, laboratories in Engineering, Biotechnology and Information Technology, cafeteria, indoor & outdoor sporting facilities and studios & workshops for programmes in Media & Communications & Interior Design The University offers a variety of disciplines to pursue, from undergraduate to post graduate programmes in Engineering & Information Technology, Management, Bio Technology, Interior Design & Architecture and Media & Communication to its students. Around 36 programmes are offered across 5 disciplines The university has five schools in total all of which are affiliated with their respective institutes back in the main campus Departments: Various student-led activities happen at the campus that includes students from various other universities and also students from the different schools. Carnival, an annual cultural fest showcases music, dance, fashion, debating, quiz, painting, and photography.  Technovanza is an inter-university technical fest organised by the School of Engineering at Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Dubai. Students get an opportunity to improve their technical skill and also showcase their talent in the field of science and technology. The school of business organizes Genesis an event where the business students organize business related activities where students can showcase their business related talents.   One of the notable student achievements is that of the student team who won the Sustainable Campus Initiative jointly launched by the Emirates Environment Agency Abu Dhabi (EAD) and Borouge in 2014. The goal of the initiative is to enable university students in the UAE to take better responsibility for their ecological footprint on their campuses and extending that into the community.  The University is known to host several program related clubs such as the Student Chapter of IEEE (Institute of Electronics & Electrical Engineers), SAE (Society of Automobile Engineers), ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air conditioning Engineers), ASCE (American Society of Civil Engineers), CIMA  (Charted Institute of Management Accountants, ACCA  (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants) etc In the year 2014, the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Dubai signed an agreement which will allow students to gain CIMA's global certification and title alongside their graduation degree  Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Dubai provides a University Research fund to which faculty members can apply for grants and can partake of to follow their research interests. There is a research committee that constantly monitors the progress of research projects and guides the faculty on the various improvements that can be done to enhance the research outcome. National/International conferences are organised every year to provide a platform for researchers to share their research findings and to help in the teaching and learning process  