Folklore is the expressive body of culture shared by a particular group of people; it encompasses the traditions common to that culture, subculture or group. These include oral traditions such as tales, proverbs and jokes. They include material culture, ranging from traditional building styles to handmade toys common to the group. Folklore also includes customary lore, the forms and rituals of celebrations such as Christmas and weddings, folk dances and initiation rites. Each one of these, either singly or in combination, is considered a folklore artifact. Just as essential as the form, folklore also encompasses the transmission of these artifacts from one region to another or from one generation to the next. For folklore is not taught in a formal school curriculum or studied in the fine arts. Instead these traditions are passed along informally from one individual to another either through verbal instruction or demonstration. The academic study of folklore is called folkloristics. Folklore - Ethnology - Cultural anthropology - Folktale - Oral tradition - Folk art - Folk music - Folk dance - Urban legend - Fairy tale - Children's street culture - Joke - Family folklore - Folkloristics Saint Guinefort was a 13th century dog that received local veneration as a saint after miracles were reported at his grave. His story is a variation on the well-travelled 'faithful hound' motif, perhaps better-known to Anglophones in the form of the dog Gelert. The cult of this dog saint persisted for several decades, until the 1930s, despite the repeated prohibitions of the Catholic Church. Expand stubs: Viltis •  Vytautas Beliajus Articles needing expansion: Intangible Cultural Heritage •  List of folk dance performance groups •  National Folk Festival (USA) Articles needing major improvement: Automobile superstitions •  Great Green Gobs of Greasy, Grimy Gopher Guts Requested articles: Other:  Africa - Albania -  Astrology - Australia - Belgium - Bengal - Brazil - Britain - Canada - Catalonia - China - Christmas - Egypt - England - Estonia -  Europe - Fairy tale - Fakelore - Folk art - Magazines - Folklorists - France - Germany - Greece - Guatemala - Iceland - India - Indonesia - Iran - Ireland - Italy - Jamaica - Japan - Korea - Latin America - Liberia - Legends - Maldives - Maritime - Mexico - Myanmar - Pakistan - Paranormal - Poland - Puerto Rico - Religion - Romani -  No recent news —R. E. Shay  The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 