The tale of Phyllis and Aristotle is a cautionary medieval tale about the triumph of a seductive woman, Phyllis, over the greatest male intellect, the ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle. It is one of several Power of Women stories from that time. Among early versions is the French Lai d'Aristote from 1220. The story of the dominatrix and the famous intellectual was taken up by artists from the 12th century onwards, in media from stone sculpture in churches to panels of wood or ivory, textiles such as carpets and tapestries, engravings, oil paintings, brass jugs (aquamanile), and stained glass. Artists attracted to the theme include Hans Baldung, Albrecht Dürer, Lucas Cranach the Elder, and Alessandro Turchi. The tale varies in the telling, but the core of it is as follows: Aristotle advised his pupil Alexander to avoid the king's seductive mistress, Phyllis, but was himself captivated by her. She agreed to ride him, on condition that she could play the role of dominatrix. Phyllis had secretly told Alexander what to expect, and he witnessed Phyllis proving that a woman's charms could overcome even the greatest philosopher's male intellect. Phyllis is also described as Alexander's mistress, or possibly wife, rather than his father's.    The story is said by the Louvre to derive from the German work by Jacques de Vitry in the 13th century.  The French work Le Lai d'Aristote (fr) (The Lay of Aristotle) is known from manuscripts dating from as early as 1220, attributed by scholars to either Henri d'Andeli or Henri de Valenciennes (fr).    In 1386, the English poet John Gower included a summary of the tale in his Confessio Amantis (in English, unlike his other major works), a collection of stories of immoral love told in verse. It appears in the poem on Apollonius of Tyre (Book 8, 271–2018), where Gower quips that the philosopher's logic and syllogisms do not save him:  Also in the 14th century, the Dominican John Herold wrote a Latin version of the story.   In the 15th century, it was featured in the German comedy Ain Spil van Maister Aristotiles (A play of Master Aristotle).   The cautionary tale of the dominatrix who made a fool of the famous philosopher became popular across medieval Europe.  Medieval sculptors in Maasland created aquamanile, jugs in the forms of scenes with human or other figures, depicting Phyllis and Aristotle. The story was depicted in a variety of media including stone, ivory, brass, carpet, tapestry, and engravings. Stone sculpture, Cadouin Abbey, France, 12th century Panel of casket with scenes of romances, France, ivory, 1330-1350 Carpet, Freiburg, Germany, 14th century Aquamanile in the form of Phyllis and Aristotle, prob. Maasland, 1400–1450, brass Phyllis riding and slapping Aristotle, Aquamanile, Maasland, c. 1400, brass Detail of tapestry, Basel, 1470s Aristotle and Phyllis, the Master of the Housebook, Netherlands, c. 1485 Artists such as Hans Baldung, Albrecht Dürer, Lucas Cranach the Elder, Bartholomeus Spranger and Jan Sadeler continued to exploit the theme, eventually with Phyllis entirely naked.  Alessandro Turchi called the woman Campaspe, the mistress of Alexander. The works used media including engraving, stained glass, wood, and oil painting. Engraving, Lucas van Leyden, c. 1520 Stained glass, Germany, c. 1520 Detail of a Power of Women decoration meant for Nuremberg Town Hall, Albrecht Dürer, 1521 Aristotle and Phyllis, the Master of Ottobeuren, wood, 1523 Phyllis and Aristotle, Lucas Cranach the Elder, oil on panel, 1530 Phyllis and Aristotle, Jan Sadeler after Bartholomeus Spranger, 16th century Aristotle and Campaspe, Alessandro Turchi (attrib.) Oil on canvas, 1713 Artists such as Julio Ruelas continued to adapt the Phyllis and Aristotle theme. Oscar Kokoschka produced a version in 1913.  Le Char (The Chariot), poster by Edward Ancourt (fr) for opera by Emile Pessard, 1878 Sokrates, Julio Ruelas (1870–1907), 1902. The woman wears modern stockings and shoes 