Historiography is the study of the methods of historians in developing history as an academic discipline, and by extension is any body of historical work on a particular subject. The historiography of a specific topic covers how historians have studied that topic using particular sources, techniques, and theoretical approaches. Scholars discuss historiography by topic – such as the "historiography of the United Kingdom", the "historiography of Canada", "historiography of the British Empire", the "historiography of early Islam", the "historiography of China" – and different approaches and genres, such as political history and social history. Beginning in the nineteenth century, with the ascent of academic history, there developed a body of historiographic literature. The extent to which historians are influenced by their own groups and loyalties – such as to their nation state – is a debated question. The research interests of historians change over time, and there has been a shift away from traditional diplomatic, economic, and political history toward newer approaches, especially social and cultural studies. From 1975 to 1995, the proportion of professors of history in American universities identifying with social history increased from 31 to 41 percent, while the proportion of political historians decreased from 40 to 30 percent. In 2007, of 5,723 faculty in the departments of history at British universities, 1,644 (29%) identified themselves with social history and 1,425 (25%) identified themselves with political history. [The] modern [study of] history was born in the nineteenth century, conceived and developed as an instrument of European nationalism. As a tool of nationalist ideology, the history of Europe's nations was a great success, but it has turned our understanding of the past into a toxic waste dump, filled with the poison of ethnic nationalism, and the poison has seeped deep into popular consciousness.Do you have a question about Historiography that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. A page of Bede's Ecclesiastical History of the English People Allegory on writing history by Jacob de Wit (1754). An almost naked Truth keeps an eye on the writer of history. Pallas Athena (Wisdom) on left gives advice. The Roman bust of historian Cato the Elder Macaulay was the most influential exponent of the Whig history Autograph writing of Ibn Khaldun, pioneer of historiography, cultural history, and the philosophy of history. Voltaire's works of history are an excellent example of Enlightenment era advances in accuracy. The 20th century saw the creation of a huge variety of historiographical approaches; one was Marc Bloch's focus on social history rather than traditional political history. Ranke established history as a professional academic discipline in Germany. Edward Gibbon's Decline of the Roman Empire (1776) was a masterpiece of late 18th-century history writing. Jules Michelet (1798–1874), later in his career. Reproduction of part of a tenth-century copy of Thucydides's History of the Peloponnesian War. First page of the Shiji. Hippolyte Taine (1828–1893) Bust of Thucydides, Hellenistic copy of a 4th-century BC work The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 