The International Symmetry Society ("International Society for the Interdisciplinary Study of Symmetry", abbreviated name SIS) is a non-profit organization registered in Hungary (Budapest, Vármegye u. 7. II. 3., H-1052). Its main objectives are:  The topic was introduced for the first time by Russian and Polish scholars. Then in 1952, Hermann Weyl published his fascinating book Symmetry,  which was later translated into 10 languages. Since then, it became an attractive subject of research in various fields. A variety of manifestations of the principle of symmetry in sculpture, painting, architecture, ornament, and design, in organic and inorganic nature has been revealed; the philosophical and mathematical significance of this principle has been studied. During the 1980's the discussions concerning the nature of the world, whether it was essentially probabilistic or naturally geometric, revived the interest of the researchers to the topic. The intellectual atmosphere of this period facilitated the idea of establishment of a new institution devoted to the study of all forms of complexity and patterns of symmetry and orderly structures pervading science, nature and society, that ultimately led to the establishment of the International Society for the Interdisciplinary Study of Symmetry. The Society's community comprises several branches of science and art, while symmetry studies have gained the rank of an individual interdisciplinary field in the judgement of the scientific community. The Society has members in all continents, in over forty countries. The Society was founded in 1989 following a successful international meeting in Budapest.  It has operated continuously since its foundation, publishing printed and web journals and hosting an International Congress and Exhibition entitled Symmetry: Art and Science every three years: Interim full conferences have been held in  A new series of conferences under the general heading Logics of Image have been launched on 2013, planned to take place every two years. This series is co-organised with the Research Group on Universal Logic: The Society is governed by a number of special Boards and Committees. The President of the International Society for the Interdisciplinary Study of Symmetry is Dénes Nagy. Among the Honorary Members of the Society are: Honorary Members of the Society (passed away)   