In relativistic physics, Lorentz symmetry, named for Hendrik Lorentz, is an equivalence of observation or observational symmetry due to special relativity implying that the laws of physics stay the same for all observers that are moving with respect to one another within an inertial frame. It has also been described as "the feature of nature that says experimental results are independent of the orientation or the boost velocity of the laboratory through space".  Lorentz covariance, a related concept, is a property of the underlying spacetime manifold.  Lorentz covariance has two distinct, but closely related meanings: On manifolds, the words covariant and contravariant refer to how objects transform under general coordinate transformations. Both covariant and contravariant four-vectors can be Lorentz covariant quantities. Local Lorentz covariance, which follows from general relativity, refers to Lorentz covariance applying only locally in an infinitesimal region of spacetime at every point. There is a generalization of this concept to cover Poincaré covariance and Poincaré invariance. In general, the (transformational) nature of a Lorentz tensor[clarification needed] can be identified by its tensor order, which is the number of free indices it has. No indices implies it is a scalar, one implies that it is a vector, etc.  Some tensors with a physical interpretation are listed below. The sign convention of the Minkowski metric η = diag (1, −1, −1, −1) is used throughout the article. In standard field theory, there are very strict and severe constraints on marginal and relevant Lorentz violating operators within both QED and the Standard Model. Irrelevant Lorentz violating operators may be suppressed by a high cutoff scale, but they typically induce marginal and relevant Lorentz violating operators via radiative corrections. So, we also have very strict and severe constraints on irrelevant Lorentz violating operators. Since some approaches to quantum gravity lead to violations of Lorentz invariance,  these studies are part of Phenomenological Quantum Gravity. Lorentz violations are allowed in string theory, supersymmetry and Horava-Lifshitz gravity.  Lorentz violating models typically fall into four classes:  Models belonging to the first two classes can be consistent with experiment if Lorentz breaking happens at Planck scale or beyond it, or even before it in suitable preonic models,  and if Lorentz symmetry violation is governed by a suitable energy-dependent parameter. One then has a class of models which deviate from Poincaré symmetry near the Planck scale but still flows towards an exact Poincaré group at very large length scales.  This is also true for the third class, which is furthermore protected from radiative corrections as one still has an exact (quantum) symmetry. Even though there is no evidence of the violation of Lorentz invariance, several experimental searches for such violations have been performed during recent years. A detailed summary of the results of these searches is given in the Data Tables for Lorentz and CPT Violation.  Lorentz invariance is also violated in QFT assuming non-zero temperature.    There is also growing evidence of Lorentz violation in Weyl semimetals and Dirac semimetals.      