 When life gives you lemons, make lemonade is a proverbial phrase used to encourage optimism and a positive can-do attitude in the face of adversity or misfortune. Lemons suggest sourness or difficulty in life, just like lemonade. The phrase was initially coined by Christian anarchist writer Elbert Hubbard in a 1915 obituary he penned and published for dwarf actor Marshall Pinckney Wilder.  The obituary, entitled The King of Jesters, praises Wilder's optimistic attitude and achievements in the face of his disabilities: "He was a walking refutation of that dogmatic statement, Mens sana in corpore sano. His was a sound mind in an unsound body. He proved the eternal paradox of things. He cashed in on his disabilities. He picked up the lemons that Fate had sent him and started a lemonade-stand." Although the expression was coined by Hubbard,    many modern authors   attribute the expression to Dale Carnegie who used it in his 1948 book How to Stop Worrying and Start Living. Carnegie's version reads: "If You Have a Lemon, Make a Lemonade." Carnegie credited Julius Rosenwald for giving him the phrase. The September 1916 edition of the Auburn Seminary Record was the first to publish the phrase following its initial coinage: "[Hugh K. Walker] described a pessimist as one who fletcherizes his bitter pill, the optimist as the man who made lemonade of the lemon handed him." Eight years before Carnegie's book brought the phrase back into the mainstream, a poetic rendition of the phrase entitled The Optimist appeared in a 1940 edition of The Rotarian: "Life handed him a lemon, As Life sometimes will do. His friends looked on in pity, Assuming he was through. They came upon him later, Reclining in the shade In calm contentment, drinking A glass of lemonade."  In 1944, during Homer E. Capehart's first run for Senate, he became known for saying: "I have never been afraid of trouble. I have always had this slogan: If somebody hands you a lemon, make lemonade of it."   Warren Hinckle's 1974 autobiography detailing his time as chief editor of Ramparts is called If You Have a Lemon, Make Lemonade.  The saying has become a popular calque in Hispanic culture.  In 2016, Beyoncé released her sixth album titled Lemonade. The album's theme stems from a quote from Jay-Z's grandmother, Hattie White, featured on the album at the end of track 10 "Freedom", when she says, "I had my ups and downs, but I always find the inner strength to pull myself up. I was served lemons, but I made lemonade." 