Luigi Lavazza S.p.A. (Italian pronunciation: [laˈvattsa]) is an Italian manufacturer of coffee products. Founded in Turin in 1895 by Luigi Lavazza, it was initially run from a small grocery store at Via San Tommaso 10. The business of Lavazza S.p.A. is currently administered by the third and fourth generations of the Lavazza family. Lavazza imports coffee from around the world, including Brazil, Colombia, Guatemala, Costa Rica, Honduras, Uganda, Indonesia, United States and Mexico.  Sustainable production concerns have led the company to develop the ¡Tierra! project, a sustainable agriculture program in Honduras, Colombia and Peru, that seeks to improve the quality of coffee as well as the environmental and working conditions of those communities.  Branded as "Italy's Favourite Coffee," the company claims that 16 million out of the 20 million coffee purchasing families in Italy choose Lavazza.  Among its offerings today are products such as: Qualità Oro, Qualità Rosso, Club, Caffè Espresso, Il Perfetto Espresso, Caffè Crema, Gran Aroma Bar, Super Crema, Crema e Gusto, Crema e Aroma, Top Class, Grand'Espresso, Dek (decaffeinated), and coffee capsules A Modo Mio, "Espresso Point" and BLUE. The company operates a number of retail coffee shops ("Il Caffè di Roma" and "Espression"). The shops offer traditional coffee drinks as well as whole bean and ground coffee for home use. Lavazza, established in Turin, Italy in 1895, has been owned by the family of the same name for four generations. The world's seventh ranking coffee roaster, today Lavazza is the retail market leader in Italy with a market share by value of over 47% (source Nielsen), 2,700 employees and sales of 1,340 million euros (2013). The company has six production sites, four in Italy and two abroad, and operates through associated companies and distributors in more than 90 countries. Lavazza exports 46% of its production today. Lavazza credits itself with inventing the concept of blending, "the art of combining different types of coffee from different geographical areas", in its early years and claims this as a distinctive feature of all its products. The company also has 25 years experience in the production and sale of portioned coffee systems. Today, through ongoing partnerships with an international network of universities and scientific research centers, Lavazza operates four platforms in this segment. In 1979 the company established the "Luigi Lavazza Centre for coffee research" which is "devoted to the study of espresso" and has evolved into the Lavazza Training Centre, a network of over 50 coffee schools worldwide, where 30 thousand people receive training each year. Among the activities promoted by the Lavazza Foundation, established in 2002, is the Tierra project which, in partnership with the Rainforest Alliance, performs research into achieving the "finest end product quality", with a focus on the living conditions of people in coffee producing countries.  Lavazza is the official coffee in the Italian Pavilion at the Expo 2015 in Milan. Lavazza acquired the Carte Noire and Merrild brands from Jacobs Douwe Egberts in February 2016. Lavazza purchased an 80% stake in Canadian-based Kicking Horse Coffee in May 2017.  "Luigi Lavazza S.p.A." is present in over 90 Countries with more than 20 offices and manufacturing plants in Italy and in the rest of the world. In Turin, in Via Bologna, was recently inaugurated "Nuvola",  the new Lavazza Headquarter. The "Nuvola" project is the work of Cino Zucchi Architetti and is at the heart of the recent qualification of the Aurora district. In addition to Turin, Luigi Lavazza S.p.A. has 12 other European offices and is also present in the United States,  in Australia,  South America, India (with two locations) and Morocco. Currently the Lavazza Group includes 21 companies and international offices, including the Turinese Headquarter "Nuvola" and San Tommaso 10, the same old store in Via San Tommaso owned by Luigi Lavazza in the late 1800. The Lavazza Group includes also 4 main manufacturing plants: in Turin there is the first historical manufacturing plant; in Italy Lavazza plants are also present in Gattinara, where Lavazza A Modo Mio, Lavazza Espresso Point and Lavazza Blue capsules are produced, and in Pozzilli, where the decaffeinated coffee is made for the worldwide distribution. Other manufacturing plants are located in France, India and Brazil.The Lavazza Group includes also 4 main manufacturing plants. The first historical plant is in Turin; in 2016 Luigi Lavazza SpA had acquired the French manufacuring plant in Lavérune. Since 1991, Lavazza has produced the "Lavazza Calendar", featuring fashion photography from some of the world's leading photographers.  The calendar is not available for purchase.   Contributors have included Annie Leibovitz in 2009, David LaChapelle in 2002, Helmut Newton in 1993 and 1994, Ellen Von Unwerth in 1995, Eugenio Recuenco in 2007, Erwin Olaf in 2005, and Platon in 2018.    The calendar has become a showpiece of conceptual fashion photography.  