This is a list of articles about notable observed periods (days, weeks, months, and years) declared by various governments, groups and organizations to raise awareness of an issue, commemorate a group or event, or celebrate something. This list does not include official public holidays; for those, see List of holidays by country. For religious holidays and feasts, see Category:Religious holidays. For an overview including all types of holidays, see Lists of holidays. A national or international awareness day or observance is a date usually set by a major organisation or government to commemorate a public health or ethical cause of importance on a national or international level. An  international observance, also known as an international dedication or international anniversary, is a period of time to observe some issue of international interest or concern. This is used to commemorate, promote and mobilize for action. Many of these periods have been established by the United Nations General Assembly (UN), Economic and Social Council, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO),  World Health Organization (WHO) and other United Nations bodies including the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), International Maritime Organization (IMO) and the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). In this case, the lead agency for a particular international observance uses the symbolism of the United Nations (UN), perhaps a specially designed logo for the year, and the UN infrastructure to coordinate events worldwide. It also presents a written report about the event. This summarizes the activities that took place around the world under the auspices of the international observance, and makes recommendations for the future. The lists below include some days, month, years, and decades that have been recognized as international observances by the United Nations, or by other organizations that declare international observances but are not as widely recognized. I'm on youtube Lightningking44 World Neurofibromatosis Day United Nations General Assembly (63rd session) has declared the 19th of June to be celebrated as the World Sickle Cell Day annually to cover almost all the curable criteria through the fast awareness campaign to take this genetic health condition under control all over the world.  See List of month-long observances. Cite error: A list-defined reference has no name (see the help page).  