Internal bleeding (also called internal hemorrhage) is a loss of blood that occurs from the vascular system into a body cavity or space.  It is a serious medical emergency but the extent of severity depends on bleeding rate and location of the bleeding (e.g. heart, brain, stomach, lungs). It can cause death and cardiac arrest if proper medical treatment is not received quickly. A number of medical conditions may lead to internal bleeding. Common causes include trauma, various pathological conditions and complications of medical therapy. Common locations include the gastrointestinal tract, the aorta and intracranial hemorrhage. A contusion (bruise) is a form of internal bleeding, as the blunt trauma causes small blood vessels to rupture on the inside-causing the coloration, due to blunt force, but depending on the severity may not be very serious of an injury. Internal bleeding can be caused by blunt trauma such as high speed deceleration in an automobile accident, or by penetrating trauma such as a ballistic or stab wound.  A number of pathological conditions and diseases can lead to internal bleeding. These include blood vessel rupture as a result of high blood pressure, aneurysms, esophageal varices or peptic ulcers.  Another common cause of internal bleeding is carcinoma (cancer), either of the gastro-intestinal tract, of the lung, or more rarely of other organs such as the prostate, pancreas or kidney.  Other diseases linked to internal bleeding include scurvy, hepatoma, liver cancer, Autoimmune Thrombocytopenia, ectopic pregnancy, malignant hypothermia, ovarian cysts, Vitamin K Deficiency, and hemophilia and malaria. Some viruses may cause a type of internal bleeding called viral hemorrhagic fever, such as the Ebola, Dengue or Marburg viruses, but these are rare.  Internal bleeding could be an iatrogenic artifact as a result of complications after surgical operations or medical treatment. Some medication effects may also lead to internal bleeding, such as the use of  anticoagulant drugs or  antiplatelet drugs in the treatment of coronary artery disease.  Internal bleeding is serious for two reasons: If there is pressure, it may lead to death or a brain hemorrhage. Cases of internal bleeding are usually termed as hemorrhage, even though the term is general to all kinds of bleeding. A minor case of internal bleeding results in ecchymosis, or a bruise: blood expands under the skin, causing discoloration. 