 & Punjabi, This term is often used for a Pahari and Dogri-speaking Rajput Clan   found along the southern slopes of the Pir Panjal region.  This covers the Indian-administered regions of Jammu and Kashmir plus Pakistani-administered Azad Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.  Sarmal (including Sadmal or Surmal) who are predominantly Pahari Rajputs are popularly known as Pahari Raje  and are thought/believed to belong to Suryavanshi Lineage of Hindu Kshatriya Class. These Pahari Rajputs as lived in the lower hills of Dugar Desh (also known as the Dogra Rajputs).  In Rajatarngini, there is mention of Thakkuras, the chiefs of the hills who acknowledged their suzerainty to strong Kashmir rulers. They are being addressed as the Lords of the country by Kalhana.  Sarmals are believed to be the offshoot of these Feudal Lords so referred to as Thakkuras.  Mohd. Habib regards them as the actual fighters in India, much like the knights of Europe. In his words, "the thakur could face death, that was easy for him, but he could not risk captivity".  They were so proficient in fighting that their spirit could be successfully maintained by them until old age. They provided the sure quota of soldiers required during the wars and monarch set up of Kashmir. They were lovers of horses, archery and swords.  In Kalhana Rajatarngini, these Hill-Rajas or Thakurs,   are presented as playing a significant role in Kashmiri politics from the 11th century onward. The Hill-Rajas allied their houses with the royal house of Kashmir through marriage. The kings of Kashmir played a correspondingly powerful role in the local politics of the Hill-Rajas. The goodwill or obedience of the Hill-Rajas must always have been a desideratum for the kings of Kashmir, in order to regulate contact between themselves and the powers of the north Indian plains. Sarmals belongs to Survayansha Dynasty. It is the dynasty in which Incarnation of Lord Ram took place. Sun dynasty is oldest among the kshatriyas.  The societies in the Himalayan region, from Jammu to Himachal Pradesh and from Himachal to Uttrakhand have a similar pattern of history, where numerous small kingdoms were scattered over hills and small valleys. To term it more precisely, these kingdoms was rather fortified villages of warrior—landlords known as Thakurs and Ranas.     These Feudal Lords were Rajputs by lineage. Most of the Rajput groups in this region originated from these kingdoms, the name of which became the name of their clan.Actually, similar for Sarmal Clan which have its origin in Sauram hills of Dugar region of Samba District of Jammu & Kashmir. The family of Rajputs of Sauram Region then began to know as Sarmal who were Suryavanshi Kshatriya.  A majority of them are concentrated in the Samba District of the Indian-administered Jammu & Kashmir. Moreover, they are also scattered in Jammu, Kathua, Doda, Katra, Bhadrawah and neighbouring states like Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. 