Single Visit Dentistry is a recent technologically enabled phenomenon in dentistry that allows crowns, veneers, inlays and onlays, bridges, and implant restorations to be fabricated within the duration of a single dental appointment.  Traditionally these procedures take upwards of two appointments, but as more dental offices are investing in CEREC (Chair-side Economical Restoration of Esthetic Ceramics) technology, the term 'Single Visit Dentistry' is becoming commonplace rhetoric among industry experts and scholars. CEREC (Chair-side Economical Restoration of Esthetic Ceramics) is a method of CAD/CAM (Computer Aided Design/Computer Aided Manufacturing) dentistry developed by W. Mörmann and M. Brandestini at the University of Zurich in 1980. The CEREC name is also a brand name of the Sirona companies (Sirona Australia, Sirona Germany, Sirona USA, and others), because Sirona grew out of the exclusive licensing of the system by Siemens. As the purchase of CEREC technology from the Sirona companies is becoming increasingly commonplace, the phenomenon of Single Visit Dentistry is becoming a mainstream industry standard. This movement indicates a significant change in the way in which the aesthetic dentistry functions and the way in which it is expected to be taught in dental graduate programs (particularly those that focus on the financial aspect of operating a dental practice). Due to this, Biomimetic Dentistry is becoming increasingly relevant. CEREC uses CAD/CAM technology which incorporates a camera, computer, and milling machine into one instrument.  The instrument uses a specialty camera that takes a precise 3-D picture of the tooth or space to be restored. The optical impression is transferred and displayed on a color computer screen where the accredited dentist or trained staff virtually design the restoration.  Then, the CAM takes over and automatically creates the restoration. The last step is when the newly created restoration is bonded to the surface of the old tooth.  This entire process is completed in a single dental appointment.  For the many dental patients that require these procedures, Single Visit Dentistry also means that no more silver fillings, metal in crowns or unnatural looking teeth are necessary since the restoration fabricated by the milling machine is natural looking, biocompatible with tissue found in the mouth, anti-abrasive, and plaque-resistant.  Dental offices equipped with this technology also no longer have to take impressions, make temporaries, or send these molds to a laboratory. This is what allows the traditional second and third visits to be rendered obsolete.  