The Spanish Cybersecurity Research Conference  (Spanish: Jornadas Nacionales de Investigación en Ciberseguridad (JNIC)), is a scientific congress that works as a meeting point where different actors working in the field of cybersecurity research (universities, technological and research centres, companies and public authorities) can exchange knowledge and experience with the shared goal of strengthening research in the Cybersecurity field at the national level. The need to run these kind of conferences was identified during the drafting of the Summary report of the feasibility study and design of a network of centers of excellence in R&D in  cybersecurity,   with the consensus of participants. The strategic plan of the Spanish Network of Excellence on Cybersecurity Research included on its measure #17, the creation of national cybsersecurity R&D+i conferences, intended to be the scientific meeting point in which both the Network of Excellence in particular and the research ecosystem in general could demonstrate their capacities, both in terms of knowledge and talent and in terms of research findings and their potential for transference to market. Equally, the measure #12 of the same study, proposed the design of an open call for proposals with mechanisms to evaluate and select candidates in order to grant awards and acknowledgement for research excellence. Each edition of the conferences is organised by the institution selected according to the procedure laid out in the regulation of the JNIC.  An organising committee is named based on the regulations established for the JNIC, with the General chair of the committee being the representative from the organising institution who is responsible for the event. The Spanish National Cybersecurity Institute (INCIBE) in its mission to support research in cybersecurity for strengthening the cybersecurity sector, participates in the organization of this conference. With the aim of converting the JNIC into a scientific forum of excellence in national cybersecurity field that promotes the innovation, for the first time in the 2017 edition, a complete  Technological Transfer Program  has been designed, that is an instrument to bring final users (companies, organisms, etc.) in contact with researchers in order to solve cybersecurity problems that are currently unresolved, formulated as scientific challenges. After the good reception and the success of participation in this new initiative by challengers and research teams, it is expected that the Program will continue to grow and the Transfer Track will be part of the JNIC in future editions. 