A junior enterprise is a local non-profit organization entirely executed by students. Related to their field of studies the students offer consulting services to the market; experiencing unique learning opportunities by doing professional project work on the one side and managing small- to medium-sized enterprises on the other, by doing this the students add practical experience to their theoretical skills and bridge the gap between academia and the business world. Most Junior Enterprises are linked to universities or business schools. This is an opportunity for students to develop self-confidence and experience entrepreneurship at an early stage in their careers, to add practical experience to the theoretical skills and to provide private business with state-of-the-art knowledge from universities. Due to the particularity of the Junior Enterprise work, the students distinguish themselves for example by their soft skills such as entrepreneurial spirit, team-working, creativity, presentation skills, public speaking, networking and intercultural understanding, work experience,  and project management. The European Confederation of Junior Enterprises was created in 1992 in order to link all the National Confederations of Junior Enterprises in Europe. The founding members were the Netherlands (FNJE), Portugal (JEP), Italy (CIJE), Switzerland (USJE) and France (CNJE). Today, the network counts 20.000 student members in fifteen countries, organised in around 280 Junior Enterprises. JADE coordinates Junior Initiatives all over Europe and fosters their development. Together with Brasil Junior, the Junior Enterprise Network in Brazil, JADE is one of the largest student networks in the world. As the voice of the Junior Enterprise Movement and youth entrepreneurship in Europe, JADE’s mission is to: • Represent the European Junior Enterprise (JE) Movement • Integrate the European Network of Junior Enterprises thus encouraging knowledge exchange and cooperation • Support the development of our members (Confederations and Consultative Members) • Foster the Junior Enterprise Concept to non-member countries • Encourage entrepreneurship among students in higher Education through the Junior Enterprise Concept. Based in Brussels, JADE works closely with the European Institutions, with international organisations (UNESCO, OECD, World Bank) to promote the importance of entrepreneurship education and youth entrepreneurship in young people, providing a valuable learning-by-doing experience and providing students with the skills they will need to be successful in the labour market. The  recognition  and  acceptance  of  the  Junior  Enterprise  movement  by  politicians,  public institutions  and companies, confirms and proofs the concept of junior entrepreneurship:  Diverse studies carried out by JADE, the European Commission and other parties, prove  that  participation  in  a  Junior Enterprise  dramatically  improves  a  student’s  career perspectives, employment and intentions towards entrepreneurship.   Brasil Junior is the world's biggest junior enterprise confederation, composed by more than 320   confederated junior enterprises and more than 11,000 junior entrepreneurs. It has as purpose to represent the junior enterprises nationwide and develop the Junior Enterprise Movement as an agent of business education and generation of new business. It is currently formed by 19 state federations. Brasil Júnior works to bring together the state federations at meetings, and mainly, the  junior enterprises at ENEJ (National Meeting of Junior Enterprises). In 2014, ENEJ happened at Espírito Santo with the attendance of 1,800 junior entrepreneurs. Last year, from 13 to August 17 ENEJ happened at Brasilia, Brazil's capital. Around 2,500 junior entrepreneurs went to the event. Recently, junior enterprises appeared  also in China, especially on the campus of Peking University. The movement is also taking its first step in North America with the recent launch a cross-faculty Junior Enterprise at McGill University in Canada. Shortly after the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign launched the first JE in the US. 