Ancient Romans with disabilities were recorded in the personal, medical, and legal writing of the period. While some people with disabilities were sought as slaves, others with disabilities that are now recognized by modern medicine were not considered disabled. Some disabilities were deemed more acceptable than others. Small, scattered medical references contain the only direct acknowledgments of disability in ancient Rome. Soranus of Ephesus (a Methodic doctor who worked in Rome) wrote in his extant treatise on gynaecology that only certain children were worth raising, listing the various tests one could perform on a child to identify disabilities which might render them not worthy. The treatise also states that the physical and mental fitness of a midwife or wet nurse also needed to be assessed by parents.  The later Roman physician Galen also mentioned the deficiencies of people with disabilities in his works on anatomy, claiming that both physical and mental handicaps resulted from physical imbalances of the four humors.  As such, he held to the traditional triad of melancholy, mania, and phrenitis as the three categories of mental disorder.  Roman doctors separated mental disorders into two categories: those that could be cured, and those that were not of the body. Amongst the latter were addictions, most commonly vinolentia (alcoholism). [not in citation given (See discussion.)] Roman doctors had a variety of terms to describe different degrees of optical impairment. Aulus Cornelius Celsus in his treatise On Medicine (De Medicina), devoted a chapter to the subject of common eye infections, disease, problems, and their cures.  The Twelve Tables included a law that said disabled or deformed children should be put to death, usually by stoning. They also stipulated that if a free person or a slave is injured and subsequently disabled by an individual, the injurer has to pay a certain amount of money or is punished by being disfigured in a similar fashion.  In addition, Dionysius of Halicarnassus wrote that the city's founder Romulus required children who were born disabled to be exposed on a hillside. Historians think that this was a fairly common practice due to a believed high number of congenital defects due to the prevalence of poor nutrition, incest, and disease.  As time passed however, enforcement of this law became less and less common until eventually in the third century it was reversed by a new law requiring parents to take care of infants who were disabled.  In Commentarii de Bello Gallico, Julius Caesar mentions that the Gauls commonly maimed his centurions, usually by blinding them, mentioning that four centurions out of a cohort were blinded. Soldiers disabled in such circumstances were given a stipend by the state once they retired.  Many late period Emperors, such as Nero or Caligula, are known to have used disfigurement or disablement as punishments for legal infractions, as well as personal attacks.  Blindness or partial blindness was highly regarded in the Roman psyche—many individuals became famous after losing an eye. Notably, slaves would sometimes enter gladiatorial matches with a patch over a functioning eye, though historians disagree on whether this was in reference to the mythical cyclops or to make the gladiator appear more experienced.  It is also known that many mythological figures, as well as known historical individuals, were thought by the Romans to have been blinded in return for favors from their gods. Such gifts varied from foresight to talent in singing. The language of the day also made note of those who were fully blind, caecus, and those who were partially sighted, luscus.  Some blind children became beggars.  Disabilities from injuries received while in the military were seen as marks of honor as opposed to simple disfigurements, with injuries to the eyes appearing most frequently in both common soldiers and famous personalities such as Hannibal.  Many Roman writers, such as Seneca the Younger, would write about the physical failures of prominent Roman civilians who had earned no such honor and that they wished to lampoon. Roman leaders typically had themselves depicted as physically perfect in statues and coinage.  Pliny describes a wealthy but disabled man as being worthy of pity.  Deformed slaves were so popular that Plutarch writes about the different kinds of deformations on display at the Monster Markets. It was recorded that many Roman women kept hunchbacks as pets; it was also recorded that hunchbacks appeared in the court of Caligula.  Individuals with spinal deformities were fairly common in public life, and in fact hunchbacks were in some places considered to be a source of luck for others.  Further, they were occasionally known to rise to stations of eminent advisors, such as Nero's advisor Vatinius.  That the god Vulcan was lame yet worked as a smith has led many historians to believe that disabled Romans similarly specialized to accommodate their injuries but were not outcast.  