The Treasure State Academic Information & Library Services (TRAILS) is a statewide consortium of academic libraries including all 24 of Montana's public, private, tribal, community college, and university institutions. TRAILS services over 49,500 students, faculty, researchers, and community members and provides access to over 4,000,000 library items. The consortium is expected to provide a cost avoidance of seven million dollars over the next five years. TRAILS maximizes returns on resource investment, enhances teaching and research, improves user experience, and encourages shared expertise among members from institutions from across the state.  In May of 2014, Dr. Kenning Arlitsch, Dean of Montana State University Library and John Greer, Head of IT and Library System Administrator at University of Montana, presented a proposal of a unified content management system for Montana's academic libraries to the University's Board of Regents. The proposal passed with a 7-0 vote. That same year funding was requested from the Montana State Legislature to implement the proposal. The TRAILS consortium was formed in 2016 with the aim of increasing efficiency and improving access to resources for the students, researchers, and communities of Montana. It allows users to access many journals, databases, and other resources that may not be available had their institutions chosen not to participate in TRAILS. In addition to sharing resources and negotiating better prices for materials, it also includes the group purchase of a cloud-based library services platform which further increases efficiency and resource sharing allowing users to search all 17 libraries using the system simultaneously. In the future TRAILS hopes to initiate a statewide implementation of an open educational resources (OER) program such as free online textbooks. In 2017, the accrediting agency Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities lauded the MSU Library for its leadership in the TRAILS program. As a result of this and several other successful programs and initiatives the MSU Library was named 2018 Library of the Year by the Montana Library Association. The consortium is currently made up of 24 institutions from across the state.TRAILS includes all institutions in the Montana University System (MUS), the state's seven tribal colleges, and four private colleges. A Memorandum of Understanding was finalized by September 9, 2017 and Operating Procedures were approved on January 22, 2018. TRAILS is governed by the General Council which includes one representative from each institution. The officers include a Chair and a Secretary which each serve a two-year term. Ex officio, non-voting representatives include the TRAILS Coordinator and a representative selected by the Montana State Librarian. The coordinator since the consortium's inception has been Pamela Benjamin. As of June, 2018, TRAILS has five standing committees and five technology sub-committees. 