Dirty John is an investigative journalism podcast hosted by journalist Christopher Goffard and created by Wondery and Los Angeles Times. The first two chapters were launched on October 2, 2017, with the following four chapters being released over the following days. The podcast was downloaded over 10 million times within 6 weeks of release.  The podcast was named Dirty John which was one of John Meehan's nicknames given to him by his classmates during his time at the University of Dayton. Other nicknames from this time included Filthy John, or just Filthy. The exact nexus of these nicknames was never divulged during the podcast.  Dirty John is a true crime story focusing on the life and exploits of John Meehan. L.A. Times Journalist Christopher Goffard first heard of Meehan when he learned that the police were investigating a possible murder in Newport Beach. Upon investigating, Goffard discovered a bizarre web of deceit and abuse.  The main focus of the story is Meehan's relationship with businesswoman Debra Newell, who he met via Internet dating, as well her immediate and extended family. The podcast deals with themes of abuse and manipulation, as well as the behaviours of those being abused.  Meehan himself was killed by Newell's daughter, as she acted in self-defense when he tried to kill her in a parking lot on August 20, 2016. He was hospitalized and died on the 24th.  The story was covered by Dateline NBC on January 12, 2018, and included interviews with Goffard. Dirty John proved to be very popular with audiences, spending over three weeks at the top of the US iTunes podcast charts,  whilst also topping the charts in Australia,  Canada,  and the UK   and was downloaded over 5 million times in 3 weeks.  Dirty John would have continued success having been downloaded over 10 million times within 6 weeks of release,  and as of November 23, 2017 is 6th most downloaded podcasts on iTunes America.  Critical reception was also positive, with the NME calling it "the best true crime podcast since Serial",  whilst The Guardian listed Dirty John as their podcast pick of the week.  Dirty John also received positive reviews from Mashable,  The New Yorker,  Rolling Stone  and The Daily Telegraph  amongst others. Vulture.com meanwhile praised the story as "stunning" but questioned the necessity of using a podcast as a way to share the story.  