Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous is an American television series that aired in syndication from 1984 to 1995.  The show featured the extravagant lifestyles of wealthy entertainers, athletes and business moguls. It was hosted by Robin Leach for the majority of its run.  When Leach was joined by Shari Belafonte in 1994, the show was renamed Lifestyles with Robin Leach and Shari Belafonte. Leach ended each episode with a wish for his viewers that became his signature catchphrase, "champagne wishes and caviar dreams." The theme song, titled "Come With Me Now" and performed by Bill Conti, is from a 1979 film called Five Days from Home. Lifestyles was one of the first shows to feature the lives of the wealthy. Later shows such as VH1's The Fabulous Life Of... continued this trend. The show was largely intended to be an insight into the opulent residences and the glamorous lifestyles of those it profiled. However, many of the geographic areas it covered were ideal destinations for vacations, and in his on-camera appearances, Leach indirectly made references to resorts and tourist attractions. David Greenspan (aka David Perry), who was the voice-over narrator for most of the segments during the bulk of the show's run and could be heard whenever Leach did not appear on camera, made more direct references to such resorts and such tourist attractions during his tenure as the show's voice-over narrator. Lifestyles was created by Alfred M. "Al" Masini, who had also created Solid Gold, Entertainment Tonight, and Star Search; all of these were part of his Operation Prime Time project, which he later renamed Television Program Enterprises and later merged with Rysher Entertainment to form Rysher TPE, though Solid Gold or Entertainment Tonight were never syndicated by TPE or Rysher but all 4 are now owned by CBS Television Distribution. Lifestyles had two companion spinoff series, Runaway with the Rich and Famous, also hosted by Leach.  The series also aired in first-run syndication, from 1986 to 1994.  There was also Fame, Fortune and Romance broadcast on ABC from 1986 to 1987.   