MyLink  a.k.a. Intellilink is a telematics system/infotainment system offered by General Motors vehicles starting in the 2012 model year.  It is offered in all GM brands aside from Cadillac, who uses their exclusive CUE infotainment system. The MyLink name is used for vehicles under the Chevrolet and Holden brands, while the Intellilink name is used for Buick, GMC, Vauxhall and Opel. MyLink systems are manufactured by three companies for GM, Panasonic for most MyLink models, LG Electronics for the unit equipped on the Chevrolet Sonic, Chevrolet Spark, Chevrolet Trax and Vauxhall/Opel Adam, and Bosch for Cadillac's CUE system. The system is based on QNX real-time operating system and voice recognition software from Nuance.  It allows users to control online services through apps, like Pandora Internet Radio or Stitcher Radio through voice commands or the touch-screen interface. The car is able to access online content via a smartphone with a 3G data connection connected through Bluetooth.  Users are also able to control their phone wirelessly via the same interface. MyLink also integrates OnStar's services (Advanced Automatic Collision Notification, roadside assistance, vehicle diagnostics information, live advisors, and turn-by-turn navigation).  MyLink can play video and image files in select formats. Images should be in .jpg, .bmp, .png, or .gif format. Video files should be .avi, .mpg, .mp4, .divx, .xvid, or .wmv. Additionally, MyLink supports a large variety of song file formats, including MP3, WMA, and AAC. It also supports the following playlist files M3U standard and extended, iTunes, PLS, WAX, ASX and RMP.  Note that the supported features and services vary from model to model. For example, MyLink in the Chevrolet Sonic and Spark models does not support Gracenote (since those models have no CD player) or climate control.  The screen size, trim and appearance vary from model to model as well. Additional features have been announced by Chevrolet for delivery in calendar year 2013. Intellilink is the branding for MyLink used by Buick, GMC, Vauxhall and Opel. It is basically the same system as MyLink with the only differences being the graphic interface used.  Originally the MyLink systems were set to be available on select 2012 model year vehicles before the end of 2011, however that was pushed back until "Spring 2012".  -The MyLink 4.2 features an A/M-F/M radio, an auxiliary audio input jack, and a USB port, plus a 4.2" color display screen. OnStar is an available option. This system is only available on the Chevrolet Silverado W/T Work Truck models. -The upgraded MyLink 4.2 adds a CD player with MP3 player and WMA support, plus Bluetooth with A2DP Stereo Audio Streaming capabilities. OnStar is an available option, as is Sirius XM Satellite Radio. This system is available on the Chevrolet Silverado, Chevrolet Impala, and Chevrolet Colorado models. -The MyLink Apps features an A/M-F/M radio, an auxiliary audio input jack, a USB port, support for mobile apps, a full color touch screen display, OnStar, voice command capabilities that use the connected devices' voice command systems, OnStar, Siri Eyes-Free support, Bluetooth with A2DP Stereo Audio Streaming capabilities, mobile apps support, an SD card slot, Sirius XM Satellite Radio, and BringGo GPS navigation system support developed by EnGIS Technologies, Inc. This system is available on the Opel Adam, Chevrolet Spark, and Chevrolet Sonic models. -The MyLink Color Touch features an A/M-F/M radio, an auxiliary audio input jack, a USB port, a full color touch screen display, voice command, Bluetooth with A2DP Stereo Audio Streaming capabilities, steering wheel-mounted audio system controls, Sirius XM Satellite Radio, OnStar, an SD card slot, and HDD for storing music onto the system. A CD player is an available option, and is standard with most MyLink Touch systems. This radio also works with mobile apps. -The MyLink Color Touch with Navigation adds a GPS navigation system to the MyLink Color Touch radio. On Chevrolet Camaro models equipped with this radio, the CD player option is not available. -The MyLink Color Touch radios on Chevrolet Impala models and Chevrolet Malibu models slide out or slide up from the dashboard to reveal a hidden storage compartment for storing items such as MP3 players, cellular phones, and other devices and items behind the touch screen. -The Mylink/IntelliLink Color Touch also features HD Radio as a standard on selected GM models in the United States. As of the 2015 model year (which began in August 2014), the Chevrolet Suburban/GMC Yukon XL & Denali XL, Chevrolet Tahoe/GMC Yukon & Denali, and the GMC Acadia are the only vehicles equipped with HD Radio as a standard on all trims. It had been featured as a standard on the Chevrolet Impala and Silverado/GMC Sierra and on the Chevrolet Traverse as an optional, and as a standard on the Buick Regal and Enclave for the 2014 model year, but were removed for the 2015 model year. 