S-Town is an investigative journalism podcast hosted by Brian Reed and created by the producers of Serial and This American Life.  All seven chapters were released on March 28, 2017. The podcast was downloaded a record-breaking 10 million times in four days,  and it had been downloaded over 40 million times by May. In 2012, antiquarian horologist John B. McLemore  sent an email to the staff of the show This American Life asking them to investigate an alleged murder in his hometown of Woodstock, Alabama, a place McLemore claimed to despise. After a year of exchanging emails, and several months of conversation with McLemore, producer Brian Reed traveled to Woodstock to investigate.  Reed investigated the crime, and eventually found that no such murder took place, though he struck up a friendship with the depressed but colorful character of McLemore. He recorded conversations with McLemore and other people in Woodstock, which are played on the podcast. McLemore killed himself by drinking potassium cyanide on June 22, 2015,  while the podcast was still in production. In the narrative of the podcast, this occurs at the end of the second episode; subsequent episodes deal with the fallout from McLemore's death while exploring more of McLemore's life and character. Though the podcast was promoted under the name S-Town, Reed reveals in the first episode that this is a euphemism for "Shit Town," John B. McLemore's derogatory term for his hometown of Woodstock, Alabama.  Reed generally refers to the podcast by the non-euphemized name in the episodes themselves. All episodes were released simultaneously on March 28, 2017. The podcast is available to stream or download for free on the official website, iTunes,  Stitcher,  Radiopublic,  or through the RSS feed.  S-Town incorporates various specially composed pieces of music throughout the episodes from composers Daniel Hart, Helado Negro, Trey Pollard, and Matt McGinley, including an S-Town theme produced by Hart.  The show's closing music, used at the end of each episode, is "A Rose for Emily" by The Zombies.  Shortly after the release of the podcast, John's online obituary was flooded with support and shared reflections from around the world.  In an April 2017 interview, Tyler Goodson said that he sometimes regrets "ever speaking into that microphone because [he] was probably upset, or wasn't thinking clearly" since he faced trial for the criminal actions that were described in the podcast.  In October 2017, Goodson pleaded guilty to the burglaries that were described in the podcast, and he will serve five years on probation with a ten-year suspended sentence.  S-Town was culturally popular and received mixed[disputed  – discuss] critical reviews. The Boston Globe's Ty Burr thought the show was complex and voyeuristic. He asked the question "is S-Town a freak show for the NPR crowd?" and described the series as "seven chapters of provocative red herrings that almost but never quite add up to a place, a people, or a man".  Jessica Goudeau from The Atlantic questioned the ethics of the series, asking "is it okay to confess another person's pain for the sake of a good story?".  Goudeau also wondered how Flannery O'Connor, Robert Lowell, or Elizabeth Bishop would have reacted to the podcast and the exploration of poor, white, rural America.  Slate's Katy Waldman wrote that S-Town feels more like a new genre, "something more like aural literature".  Vox's Aja Romano called the podcast "stunning", but suggested the podcast was too invasive and should not have been made.  The podcast's critics claimed that the studio took advantage of John's death in order to gain publicity. Crixeo, an online arts monthly, argues that Reed did not have the right to publicly out John as queer.  At the same time, other views contend that S-Town was a way for them to take the story of John's death and shed light on mental health in the U.S.  The Atlantic's Spencer Kornhaber praised the series for its journalism, and humanism, as the series "hints at the possibility of cultural reconciliation" within the community.  Rebecca Nicholson from The Guardian called the series "a noble attempt at understanding life", as the series showed "the great hope that resides within", by showing a person trying to survive within their surroundings.  The Guardian gave S-Town a critical review. The opinion piece called S-town “a good story, but an indefensible one.” The article states that the podcast is supposed to leave you feeling positive, however instead it feels forced. The author feels that the podcast doesn’t fully addressed the main quandary at the center of S-town.  By May 2017, the podcast series was downloaded over 40 million times.   It retained a high ranking in the iTunes chart and continued to be analysed in the press well into 2017.  Since then, the podcast remained popular and had been downloaded 77 million times by the anniversary of its release.  S-Town podcast received the Peabody Award for 2017 in the category Radio/Podcast.  George Foster Peabody Award 