What's On (Traditional Chinese: 熒幕八爪娛) is a Canadian weekly half-hour infotainment TV program that airs on Fairchild TV. Originally started in 1996, the program is currently the longest-running program in Fairchild Television history. What's On is a 30-minute informative program that introduces viewers to events happening in and around Vancouver, British Columbia and Toronto, Ontario.  It also runs short interviews with local celebrities, politicians and social figures for events they are contributing to, as well as interviews with international celebrities as they arrive in the city to promote or to perform. Originally, there were two versions of the program. The Vancouver version and Toronto version ran in the same time slot in their respective cities on Thursday nights at 10:00 p.m. while the version of the opposite city ran on Saturdays at 6:00 p.m. However, because of the CRTC's ruling requiring Fairchild TV to air the same programming throughout the country, the two programs combined into one in July 2001 with each city getting 15 minutes of airtime. This also meant the start of the "interactive" format of the program where the hosts from the two cities shared a brief interaction as the scenes change from one city to another. In November 2002, Fairchild Television moved the program from its Thursday timeslot to its current Sunday at 7:30pm time. What's On is seen as a training ground for a lot of Fairchild Television personalities.  The following is a partial list of past and present hosts for the program: Whenever Fairchild TV has a major event coming up such as the annual New Talent Singing Awards Vancouver Audition (NTSA Vancouver) or the Miss Chinese (Vancouver) Pageant (MCV), What's On will run special segments within the program over several weeks to feature the event as a preview to the event.  Sometimes, a company would sponsor a segment to be aired during "What's On".  These segments usually feature one or two hosts which may or may not be the regular What's On presenters at that time.  Some notable past segments include: 