Young Hollywood is a privately held multimedia entertainment company founded in Los Angeles, California, by R. J. Williams.  The company licenses the “Young Hollywood” trademark domestically and internationally for a range of consumer products and services.  In addition, they own a television network and are one of the world's largest producers and distributors of celebrity content in the digital space. Their content has received over 2 billion views.  Young Hollywood originally teamed up exclusively with Apple in the beginning of 2015 to launch the network with exclusive content that could only be found on  their Apple TV platform. The channel premiered seven new original half-hour series and programming across multiple platforms including reality, scripted series, animation, and documentaries with a focus on topics such as entertainment, music, sports, fashion, and lifestyle.  At the end of  2015, the network expanded to include devices such as Roku,  Amazon Fire TV, Samsung Blu-ray players, and Android tablets and phones.  Young Hollywood content is known for not touching gossip and being anti-paparazzi.  Their website, YoungHollywood.com, officially launched in 2007 and reached 3 million unique visitors per month.  Their distribution network reached upwards of 100 million viewers.  Young Hollywood has been compared to MTV, in that they both offer a full 360 degree approach to reach millennials.  They both create original content, have a built in distribution network with a significant marketing arm to get eyeballs on their content, and have direct relationships with advertisers.  Young Hollywood created the first live streamed hit show on the live.ly platform which has a user base of over 95 million.  The premiere episode of Young Hollywood’s series had nearly 600,000 live viewers.    Other notable Live.ly users include Mark Cuban and Time inc.  YH grew their audience by creating a street team of fan ambassadors that  promote Young Hollywood to their friends and fans    Their programming was the subject of a skit on a recent episode of Jimmy Kimmel Live  Young Hollywood teamed up with Google for their channel initiative to launch "The Young Hollywood Network" (YHN) in January 2012 on YouTube.  Other brands included in the initiative included WWE and The Wall Street Journal    The Young Hollywood channel on YouTube is ranked #12 on the "Top YouTube Original Channels of All-Time" list that is compiled by AdAge magazine.  In April 2010, Young Hollywood formed a strategic partnership with the Four Seasons Hotel Los Angeles at Beverly Hills to build a fiber-optic enabled, high-definition broadcast studio within the hotel property,  from where it conducts scheduled celebrity interviews on a daily basis.   In August 2011, the partnership was expanded  to include the restaurant of the Four Seasons Hotel, with the launch of The Young Hollywood Salad.  In 2013, Young Hollywood laid out plans to expand the brand Internationally. Young Hollywood also formed an exclusive international content distribution deal with Fremantle Media. The first two series under the agreement have sold  to over 30 International territories        