Stampex is a twice yearly British stamp show held at the Business Design Centre (BDC) at Islington, London, every Spring and Autumn. The show is organised by the Philatelic Traders Society (PTS) through their company PTS Stamp and Coin Exhibitions Limited and has been running for many years.  The next exhibition will be held on 12-15 September 2018. The show consists mainly of stands from stamp dealers who are members of the PTS but specialist philatelic societies often hold meetings at the BDC in conjunction with the show. Until recently competitive stamp exhibitions were also held. The Association of British Philatelic Societies (ABPS) has announced that they will be reintroduced with effect from the Autumn 2009 show.  Other important parts of the show include a youth area run by the National Youth Stamp Group and a large stand from Britain's Royal Mail where recent British stamp issues are on sale. Admission is free of charge and visitors usually receive a modest philatelic souvenir of some kind. At the Spring 2009 show a postcard was given featuring unadopted artwork by stamp designer Jeffery Matthews for a proposed 1979 Welsh Assembly stamp issue. These souvenirs have become collectable. Each Stampex issues a Smilers Sheet (released in conjunction with Stanley Gibbons, the official sponsors of Stampex, and Royal Mail) available for purchase as well as a free commemorative postcard. Stampex has not always been at the BDC. For many years it was located at the Central Hall, Westminster when it was organised between the PTS and The Junior Philatelic Society (now the National Philatelic Society).  There is no other regular national show competing with Stampex in the UK, although many smaller shows take place and an FIP endorsed international show takes place in London every ten years, with the next being the London 2020 International Stamp Exhibition. The name has been adopted for stamp shows in other countries, for instance Hong Kong Stampex and Adelaide Stampex, however, none are connected with the British version. 