Mama Baer (born Andrea Katharina Ingeborg Göthling in 1981) works as a sound recordist in the field of Noise and Post-industrial music, visual artist and film maker at Flensburg, a town on the German border with Denmark. She often works together with her husband Kommissar Hjuler as Kommissar Hjuler und Frau. As self-taught artist she began making music in 1999 and visual art in 2006. She is considered to work in the field of neo dada and art brut.  Mama Baer has a huge amount of music releases available at independent labels like Ultra Eczema, Intransitive Recordings,  Nihilist Records, and others. She shares albums with Bomis Prendin, Franz Kamin, Philip Krumm, Jerry Hunt, Family Fodder, Die Form, Antye Greie, Marc Hurtado, Hiroshi Hasegawa, Thurston Moore, Jonathan Meese, Tim Berresheim, Family Fodder, Gianni-Emilio Simonetti, Smegma, Morphogenesis, Maja Ratkje/Hild Sofie Tafjord/Lotta Melin, Anna Homler & David Moss, Steuart Liebig, David Toop, Rudolf Eb.er, Sudden Infant, John Wiese, Derek Beaulieu, Jo Kondo, Peter Ablinger, Sven-Åke Johansson, LSD March, Pyrolator, Sabrina Benaim, Tonya Ingram, and collaborated with GX Jupitter-Larsen, Dada Action Group, Hans-Joachim Hespos, Charlemagne Palestine, Boris Lurie and Dietmar Kirves, Arnulf Meifert, Gen Ken Montgomery and Conrad Schnitzler, The New Blockaders, Rod Summers, Deutsch Nepal, Lt. Caramel, Bryan Lewis Saunders, Z'EV, John M. Bennett, Jaan Patterson and Alig Fodder.  Kommissar Hjuler und Frau performed live at several festivals like Colour out of Space Festival, Brighton, 2009, Zappanale, Bad Doberan, 2010, Incubate (festival) Nijmegen, 2010, and at artists' venues like Morden Tower, Café Oto or Mary Bauermeister's performance space.  They performed live with Jan van den Dobbelsteen and Danielle Lemaire,  Eugene Chadbourne,  John Wiese , Heather Leigh Murray, Clive Graham, and others. As artist she has been involved in several solo and group art exhibitions around the world.  Short films by Mama Baer have been presented at European festivals. Since November 9, 2009 she is a member of the NO!art movement, founded by Boris Lurie, Stanley Fisher and Sam Goodman at March gallery New York in 1960, since 1999 led by Dietmar Kirves and Clayton Patterson. The German novel writer Peter Rathke, who works under pseudonym FOLTERGAUL, presented Mama Baer as character at his novel "Im Knast mit Kommissar Hjuler und Mama Baer".  Mama Baer appears as a character, played by Kathleen Gregory, in a partially completed short film by Fred Wilder. Kommissar Hjuler and Mama Baer also wrote most of the music for the film and there are performances by The Sex Socks.  