Express Entry is the system that the Canadian government uses to manage applications for permanent residence to Canada via the Federal Skilled Worker, Federal Skilled Trades, Canadian Experience Class and certain Provincial Nominee programs.  The Canadian Government states that they "choose skilled immigrants as permanent residents based on their ability to settle in Canada and take part in [the] economy. [The Government's] system to manage how people with skilled work experience apply to immigrate to Canada is called Express Entry."  Express Entry is a file management system, and not a new immigration program. Therefore, it can only be used by individuals who meet the minimum requirements of one of the eligible immigration programs. Namely the Federal Skilled Worker, Federal Skilled Tradesperson, Canadian Experience Class and certain Provincial Nominee Programs. Candidates who are eligible for one of these programs compete against each other via a points system for an invitation to immigrate to Canada. The points are calculated using the comprehensive ranking system. This system gives candidates a certain amount of points for their age, education, language ability work experience and other factors. Candidates with the most points are invited to immigrate to Canada.  Express Entry replaced the original "first-come first-served" immigration selection system. Express Entry was expected to be more responsive to regional labour shortages.  It systemically favours "desirable" immigrants by selecting such individuals first, and avoids the arbitrary selections of the previous system, selections which, in some cases, were based only on who got their application in first.  Express Entry, instead of granting applications on a first-come-first-served basis, compares applications from skilled workers against each other in order to pick the most qualified individuals.  According to Colin Singer, an Immigration Lawyer, the ideal candidate for Express Entry is "someone in their 20s that's very proficient in one of Canada's official languages [English and French], and is highly educated, likely at a master's [degree] level."  Concerns have also been expressed about the Express Entry system. Morton Beiser and Harald Bauder (2014) of Ryerson University wrote "Canada’s once pathbreaking immigration policies are being transformed into a system that mainly serves employers, treating immigrants not as future citizens or members of Canadian communities and families but merely as convenient or cheap labour." Others fear that Express Entry gives too much power to politicians and bureaucrats. Advocates of Express Entry claim that Express Entry can reduce, by better fitting immigrants to existing jobs vacancies than the previous system, the number of migrants who fail to get work.  Prospective candidates create Express Entry Profiles; filling in information about their age, education level, English and/or French proficiency, work experience etc.  This information is then used to rank candidates via a points system.    All eligible candidates are placed in a pool from which the highest-ranking individuals are then periodically invited to apply for permanent residence.  The total amount of immigrants invited depends on the quota the Canadian government has set for itself. For 2018 the quota set is 310,000 immigrants.  This quota is then reached by skimming from the top of the express entry pool and inviting the highest ranking candidates. For example, on February 7, 2018, the quota was 3,000 immigrants.  Thus the top-ranked 3,000 individuals were invited. In the past the government has repeated this draw multiple times per year.  