A "golden visa" is a permanent residency visa issued to individuals who invest, often through the purchase of property, a certain sum of money into the issuing county.  The roots of golden visas have been traced back to the 1980s when tax havens in the Pacific and Caribbean began "cash-for-passport" programs that facilitated visa-free travel and provided tax advantages.  For example, in 1984, St Kitts and Nevis began its program which offered not only permanent residency but citizenship to foreign nations.  The issuing of golden visas expanded dramatically during the 21st century with around 25% of all countries issuing such visas as of 2015.  Statistics on the issuing of golden visas is scarce but the IMF estimated in 2015 that the vast majority of golden visas are issued to Chinese nationals.  Golden visas require investments of anywhere from $100,000  in Dominica up to £2,000,000 in the U.K. . The most common method for obtaining a golden visa is through the purchase of real estate with a minimum value.   "Golden visas" have been especially popular with Chinese nationals, over 100,000 of whom acquired them during the period from 2007 to 2016.  Portugal's golden visa was introduced during the Great Recession in order to help attract investment into the country's housing market. By 2016 the country had issued 2,788 golden visas of which 80% had gone to Chinese nationals.   Some countries such as Malta and Cyprus also offer citizenship ("so-called golden passports") to individuals if they invest a certain sum.   The issuing of so called "golden visas" has sparked controversy in several countries. A lack of demonstrable economic benefits and security concerns have been among the most common criticisms of golden visas. In 2014 the Canadian government suspended their golden visa program (although, as of 2017, Quebec maintains their golden visa program).  The golden visas has been criticized by members of the European Parliament for disfavoring the concept of citizenship  and in 2014 the European Parliament approved a non-binding resolution that an EU passport should not have a "price tag."  