In healthcare, a change-of-shift report is a meeting between healthcare providers at the change of shift in which vital information about and responsibility for the patient is provided from the off-going provider to the on-coming provider (Groves, Manges, Scott-Cawiezell, 2016).  Other names for change-of-shift report include handoff, shift report, handover, or sign-out. Change-of-shift report is key to inpatient care because healthcare providers (nurses, physicians, nursing assistants etc.) are essential to providing around the clock care.  During report, the outgoing nurses discuss with the oncoming nurses the condition of each patient and any changes that have occurred to the patient during the shift. The purpose is not to cover all details recorded in the patient's medical record, but to summarize individual patient progress.  The content of the report often depends on the local organization. While report is necessary in order to communicate important information between nurses, various problems are posed by the giving of report. There is evidence to suggest that performing change of shift report at the bedside is key to patient safety. In 2001, the Institute of Medicine stated that "it is in inadequate handoff that safety often fails first."  This is because at every change of shift, there is a chance for miscommunication about vital patient information.  A specific type of change-of-shift report is Nursing Bedside Shift Report in which the off going nurse provides change-of-shift report to the on coming nurse at the patient's bedside.    Since 2013, giving report at the patient bedside has been recommend by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) to improve patient safety.  However, it wasn't until recently that it was known how Nursing Bedside Shift Report works to keep patients safe.  A qualitative study by the nurse researchers Groves, Manges, and Scott-Cawiezell developed a grounded theory on how bedside nurses can use nursing bedside shift report (NBSR) to keep patients safe.  According to Groves et al. (2016)  NBSR is used by nurses to keep patients safe by "reducing risk of harm through conveying the patient story from shift to shift." Additionally, NBSR is key to reducing risk of harm because it supports the nurses ability to identify and address risks.   Preliminary results from a simulation study found that the way nursing report is structured, can nurses safety oriented behaviors (like checking for pressure ulcers, double checking medications, decreasing room clutter to prevent falls).  