Observational comedy is a form of humor based on the commonplace aspects of everyday life. It is one of the main types of humor in stand-up comedy.  In an observational comedy act the comedian "makes an observation about something from the backwaters of life, an everyday phenomenon that is rarely noticed or discussed."  The humor is based on the premise of "Have you ever noticed?"  (or "Did you ever notice?"),  which has become a comedy cliché.  "Observational humour usually took the form of long monologues of personal narrative, and the punch-line was either hard to predict or never came."  British comedians Richard Herring and Jo Caulfield wrote in an article that observational comedy "essentially involves saying 'Did you ever notice?' and then recounting something that will hopefully be universally familiar, but that won't necessarily have been consciously noted by your audience. If it's too obvious an observation it won't be funny (Have you ever noticed how buses always come in threes? Yes.) and if it's too oblique then it won't hit home."  Eddie Izzard noted that a comedian's observations "need to be something that people can relate to, for the audience to pick up on it" in order to be considered a successful observational comedy act.  Douglas Coupland writes, "Anybody can describe a pre-moistened towelette to you, but it takes a good observational comedian to tell you what, exactly is the 'deal' with them." He adds that observational comedy first of all depends on a "lone noble comedian adrift in the modern world, observing the unobservable-those banalities and fragments of minutiae lurking just below the threshold of perception: Cineplex candy; remote control units."  Observational comedy has been compared to sociology.  Observational comedy became popular in the United States in the 1950s.  Although one author suggests that it "has never been particularly new. Even the more 'old-fashioned' jokes it supposedly replaced were often themselves disguised commentaries based on observing human nature."   Besides, older writers and live readers and speakers as Mark Twain himself, making jabs at everyday common place matters appealing to their Public's common sense about little noticed characters and their actions, early but very few entertainers followed in pokes at individuals and situation comedy instead of creating them and mimicking sketches. One of them, who became outstandingly successful in America and mixed it like Twain's personal gab of common man's as perspective, with his own personal trademark as embodyment of America's quintessential folky hero as a plainsman, by noticing and pointing to Public as his accomplice in the observations, using their old country folk common sense as deadpan or jolly neutral denominator for the comic revelation punch unfolding which departed from the hitherto satirical, was  Will Rogers. He used to make the witty disclaimer, "I don't make jokes. I just watch the government, and report their activities." Shelley Berman was one of the pioneers in the field.  David Brenner's "brand of observational comedy became a staple for other standups",   like Jerry Seinfeld, who has been called "the master of observational comedy".   Seinfeld's "brand of accessible, refined observational humor largely defined 1980s comedy."  A 1989 Los Angeles Times article wrote that Seinfeld is "clearly the standard of excellence in observational comedy",  while Judd Apatow called Seinfeld "the greatest observational comedian who ever lived".  George Carlin was a significant figure in observational comedy since the 1960s and influenced Seinfeld.  The British observational comedy tradition began with the Irish comedian Dave Allen's performances in the early 1970s.  Richard Zoglin considers the term "observational comedy" misleading because it is not "about politics or social issues or the comedian's own autobiography, but simply about everyday life."  