Aerial silks (also known as aerial contortion, aerial ribbons,  aerial tissues, fabric, ribbon, or tissu, depending on personal preference)  is a type of performance in which one or more artists perform aerial acrobatics while hanging from a fabric. The fabric may be hung as two pieces, or a single piece, folded to make a loop, classified as hammock silks. Performers climb the suspended fabric without the use of safety lines and rely only on their training and skill to ensure safety. They use the fabric to wrap, suspend, fall, swing, and spiral their bodies into and out of various positions. Aerial silks may be used to fly through the air, striking poses and figures while flying.  Some performers use dried or spray rosin on their hands and feet to increase the friction and grip on the fabric. The three main categories of tricks are climbs, wraps, and drops. Climbs employed by aerialists range from purely practical and efficient, such as the Russian climb, to athletic and elegant tricks of their own, such as the straddle climb. Wraps are static poses where aerialists wrap the silks around one or more parts of their body. In general, the more complicated the wrap, the stronger the force of friction and the less effort required to hold oneself up. Some wraps, such as the straddle-back-balance, actually allow performers to completely release their hands. Foot locks are a sub-category of wraps where the silks are wrapped around one or both feet, for instance, an ankle hang. In a drop, performers wrap themselves up high on the silks before falling to a lower position. Drops can combine aspects of free fall, rolling or otherwise rotating oneself before landing in a new pose. Preparation for a drop can make for a pretty wrap, but the ultimate goal is the fall rather than the pose. Of the three trick types, drops require the most strength and are also the most potentially dangerous. Rosin (dry or mixed with rubbing alcohol) is employed to help performers maintain their grip.  Aerial silks are a demanding art and require a high degree of strength, power, flexibility, courage, stamina, and grace to practice. The fabrics used as silks are very strong with some give and flexibility. The fabric is 2-way stretch polyester lycra or Tricot Nylon. The width varies depending on the routine and the acrobat.  The fabric is usually quite long, as it is doubled for rigging, giving the acrobat two strips of fabric to work with as they perform.  Aerial silks were invented in 1995 by André Simard, the journey began when he was hired by Cirque du Soleil to develop and research acrobatics in 1987, his job was to discover original and imaginative ways to attract the audience to the shows. (“The beautiful yet dangerous art of aerial silk”, 2010). Now silks have been incorporated into circus arts as well as a form of aerial fitness.   Aerial rigging applies to the hanging of aerial silks and hammocks. Aerial silk rigging equipment commonly includes: Carabiners are the most used rigging piece for all aerial arts, but only two or three styles are safe for aerial use, these are the auto lock gate and screw gate carabiner.  rated two different ways, one for the spine and one for the gate, though distributing weight on the gate is not recommended for it is about 1/3 of the spine kN rating. When using a carabiner for aerial arts, it is important to hook, then rotate and screw downwards, so there is little or no risk that the carabiner will accidentally open or that the screw gate will become unscrewed, also the top part of a carabiner is stronger.  A KiloNewton or (kN) is a measurement of weight in motion. Knowing the weight that your rigging and hang point can withstand is important for your safety and the maintenance of your equipment.  Example: A 100-pound aerialist dropping 5 feet on silks, with half a foot of stopping distance and the stretch of the silks, calculates to 1,100 pounds of force exerted on rigging, silks, and person. (Types of Carabiners and What KN Ratings Mean.) Equation: W x (1 + D falling/ D stopping)  Example with the equation: 