The title of this article should be "Virtual Dance in Second Life.  This article is solely about a specific kind of theatre dance in the specific virtual global community platform called Second Life.  A new article is being written that gives information on Virtual Dance. Virtual  dance uses avatars moving via given tools of a virtual world. This will be shown using the possibilities that are offered by the virtual world Second Life. To enter a virtual world like Second Life one needs to create an account and choose an avatar. This avatar can pose and move by sets of character animations. Sets of default character animations are available to each avatar. In addition, bvh-animations of all kinds are created manually or by means of Motion capture by residents of Second Life. Most of these can override the built-in standard animations. In this way an avatar can use individualized sets of animations (standing, walking, running, swimming, flying etc.) to express certain characters or styles. Dance animations move avatars. A dance animation lasts usually between 20 and 60 seconds. Animations can be looped—restarting automatically again and again until manually stopped. Different dances can also be sequenced by putting them into a HUD that can play a recorded macro along a timeline. With the available animations virtual dancers can recreate a lot of dances known in real life like waltz, tango, salsa, funk, bebop and even classical routines like solos of Swan Lake by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky.  Synchronization may or may not be present in virtual dance.  Synchronization of dancers in a group can be either automated, for example by all of them using the same HUD, or done by individual dancers on their own improvisation. One form of virtual dance is live moving in free synchronization which is created by the independent use of animations by different dancers at the same time.  A dancer will mix animations and override one by the other—coordinating by sight their own movement with movement of other dancers in the group to express feelings and mood in virtual dance.  Photo by Zap Zhong taken on Nov. 8th 2009 at ballet-theatre of La Performance during live performance of show 'beautiful' in Second Life, showing scene of the dance 'Friends', Queen: Friends Will Be Friends. The different scenes of the same dance, danced by 5 artists, show the individual live character of moving in free synchronization. Photo taken by Leko Littlebird January 8, 2012 of Ballet Pixelle performing the original ballet "Archidance" (2011).  This photo shows all dancers performing on their own with no artificial synchronization devices.  Note the two dancers in synchrony while the other dancer, choreographically, is doing another movement.  Choreography by Inarra Saarinen. Virtual worlds offer a larger spectrum to move than is possible in the real, physical world.  Avatars in virtual worlds can fly, hover, and defy gravity in various ways.  So there is given the possibility to create a virtual dance in air, flying. Photo by Tik Merlin, taken on May 10, 2009 at the sky-stage of La Performance, during the live performance of the show 'TELL HIM', in Second Life, showing a scene of dance 'Tell Him', song: Celine Dion, Barbra Streisand - 'Tell Him'. To interpret this sensuous song choreography demands six artists to dance in the air, to dance flying, in free synchronization. In addition, animations can be created that move avatars beyond human normal joint limits.  This allows an extension of physical dance into a new kind of aesthetic for virtual dance. An example is shown in Ballet Pixelle's version of The Nutcracker, called "The Nut" (2007).  Photo by Leko Littlebird. Choreography by Inarra Saarinen. Here we see examples of such non-human avatars as a mermaid and a metal alien with their individual kind of moving and dancing. This photo was taken by Zap Zhong on April 11, 2010 at the dance-theatre of La Performance, during the live performance of the show 'BACK TO BLACK' in Second Life.  There are different scenes of interpretation of 'Liebestod'/Tristan by Richard Wagner; Jessye Norman, Herbert von Karajan, Vienna Philharmonic. The swim-dance movings of this dance were executed in a big black-box so the audience received a realistic impression of moving in fluid. Ballet Pixelle's "Olmannen" (2006) shows examples of dragons flying in air. Ballet Pixelle also has examples of spirits moving in "Shuzenji" (2008) and metal aliens dancing in "Avatara" (2010).  This photo by Maa Giha shows one of the silver metal aliens dancing in "Avatara". Choreography by Inarra Saarinen. Virtual dance with its live feeling and possibilities to interpret music and transport feelings and mood is used to elevate dances similar to show-dance and even modern dance and ballet.   Surroundings, tools and kind of moving open very different and new possibilities to elevate dance in virtual worlds. Ballet Pixelle: Chimera, 2015 New Brighton Belles - Jungle Fever, 2015 Music in virtual worlds is streamed to the land parcel where it is to be heard. All avatars on a parcel can hear this music by enabling it. This can be continuous music of a chosen internet radio or a live stream to play a certain song at a certain time as it is used by DJs in clubs. Another possibility is streaming of live-music. Here musicians sing and play in a studio in real life and stream this live music to the land in the virtual world, where it can be heard in close to real-time. This way is used in 'live-concerts' in virtual worlds; the avatar of the singer is present on stage in virtual world while the artist sings in the studio in real life and is heard after a little delay by the avatars at the concert in the virtual world. It is possible to dance a live concert like this in virtual dance.  Simple dance HUDs are scripted items to allow residents to choose dance animations to dance alone or with friends. Advanced choreography tools offer dance directors ways to set up scripted dance pads that can follow recorded paths along  timelines. These tools are suitable for more complex solo- and groupchoreographies. Special effects can include the use of spotlights and the particle system to create colorful explosions. The Unleashed Juggler, 2015 The Empire Room, Elysium Cabaret, 2015 In 2016 there is a growing list of approximately 30 theatres and dance companies that perform weekly, monthly or come up with a large production every few months. Acts range from a series of solo acts on a single stage to large, even simwide productions with many dancers on several stages. In this case the audience will be seated on a moving vehicle. The Empire Room, Elysium Cabaret, 2015 The Empire Room, Elysium Cabaret, 2015 Most dance shows have a duration of approximately sixty minutes and do consist of several routines. In between acts often the sets are changed by deleting the previous one and rezzing the next one from a rezzing box, or by dragging them in place from a location over or under the stage. Some shows offer the visitors a scripted seating or a special HUD that takes over their camera controls in order to provide them with the best possible viewing angles. Sometimes HUD's are given out that show translations of spoken text. Monsters' Tea Party by Club Image, 2015   A translation HUD in use at Monsters' Tea Party The dancers often need to change their costumes in between two sets. Teatro Manaus in SL, April 2015 Teatro Manaus in SL, April 2015 Aspiring dancers are trained by the leaders and teachers of the companies or visit dance classes provided by academies like Journey Academy of Performing Arts and Dancing Outside the Lines.  An inworld magazine in SL devoted to showcase different aspects of virtual dance is Move magazine, a quarterly which saw its first issue published in June 2015.  A website with reviews and a calendar  of past and upcoming shows is made available by the SL group 'Dance Queens'.  