The Integrated Qualifications Register (IQR) is a public register of qualifications awarded in Poland. It is available in Polish at https://rejestr.kwalifikacje.gov.pl/. The IQR can include various types of qualifications awarded in Poland. Qualifications will be entered into the IQR regardless of whether they are included in other registers (lists, inventories) of qualifications kept by various ministries, sectors, communities and institutions. The entry of a qualification into the Integrated Register means that the credibility of such qualification has been confirmed by public authorities and that a given qualification has been assigned to a PQF level. Qualifications not entered into the IQR will not be assigned to a Polish Qualifications Framework level. The terms and conditions for entering qualifications into the IQR shall be determined by provisions of the law. The descriptions of all qualifications in the IQR will be presented in a uniform format. The information gathered in the IQR will be accessible through an NQS internet portal, integrated with the EQF portal. The IQR will play the role of a unique "link" between qualifications sub-systems that have been operating autonomously until now. The Integrated Qualifications Register will be a collaborative effort of central and local government institutions, the education system and higher education institutions, employer organisations, trade unions, other employee organisations and civil society organisations. The entry of a qualification into the national register will mean that such a qualification has been assigned to a PQF level. Therefore, a registered qualification (both "full" and "partial") will also be referenced to a level of the European Qualifications Framework. The integrated qualifications register will be operated as a repository of all data relevant to the qualifications it includes, stored in electronic format. The integrated qualifications system will be the core component of the national qualifications system. The integrated qualifications system features elements which are already present in the social and economic life of Poland, as well as currently developed measures that will facilitate the effective integration of the entire system, i.e., the Polish Qualifications Framework, the Integrated Qualifications Register, common terminology and general principles for the quality assurance of qualifications. Qualifications outside of the integrated system for which there is a social demand will continue to be available in Poland, but they will not be assigned to a Polish Qualifications Framework level or entered into the Integrated Qualifications System. The integrated qualifications system is a key lifelong learning policy tool. Its effectiveness depends not only establishing sound legal and organisational regulations or the commitment of institutions and organisations operating within its framework, but also on society’s understanding of these solutions. In the long-term perspective, society’s understanding of the national qualifications system, of the new opportunities that will emerge as a result of its modernisation, may be the most important factor in achieving the goals for which these activities were undertaken. Therefore, it will be essential to promote and popularise information about these issues, among other ways, by publishing periodical reports about Polish qualifications. The integrated qualifications system will include all aspects related to the validation of learning outcomes undertaken in Poland. It will become a tool to facilitate implementation of the state’s lifelong learning policy based on a partnership of central government, territorial government, employers, employees and civil society. Developing the national qualifications system is a task of state authorities. Ministers directly accountable for qualifications will have a special role to play. Implementation of the integrated qualifications system will provide the substantive support for their activities. A pivotal role within the system will also be played by an internet portal (the NQS portal), facilitating access to information and contributing to greater transparency of the overall system. The effectiveness of the system will also depend on social partners; therefore, it is essential to adequately identify their role and joint responsibilities. The ongoing commitment of stakeholders is vital for the successful implementation of the national qualifications system.  The integrated qualifications register is an essential lifelong learning policy tool to benefit various stakeholder groups: 