Beronda Montgomery is a Michigan State University Foundation Professor in the Departments of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology and of Microbiology & Molecular Genetics. She is also a member of the MSU-DOE Plant Research Laboratory. Her research group investigates how photosynthetic organisms adapt to changes in their environment. Her scholarship extends beyond biology and into studying mentorship and faculty development to develop evidence-based strategies to foster equity and inclusion in academia. Montgomery received her Bachelor's degree in biology from Washington University in St. Louis and her Master's degree in biology from University of Central Arkansas. She then went on to complete her PhD in Plant Biology at the University of California, Davis.  She later became a postdoctoral fellow in Microbial Biology at University of Indiana with the support of a National Science Foundation (NSF) award.  In 2004, she joined the research faculty at Michigan State University. Montgomery's research centers on the dynamic molecular mechanisms that allow photosynthetic organisms—from cyanobacteria to plant species—to adapt and respond to changes in their photoenvironment. These organisms must respond to changes in light sources in order to continue photosynthesis, so they've developed finely tuned growth and developmental responses. Montgomery's lab studies a number of molecules that play an important role in this process, including light-absorbing pigments and light-sensing receptors, or phytochromes.   In particular, her group works to better understand how these molecules regulate cell morphology and physiology in response to different environments and stressors, focusing their attention on Arabadopsis organ systems and cyanobacteria as model organisms.     Her research contributions have been recognized by the American Academy of Microbiology when she was elected as a fellow in 2018.   As of 2016, Montgomery holds the title of MSU Foundation Professor in recognition of her scholarly accomplishments, disciplinary development, commitment to creativity, and teaching excellence.  Montgomery also conducts scholarship and training initiatives on mentoring, particularly around issues relating to mentoring and retaining students and junior scientists from underrepresented backgrounds. She has published extensively on evidence-based strategies to nurture and retain talent in academia, developing strategies for effective mentorship that center on the individual and their specific needs and goals.    Montgomery has also worked with her colleagues to create sustainable opportunities for career development and enhancement. For instance, she has worked with the American Society for Microbiology to connect research scientists with students in the classroom, with the support of the National Science Foundation.  With that funding, Montgomery and her collaborators have established the ASM-NSF Leaders Inspiring Networks and Knowledge (LINK) program, to build "links" between research investigators, students, and educators.  She also served six years as Chair of the ASM Watkins Graduate Research Fellowship, which is aimed at increasing the number of underrepresented groups completing their doctoral degrees in microbiology.  Montgomery's efforts have also focused on faculty development to ensure that mentees grow into effective mentors for the next generation and continue attracting and promoting underrepresented students through STEM careers.    As an expert in effective and evidence-based mentorship, Montgomery serves on a number of leadership boards and as a consultant to universities working towards greater diversity, equity, and inclusion within their research and education programs. She is currently an advisory board member of 500 Women Scientists, lending her expertise in mentorship and faculty development to support their mission of making science open, inclusive, and accessible.  