Dr. Supeno Surija, Ph.D. is a member of The American Institute of Astronautics and Aeronautics. He earned Master and Ph.D. degrees from California Coast University, United States. Since 1980, Dr. Supeno has dedicated his life to research microorganism and nanotechnology. He participated in many workshops, symposiums, and short courses on microbiology and nanotechnology. With consistent multitasking ability and strong determination, Dr. Supeno devoted himself to many areas of expertise and jobs. He is a writer, journalist, caricaturist, scientist, diplomat, inventor and economic and environmental professional. He has received many awards for his essays, findings and inventions, including the award from Indonesia World Records Museum (MURI). After graduated from high school, Dr. Supeno studied in Faculty of Economics, Universitas Nomensen HKBP, Medan using Beasiswa Bank Indonesia(scholarship from Bank of Indonesia) by the recommendation and guidance of his mother. With strong determination in studying, he earned Bachelor and Doctorandus degrees in accounting in 3.5 years, this record has not been broken since 35 years ago. Later, he earned his Master and Ph.D degree from California Coast University. Dr. Supeno has also completed CPD (Continuing Professional Development) from distinguished universities, namely: In 1983, he began his career as a freelance accountant in various small companies. From 1986 to 1991, Dr. Supeno served as Director of Finance and Accounting in PT. Singa Margana. Then, from 1990 to 1991, he served as President Director in BPR Disky Suryajaya and in 1991, he earned Brevet Tax Consultant from Ministry of Finance of Republic of Indonesia. From 1991 to 1997, he was appointed as General Manager in South East Asia Bank (SEAB). Later, he continued his career as an Operational Coordinator of SEAB Liquidation Team. In 2002, he obtained license to be Registered Mutual FundRepresentative. In the same year, he was appointed as CEO in Shamrock Group company until 2011. In 1979, he received an award for his caricature from Yomiuri Shimbun, the largest newspaper in Japan. This achievement marked the beginning of his career in the field of press. Dr. Supeno then became a caricaturist, writer and journalist in BSF media (Bintang Sport Film). Furthermore, his essays were published in many daily newspapers in Medan, such as Harian Analisa, Bukit Barisan, Sinar Indonesia Baru (SIB) and BSF (Bintang Sport Film). He received numerous appreciations and awards for his essays. In 1981, he received an award from Ikatan Pers Mahasiswa (Students' Press Association)for student’s essays. In the next year, in 1982, Dr. Supeno received an award from Pusat Pembinaan dan Pengembangan Bahasa (Language Training and Development Center) for his literature essay writing. In 1987, Ministry of Finance of Republic of Indonesia, Radius Prawiro, acknowledge him for his scientific article and popular article on tax. In the next year, he received an award from Pusat Penerangan ABRI and PWI Jaya (Indonesian Press Association) for his essay on defense and security of Republic of Indonesia. Furthermore, in the same year, he received an award from Ministry of Communication and Informatics of Republic of Indonesia as an Indonesian film critic. He began his career in environmental field by doing research on Dioxin-Free since 1994. As he continued his research, he successfully completed his research and invention which was written in the book entitled “Dioxin-Free System” for preservation of the environment. This invention has received many world awards including award from MURI (Indonesia World Records Museum) as the first Dioxin-Free system in the world. In 2000, Dr. Supeno became an active environmental activist and pioneer of Zero Burning in many plantations in Indonesia. In 2008, he established Buah Nabar Conservation in Sibolangit, Sumatera Utara, Indonesia. This conservation aims to become water catchments and storage areas for underground water which fill the wells in Medan and its surroundings to fulfill the needs of marginalized society. This conservation implements several methods, such as building thousands of biopores, planting trees, and preserving ecosystem in Buah Nabar region and its surroundings. In 2012, he was appointed as Director of Lembaga Konservasi dan Restorasi Hutan Indonesia (Institution of Indonesian Forest Conservation and Restoration) and Director of Lembaga Komunitas Peduli Masyarakat Marginal (Community Care for Marginalized Society). In 2015, he also established Yayasan REAL (Rekonstruksi Ekosistem Alam Lestari). Dr. Supeno began his career in Biology since he was in senior high school. His determination led him to join various courses and trainings in many countries. In 1998, he started his research on agriculture and organic palm plantation. Through the root analysis and nano particle implementation, he successfully produced more efficient organic fertilizers at lower cost and increased the production significantly. This implementation disproved the failure of the previous generation of organic fertilizers for perennials (especiallyoil palm). In 2008, he established PT. Propadu Konair Tarahubun (Plantation Key Technology/ PKT) which is the acronym for PROyek terPADU KONservasi AIR, TAnah, udaRA, HUtan, dan perkeBUNan (Integrated Project for Water, Earth, Air, Forests Conservation, and Plantations) as plantation professional and producer of organic fertilizers, biopesticides, bioherbicides. The implementation of nanotechnology is the foundation of the success of PT Propadu Konair Tarahubun  (Plantation Key Technology/ PKT) as the pioneer of organic oil palm plant and CPO around the world and in Indonesia. He is also the first person in the world to invent a vaccine for Ganoderma disease in oil palm plantation. PKT is also the only company recognized by many parties for its success in preventing and handling basal stem rot disease (Ganoderma)in oil palm plantation. He began his research career in prevention of cancer, diabetes, infertility, and DNA damage by implementing Dioxin-Free system for the production, packaging, distribution and consumption processes. Dioxin-Free system has earned numerous world awards and making it the principle  to produce various foods and beverages which do not cause cancer (and other diseases). This mechanism is also implemented in PKT products. As a professional member of Institute of Nanotechnology in England and a pioneer who recommended the idea to implement nanotechnology in agriculture and plantation, he created NanoBiomimicry technique for oil palm, successfully producing fertilizers suitable for peat and other types of soil. As a member of Society for General Microbiology based in London, for over 30 years, he has consistently done research in microbiology, nanotechnology, and antibiotic development for human and plant. Dr. Supeno obtained numerous patents (intellectual property rights) for his research in health, agriculture and food and beverage processing. 