Yasmine Belkaid (born 1968) is an Algerian immunologist and senior investigator at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), as well as an adjunct professor at the University of Pennsylvania. She is best known for her work studying host-microbe interactions in tissues, uncovering factors controlling immune regulation to microbes. Belkaid currently serves as the director of the NIAID Microbiome program. Belkaid was born and raised in Algiers, Algeria. She received her Bachelor of Science and master's degrees in biochemistry from the University of Sciences and Technology Houari Boumediene. She then received her Master of Advanced Studies from University of Paris-Sud. She received her PhD in immunology from the Pasteur Institute in 1996, where she studied innate immune responses to Leishmania infection. Following graduate school, she moved to the United States for a postdoctoral fellowship at NIAID's Laboratory of Parasitic Diseases.  In 2002, she joined the faculty of the Division of Molecular Immunology in Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center before returning to NIAID in 2005 as a tenure-track investigator in the Laboratory of Parasitic Diseases. In 2008, she became adjunct Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania.  Belkaid's research group is working to understand the mechanisms underlying host-microbe interactions in the gastrointestinal tract and on the skin, which are natural barrier sites between the host's inner workings and their external environment.  More specifically, Belkaid's team is investigating the role microbiota play in promoting immunity against infection against other harmful pathogens.  While microbes are often thought of as harmful infectious agents, her work has contributed to our understanding of the role that microbiota play in immunity—a beneficial relationship known as commensalism whereby the host actually benefits from the microorganisms that live on or in them. One way microbes shield us from harmful pathogens is by competing for space within our bodies, which stops more harmful invaders from setting up shop inside us.  Her group has further contributed to our understanding of how the host immune system can distinguish good microbes from the bad.   Belkaid's group found that certain skin microbes play an important role in immune defense. These commensal microbes interact with the skin's immune cells and allow them to produce a certain cell-signaling molecule that is needed to protect against harmful microbes.  They carried out this experiment using mice that had no naturally-occurring microbes in their skin or gut so they could colonize those mice with only one strain of "good" bacteria. They then infected the colonized and bacteria-free mice with a parasite and found that those without the "good" bacteria were unable to fight back against the parasite, while those with the bacteria mounted an effective immune response.  Her team has also found that beneficial bacteria living on the surface of the skin can also accelerate wound healing in mice.  Belkaid's group also studies what happens when there are imbalances in our microbiome. A number of diseases are caused by our immune systems running out of whack. Given the roll the microbiome plays in host immunity, Belkaid has played a major part in advancing our understanding of how shifts in microbiota can contribute to disease, particularly chronic inflammatory diseases like Crohn's disease and Psoriasis.    Changes in diet and antibiotic use have tinkered with our microbiota composition and may have played a role in increasing the prevalence of certain chronic inflammatory diseases.  