Jewish Roots in Poland (full title: Jewish Roots in Poland: Pages from the Past and Archival Inventories) is a book created by genealogist Miriam Weiner and co-published by The Miriam Weiner Routes to Roots Foundation and YIVO Institute for Jewish Research.  A searchable database of updated archival holdings listed in the book is available in the Archive Database on the Routes to Roots Foundation website.  In 1997, in official cooperation with the Polish State Archives (Naczelna Dyrekcja Archiwów Państwowych in Warsaw, Poland), Weiner authored and published the book, Jewish Roots in Poland.   The book includes archival holdings of the Polish State Archives, the Jewish Historical Institute in Warsaw, local town hall documents throughout Poland, Holocaust documents found in the archives of the death camps located in Auschwitz near Krakow and Majdanek near Lublin. The book also features document examples, maps, antique postcards depicting towns and daily life, and modern-day photographs.  There are individual town listings for localities with more than 10,000 Jews in 1939.  Jewish Roots in Poland took over ten years to complete. The book includes an inventory of 1,250 towns and over 5,000 record entries for these towns. Sources of the material were the Polish State Archives (which included 75 archives throughout Poland), Urzad Stanu Cywilnego (which included 434 offices throughout Poland), and the Jewish Historical Institute in Warsaw. Holocaust documents came from Majdanek Museum Archives and Auschwitz-Birkenau Museum Archives. There are over 300 color photos and over 200 black and white photos of 127 towns, 52 document examples, and 14 color maps. Jewish Roots in Poland was the first work of its kind, as it collected details on archival documents from Poland and the former Soviet Union that had previously been deemed inaccessible or fundamentally lost. The book also serves multiple functions, so its diversity of offerings often made categorizing what the book was difficult. It is a combination of genealogical resources and Holocaust references as well as a coffee table book. The book serves the function of a scholarly reference book as a repository of gathered information, but with the many photos and postcards, it also serves as a travel book.  Warren Blatt from the JewishGen Kielce-Radom Special Interest Group (SIG) described the work as a tour de force and ground-breaking, a unique and timely masterpiece. In a detailed analysis, Blatt found the book provided information that was not previously available to genealogists.   Marilyn Silverman of the Jewish Post of New York said Jewish Roots in Poland is the first Polish government-sanctioned book to document the holdings of the Polish State Archives that are of interest to Jewish genealogists. She sees the experience of discovering these documents as being both painful as well as inspiring a feeling of exhilaration, tied to survival.  In the New York Jewish Genealogical Society, Inc.'s publication, DOROT, their review called Jewish Roots in Poland Weiner's magnum opus, noting the genealogical holdings as well as the capsule town descriptions of 28 towns with large Jewish populations pre-WWII.  The New York Times highlighted the book's importance as an information resource as well as the feelings of poignancy and nostalgia captured in the many images throughout the work.  The Forward described how Weiner was able to organize the original archival material – which lacked a town-by-town inventory and was uncatalogued and inaccessible to genealogical purposes – into a user-friendly format, with the data becoming accessible and organized.  Note: Jewish Roots in Poland is out of print. Miriam Weiner's non-profit Routes to Roots Foundation has made excerpts from the book available on the organization's website 