The Lansdowne portrait is an iconic life-size portrait of George Washington painted by Gilbert Stuart in 1796. It depicts a 64-year-old Washington in his last year as President of the United States. Stuart painted the Lansdowne portrait, three copies of it, and five portraits that were closely related to it. :175 The most famous copy is the one in the East Room of the White House. To preclude its possible sale at auction, the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C. purchased the original painting in 2001, for $20,000,000. The Lansdowne portrait likely (and fancifully) depicts President Washington's December 7, 1795 annual address to the Fourth U.S. Congress. :172 The highly-unpopular Jay Treaty, settling claims between the United States and Great Britain left over from the Revolutionary War, had been presented for approval to the U.S. Senate earlier in the year. The Senate held a special session to debate the treaty in June, at which opposition to it had been fierce. Exactly two-thirds of the 30 senators (the minimum required under the U.S. Constitution) approved the treaty in mid-August, and Washington, who strongly supported the treaty, signed it in late August. :172 The President's annual address was on the first day of the next session of Congress. Washington acknowledged the struggle over the treaty and called for unity.  The portrait's paper, pen and inkwell may allude to his signing of the treaty. :172 There was lingering resentment in the House of Representatives, which expressed its displeasure by declining to appropriate funding for the treaty's implementation until April 1796.  In England, the Lansdowne portrait was celebrated as Washington's endorsement of the Jay Treaty: The portrait presented by the President  [sic] to the Marquis of Lansdowne is one of the finest pictures we have seen since the death of Reynolds. The dress he wears is plain black velvet; he has his sword on, upon the hilt of which one hand rests while the other is extended, as the figure is standing and addressing the Hall of Assembly. The point of time is that when he recommended inviolable union between America and Great Britain. The December 7, 1795 address was the last that President Washington delivered to Congress in person. The following year he published his Farewell Address in the newspapers, rather than delivering it to Congress. :172 Lord Lansdowne – who as British Prime Minister had secured a peaceful end to the Revolutionary War  – commissioned Stuart to paint a portrait of George Washington. Stuart lived in England and Ireland for eighteen years, and Lansdowne may have placed the order for a portrait prior to the artist's return to the United States in early 1793. :80–81 Stuart lived and worked in New York City for a year and a half before moving to Philadelphia in November 1794.  He informed his uncle in Philadelphia of his upcoming arrival: "The object of my journey is only to secure a picture of the President, & finish yours."  Philadelphia served as the temporary national capital from 1790 to 1800 – while Washington, D.C. was under construction. Stuart was introduced to the President in December 1794, at one of Mrs. Washington's Friday evening "drawingrooms." :133 But it was not until the following fall that Washington granted him a sitting. Meanwhile, Stuart gathered orders for portraits—among his papers is a document titled: "A list of gentlemen who are to have copies of the portrait of the President of the United States." and dated: "Philadelphia. April 20th, 1795." :87–88 Lord Lansdowne's name was third on the list of thirty-two subscribers. :87[a] According to Rembrandt Peale, President Washington granted a joint sitting to Stuart and him "in the Autumn of 1795." :88 Stuart was not wholly satisfied with the resulting "Vaughan-style" portrait, but still painted between twelve and sixteen copies of it. :135 He later claimed to have destroyed his original. :88 While visiting London a decade earlier, Senator William Bingham of Pennsylvania and his wife, Anne Willing Bingham, had sat for a family portrait by Stuart (abandoned). :198 The artist may have approached Mrs. Bingham for assistance in getting the President to grant him another sitting: :91 Sir— I am under promise to Mrs. Bingham to set for you to-morrow at nine o'clock, and wishing to know if it be convenient to you that should do so, whether it shall be at your own house (as she talked of the State House) I send this note to you to ask information. According to Rembrandt Peale, this was the only sitting that Washington granted for the Lansdowne portrait. :168 It took place in Stuart's studio (and lodgings) in William Moore Smith's house, at 5th & Chestnut Streets. :168 With severely limited time, Stuart was forced to concentrate on the President's head and face. :168 There are multiple claims as to who posed for the body of the figure, including his landlord, Smith.[b] The portrait was begun by Stuart in his Philadelphia studio and completed in his Germantown studio, the second floor of a stable some 8 miles north of the city. :130–31 The artist moved to Germantown in Summer 1796 to avoid distractions. :165–66 The Binghams had enjoyed Lord Lansdowne's hospitality in London, and persuaded Stuart to allow them to pay for the portrait. :166, 168 Stuart completed the Lansdowne portrait by the fall of 1796, and Senator Bingham paid his fee of $1,000. :170 Bingham had an ornate frame made for it, and arranged for it to shipped to England in late November. Lord Lansdowne had received the portrait by March 5, 1797, when he mentioned it in a letter. :92 Lansdowne's letter of thanks to Mrs. Bingham survives, but is undated: A very fine portrait of the greatest man living in a magnificent frame found its way into my hall, with no one thing left for me to do regarding it, except to thank the amiable donor of it. It is universally approv'd and admir'd, and I see with satisfaction, that there is no one who does not turn away from every thing else, to pay their homage to General Washington. Among many circumstances which contribute to enhance the value of it, I shall always consider the quarter from whence it comes as most flattering, & I look forward with the greatest pleasure to the time of shewing you and Mr. Bingham where I have plac'd it. :170Stuart's first copy of the portrait was for the Binghams (now at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts), and would have been completed before the original left his studio.  The President and First Lady visited Germantown on January 7, 1797: "Road [rode] to German Town with Mrs. Washington to see Mr. Stuarts paintings."  The Bingham copy was still in the studio on July 27, 1797, when Robert Gilmor Jr. viewed it.  The William Kerin Constable copy (now at the Brooklyn Museum) was completed that same month. :178 The Gardiner Baker copy (now at the White House) is presumed to have been the copy commissioned by Charles Cotesworth Pinckney in September 1796, likely as a diplomatic gift to France;[c] and resold by Stuart to Baker by December 1797.  After the death of Lord Lansdowne, his pictures were sold by auction. The Washington was purchased by Samuel Williams, an English  [sic] merchant, for $2,000. Williams subsequently became insolvent, and his creditors disposed of the Washington by a lottery. Forty tickets were sold, at fifty guineas each. The picture fell to Mr. J. Delaware Lewis, a nephew of Mr. William D. Lewis, of Philadelphia. But few Americans had ever seen the picture, and Mr. William D. Lewis, who was Chairman of the Committee on Art, obtained the loan of it from his nephew for the Centennial Exhibition. It was sent out with the loan collection from England, unpacked at Memorial Hall, and hung up in the British section before its arrival was known to the Fine Arts Committee. An effort was subsequently made to have it transferred to the American section, but it was unsuccessful. At the close of the Exhibition, it was returned to its owner in England. :13The painting is full of symbolism, drawn from American and ancient Roman symbols of the Roman Republic. Stuart painted Washington from life, showing him standing up, dressed in a black velvet suit with an outstretched hand held up in an oratorical manner. Behind Washington is a row of two Doric columns, with another row to the left. Wrapped around and between the columns are red tasseled drapes. Washington's suit is plain and simple, and the sword he holds on his left side is a dress sword and not a battle sword (symbolizing a democratic form of government, rather than a monarchy or military dictatorship). In the sky, storm clouds appear on the left while a rainbow appears on the right, signifying the American Revolutionary War giving way to the peace and prosperity of the new United States after the 1783 Treaty of Paris. The medallion at the top of the chair shows the red, white, and blue colors of the American flag. On and under the tablecloth-draped table to the left are two books: Federalist—probably a reference to the Federalist Papers—and Journal of Congress—the Congressional Record. Another five books are under the table: the three to the right are General Orders, American Revolution, and Constitutional Bylaws—symbolizing Washington's leadership as commander-in-chief of the Continental Army and president of the Constitutional Convention. The pen and paper on the table signify the rule of law. The table's leg is shaped like a fasces, an ancient Roman symbol of power and authority (imperium). On the far left of the table is a silver inkwell, emblazed with George Washington's coat of arms (see Syng inkstand). A white quill rests upon silver dogs, ancient symbols of loyalty. Behind these on the table is a large black hat. Washington's unusually clenched facial expression comes from his famous false teeth. Jean-Antoine Houdon's marble sculpture of Washington shows a more natural expression. Stuart wrote: "When I painted him [Washington], he had just had a set of false teeth inserted, which accounts for the constrained expression so noticeable about the mouth and lower part of the face...Houdon's bust does not suffer from this defect." Stuart painted a 1797 seated portrait of Washington, based on the Lansdowne. William Kerin Constable, who commissioned the Lansdowne copy now at the Brooklyn Museum, also commissioned the seated version. :98 Constable presented it to Alexander Hamilton in 1797. :98 The portrait remained in the Hamilton family until 1896, when it was bequeathed to the Lenox Library.  The Lenox Library later merged with the New York Public Library. The portrait was auctioned at Sotheby's NY, 30 November 2005, lot 3, and sold for $8,136,000.  The Constable-Hamilton Portrait is now in the collection of the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art, in Bentonville, Arkansas.  Stuart made several changes for the Munro-Lenox portrait (c.1800):  Washington's head is slightly turned, and his hand is on the table, rather than gesturing into the air. The President looks directly at the viewer, rather than off to the side, which makes it a more compelling image than the Lansdowne.  The head appears to be based on Stuart's Athenaeum portrait (the image on the one-dollar bill).  The wall behind the President is lowered, allowing for a more dramatic scene of the sun breaking through the storm clouds. After 135 years of ownership by the New York Public Library, the Munro-Lenox portrait was deassessioned and offered for auction in 2005.  It failed to sell at auction, and was sold in a private sale for an undisclosed amount.  Stuart painted three full-size copies of the Munro-Lenox Portrait, one for the Connecticut State House in Hartford; and two for Rhode Island—one for the State House in Providence, and the other for Old Colony House in Newport.  The Lansdowne and Munro-Lenox portraits were copied many times, and reproduced in widely circulated prints.  William Winstanley (1775–1806), a British painter who had sold landscapes to President Washington,  reportedly painted six full-size copies of the Lansdowne.  During the 19th century, Jane Stuart (the artist's daughter) painted multiple copies of the Lansdowne in full and reduced sizes. Alonzo Chappel included elements of the Lansdowne in his c.1860 seated portrait of Washington (Metropolitan Museum of Art).  Rayburn Room, U.S. Capitol (note 1818 inscription at top) Providence Athenaeum Redwood Library and Athenaeum U.S. House of Representatives Montreal Museum of Fine Arts 