The Ahtisaari Plan, formally the Comprehensive Proposal for the Kosovo Status Settlement (CSP), is a status settlement proposal covering a wide range of issues related to the Kosovo status process for Kosovo.  Some of the main components of the plan include the formation of the International Steering Group for Kosovo (ISG), and the International Civilian Representative for Kosovo (ICR), the European Union Special Representative (EUSR) for Kosovo, appointed by the Council of the European Union.   In early 2012 President Boris Tadić recommended his Five-Point Plan for Kosovo, essentially an upgrade of the Ahtisaari Plan.  On 10 September 2012, the International Steering Group had its final meeting   and formally ended its supervision,  With immediate effect, the CSP no longer exists as a separate and superior legal power, and the Constitution of the Republic of Kosovo now constitutes the sole basis for the country’s legal framework.  and Kosovo became responsible for its own governance.  The proposal included provisions covering: While not yet mentioning the word "independence," the it included several provisions that were widely interpreted as implying statehood for Kosovo. For example, it would give Kosovo the right to apply for membership in international organizations, create a Kosovo Security Force and adopt national symbols.  Martti Ahtisaari stated, on 8 February 2007, that after a period of consultations with the parties, he would finalize his Settlement proposal for submission to the UN Security Council, when he would also elaborate on the status issue itself.  In Belgrade, Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Koštunica refused to receive Ahtisaari.  Koštunica claimed that because Serbia had still not formed a new government after the January 21 parliamentary elections he had no mandate to discuss Kosovo and therefore could not meet Ahtisaari.  Nevertheless, he later denounced the proposal as "illegitimate and unacceptable" because he alleged it "violates the U.N. Charter  ... by undermining sovereignty of U.N. member Serbia."   President Boris Tadić did receive Ahtisaari, after which he reaffirmed his vow to never accept an independent Kosovo.  Foreign Minister Vuk Drašković warned that it was "necessary to avoid an imposed solution that could cause Serbia to become a factor of instability."  In Pristina, Kosovo Albanian leaders issued a statement after meeting with Ahtisaari saying they are "convinced that the international process for the resolution of Kosovo's status led by President Ahtisaari will be concluded soon with Kosovo becoming an independent state."  The United States called the proposal "fair and balanced,"  while the EU Presidency noted that Ahtisaari's proposals "build on almost twelve months of direct talks between Belgrade and Pristina."  On 21 February, Ahtisaari began a period of consultations with the parties in Vienna to finalize the Settlement.  He made clear that his proposal was a draft and that he would incorporate compromise solutions into the final document.  After this period of consultations and further modification of the Settlement, Ahtisaari convened a high-level meeting of the parties in Vienna on March 10.  After this meeting, leaders from both sides signaled a total unwillingness to compromise on their central demands (Kosovo Albanians for Kosovo's independence; Serbia for continued sovereignty over Kosovo).  Concluding that there was no chance for the two sides to reconcile their positions, Ahtisaari said he intended to submit to the UN Security Council his proposed status recommendations, including an explicit recommendation for the status outcome itself, by the end of March. In November 2008, the EU accepted the demand of Serbia not to implement the plan of Ahtisaari through EULEX.  