In a modern sense, Comedy (from the Greek: κωμῳδία, kōmōidía) refers to any discourse or work generally intended to be humorous or amusing by inducing laughter, especially in theatre, television, film, stand-up comedy, or any other medium of entertainment. The origins of the term are found in Ancient Greece. In the Athenian democracy, the public opinion of voters was influenced by the political satire performed by the comic poets at the theaters. The theatrical genre of Greek comedy can be described as a dramatic performance which pits two groups or societies against each other in an amusing agon or conflict. Northrop Frye depicted these two opposing sides as a "Society of Youth" and a "Society of the Old." A revised view characterizes the essential agon of comedy as a struggle between a relatively powerless youth and the societal conventions that pose obstacles to his hopes. In this struggle, the youth is understood to be constrained by his lack of social authority, and is left with little choice but to take recourse in ruses which engender very dramatic irony which provokes laughter. Satire and political satire use comedy to portray persons or social institutions as ridiculous or corrupt, thus alienating their audience from the object of their humor. Parody subverts popular genres and forms, critiquing those forms without necessarily condemning them. Do you have a question about Comedy that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. For editor resources and to collaborate with other editors on improving Wikipedia's Comedy-related articles, see WikiProject Comedy. Title page of the first quarto of Shakespeare's Midsummer Night's Dream (1600) Jim Carrey mugs for the camera Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis (ca. 1950) Barry Humphries in character in London as "Dame Edna Everage" on the day of 2011 Wedding of Prince William and Kate Middleton Jackie Chan at the 2008 Cannes Film Festival Roman-era mosaic depicting a scene from Menander's comedy Samia ("The Woman from Samos") Popov the Clown in 2009 Edward Lear, Aged 73 and a Half and His Cat Foss, Aged 16, an 1885 lithograph by Edward Lear Tragic Comic Masks of Ancient Greek Theatrerepresented in the  Hadrian's Villa mosaic Rowan Atkinson as Mr. Bean Stand-up comedian Margaret Cho Jordan Peele at the Peabody awards. The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 