The third season of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles aired in syndication. For most of this season, the Technodrome is located at the Earth's core. Transport modules with drills are used to travel between the Technodrome and the Earth's surface.  The Turtles learn the cost of slacking off when Splinter is badly hurt during a confrontation with Shredder. The intentions of the Turtles are put to the test when a controversial TV-figure portrays our heroes as menaces to society. The Turtles forego publicly clearing their name to defeat Krang and his new robotic weapon. Note: First appearance of Krang's "bubble walker"  Irma accidentally becomes gigantic and her naturally clumsy nature makes her a danger to the city. The Turtles and April O'Neil hide her and search for her cure. Villain: Shredder Gangsters are swiping all the antiques in town. And when they swipe most of our heroes, it's up to Donatello and April to find out why. Could Shredder be behind this? Villain: Shredder Title Reference: The Maltese Falcon Note: Krang is not in this episode. The Turtles go flying when the Shredder invents a gravity-altering device. Soon it extends to the surface and affects all of New York City. The bodies of Shredder and Splinter are switched when a device is accidentally activated during a battle between the Turtles and their enemies. As Shredder plans the Turtles' demise and Splinter plans on how to get back to his body, everyone else is clueless. In the middle of a summer heat wave, someone is destroying all the air conditioners and taking all the city's freon. In the meantime, Vernon and Burne go looking for the Turtles, but find something else. Villain: Shredder A 13-year-old boy tries his best to help out the Turtles, but with some not so optimal results. In the end, he proves himself to be a great asset to the Turtle team. Villain: Shredder A mysterious, sewer-dwelling man has an unnatural ability to put rats under his control. Can Splinter resist, or will he destroy the Turtles at the bidding of the Rat King?. Villain: The Rat King mysterious-dwelling man  Note: This is the very first episode not to feature Shredder. Note: First Appearance of the Rat King. After witnessing a living dinosaur wander in the city and disappear abruptly, the Turtles follow its tracks into a large hole, where they discover a shocking revelation: A cave where dinosaurs still roam.  Meanwhile, Shredder and his mutant goons, Bebop and Rocksteady, are also there, but to collect a crystal needed by Krang to recharge the power cells of the Technodrome. The Turtles discover that the crystal is the source for all lifeforms inside the cave, and must get it back before they are all destroyed. Villains: Shredder, Krang, Bebop and Rocksteady Emperor Aleister of Malicuria comes to the United States with a sample of Lydium 90, which gets noticed by Krang as a way to power up the Technodrome, which has constant brownouts. To celebrate relations between Malicuria and the US, the Emperor hosts a masquerade ball in New York, but his bored daughter, Princess Mallory sneaks out for a night on the town. April crashes the party dressed as a princess, and gets mistaken for Mallory, but the masquerade is also crashed by Shredder, Bebop and Rocksteady, who plans to kidnap Mallory in order to get the Lydium 90 shard. Villains: Shredder, Krang, Bebop and Rocksteady A robot warrior, known as the Mobile Armored Computerized Combatant (M.A.C.C.), arrives from 400 years in the future in 20th-Century New York. He befriends the Turtles, but Shredder and Krang are looking to bring him to their side, at any means necessary. Villains: Shredder and Krang Shredder gains possession of an ancient ninja sword that is crafted from an alien metal, allowing it to 'cut' through dimensions. Villain: Shredder Krang and Shredder's plan to flush out the Turtles from the sewers leaves the city flooded with water (and creatures!) from the ocean. Title Reference: 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea Villains: Shredder, Krang, Bebop and Rocksteady Note: Final Appearance of Tiffany. Worried that Shredder will soon win, Leonardo takes some time off, doubting his leadership. Meanwhile, Krang and Shredder drain solar energy from the Sun for the dual purpose of powering the Technodrome and capitulating Earth into another Ice Age. Without Leonardo, the three other Turtles try to thwart Shredder while taking turns as leader, but each realizes they need to overcome their own flaws, such as Raphael sticking to a decision, Michaelangelo becoming more serious and Donatello needing to analyze even the most obvious facts. A bump on the head leaves Leonardo thinking that he is in 17th century France, and that he and his comrades are Musketeers. Villain: Shredder, Bebop and Rocksteady Title Reference: The Three Musketeers Note: In this episode, both Donatello and Bebop are voiced by Greg Berg instead of Barry Gordon. Shredder programs the city's new garbage collecting super-computer to collect the Turtles. But when Shredder doesn't specify 'Ninja' Turtles, the super-computer collects them all! Turtles of the city of every shape and size are not safe. Shredder thinks he's Michelangelo after a computer malfunction. Villain: Shredder and Krang Aliens abduct Donatello and Rocksteady. Villain: Shredder, Bebop and Rocksteady A visit to Earth from a Polarisoid results in havoc when Shredder (and later, April O'Neil) comes into possession of the alien's camera, because it does more than just take pictures. Villain: Shredder Shredder and Krang engineer a love potion that makes Leonardo, Michelangelo, and Raphael all fall in love with Irma. Donatello races for an antidote before Shredder drains a naval nuclear submarine of all its power, and things get crazy when Rocksteady takes a dose of the potion and falls in love with April. Villain: Shredder and Krang Baxter Stockman returns for revenge against the Turtles and Shredder, while our heroes attempt to stop Shredder's plan to siphon water from an underground reservoir. Villains: Baxter Stockman, Shredder, Bebop and Rocksteady An eager vigilante is causing a stir in the city, while Krang and Shredder take control of all the machines in the city. Maybe this new 'hero' can help the Turtles. Villains: Shredder and Krang Note: First Appearance of Casey Jones. A train accident produces gallons of mutagen that drench nearby cattle. The result is a super bull with a temper! Villains: Shredder, the Mutagen Monster, Bebop and Rocksteady White-collar criminals give new meaning to the term 'hostile take-over.' Casey Jones helps the Turtles uncover who's behind a new wave of corporate crime. Villain: Shredder Michelangelo gets a job as a pizza delivery boy. But who's his new boss? Shredder and Krang produce hi-tech versions of Rocksteady and Bebop to keep the Turtles busy while they install a damaged mind-controlling Mesmerizer at the top of the broadcast tower at the Channel 6 building. A skilled, and lovely, ninja warrior is hired by Krang to defeat the Turtles. Shredder's replaced, Leonardo's met his match. Villains: Shredder, Krang, and the ninja warrior Splinter suffers amnesia as the Turtles try to remind him that he is the true leader of the Foot Clan. Villains: Shredder and Krang Note: This episode is mainly a clip-show. Our old friends, the Punk Frogs, are being terrorized by a mutant alligator in the Florida Everglades. Leatherhead teams up with Shredder to battle the Frogs and the Turtles. Villains: The Shredder, Leatherhead, Bebop and Rocksteady Note: First Appearance of Leatherhead. Note: In this episode, both Donatello and Bebop are voiced by Greg Berg instead of Barry Gordon. Irma is kidnapped by Bebop and Rocksteady and is replaced by a robot that looks just like her that is programmed to eliminate the turtles. However, things seem a bit wrong as whenever the word "turtle" is said it instantly "zaps" whatever causes the word to be said with a laser. Meanwhile, the turtles try to rescue Irma from the Shredder's clutches. Villains: Shredder, Bebop and Rocksteady Note: Final episode where Raphael is voiced by Thom Pinto instead of Rob Paulsen. Kala's pet Grybyx, which has a really bad temper whenever it gets hungry, escapes from Dimension X through a portal to Earth, causing trouble for the Turtles. It's Michelangelo's birthday, but none of his older brothers seem to remember, and it frustrates him greatly.  Meanwhile, Shredder and Krang discover what is possibly an "anti-mutagen" that, after testing it on three rock soldiers, can undo mutations.  Shredder, Bebop and Rocksteady are sent to use it on the Turtles, and our heroes have a few close calls.  Even a case of Turtle Pox cannot stop our heroes from an attempt to take down Shredder and Krang after they unleash Metalhead, a robotic fighting machine programmed to seek and capture the Turtles. Villains: Shredder and Krang Note: In this episode, Shredder is voiced by Dorian Harewood instead of James Avery. A rabbit ronin warrior from an alternate dimension is lost in our world. While the Turtles help him adjust, Shredder steals a dragon egg to unleash it on the city. Usagi Yojimbo's unwavering sense of bushido helps save the day. Villain: Shredder Note: First Appearance of Usagi Yojimbo. Someone is stealing all the kimonos in the city. After Master Splinter's favorite kimono is stolen, April's famous detective aunt helps the Turtles retrieve it. Villain: Don Turtelli Note: Shredder, Krang, Bebop and Rocksteady are not in this episode. Note: First Appearance of Agatha Marbles. Shredder tricks Usagi Yojimbo into battling the Turtles. Villain: Shredder Leatherhead arrives in New York seeking revenge for his defeat only to run into the Rat King who captures him and reveals his plans for world domination. The two villains end up arguing, then finally fighting each other instead of the Turtles. Note: Shredder, Krang, Bebop and Rocksteady are not in this episode. Bebop and Rocksteady put on an act to get the Turtles to eat cookies, but not any ordinary cookies, because these cookies could turn them into humans!  Tempted to find out what being a human is like, Michelangelo eats one and becomes one.  While the effects wears off from time to time,  they still kick back in.  Meanwhile, the Turtles search for Michelangelo with an antidote for the anti-mutagen before it destroys him, while Shredder's two mutant goons ask for help from their old gang to rob a ship. And during it all, April attempts to "join" the gang to get a story for Burne. Villains: Shredder, Bebop, Rocksteady, and Bebop and Rocksteady's gang Zach's big brother, Walt, steals a rare pouch containing the only map to the Turtles' lair. The Turtles must clear their names when they are believed to be jewel thieves who stole a priceless emerald during a magic act run by  a stage illusionist named Boldini. Villains: Don Turtelli, the Great Boldini, and The Rat King Note: Shredder, Krang, Bebop and Rocksteady are not in this episode. Note: Final Appearance of Don Turtelli. An impish alien comedian from Dimension Z (who has mannerisms similar to Pee Wee Herman), escapes to Earth to cause big trouble for the TMNT. Villains: Shredder and Mr. Ogg The Turtles have entered an alternate universe in which they dreamed that they never existed, saw The Shredder rules the city as SHREDDERVILLE & the World as emperor with  Bebop & Rocksteady as Human Punk Thugs & Krang is powerless alien brian without robot body ( when turtles never existed to stop Shredder,  Shredder never found a way to mutate Bebop & Rocksteady or give Krang his robot body & Shredder desserted Krang while using Krangs Technology). Note: In this episode, Shredder is voiced by Dorian Harewood instead of James Avery. Note: Loosely based on the movie It's a Wonderful Life An interdimensional alien spacecraft leads Baxter Stockman to his latest vengeful plot to destroy the Turtles and Shredder. Note: First appearance of spaceship computer Villains: Shredder and Baxter Stockman After several failed attempts to get the Technodrome re-energized, Shredder and Krang run one last-ditch distraction for the Turtles at Fort Charles while Bebop and Rocksteady steal energy fuel cells from the neighboring space research center. The Technodrome is up and running again, and it is up to the Turtles to hinder Shredder and Krang from getting to the surface. After several setbacks, including firing a missile towards the turtles out at the South Dakota countryside, missing and instead blowing up Mount Rushmore, Shredder and Krang steal all of New York's electricity and charge it into a giant transdimensional gateway, designed to send Earth into Dimension X.  The Turtles must defeat their enemies once and for all before Earth is destroyed by Krang's Rock Soldier army. At the end, the turtles send the Technodrome to Dimension X and are celebrated as the heroes in town. Villains: Shredder and Krang 