The Ooni of Ile-Ife (Ọọ̀ni of Ilè-Ifẹ̀) is the traditional ruler of Ile-Ife. This Nigerian town is seen as the cradle of the Yoruba people. The Ooni dynasties go back hundreds of years. Because the oral tradition was only recently transcribed, there are several detailed lists that contradict each other. Nevertheless, some key figures are common to all of them. All the Ooni are traced down to Oduduwa, who is seen as the ancestral father of all the Yoruba people. Ooni Oranmiyan, who is said to have lived between 1200 and 1300 A.D, became legendary  for his role in creating many new towns. One of his sons, Eweka, became the first Oba of Benin. Another son, Ajaka, became the first Alaafin of Oyo. Another, Osile, of Oke-Ona Egba.  Ooni Lajamisan, another descendant of Oranmiyan is often said to have opened the modern Ife history.  The four actual Ruling Houses  are named from Ooni Lafogido, Ooni Osinkola, Ooni Ogboru and Ooni Giesi. The first three were sons of Ooni Lajodogun, and the later a maternal grandson of Ogboru. The current Ooni is Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi Ojaja II (born October 17, 1974) The primary sources for the history of the Yoruba are from oral tradition. Since there were not ceremonial recitations of the list of the Oonis (at burial or at crowning), there are in fact several oral traditions, that have generated an unusual number of different written transcriptions. In what follows, #nn is the index of the Ooni in the A list (see table, column LA). Sources for the 50 items A list Sources for the 50 items B list The filling of the stool of a deceased Ooni of Ife is not a simple local affair as it may seem but has national ramifications. Since Ife is regarded as the cradle of the Yoruba, this town has always been the leading religious center of the Yoruba people. But other roles are also involved.   Especially, the Ooni of Ife is often presented as the highest ranked Oba  or, even more, as the natural chairman of the Council of Yoruban Chiefs.  The rules to fill a vacant stool are the Chiefs Law Cap 25 Laws of Osun State (modified 2002).  And the Declaration made in 1980 by the traditional Chiefs under Section 4(2) of this Chief Law. In 1957, the former Declaration recognised four ruling houses and established the following order of rotation:  In 1977, references to locations in Ife were suppressed. And the January 1980 Declaration confirmed everything just before the death of Adesoji Aderemi.  These families are tagged in column desc, as sourced from Vanguard  for Lafog, Osink, Ogbor, Giesi. And Newz  for the rest. (Both sources don't give their own sources). In 2015, it was the turn of the Giesi Family, as confirmed by the Ife kingmakers.   Nevertheless: Finally, Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, from the Giesi house, was elected October 26, 2015.  The Yoruba language is written using the Pan-Nigerian alphabet. This alphabet makes use of many diacritic signs.  Like for the McCune–Reischauer system for Korean, this leads to several variant spellings where the diacritics are omitted for various reasons.  But the case of Yoruba is worse than that of Korean as what is transcribed is a language that was not previously written down at all apart from Ajami script: the romanization becomes locutor-dependent.[clarification needed]  Some examples are (diacritics removed): In the aggregated table, differences that clearly come only from pronunciation have been ignored. Printing fixes everything, even the typographic issues. "At least, it can be said that the existence of numerous variants requires explanation, and an interpretation can be assessed according to how satisfactorily it accounts for their existence.  The method might be described as one of reductio ad non absurdum."   