Tourism is travel for pleasure or business; also the theory and practice of touring, the business of attracting, accommodating, and entertaining tourists, and the business of operating tours. Tourism may be international, or within the traveller's country. The World Tourism Organization defines tourism more generally, in terms which go "beyond the common perception of tourism as being limited to holiday activity only", as people "traveling to and staying in places outside their usual environment for not more than one consecutive year for leisure and not less than 24 hours, business and other purposes". Tourism can be domestic or international, and international tourism has both incoming and outgoing implications on a country's balance of payments. Today, tourism is a major source of income for many countries, and affects the economy of both the source and host countries, in some cases being of vital importance. Accessible tourism enables people with access requirements, including mobility, vision, hearing and cognitive dimensions of access, to function independently and with equity and dignity through the delivery of universally designed tourism products, services and environments. This definition is inclusive of all people including those travelling with children in prams, people with disabilities and seniors.Do you have a question about Tourism that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. For editor resources and to collaborate with other editors on improving Wikipedia's Tourism-related articles, see WikiProject Tourism. Mass tourism at the Trevi Fountain in Rome, Italy St. Peter's Basilica in Vatican City, the papal enclave within the Italian city of Rome, is one of the largest religious tourism sites in the world. Strandkorb chairs on Usedom Island, Germany. Not only does the service sector grow thanks to tourism, but also local manufacturers (like those producing the strandkorb chairs), retailers, the real-estate sector and the general image of a location can benefit. The Skull Chapel in south-western Poland is an example of dark tourism. Its interior walls, ceiling and foundations are adorned by human remains. It is the only such monument in Poland, and one of six in Europe. 1922 postcard of tourists in the High Tatras, Slovakia. Prinzessin Victoria Luise, the first cruise ship of the world, launched in June 1900 in Hamburg (Germany) Friendship Force visitors from Indonesia meet their hosts in Hartwell, Georgia, USA. Leicester railway station – built in 1894 to replace, largely on the same site, Campbell Street station, the origin for many of Cook's early tours. A tourism conference underway. Tourism Police of Colombia at the Chicamocha National Park, Santander. SpaceShipTwo is a major project in space tourism. The Sanctuary of Christ the King, in Almada, has become one of the most religious tourism visited places. A destination hotel in Germany: Yacht Harbour Residence in Rostock, Mecklenburg. A Japanese tourist consulting a tour guide and a guide book from Akizato Ritō's Miyako meisho zue (1787) Drawa National Park in Poland, famous for its canoeing routes. Reisepläne (Travel plans) by Adolph Menzel (1875) Perito Moreno Glacier, Patagonia, Argentina. Panels from the Thomas Cook Building in Leicester, displaying excursions offered by Thomas Cook Times Square is the hub of the Broadway theatre district and a major cultural venue in Midtown Manhattan, New York City. The pedestrian intersection also has one of the highest annual attendance rates of any tourist attraction in the world, estimated at 60 million. Englishman in the Campagna by Carl Spitzweg (c. 1845) Prince Ladislaus Sigismund of Poland visiting Gallery of Cornelis van der Geest in Brussels in 1624. A tourist taking photographs and video at an archaeological site Tourists at the Mediterranean Coast of Barcelona, 2007 Backpacking tourists in Vienna Nazaré, Portugal, is now listed on the Guinness World Records for the biggest waves ever surfed and has become a worldwide tourist attraction. The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 