A welcome sign (or gateway sign) is a road sign at the border of a region that introduces or welcomes visitors to the region.   Examples of welcome signs can be found near political borders, such as when entering a state, province, county, city, or town, and they are increasingly found in neighborhoods and private communities.   In European countries under the Schengen Agreement, a welcome sign may be found at borders between countries. Its purpose is partly informational, to inform drivers where they are, and partly for tourism, as it affords an opportunity to advertise features within the region to people who are entering it.  A welcome sign is a type of town sign — a sign placed at the entrance to and exit from a city, town, or village. In many jurisdictions, the format of town signs is standardized; in some, welcome signs may be distinct from the legally mandated town sign. A municipality's welcome sign may give its population or date of foundation, list twinned towns or services within the town, or depict the town's crest, typical local products, or the logo of sponsor organizations which maintain the sign (such as the local Lions Club). Welcome to Fabulous Las Vegas sign, Las Vegas, United States Welcome to New York City, United States Welcome sign in Moscow, Idaho, USA Welcome sign in Rosenberg, Texas, USA Welcome to Florida Washington, D.C. Chambéry, Savoie Kenova, West Virginia Melun, Île-de-France College Station, Texas Napa Valley, California Mission, British Columbia Chillingham, New South Wales Ogden, Utah The Mississippi welcome sign Older Mississippi welcome sign Szydłowiec, Poland Police, Poland Bilingual entry signs in Beregszász / Berehove / Берегово (Ukraine) - with Cyrillic letters (for Ukrainian), Latin and rovas letters (for Hungarian). Bilingual welcome sign in Russian and English on Russian border, Russia. Bilingual welcome sign in Arabic and English on Egyptian-Israeli Taba Border Crossing, Egypt Welcome sign in Loburn, New Zealand. Swedish, French and English welcome sign in Gustavia Saint Barthélemy, France. Alaska welcome sign Yukon larger than life sign British Columbia sign along Klondike Highway Welcome sign on Farm Gunsteling in Namibia (2017) 