Multiple disabilities is a term for a person with several disabilities, such as a sensory disability associated with a motor disability. Additionally, in the United States, it is a special education classification under which students are eligible for services through the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, or IDEA.  Depending on the definition, an intellectual disability may be included in the term "multiple disabilities". Individuals usually have more than one significant disability, such as orthopedic impairment, sensory impairment, and/or a behavior or emotional issues. Under the IDEA, students are labeled with multiple disabilities when their educational disabilities require more than the services that are available for just one of their disabilities. For instance, if a student has a developmental disability, emotional disabilities, and a visual impairment, they may be classified as having multiple disabilities. However, not every student who has more than one disability receives this classification.  People with severe or multiple disabilities may exhibit a wide range of characteristics, depending on the combination and severity of disabilities, and the person’s age. There are, however, some traits they may share, including: (See also characteristics for students with visual impairment, hearing impairment, orthopedic impairment, autism, and speech/language impairment.) At times, in common usage "Multiple disability" and "cerebral palsy" are used interchangeably. The term is sometimes used to connote mental disability and is accepted for usage in medical fraternity as well as in social life. Many organizations known as "Spastic Societies" viz. Spastic Society of Gurgaon are working in different areas in India as charitable bodies for people with cerebral palsy, autism, intellectual disabilities, and multiple disabilities in caregiving, rehabilitation and medical support of children with neurological muscular development disabilities. Similar organizations are also working very effectively in U.K, U.S.A, Australia and some other countries. 