A  content designer develops creative ideas and content strategies for social media, digital publication app, software engineering, and other digital platform such as a blog. The term is used mainly in fields such as online marketing and sound design. Content design can be used in print work; however, it is generally refers to the web or in the media industry such as (music production). Content designers work in digital agencies also as in-house designers for the creation and curation of web content. Moreover, the term can be stretched to include producers of any content that a user will interact with.  Content designers are often involved in online marketing, and usually focus on animated graphics, texts, videos, and sound depending on the message and the target audience. Most content designers produce their own content from scratch and work on their project individually, often using social media.  The duties of a content designer vary, depending on the type of company, and the projects they are developing.  The format of the content usually specifies a more specific title such as animator for motion graphics, writer for textual content, instructional designer for educational content, or a programmer for automated program/data-driven content. Most content designers must create or draw original work which is relevant to a specific topic or message they wish to communicate.  An important function of this job type is being able to adapt to new advances in coding and design. Content designers also create new codes and templates, and often keep themselves updated by acquiring new technical skills.  In this industry, competitive fields of each type of design discipline leave designers striving for higher positions in order to increase their income. People who decide to make content designing their career of choice are often fluent in Adobe Creative Suite.  Content designers who are able to code and use other software are far more likely to succeed or reach a higher level or position in this career field.  Content designers who specialize in programming might deliberate the role of a web developer versus web designer. Web developers deal with the non-design aspect of building websites, which includes coding and writing markup and site hierarchy, including: client-side coding, server-side coding, and database technology.  Web developers require a more intense education than web designers in order to create a website. Generally, web developers excel at coding and the technical aspects of web programming. Web designers create content, whereas web developers must create code that is easy to read, user-friendly, and an overall enjoyable experience for the user to navigate.  Web designers use graphics and graphic design software to create visuals for a website. They then use coding to make it available online. Designers are creative and use both intuition and imagination. However, web designers express less concern with the look of a website than how technically sound it is. They build a website from the ground up and know all the specific languages for that website.  Overall, online representation of a business through websites as a result of web development has made an impact on modern day society. Web developing serves a platform to promote online marketing for a business allowing it to gain global exposure. Millions of online users are able to engage with their favorite businesses thanks to web developing.  Web design and development introduce a convenient way to maneuver through websites. A simple design that easily engages users is an effective outcome. Web designs are constantly updated in order to stay relevant for its users. The aesthetic of a website translates how well users are attracted to use a website.  A web designer must make design decisions that affect the color, layout and overall graphical appearance. These are influenced by the function for which they are designed, as well as the audience they are designed to attract.  Web design and web development are two different fields; however, the average salary of web developers for 2012 ranged been $61,250-91,250, whereas web designers on average make approximately $53,750-88,000 per annum.  A senior content designer leads a content design group in designing new content for a product or project that is typically web-based. Depending on the content, the role of a senior content designer may be similar or identical to a communication design, game development, or educational role with a different title more associated with those professions. For example, a senior content designer in a communication design profession is better known as a creative director.  