This is a list of cuisines of the Americas.  A cuisine is a characteristic style of cooking practices and traditions,  often associated with a specific culture.  The cuisines found across North and South America are based on the cuisines of the countries from which the immigrant peoples came, primarily Europe. However, the traditional European cuisine has been adapted by the addition of many local ingredients, and many techniques have been added to the tradition as well. Canadian bacon, or peameal bacon, prepared from center-cut boneless pork loin BeaverTail, a fried dough pastry resembling the tail of a beaver, a Canadian symbol Fish and brewis with scrunchions, a traditional Newfoundland meal consisting of codfish and hard bread or hard tack A bottle of maple syrup from Quebec, Canada Salmon is widely available in the Pacific Northwest. Chicken, pork and corn cooking in a barbecue smoker New England clam chowder Chicago-style deep-dish pizza from the original Pizzeria Uno location Caldo de res is a Mexican dish made with corn, green beans, potatoes, carrots, cabbage and cilantro. Chapulines, (roasted grasshoppers), for sale in Oaxaca, Mexico Fiambre is a traditional food from Guatemala eaten on November 1 and 2 in celebration of the Day of the Dead and All Saints Day. It is a chilled salad that may be made from over 50 ingredients. Empanadas Cebiche, a seafood dish popular in Central and South America, especially in Peru A typical Brazilian Feijoada, a stew of beans with beef and pork "Fish in a box", fresh fish served with Mediterranean vegetables in a Montevideo, Uruguay restaurant A bowl of fanesca served in Quito, Ecuador. It is a traditional soup of Ecuador served around Easter Bandeja paisa, a typical meal popular in Colombian cuisine. Includes red beans cooked with pork, white rice, ground meat, chicharon, fried egg, plantain, chorizo, arepa, hogao sauce, morcilla and avocado The dishes made in the previously British and French Islands and territories in the Caribbean are much more diverse than the islands colonized by Spanish due to a history of changing colonial administration or ownership (between British, French, Dutch and Spanish), and the migration of diverse groups brought to work on plantations including Indians from Indian, Chinese and Portuguese (Madeira and Azores). There is even much diversity within each previous colonial groupings. While both Trinidad and Jamaica were both British colonies and share similar cooking styles, the scope of dishes in Trinidad are different and more diverse due to a very different population make up.  The similarities in the larger region lie mostly in the fruits and vegetables consumed and the ingredients used in cooking, with the use of root vegetables, plantains, beans, and rice, fish and seafood being a common denominator. In the post independence and post colonial era, and with globalization in the 1990s cultural and food similarities between the previous British, still French and Dutch Island and territories were magnified.    