A community advisory board (often called a CAB) is a type of advisory board consisting of representatives of the general public who meet with representatives of an institution to relay information between the two groups. CABs are especially associated with clinical research, in which case they review the clinical research ethics associated with the human subject research which a medical research institution conducts. CABs are an aspect of community-based participatory research. Community advisory boards (CABs) benefit research institutions by providing advice about the efficacy of the informed consent process and the implementation of research protocols. The CAB composition is representative of the community participating in the research being reviewed.   Researchers who consult with CABs get information which they would not otherwise get about the target community demographic which they are researching.  The CAB is intended to be a way to respect the rights of research participants.  Research in a community has the potential for group harm, which is distinct from the individual harm which can happen to individuals who participate.  Because of the risk to communities, researchers have an obligation to community stakeholders to seek community feedback about the research.  CABs and researchers must continually decide which powers to invest in a CAB. Here are some common questions which must be decided: A community advisory board has whatever duties the members invest in it, but various organizations have suggested that they have certain responsibilities. Besides not knowing what CABs should do, it is difficult to determine what CABs should not do. Some of the perennial problems with CABs are determining the following: who in a community can serve on a CAB, the extent to which the CAB directs research, and the extent to which the community directs the execution of the research.  Researchers find that research is more productive and ethical when researchers train, recruit, and integrate members from the population targeted by the research into the research team.  In consulting with the community, researchers have to meet with individuals who represent a common culture, have a communication network with the community they represent, and have a system for voicing the community's priorities.  In 2000 the National Institute of General Medical Sciences held a conference which defined some CAB duties.  Those duties are as follows:    As part of international development many research institutions medical research in developing countries. When this happens, they often opt to get advice from the local community through a CAB. The process of setting up CABs in developing countries has its own problems.   