A contract research organization (CRO) is a company that provides support to the  pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device industries in the form of research services outsourced on a contract basis.  A CRO may provide such services as biopharmaceutical development, biologic assay development, commercialization, preclinical research, clinical research, clinical trials management, and pharmacovigilance. CROs are designed to reduce costs for companies developing new medicines and drugs in niche markets. They aim to simplify entry into drug markets, and simplify development, as the need for large pharmaceutical companies to do everything ‘in house’ is now redundant.  CROs also support foundations, research institutions, and universities, in addition to governmental organizations (such as the NIH, EMA, etc.).   Many CROs specifically provide clinical-study and clinical-trial support for drugs and/or medical devices.   CROs range from large, international full-service organizations to small, niche specialty groups. CROs that specialize in clinical-trials services can offer their clients the expertise of moving a new drug or device from its conception to FDA/EMA marketing approval,  without the drug sponsor having to maintain a staff for these services.  The International Council on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use, a 2015 Swiss NGO of pharmaceutical companies and others, defined a contract research organization (CRO), specifically pertaining to clinical trials services as: :10 "A person or an organization (commercial, academic, or other) contracted by the sponsor to perform one or more of a sponsor's trial-related duties and functions." It further details the sponsor's responsibilities in its good clinical practice guidelines: :22-23  As of  2013[update], there were over 1,100 CROs in the world, despite continued trends toward consolidation. Many CROs have been acquired while others have gone out of business.  The industry is fragmented, with the top 10 companies controlling 56% of the market in 2008  and 55% in 2009.    One estimate from 2007 had the size of the market set to reach $24 billion in 2010  and another estimate from 2009 set to grow at a rate of 8.5% through 2015.  As of  2016[update], there was a 15.5% increase in R&D spending from 2015 to 2020.  As of  2017[update], IgeaHub considered the top CROs by revenue to be:   