Eurotrials, Scientific Consultants is an international, privately owned full-service contract research organization (CRO) providing clinical research, scientific consultancy and development services for the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. Focusing its business in Europe and Latin America, the company develops its activity from early- to late-stage as well as product support in accordance with global and specific regional requirements. Eurotrials services cover all the steps of any clinical, translational or epidemiological project, from the initial research question to the final output, having developed globally more than 800 projects, including more than 15,000 subjects in clinical trials and more than 50,000 in epidemiological studies. It is also ISO-9001:2008 certified since 2001 and has established master agreements with several international biopharmaceutical companies.  Eurotrials, Consultores Científicos, SA was founded in 1995 in Lisbon by Maria João Teixeira Queiroz and Inês Costa Garcia.  In 1998, the company started its activities in Latin America, and soon after decided to open an office in São Paulo, Brazil, back in 2001. Given the growth of the clinical research activities in the region, Eurotrials opened two other offices in 2011, in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and Santiago, Chile. In 2014, Eurotrials opened an office in Spain, and in 2015 opened offices in Mexico and Peru.  In 2016, Eurotrials consolidated its presence in Europe, with a new office in France. Currently operating in Europe and Latin America, the company has offices in several countries like Portugal, Spain, Brazil, Argentina, Chile and Mexico. Eurotrials headquarters are located in Lisbon since the company’s inception. Besides product development consultancy (phase I, IIa, IIb / III, IV and post-launch), Eurotrials provides the following services:  Clinical Trials: Real World & Outcomes Research: Regulatory Affairs: Market access consulting: Clinical Data: Since 2014, Eurotrials has been a technology partner of Merge Healthcare Incorporated, a leading provider of innovative enterprise imaging, interoperability and clinical systems. Merge agreed to create a data center in Brazil to serve Eurotrials’ researchers in the region and train them as certified providers of the clinical trial management system Merge eClinical OS™ (eCOS),  a unified platform utilizing a pay-as-you-go, self-run environment to manage and run studies. 