The United States Food and Drug Administration's Investigational New Drug (IND) program is the means by which a pharmaceutical company obtains permission to start human clinical trials and to ship an experimental drug across state lines (usually to clinical investigators) before a marketing application for the drug has been approved. Regulations are primarily at 21 C.F.R. 312. Similar procedures are followed in the European Union, Japan, and Canada. The IND application may be divided into the following categories:  An IND must also include an Investigator's Brochure intended to educate the trial investigators of the significant facts about the trial drug they need to know to conduct their clinical trial with the least hazard to the subjects or patients. Once an IND is submitted, the FDA has 30 days to object to the IND or it automatically becomes effective and clinical trials may begin. If the FDA detects a problem, it may place a clinical hold on the IND, prohibiting the start of the clinical studies until the problem is resolved.  Experimental drugs under an IND must be labeled "Caution: New Drug – Limited by Federal (or United States) law to investigational use." Approximately two thirds of both investigational new drugs (INDs) and new drug applications (NDAs) are small-molecule drugs, the rest are biopharmaceuticals. About half of the investigational new drugs (INDs) fail in preclinical and clinical phases of drug development. The FDA runs a medical marijuana IND program (the Compassionate Investigational New Drug program).  It stopped accepting new patients in 1992 after public health authorities concluded there was no scientific value to it, and due to President George H.W. Bush administration's desire to "get tough on crime and drugs."  As of 2011, four patients continue to receive cannabis from the government under the program.  Sanctioned by Executive Order 13139, the US Department of Defense employed an anthrax vaccine classified as an investigational new drug (IND) in its Anthrax Vaccine Immunization Program (AVIP). 