In medicine, levels of evidence (LoE) are arranged in a ranking system used in evidence-based practices to describe the strength of the results measured in a clinical trial or research study. The design of the study (such as a case report for an individual patient or a  double-blinded randomized controlled trial) and the endpoints measured (such as survival or quality of life) affect the strength of the evidence. The National Cancer Institute defines levels of evidence as "a ranking system used to describe the strength of the results measured in a clinical trial or research study. The design of the study [...] and the endpoints measured [...] affect the strength of the evidence."  The term was first used in a 1979 report by the "Canadian Task Force on the Periodic Health Examination" (CTF) to "grade the effectiveness of an intervention according to the quality of evidence obtained". :1195  The task force used three levels, subdividing level II:  The CTF graded their recommendations into a 5-point A–E scale: A: Good level of evidence for the recommendation to consider a condition, B: Fair level of evidence for the recommendation to consider a condition, C: Poor level of evidence for the recommendation to consider a condition, D: Fair level evidence for the recommendation to exclude the condition, and E: Good level of evidence for the recommendation to exclude condition from consideration. :1195 The CTF updated their report in 1984,  in 1986  and 1987.  In 1988, the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) came out with its guidelines based on the CTF using the same 3 levels, further subdividing level II.   Over the years many more grading systems have been described.  In September 2000, the Oxford (UK) CEBM Levels of Evidence published its guidelines for 'Levels' of evidence re claims about prognosis, diagnosis, treatment benefits, treatment harms, and screening. It not only addressed therapy and prevention, but also diagnostic tests, prognostic markers, or harm. The original CEBM Levels was first released for Evidence-Based On Call to make the process of finding evidence feasible and its results explicit. As published in 2009   they are: In 2011, an international team redesigned the Oxford CEBM Levels to make it more understandable and to take into account recent developments in evidence ranking schemes. The Levels have been used by patients, clinicians and also to develop clinical guidelines including recommendations for the optimal use of phototherapy and topical therapy in psoriasis  and guidelines for the use of the BCLC staging system for diagnosing and monitoring hepatocellular carcinoma in Canada.  In 2007, the World Cancer Research Fund grading system described 4 levels: Convincing, probable, possible and insufficient evidence.  All Global Burden of Disease Studies have used it to evaluate epidemiologic evidence supporting causal relationships.  In 1995 Wilson et al.,  in 1996 Hadorn et al.  and in 1996 Atkins et al.  have described and defended various types of grading systems. The hierarchy of evidence produced by a study design has been questioned, because guidelines have "failed to properly define key terms, weight the merits of certain non-randomized controlled trials, and employ a comprehensive list of study design limitations".  Stegenga has criticized specifically that meta-analyses are placed at the top of such hierarchies.  The assumption that RCTs ought to be necessarily near the top of such hierarchies has been criticized by Worrall.  and Cartwright   This article incorporates public domain material from the U.S. National Cancer Institute document "Dictionary of Cancer Terms". 