Social media in education refers to the practice of using social media platforms as a way to enhance the education of students. Social media is defined as "a group of Internet-based applications that build on the ideological and technological foundations of Web 2.0, and that allow the creation and exchange of [user-generated content".  As the use of technology and social media became more prevalent , educators and parents alike wanted to keep it out of the classroom for fear that it would be too distracting.  This led to many schools blocking Internet access, access to social media sites, and even disallowing the use of, or even the bringing of cell phones to class.  This has proved to be ineffective in some cases, as students continue to bring their phones to class despite the no cell phone policy, and many even find ways to access social media sites regardless of precautions taken by school administrators. It is for this reason that many schools have adopted a "Bring Your Own Device" (BYOD) policy to school.  This is a policy that allows students to bring their own internet accessing device, such as a phone or iPad, for the purpose of accessing the Internet for research. While the BYOD concept was initially introduced as a way of reducing departmental technology costs, administrators and teachers are realizing other benefits from students bringing their own technology into the classroom, such as increased student motivations and engagement,  anywhere access to information, as well as students often update their software and applications faster than the school can.   Use of social media has helped some educators mentor their students more effectively.  Rather than compete with, or deny access to social media sites, some schools have totally embraced them, and are using them to further students' educations.  Whereas some students are being taught how to their devices from "toys to tools", others are being left behind in regards to technological education. BYOD Schools give preferential treatment to higher income students by teaching them more educational and occupationally useful and productive ways of using social media. Low-income Latino schools, while already underserved, are being left behind. This, in turn, worsens the U.S. digital divide in a new way. [page needed] School's policies arising from the inundation of technology (smartphones, iPads, tablets, etc.) have ranged from a Bring Your Own Device (also known as "BYOD") policy to banning devices in schools altogether. More recent trends have shown districts lifting bans. Cell phone bans in school have been based on the grounds that cell phones pose a distraction, extended use can negatively impact students' abilities to focus, and because schools do not want to be held responsible for valuable stolen or damaged items. Some schools permit teachers to confiscate these items from students if they use them without permission in the classroom. Opponents view this as a violation of students' property rights and rights to privacy. Some parents argue that they should be able to get into contact with their children at any time and that teachers should not be able to take private property.  Schools with high numbers of students who receive free or reduced lunches are unable to afford the high cost of purchasing devices to access social media for large volumes of students.   This can create a knowledge gap between students in more affluent districts compared to less affluent districts, which will put the latter group of students at a distinct disadvantage. Some parents fear that their students will be divided between "haves" and "have-nots".  