  Vedantu is an interactive online tutoring platform where teachers provide school tuitions to students over the internet, using a real-time virtual learning environment named WAVE (Whiteboard Audio Video Environment), a technology built in-house. Vedantu is said to operate on a marketplace model for teachers, where students can browse, discover and choose to learn from an online tutor of their choice.    It primarily provides these services to students in class 4th to 12th for Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) & Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) curriculum throughout India and the Middle East. Currently the company is into live online tutoring in science (Physics, Chemistry, Biology), English,  Mathematics, Hindi, Sanskrit, German, French, Environmental Science, Computer Science and Social Science.  It also claims to provide test preparation courses for Indian Institute of Technology Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Foundation, National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) and Problem Solving Assessment (PSA).  In addition, it also provides courses for International Mathematics Olympiad and National Science Olympiad.  Incorporated in 2011, Bangalore-based Vedantu Innovations Pvt. Ltd.  is an online tutoring platform launched in October 2014 for public.  The company’s name Vedantu is said to be derived from Sanskrit words Veda-knowledge and Tantu-network. The organization is run by four friends from Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) – Vamsi Krishna (Co-Founder, CEO), Pulkit Jain (Co-Founder, Head Product), Saurabh Saxena (Co-Founder, Head Academics) and Anand Prakash (Co-Founder).    Vedantu is their second venture after Lakshya, a test preparation coaching company.  Lakshya was acquired by a public listed company, MTEducare  in the year 2012. In September 2017, it was announced that was Vedantu was to host the second edition of International Student League (ISL) in November 2017.  The firm has raised its first round of funding after six months of current operational format. It has raised $5 million from Accel Partners and Tiger Global Management in its Series A funding.   Vedantu plans to utilize the funding in developing technology solutions for tablets and mobile with scalability which can run hundreds of live learning sessions concurrently.  