Visionlearning   is a free, web-based resource for students and educators in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) disciplines. Geared toward those studying at high school and undergraduate levels, Visionlearning takes advantage of recent advances in new media to provide students and educators with learning and teaching materials. Research by project personnel has shown that this peer-reviewed and bilingual content improves student understanding of science and facilitates multidisciplinary teaching. The project also strives to build community around improving STEM education.  Supported by the National Science Foundation and the U.S. Department of Education, Visionlearning provides educational content that not only explores specific STEM concepts, but examines how we know these things. Project leaders believe that an important facet of succeeding in these disciplines is understanding their respective histories, as well as engaging with the process of discovery. In 1998, Dr. Anthony Carpi, an environmental chemist and then-assistant professor at John Jay College of the City University of New York, designed and launched a prototype Internet learning resource for science students, called The Natural Science Pages. This was in part a response to the growing evidence that poor textbook content and deficient teaching materials contribute to inadequate science education.  The purpose of the prototype was to see if presenting important course information in a new form would improve what students understood, what information they remembered, and how well they performed in their class overall.  What this research showed, through standardized exam scores and student retention data, was that using the prototype significantly improved science comprehension and performance in the targeted natural science course.  Further evaluations also showed that the prototype helped improve communication skills and student engagement with the course. In response to the success of The Natural Science Pages prototype and with support of the NSF,  Carpi developed the Visionlearning project, which brought on a group of scientists and educators to create content and became a website open to students and educators worldwide. In the last decade, Visionlearning has evolved into a more comprehensive website that provides free educational materials to support the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines, with translations into Spanish. These materials include independent learning modules that focus on distinct topics within STEM disciplines, teaching resources, a MyClassroom tool (similar to Moodle or WebCT) that allows educators to customize and maintain a virtual learning environment for their students, and new media elements to benefit multiple learning styles. A key feature of all of Visionlearning’s material is an emphasis on the process of science and discovery. Throughout the development of the learning modules and multimedia tools, Visionlearning has emphasized an importance on teaching science as a process, rather than “a simple set of facts and terms to be memorized.”  This comes from an organizational ideology that understanding how scientific knowledge evolves better prepares students to engage with the process of discovery and helps to dispel common misconceptions about science. The underlying notion is that students will develop independent, objective thinking skills regardless of whether they pursue a career in STEM disciplines, and understand that science is far more than simply conducting experiments in a lab and working with complex mathematical formulas.  As of 2009, Visionlearning has developed 70 independent learning modules in nine subject areas, including biology, chemistry, earth science, and the process of science. Scientist and author Nathan H. Lents has been a longtime contributor and module reviewer for Visionlearning and currently serves as life science editor.  Visionlearning modules are organized into concise, relevant topic areas, grouped by discipline. Each module can be used independently, or in conjunction with others, and intentionally concentrates on core concepts to help direct learning. Supplementary materials such as quizzes, links to reviewed sources, and biographies are also provided for additional exploration. These modules are directed toward undergraduate and high school learning and have been written by experts in the relevant disciplines. Every module is peer reviewed for quality and accuracy, and includes historical context and contemporary relevance. As part of its dedication to supporting educators, Visionlearning has developed a teaching portal called MyClassroom. Similar to other virtual teaching tools (such as Blackboard, Moodle, and WebCT), MyClassroom allows educators to create a course customized to their needs. They are able to add learning modules from Visionlearning’s library into their classroom, annotate any of these modules, and create their own modules for access by students enrolled in the course. Having this material accessible to students via the Internet allows for 24-hour access to the learning materials, without cost, and aids Spanish bi-lingual students with translations. As Visionlearning has expanded over the years, the project has embraced and integrated new media with the use of flash animations, simulations, high resolution graphics, and more recently iPod apps. To further embrace developments in technology and become more ADA compliant, the site administrators are developing additional media resources for users, such as podcasts and scripts for animations. Like many corporations today, they are also exploring the use of blogs and social networking sites, such as Facebook, to build awareness and a user base. In 2017, Visionlearning launched a podcast entitled "This World of Humans," hosted by Nathan H. Lents. This podcast focuses on new research in biology and social science and includes teaching guides on the podcast website to help science educators incorporate the podcast and its featured research articles into their classrooms.  Visionlearning does not subscribe to any political party or affiliation. The project is dedicated to providing impartial information in the STEM disciplines and encouraging learning in the process of science. One important goal of the project is to provide an understanding of scientific concepts while emphasizing how the scientific community has arrived at these conclusions. The intention is that, through teaching about the process of scientific discovery, students will look at science not as factual elements, but as a way of knowing about the world.  The project does not subscribe to the belief that the Internet and new media are replacing more traditional forms or communication, but that through proper integration of all the technology available students will have a greater chance of success in STEM learning. 