Bon Voyage is the second studio album by French psychedelic pop band Melody's Echo Chamber. It was released on 15 June 2018 on Fat Possum Records. Originally slated to be released a year earlier, in the Spring of 2017, the album was pushed back due to Melody Prochet suffering a brain aneurysm and broken vertebrae from an unspecified accident, causing her to be in the hospital for several months.  Plans for a second studio album dated back to late 2014, when Melody Prochet released "Shirim".  The album was originally slated to be released in 2017, when "Cross My Heart" was released in April 2017.  The album was delayed when Melody had suffered a "serious accident" earlier in June,  adding that her upcoming tour would be cancelled.  The album was formally announced with a release date on 3 April 2018.  That day, the lead single "Breathe In, Breathe Out" was released along with an accompanying music video.  With the release of the single, Prochet wrote ""I'm enchanted to share this video for new single 'Breathe In/Breathe Out', a little animated fable that resonates greatly with the record. Thank you Daniel Foothead and Team for this little Pilgrim and it's Muse story. "All my Love, Melody."  In a positive review of the track, Larry Fitzmaurice of Pitchfork described the song as a "stop-start melodic breaks—before cutting out quickly and entirely in a jarring conclusion". Fitzmaurice also said the song is "packed with ideas, its brevity leaving the listener wondering what comes next."  On 1 May 2018, "Breathe In, Breathe Out" was the song of the day on Minnesota Public Radio, the Minnesota affiliate of the U.S.-based, National Public Radio.  At Metacritic, which assigns a normalised rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, Bon Voyage received an average score of 77, based on 17 reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews".  The album also received a 7.4 aggregate on AnyDecentMusic?.  AllMusic writer Tim Sendra stated that "Bon Voyage shows that Melody's Echo Chamber is far from being just a Kevin Parker creation. Prochet's vision is her own, and it's strong enough here to fly free of any and all constraints."  In a positive review, Chicago Tribune writer Greg Kot praised the album's composition, summarizing that "if anything, Bon Voyage is even stranger than its predecessor, seven songs splashed in psychedelic colors."  In a mixed assessment, Rachel Aroesti of The Guardian felt that the album's "restless experimentalism" failed to establish "a strong personality to anchor it".  Keiron Tyler of Mojo, on the other hand, praised the experimentation and diversity of influences.  Tyler drew comparisons to the work of Tropicália artists such as Os Mutantes and Tom Zé and noted the album's "singular appeal".   All lyrics written by Melody Prochet; all music composed by Melody's Echo Chamber.