Adam Jones (born 30 August 1963, in Singapore) is a political scientist, writer, and photojournalist based at the University of British Columbia Okanagan in Kelowna, BC, Canada. He is the author of Genocide: A Comprehensive Introduction and numerous other books in genocide studies. He is executive director of Gendercide Watch, "a project of the Gender Issues Education Foundation." He was chosen as one of "Fifty Key Thinkers on the Holocaust and Genocide" for the book of that name, which was published in 2010.  Jones is best known for his work in comparative genocide studies. He is author of a textbook in the field, Genocide: A Comprehensive Introduction (Routledge, 2nd edn. 2010), and author or editor of numerous other works on genocide and crimes against humanity, including The Scourge of Genocide: Essays and Reflections (Routledge, 2013). From 2005-07, he was Associate Research Fellow in the Genocide Studies Program at Yale University. He was senior book review editor of the Journal of Genocide Research from 2004 to 2013, and edited the Studies in Genocide and Crimes against Humanity book series for Routledge Publishers. Jones is known for his distinctive approach to the study of gender and international relations.    In 1999, Jones co-founded the Web-based nongovernmental organization Gendercide Watch with Carla Bergman and Nart Villeneuve, aimed at "confront[ing] gender-selective atrocities against men and women worldwide." His essays on gender, violence, and international politics are compiled in Gender Inclusive: Essays on Violence, Men, and Feminist International Relations (Routledge, 2009).  An edited volume, The Rape of Males in War and Genocide, is forthcoming with Routledge. Jones's research at the Master's and Ph.D. levels focused on mass media and processes of democratization and political transition. His study of the transformations at the Sandinista newspaper Barricada in Nicaragua was published as Beyond the Barricades: Nicaragua and the Struggle for the Sandinista Press, 1979-1998 (Vanderbilt University Press, 2002), and his doctoral dissertation as The Press in Transition: A Comparative Study of Nicaragua, South Africa, Jordan, and Russia (Deutsches Übersee-Institut, 2002). 