Adia Harvey Wingfield is a Professor of Sociology at Washington University in St. Louis and President of Sociologists for Women in Society. Adia Harvey Wingfield is Professor of Sociology and a Faculty Fellow in the Office of the Provost at Washington University in St. Louis,  where her research interests are in the persistence of intersectional racial and gender inequalities in professional occupations,  in particular the challenges facing black men in workplaces where they are in the minority.   Wingfield obtained her Ph.D. in Sociology from Johns Hopkins University,  from which she also graduated with a Masters in sociology.  She attended Spelman College as an undergraduate, studying English.  She is the author of several books, including No More Invisible Man: Race and Gender in Men’s Work, and articles in peer-reviewed journals including Social Problems, Gender & Society, and Ethnic and Racial Studies. She has lectured internationally on her research.  She is currently President of Sociologists for Women in Society, a national organisation that encourages feminist research and teaching in sociology.  In 2018 Wingfield received the Public Understanding of Sociology award from the American Sociological Association, which recognises exemplary contributions to the advancement of the understanding of sociology and sociological research among the general public. Her book No More Invisible Man received the Distinguished Book Award from the ASA Race, Gender, and Class Section.  Wingfield's 2008 book Doing Business with Beauty: Black Women, Hair Salons, and the Racial Enclave Economy examines how working-class black women use entrepreneurship as a route to upward mobility, in particular establishing business models that center explicitly on black women's unique needs. Her 2010 article "Are Some Emotions Marked ‘Whites Only?’ Racialized Feeling Rules in Professional Workplaces" in the journal Social Problems describes how black professionals have to manage their emotions in workplaces that are predominantly white. No More Invisible Man: Race and Gender in Men’s Work, published in 2013 examines the unique experiences of black men when employed in white male-dominated professional jobs, for example as lawyers, doctors, engineers, or bankers.  Wingfield is a contributing writer for The Atlantic, Fortune, and Inside Higher Ed.  Wingfield's father, William B. Harvey, Doctor of Education, was also an academic, and her mother was a K-12 educator.  