 Eli Erlick (born July 10, 1995) is an American transgender activist, writer, and director of Trans Student Educational Resources.    Eli Erlick was born on July 10, 1995. Her parents met while protesting, which she cites as a background behind her community work. She is of Jewish heritage and grew up near the rural community of Willits, California.   She reported telling her rural community members she was a girl at age 8, leading her to become a victim of assault, isolation, and violence. She was allegedly not allowed to use public restrooms for six years.  At age 13, she transitioned to female. She decided to keep her birth name in order not to hide who she was as so many other transgender people did at the time. She quickly became present in media through legal advocacy, writing, and co-founding the organization Trans Student Educational Resources at age 16.  She attended Pitzer College in Claremont from 2013 to 2016, where she graduated early with honors.  Erlick cites starting her activism at age 15, in 2010, when she became a board member for a local LGBTQ youth conference. She first became public in media over a year later while advocating for California's School Success and Opportunity Act, the first state bill to protect transgender students.  Erlick co-founded Trans Student Educational Resources, an organization "dedicated to transforming the educational environment for trans and gender nonconforming students through advocacy and empowerment."  While advocating for comprehensive admissions rules for trans students at women's colleges, she spoke about the importance of remaining skeptical of all policy work.   In 2015, Erlick published an article on why equality should not be the goal of the transgender movement.  For her organizing, Erlick has been recognized in The New York Times, Refinery29, and The Advocate among other publications.   In 2016, Teen Vogue named her a New Face of Feminism for her work.  In 2015, she led national efforts with Trans Student Educational Resources to admit trans women at women's colleges. She also co-authored Trans Student Educational Resources' model policy for admissions of trans students at women's colleges.   Erlick additionally co-founded Trans Youth Leadership Summit, a project run through Trans Student Educational Resources and the only national fellowship program in the United States for transgender youth. Several of its fellows have gone on to become prominent media advocates, scholars, and organizers since its launch in Summer 2016.   In 2017, she began publicly advocating for self-expression of gender-nonconforming transgender women.   In 2011, at age 16,  Erlick co-founded Trans Student Educational Resources, an organization "dedicated to transforming the educational environment for trans and gender nonconforming students through advocacy and empowerment."  She taught herself web programming at age 8, which allowed her to code TSER's web site when she was 15. It is the only national organization led by transgender youth and, according to Erlick, TSER is best known for its media work and youth activist trainings. She is currently the director of the organization. It is one of the largest transgender organizations in the United States.   Erlick has published numerous scholarly articles focusing on political philosophy, social movements, and transgender communities.    In 2017, Glamour Magazine named her College Woman of the Year, the first trans woman to receive the honor in its 60-year history.  She is currently a doctoral student at the University of California, Santa Cruz in its renowned Feminist Studies Department.  In a 2017 interview, Erlick stated she intends on becoming a professor.  Erlick has been prominent in media throughout the 2010s. In 2016, Teen Vogue named her a "New Face of Feminism" as a "young feminist changing the game".  Erlick also writes for numerous culture publications including Teen Vogue and Glamour magazine about transgender and queer culture, media, and fashion.   Several publications have named Erlick a fashion icon for her style.   In an interview with Yahoo News, Erlick expressed she felt social pressure to dress femininely based on the widespread conflation of gender identity and gender expression despite wanting to dress more masculinely.  In fall 2017, Erlick began a Ph.D. program in Feminist Studies at the University of California, Santa Cruz, where she researches the political philosophy of social movements.  She is openly queer.  