Eulàlia Lledó i Cunill (born 1952) is a doctor in Romance Philology from the University of Barcelona, a specialist in sexism and language research. She is the author of the first guide in Spain on the treatment of gender violence and media, published in 1999 by the Andalusian Women's Institute (es) and Radio y Televisión de Andalucía. She has received several awards for her work, including the Creu de Sant Jordi in 2008. She is currently a contributor to HuffPost. Eulàlia Lledó has been a secondary school teacher in Barcelona for years, and collaborates with several universities and gender studies networks, including the Genet Network of the Spanish National Research Council (CSIC).  She is a specialist in investigating sexist and androcentric biases in literature and language.  She has prepared numerous guides and manuals on the subject, including Cómo tratar bien a los malos tratos. Manual de Estilo para los Medios de Comunicación (How to Treat Mistreatment Properly: Style Manual for the Media) in 1999, which was the first print guide in Spain with recommendations for the treatment of media and gender violence. She has also written numerous books on coeducation, articles, and literary reviews, especially on women's writings. She has been part of the Nombra group, Advisory Commission of the Women's Institute of the Government of Spain, since its foundation in 1994.  She has collaborated on the revision of the Diccionari General de la Llengua Catalana by the Institut d'Estudis Catalans and on the revision of the Diccionario de la lengua española by the Royal Spanish Academy.  In 2008, Lledó was awarded the Creu de Sant Jordi for her "interest in avoiding sexist and androcentric uses of language."  In 2016, she was awarded the Non-Sexist Communication Prize for her "quality in research and training in language and communication with a gender perspective", granted by the Association of Catalan Women Journalists (ca) (ADPC).  In March 2018 she participated in the encounter "La fórmula de la igualdad" (The Formula of Equality) at the RTVE Corporation with an intervention on the insensitive biases of sexism.  She is currently a contributor to the Spanish edition of HuffPost.  