France Winddance Twine (born 1960 in Chicago, Illinois) is Professor of Sociology and documentary filmmaker at the University of California, Santa Barbara. She is the former Deputy Editor of American Sociological Review, the flagship journal of the American Sociological Association. Twine currently serves as a member of the International editorial boards of Sociology, the official journal of the British Sociological Association, Identities: Global Studies in Culture and Power.,   and Twine has served on the editorial board of Ethnic and Racial Studies, the highest impact peer-reviewed journal in the discipline of Sociology. Twine's research examines the intersections of racial, gender and class inequalities. Her recent publications include Outsourcing the Womb: Race, Class and Gestational Surrogacy in a Global Market  (2015), Geographies of Privilege (2013) and Girls With Guns: Firearms, Feminism and Militarism (2012).  She is the editor for the Routledge series, Framing 21st Century Social Issues.  Twine earned her Ph.D. at the University of California, Berkeley. She was a Research Fellow in the Class of 2008-09 at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University. In 2007 she was a Distinguished Visiting Professor in the Sociology Department at the London School of Economics.  She has taught and held tenured professorships at Duke University and the University of Washington in Seattle. Twine is an enrolled member of the Muscogee (Creek) Nation  of Oklahoma. She is the granddaughter of Paul Twine, Sr., a founding member of the Catholic Interracial Council of Chicago, a social justice organization that played an important role in the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s.  Twine is an ethnographer and feminist race theorist who has 70 publications including 10 books. She has conducted field research in Brazil, Britain and the United States. Her research has been supported by the Rockefeller Foundation and the Andrew Mellon Foundation. Her recent books include Outsourcing the Womb (Routledge, 2015), Geographies of Privilege Edited by France Winddance Twine, Bradley Gardener (Routledge, 2013), Girls with Guns: Firearms, Feminism and Militarism (Routledge, 2012), A White Side of Black Britain: Interracial Intimacy and Racial Literacy (Duke University Press, 2010) and Racism in a Racial Democracy: the maintenance of white supremacy in Brazil (Rutgers University Press, 1997) and an editor of five volumes including Retheorizing Race and Whiteness in the 21st Century: Changes and Challenges (Routledge, 2011)   and Feminism and Anti-Racism: international struggles for  justice (New York University Press, 2000). Her articles, film reviews and book reviews have  appeared in English and Brazilian Portuguese in international journals: the Du Bois Review: Social Science Research on Race, Ethnic and Racial Studies, Estudos Afroasiaticos, Feminist Studies, Meridians: feminism, race, and transnationalism, Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society, Social Identities,  Race and Class, and Gender and Society.  Twine is currently working on a transnational project examining gestational surrogacy.  Twine has recently completed a book on women and guns that has been published by Routledge in 2012.  Her most important theoretical contribution is the concept of racial literacy which was first published in a 2004 journal article and developed in her book A White Side of Black Britain. She was a scholar in residence at the Beatrice Bain Research Group (2014-2015).  