  Sara Ahmed (30 August 1969)  is a British-Australian scholar whose area of study includes the intersection of feminist theory, queer theory, critical race theory and postcolonialism. Ahmed was born in Salford, England. She has a Pakistani father and English mother, and emigrated to Adelaide, Australia, with her family in the early 1970s.  Key themes in her work, such as migration, orientation, difference, strangerness, and mixed identities, relate directly to some of these early experiences. She completed her first degree at Adelaide University and doctoral research at the Centre for Critical and Cultural Theory, Cardiff University.   She now lives in the outskirts of Cambridge with her partner, Sarah Franklin who is an academic at the University of Cambridge.  Ahmed was based at the Institute for Women’s Studies at Lancaster University from 1994 to 2004, and is one of its former directors.  She was appointed to the Department of Media and Communications at Goldsmiths College, University of London in 2004, and was the inaugural director of its Centre for Feminist Research, which was set up 'to consolidate Goldsmiths' feminist histories and to help shape feminist futures at Goldsmiths.'   In 2016 Ahmed resigned from her post at Goldsmiths in protest over the alleged sexual harassment of students by staff there.  She has indicated that she will continue her work as an independent scholar.  In spring 2009 Ahmed was the Laurie New Jersey Chair in Women’s Studies at Rutgers University  and in Lent 2013 she was the Diane Middlebrook and Carl Djerassi Professor in Gender Studies at Cambridge University, where she conducted research on "Willful Women: Feminism and a History of Will".  In 2015 she was the keynote speaker at the National Women's Studies Association annual conference.  She blogs at feministkilljoys, a project she continues to update.  The blog is a companion to her book "Living a Feminist Life" (2017) that enables her to reach people; posts become chapters and the book becomes blogging material. The term "feminist killjoy" "became a communication device, a way of reaching people who recognized in her something of their own experience." .  Ahmed has been described as a prolific writer. One reviewer of her work commented, "Few academic writers working in the UK context today can match Sara Ahmed in her prolific output, and fewer still can maintain the consistently high level of her theoretical explorations.”  Ahmed has written eight single-authored books. Published in 1998 by Cambridge University Press    Published in 2000 by Routledge.    Published in 2004, second edition 2014 by Edinburgh University Press and in New York by Routledge.   Published in 2006 by Duke University Press.   Ahmed often focuses on the subject of orientation and being orientated in space, especially in relationship to sexual orientation. In her book Queer Phenomenology: Orientation, Objects, Others Ahmed states that orientation refers to the objects and others that we turn to face as well as the space that we inhabit, and how it is that we inhabit that space. Ahmed brings together queer phenomenology as a way of conveying that orientation is situated in the lived experience.  Published in 2010 by Duke University Press.   This work was awarded the FWSA book prize in 2011 for "ingenuity and scholarship in the fields of feminism, gender or women’s studies".;   Published in 2012 by Duke University Press.    Published by Duke University Press in 2014.   Published in 2017 by Duke University Press.   Ahmed's blog, "feministkilljoys", was written at the same time as "Living a Feminist Life" (2017). .   