Tricia Rose (born 1962) is an American academic. She is Chancellor's Professor of Africana Studies and Director of the Center for Study of Race and Ethnicity in America at Brown University. Through a sociological framework Rose has examined, taught, and written about U.S. black culture, especially the intersectionality of pop music, social issues, gender and sexuality. Born in New York City, Rose lived in a Harlem tenement until she was seven. In 1970 her family moved north to Co-op City, a new housing development located in the Bronx.  Rose received her B.A in Sociology from Yale University and her Ph.D. in American Studies from Brown University, where she became the first person in the United States to write a doctoral dissertation on hip-hop.  George Lipsitz was one of her dissertation advisors.  Rose taught for nine years in the Africana Studies program at New York University, then moved in 2002 to University of California at Santa Cruz; in July 2003 she became chair of its American Studies department there.  Rose is currently the Chancellor's Professor of Africana Studies and Director of the Center for Study of Race and Ethnicity in America at Brown University;  she became Director of the Center on July 1, 2013.  Rose has written three books, Black Noise: Rap Music and Black Culture in Contemporary America (Wesleyan University Press, May 15, 1994), Longing to Tell: Black Women Talk About Sexuality And Intimacy (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, June 11, 2003), The Hip Hop Wars: What We Talk About When We Talk About Hip Hop - And Why It Matters (December 2, 2008), and co-wrote a fourth entitled Microphone Fiends: Youth Music and Youth Culture (June 23, 1994).  Black Noise, developed from her doctoral dissertation, is regarded as the first piece of published work to frame hip hop's legacy in such a way that granted it legitimacy among scholars; ultimately shaping the field of hip hop academic study.  Black Noise, which made The Village Voice's top 25 books of 1994, was awarded an American Book Award  from the Before Columbus Foundation in 1995.  Longing to Tell: Black Women’s Stories of Sexuality and Intimacy is Rose's second book and focuses on black women's sexuality in America. Through testimonies which seek to dispel prevailing myths and provide insights, this oral narrative project illustrates the complexities of exploring black female sexuality within contemporary culture.  