The following is a list of Assyrian settlements in the Middle East subsequent to the Assyrian genocide in 1914. This list includes settlement of Assyrians from Southeastern Turkey who left their ancient tribes in Hakkari, Sirnak and Mardin province (which date from 3rd century AD)  due to torment, violence and displacement by the Ottomans in the First World War. Many Assyrians from Urmia, Iran were also affected and as such have emigrated and settled in other towns. Resettling again occurred during the Simele massacre in northern Iraq, perpetrated by the Iraqi military coup in the 1930s, with many fleeing to northeastern Syria.  Most modern resettlement is located in Iraq,  Syria and Iran in the cities of Baghdad, Habbaniyah, Kirkuk, Duhok, Al-Hasakah, Tehran and Damascus. Few Assyrian settlements exist in Turkey today and also in the Caucasus. The exodus to the cities or towns of these aforementioned countries occurred between late 1910s and 1930s.   After the Iraq War in 2003, a number of Assyrians in Baghdad relocated to Northern Iraq, repopulating parts of Iraqi Kurdistan, in what they now call the "Assyrian homeland".  Many others have immigrated to North America, Europe and Australia, especially in the late 20th century and 21st century.  Currently, there are a number of settlements on this list that have been abandoned due to persecution, conflict, and other causes.  Assyrians immigrated to Syria during the 1930s and 1940s, from Northern Iraq, after they were slaughtered and displaced during the Simele Massacre perpetrated by the armed forces of the Kingdom of Iraq.  Many Assyrians in Syria did not have Syrian citizenship and title to their land until late 1940s.    Cities and towns with Syriac-Assyrian population Villages Khabour Valley Villages Note- Ma'loula and neighboring Muslim-majority villages Jubb'adin and Al-Sarkha are the only villages left where a majority of the population speak the Western Aramaic dialects The Assyrian population in Armenia is mainly rural. Out of 3,409 Assyrians in Armenia 2,885 (84.6%) was rural and 524 (15.4%) urban.  According to the Council of Europe European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages there were four rural settlements with significant Assyrian population. 