Approximate distribution of native German speakers (assuming a rounded total of 95 million) worldwide. The following is a list of the territorial entities where German is an official language. It includes countries, which have German as (one of) their nationwide official language(s), as well as dependent territories with German as a co-official language. German is the official language of six countries, all of which lie in central and western Europe. These countries (with the addition of South Tyrol of Italy) also form the Council for German Orthography and are referred to as the German Sprachraum (German language area). German, or one of its dialects, is a co-official language in several dependent entities. In each of these regions, German, along with the official language of the host nation, is an official language on the administrative level. In the two Slovak villages of  Krahule/Blaufuss and  Kunešov/Kuneschhau (total population 530) the percentage of ethnic Germans exceeds 20%,  therefore making German a co-official language according to Slovak law.    However, due to the size of the villages and the approximate number of native German speakers (~100), the administrative impact is negligible. There are other political entities (countries as well as dependent entities) which acknowledge other legal statuses for the German language or one of its dialects. While these may cover minority rights, support of certain language facilities (schools, media, etc.), and the promotion of cultural protection/heritage, they do not encompass the establishment of German as an "official" language, i.e., being required in public offices or administrative texts. Although in  France, the High German varieties Alsatian and Moselle Franconian are identified as "regional languages" according to the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages of 1998, the French government has not yet ratified the treaty, and those varieties have no official legal status.  The constitution of  South Africa identifies German as a "commonly used" language and the Pan South African Language Board is obligated to "promote and ensure respect" for it.  Due to the German diaspora, other countries with sizable populations of (mostly bilingual) German L1 speakers include  Argentina,  Australia,  Canada,  Costa Rica,  Paraguay, as well as the  United States.  However, in none of these countries does German or a German variety have any legal status. In the  Netherlands, the Limburgish and Low German languages are protected regional languages according to the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages,  however they are widely considered separate languages and neither German nor Dutch dialects. German is an official language of the following international institutions: 