 3 Ninjas is a series of action comedy films directed towards the preteen audience about the adventures of three young brothers who are trained by their Japanese grandfather in the art of Ninjutsu. Victor Wong is the only cast member to appear in all four films. Each summer, Samuel, Jeffrey, and Michael, three suburban California brothers, visit their grandfather Mori Tanaka's cabin in the desert to train to become ninjas. On their last day of summer vacation, after being given the 'ninja-names' Rocky, Colt, and Tum Tum, the boys witness a confrontation between their grandfather and Hugo Snyder, ex-student/partner of Tanaka and a criminal who is being pursued by the boys' father, FBI agent Sam Douglas. Snyder plans to kidnap the boys with the help from his assistant Mr. Brown, who employs his irresponsible nephew Fester and his friends Hammer and Marcus to abduct them. After a failed attempt at kidnapping foiled by the three boys outsmarting the three men while their parents are out, Mr. Brown along with heavyweight fighter "Rushmore" appear and they easily capture the trio, leaving a note with Rocky's girlfriend Emily, telling Sam that Snyder has kidnapped his children for his constant attempts to arrest him. Mori arrives at the house and Sam reluctantly agrees to give him one hour to rescue the children. Mori tracks the children to a ship at the docks where Snyder is training an army of ninjas and begins searching for the boys and Snyder. Meanwhile, the boys escape their containment cell using the training bestowed upon them by their Grandfather and begin fighting their way out of the ship, leading up to a final confrontation between Snyder and Mori. Mori wins despite Snyder's foul play and Sam ambushes the ship with a slew of FBI agents, wounding Snyder and foiling his evil organization. During a championship baseball game, Rocky, Colt, and Tum Tum have to decide to go to Japan to help their grandfather Mori Tanaka. They are faced with a decision to stay for a baseball game, or go to Japan and deliver a golden dagger to him. On the way they meet Miyo who Rocky is very fond of. When Koga gets the dagger and sword he tries to open the cave of gold. After that Koga and Mori become friends and Miyo gets the dagger. On their whole Japan adventure they learned a lot of important skills and life lessons that helps them win the final baseball game of their season. In the end Colt hits a home run and the 3 ninjas end up winning the game along with Miyo. A poor sport of the opposing team picks on the boys and Miyo after the game. He attempts to attack the girl Miyo, but he ends up getting knocked unconscious during one of the final scenes. Rocky, Colt, and Tum Tum must battle an evil wealthy toxic waste dumper in order to save a local Indian tribe and their friend Jo. The 3 Ninjas must help find Jo's father and find a secret disk that contains evidence that could stop the toxic landfill that is destroying the Indian community. However the town is owned by the wealth toxic waste dumper, and he controls the police and the mayor. The 3 Ninjas must fight a motorcycle gang and renegade cowboys, retrieve the secret disk, and expose the wealthy baron of his misdeeds. Rocky, Colt, and Tum Tum-along with their neighbor friend, computer whiz Amanda-are visiting Mega Mountain amusement park when it is invaded by an army of ninjas led by master criminal Mary Ann "Medusa" Rogers. The boys have to break Medusa's vicious plans and liberate Mega Mountain. The first 3 Ninjas film was a box office success and was the only entry in the franchise to be released by Disney, through its Touchstone Pictures label. The rights to the franchise were subsequently acquired by Tristar Pictures, which released the three sequels. All of which were box office bombs. The first film developed a cult following and was released on DVD on June 3, 2003. 