Adams Apples is a Ghanaian film series, starring Yvonne Okoro, Joselyn Dumas, John Dumelo, Naa Ashorkor Mensa-Doku, Anima Misa Amoah, Adjetey Anang, Helene Asante, SoulKnight Jazz, Jasmine Baroudi, Vincent McCauley, Roselyn Ngissah, Fred Kanebi.  The series consists of ten drama feature films, known as "chapters", produced by Ken Attoh and directed by Shirley Frimpong-Manso.  The film series follows the life of the Adams' family, which is made up of Doris Adams (Anima Misa Amoah), a widow of an ex-diplomat , and her three daughters; Baaba (Okoro), Jennifer (Dumas) and Kuukua (Mensah-Doku), showing how they deal with their complicated family, love lives, individual secrets, lies and regrets. A spin-off television drama series, with the same title premiered in February 2013, and has since started airing on DStv's Africa Magic; the television series is set a year after the tenth chapter of the film series.   Most chapters in the series were released at a month's interval, and the entire film series screened at a span of over ten months.  Official trailer for the first Chapter in the series was released on 15 April 2011. The first installment in the series premiered on 21 April 2011 and the concluding chapter was released on 25 May 2012.   A complete DVD set, containing all ten films in the series was released in December 2012.  Each film in the movie series were generally positively received. Nollywood Reinvented, in its review of the film's final installment, praised everything about the film and commented: "Shirley was successful in making this movie ‘more than a conqueror’. The fascinating thing about the Adams Apples movies is the wide range of topics it touches on (if not fully addresses). Conquering love in the face of age differences... how to deal with competitive love... the ability to discern lust from love, a quest for adventure and a lean towards reality... dealing with the mistakes of the past. Above all, realizing the importance of family and trusting God to work things out".  Victor Olatoye of Nollywood Critics, in his review of chapter 1 to 3 of the film, commended the character development, gave a 3.5 out of 4 stars and concluded: "If you are looking for a good movie that can make you feel a little happier, smarter, sexier, funnier, more excited and yet full of wahala if that's what you want, then Adams Apples it is. Go ahead and take a pluck, sink your teeth in them, but just know there will be troubles".  Circumspecte in its overview of the film series comments: "I'll employ one word to describe Shirley Frimpong Manso's latest film, Adams Apples - delightful. And it is, in every sense of the word. From the script, to the characters, to the picture quality, the music, costume, promotion, everything really, was tastefully done".  