Anaconda (also known as Anacondas) is a series of American horror films created by Hans Bauer, Jim Cash and Jack Epps Jr.. It started with Anaconda in 1997. It was followed by one theatrical stand alone sequel, Anacondas: The Hunt for the Blood Orchid (2004), three made for television sequels, Anaconda 3: Offspring (2008), Anacondas: Trail of Blood (2009) and Lake Placid vs. Anaconda (2015) (the latter being a crossover with the Lake Placid series).  Each installment revolves around giant man-eating anacondas  and the efforts of various groups of people to capture or destroy the creatures. The fictional plant known as the Blood Orchid and the company Wexel Hall Pharmaceuticals as well as the fictitious Murdoch family are repeatedly referenced in the films. When a documentary crew traveling through the Amazon jungle picks up a stranded man, they are unaware of the trouble that will occur. This stranger's hobby is to capture the giant Anaconda snake, and plans to continue targeting it on their boat, by any means necessary. A scientific expedition sets out for Borneo to seek a flower called the Blood Orchid, which could grant longer life. Meanwhile, they run afoul of snakes and each other. A team of mercenaries join forces with a herpetologist and an assistant from the billionaire owner who both worked in a genetic research lab, Wexel Hall, to capture the snakes after they escaped from the lab, until they find themselves needing to stop them before it's too late. A herpetologist is on a mission to destroy the Blood Orchid from the billionaire who wanted a serum of the orchid to cure his cancer, until a dangerous snake threatens everyone. In Black Lake, Maine, an accident allows the two giant species, crocodiles and anacondas had been regenerated and escape towards to Clear Lake. Now, Reba teams up with Tully to find his daughter Bethany and a group of sorority girls in a deadly match between the two creatures. Anaconda: The Writer's Cut is a novel by Hans Bauer published in 2014. Bauer also wrote the screenplay for the 1997 film Anaconda and its 2004 sequel Anacondas: The Hunt for the Blood Orchid.  To promote the movie's release, Sony released a free total conversion mod for Quake Mission Pack No. 1: Scourge of Armagon which featured new snake enemies and a large Anaconda boss character.   Anacondas Arcade Game is an online interactive game produced by Sony Studios in 2004 to promote the film Anacondas: The Hunt for the Blood Orchid from the same year.  Anacondas 3D: Adventure Game is an online interactive game produced by Sony Studios in 2004 to promote the film Anacondas: The Hunt for the Blood Orchid from the same year.   Snakes on a Babe is an online interactive game produced in 2008 to promote the film Anaconda 3: Offspring from the same year.   