Angel Guts (天使のはらわた, Tenshi no Harawata) is a nine-film series of pink films produced between 1978 and 1994. The Nikkatsu Corporation was responsible for the production of the majority of the series. In accordance with the "pink film" genre, the prevalent theme in the series is sex, but violence is also featured prominently in the films. Angel Guts is based on the manga series written by Takashi Ishii.  In a public comment on the Angel Guts series, director Noboru Tanaka pointed out the various directorial styles exhibited in the films: "...all five versions are different. Mine is very energetic and it looks like you could burn yourself if you touch it, whilst the others are calmer and gentler. I think the audience shouldn't be bored by this series of films."  Japanese: Angel Guts: High School Co-Ed (女高生　天使のはらわた, Jokousei Tenshi no Harawata)  (1978, director: Chūsei Sone)  Japanese: Angel Guts: Red Classroom (天使のはらわた　赤い教室, Tenshi no Harawata: Akai Kyoshitsu) (1979, director: Chūsei Sone) Japanese: Angel Guts: Nami (天使のはらわた　名美, Tenshi no Harawata: Nami) (1979, director: Noboru Tanaka) Japanese: Angel Guts: Red Porno (天使のはらわた　赤い淫画, Tenshi no Harawata: Akai Inga) (1981, director: Toshiharu Ikeda)  Japanese: Angel Guts: Rouge (ルージュ, Tenshi no Harawata: Rouge) (1984, director: Hiroyuki Nasu) Japanese: Angel Guts: Red Rope - "Until I Die!" (赤い縄　～果てるまで～, Akai Nawa Hateru Made) (1987, director: Junichi Suzuki) Japanese: Angel Guts: Red Vertigo (天使のはらわた　赤い眩暈, Tenshi no Harawata: Akai Memai) (1988, director: Takashi Ishii) Japanese: Angel Guts: Red Lightning (天使のはらわた　赤い閃光, Tenshi no Harawata: Akai Senko) (1994, director: Takashi Ishii) Japanese: Angel Guts: Night is Falling Again (夜がまた来る, Yoru Ga Mata Kuru) (1994, director: Takashi Ishii) In 2005, the ArtsMagic company released a Region 1 five-DVD box-set containing the first four films in the series and the seventh (Red Vertigo).  The films were presented in anamorphic widescreen in Japanese with removable subtitles. The set also features commentaries on all films, original trailers, director interviews, and director and cast biographies.  