   Atlas Shrugged is a trilogy of American science fiction drama films. The films, adaptations of Ayn Rand's 1957 novel of the same name, are subtitled Part I (2011), Part II (2012), and Part III (2014). The screenplays are written by John Aglialoro and Brian Patrick O'Toole (Part I); Duke Sandefur, O'Toole and Duncan Scott (Part II); and J. James Manera, Harmon Kaslow and Aglialoro (Part III). The films take place in a dystopian United States, wherein many of society's most prominent and successful industrialists abandon their fortunes and the nation itself, in response to aggressive new regulations, whereupon most vital industries collapse. In Part I, railroad executive Dagny Taggart (Taylor Schilling) and steel mogul Henry Rearden (Grant Bowler) form an alliance to fight the increasingly authoritarian government of the United States. In Part II, Taggart (Samantha Mathis) and Rearden (Jason Beghe) search desperately for the inventor of a revolutionary motor as the U.S. government continues to spread its control over the national economy. In Part III, Taggart (Laura Regan) and Rearden (Rob Morrow) come into contact with the man responsible for the strike whose effects is the focus of much of the series. The trilogy received predominantly negative critical reviews  and the aggregate USA box office is just under $9 million (revenues do not include video and television). The first film, directed by Paul Johansson, stars Taylor Schilling, Grant Bowler, Matthew Marsden, Johansson, Graham Beckel and Jsu Garcia was released in April 2011 and had a USA box office of $4.5 million on a budget of under $20 million.  Most of the marketing was done online. The second film, directed by John Putch, stars Samantha Mathis, Jason Beghe, Patrick Fabian, D.B. Sweeney and Esai Morales, and had a USA box office of $3.3 million on a budget of under $10 million.  The third film, directed by J. James Manera, stars Laura Regan, Rob Morrow, Greg Germann, Kristoffer Polaha, Lew Temple and Joaquim de Almeida, and had a USA box office of less than $1 million on a budget of under $5 million.  All three films received overwhelmingly negative reviews, criticizing their poor writing, lackluster acting, and bad filming and editing processes. Part I was released via DVD and Blu-ray on November 8, 2011; Part II on February 19, 2013; and Part III on January 6, 2015. 