Beverly Hills Chihuahua is an American-Mexican film trilogy. The films are based on a chihuahua named "Papi" going through adventures alongside his family and friends. Vivian Ashe (Jamie Lee Curtis) leaves her pet chihuahua Chloe, (Drew Barrymore) with her irresponsible niece Rachel (Piper Perabo). However, when Rachel decides to go to Mexico with her friends, Chloe gets dognapped. She is sent to the dog fights and meets a German Shepherd named Delgado (Andy Garcia) who helps her escape the dog fights and attempts to get her back to Beverly Hills. Meanwhile, Rachel is searching for Chloe with Sam (Manolo Cardona) and Papi (George Lopez), landscaper and dog before Aunt Viv gets home. When Delgado was talking to his friend from when he was in the Mexican Police, Chloe encounters a pack rat named Manuel (Cheech Marin) trying to steal her diamond collar. She is tricked into giving it to him, which was going to be used to get her home. When Delgado and Chloe was smuggled by a Coyote in a train, Delgado created a diversion to so that Chloe would not get caught by the train crew. After jumping off the train, they walked across the Chihuahua Desert, Delgado told Chloe how he lost his sense of smell, when Delgado and his partner were searching for a suspect, he was ambushed by El Diablo and his owner. When he woke up his partner was seriously wounded and was never the same after that night. Neither was Delgado because the next morning, he completely lost his sense of smell. El Diablo (Edward James Olmos), a fierce Doberman Pinscher, is sent by the dog fight ringleader to capture Chloe for the reward. Later on, Manuel is seen with the collar by Delgado, so Manuel switches sides and helps Delgado find his sense of smell. Delgado sniffs the collar and gets his sense of smell back. He finds Chloe and she returns to Beverly Hills. Delgado gets a job with the police and El Diablo runs away. Chloe and Papi go on a date by the gazebo, and Chloe licks him on the face. Papi mentions that there might be a few miniature baby Chihuahuas in their futures, the two stray dogs that Sam and Rachel adopt on the trail of Chloe go to good homes too, El Diablo is adopted by a lady who has a passion for fashion, and Sam and Rachel start dating. Just married, Papi (voiced by George Lopez) and Chloe (voiced by Odette Yustman)  are trying to keep up with their five puppies Papi Jr, Lala, Rosa, Ali and Pep (voiced by Zachary Gordon, Madison Pettis, Chatilly Spalan and Emily Osment) running around the house, creating problem after problem. Aunt Viv (Susan Blakely), Chloe's owner, is in the rain forest for the next 6 months with her niece, Rachel (Erin Cahill) searching for plants for medical research. During this time Sam (Marcus Coloma), Papi's owner and now Rachel's boyfriend, is caring for the whole chihuahua family. Sam takes Chloe, Papi and the puppies back home to meet his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Cortez (Castulo Guerra and Lupe Ontiveros). Sam finds out that his family is struggling to pay the mortgage and make bank plans for taking their home and selling it. Chloe and the rest of the dogs decide to compete in a dog show in order to win a large cash prize. Though Papi had initially won, because of the lack of breed papers, he is disqualified. The dogs lose to an arrogant French poodle named Appoline (voiced by Bridgit Mendler.  After hearing that Delgado  has sons in Los Angeles, the puppies set off to find them. In trying to help, the puppies get caught up in a bank robbery. Meanwhile, Chloe, Papi, Pedro (Papi's brother) and Delgado are in a frenzy trying to find the puppies when they appear running across the television screen at the site of the bank robbery. They all run out to the bank to begin searching for the puppies. The puppies happen to crawl into the duffel bags of the crooks and end up at Hoffman's Bread Factory. Delgado finds a mask with the scent of bread on it which leads them to the factory. They foil the robbery then return home to find that they have been awarded more than enough money to save their house and that Rachel and Aunt Viv have returned. Sam and Rachel happily decided to get married. Papi (voice of George Lopez) and Chloe (voice of Odette Yustman) are joined their five playful pups. They moved into the posh Langham Hotel, complete with a luxurious doggy spa. But there is trouble in puppy paradise when Rosa, the littlest member of the pack, feels smaller and less special than ever. Papi helps Rosa to find and celebrate her inner strength, which turns out to be bigger than she ever dreamed. 