Charlie's Angels is a media franchise that began with the 1976-1981 television series of the same name created by Ivan Goff and Ben Roberts. The captivating crime-fighting trio who are the masters of disguise, espionage and martial arts. When a devious mastermind embroils them in a plot to destroy individual privacy, the Angels, aided by their loyal sidekick Bosley, set out to bring down the bad guys. But when a terrible secret is revealed it makes the Angels targets for assassination. The Angels investigate a series of murders which occur after the theft of a witness protection profile database. On September 15, 2015, The Hollywood Reporter has reported that Sony Pictures Entertainment is planning a reboot of the 'Charlie's Angels film franchise' with a new 'Charlie's Angels film' to be drafted. Sony are in talks with American actress, director, and producer Elizabeth Banks to helm director's chair. Banks will also produce with her producing partner and husband Max Handelman. The studio and producers will begin a search for a writer to tackle the reboot.  In April 2016, Banks signed up to direct a revival of the classic Charlie's Angels TV series.   Banks commented that, "Charlie’s Angels, for me, is one of the original brands to celebrate the empowered woman since its debut in the 70s,” Banks said. “This film honors the legacy of Charles Townsend and his agency while introducing a new era of modern and global Angels. I couldn’t be more excited to work with Kristen, Naomi and Ella to bring this chapter to fans around the world."   are planning a reboot of the 'Charlie's Angels film franchise' with the potential of American actress, director, and producer Elizabeth Banks both producing with her producing partner and husband Max Handelman and the studio are in negotiations with her to direct the film.  In 2017, Sony Pictures Entertainment confirmed that the reboot of the 'Charlie's Angels film franchise' is planned with a new 'Charlie's Angels film' having as elected Elizabeth Banks in the director's chair. Banks will also produce the upcoming film with partner and husband Max Handelman.  In July 2018, it was announced that Director Elizabeth Banks has found her Charlie's Angels cast to star in the new 2019 reboot feature film. Variety confirmed that the three new lead 'Angels' are Kristen Stewart, Naomi Scott and Ella Balinska. Banks will portray the role of Bosley. Kristen Stewart commented about the new reboot project that, "You take a story that’s usually kind of, for lack of a better word, not silly, but just kind of funny, campy. The movie should still be fun but, like, if you ground it and make it about women that really know how to help each other, it’ll be perfect to release now. Like, we’re all together and strong."  The most recent draft of the script is written by Jay Basu and Banks, based on earlier drafts by Craig Mazin and Semi Chellas.  Sony has slated a Sept. 27, 2019, release for the movie.  Charlie's Angels: Animated Adventures, an animated prequel web series explain how the Angels got there and their mission, concluded by the very introduction of the film Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle.  In July 2003, three Charlie's Angels games were released on three different gaming platforms: Nintendo GameCube, PlayStation 2, and the mobile phone. The versions released on the GameCube and PlayStation 2 were virtually the same and were both titled Charlie's Angels. The version released for the mobile phone was modified to fit the technical restrictions of the platform, and was titled Charlie's Angels: Road Cyclone. In April 2008, Ojom announced a new Charlie's Angels mobile phone game entitled Charlie's Angels: Hellfire. The game is now available on operator portals across Europe. 