  Golmaal: Fun Unlimited  is a 2006 Indian Hindi comedy film directed by Rohit Shetty and written by Neeraj Vora. The film stars Ajay Devgn, Arshad Warsi, Sharman Joshi, Tusshar Kapoor, Rimi Sen and Paresh Rawal in lead roles while Sushmita Mukherjee, Manoj Joshi, Mukesh Tiwari, Sanjay Mishra and Vrajesh Hirjee are featured in supporting roles. The opening credits of the movie revealed that the story was based on the Gujarati play Aflatoon by Mihir Bhuta and Neeraj Vora adapted from Harsh Shivsharan's original Marathi play Ghar-Ghar   which was earlier used in the 2001 Malayalam comedy Kakkakuyil. The film released on 14 July 2006, and received generally positive reviews from the critics, and turned out to be a surprise hit at the box office. On 29 October 2008, the film spawned a sequel, Golmaal Returns which was even more successful than the original. Opening comedy sequences of this movie was used in the Kannada movie Mast Maja Maadi. The story revolves around the lives of Gopal (Ajay Devgn), Lucky (Tusshar Kapoor),  Madhav (Arshad Warsi) and Laxman (Sharman Joshi). Laxman is an intelligent student who is diverted from doing well in college by his mischievous band of friends Gopal, Madhav, and Lucky. Lucky is a mute in the movie. The three friends use Laxman's hostel room for their mischievous activities. Laxman is peer pressured into running a series of scams to earn himself and his friends some money and is punished by being thrown out of college. The naughty foursome then finds refuge in the bungalow of a blind couple, Somnath (Paresh Rawal) and Mangala (Sushmita Mukherjee), who are waiting for their grandson, Sameer, to inherit his paternal grandparents' treasure chest hidden in the old couple's house. Gopal pretends to be Sameer returning from America, and enters the house, while the other three friends sneak in hidden. A cat-and-mouse game unfolds as Laxman's body and Gopal's voice make up Sameer. Each time the blind Dadaji comes amidst them, hilarious situations arise. Enter Nirali (Rimi Sen), the saucy girl-next-door, and the group now have time, place and 'resources' to fall in love. Their individual efforts at winning the lady's heart fail. Apart from their amorous interests, there is a quest for the chest. There is also a gangster named Babli who wants to steal the chest from the couple's bungalow. All his attempts are unintentionally and unknowingly thwarted by the foursome. After the foursome find a chest hidden behind an old painting in the house, despite Laxman pleading not to open the chest, Somnath reveals about Sameer's death to Gopal, Laxman, Madhav, and Lucky. The real Sameer, along with his parents, were killed in a car crash after his father and mother left with him for India to meet his grandparents, after Somnath's son learned that Somnath and Mangala were permanently blinded in a lethal accident. Somnath goes to America and lights the pyres of his son, daughter-in-law and grandson, the ashes of whom he later kept in an urn, as per the Hindu tradition which he kept in the chest. Mangala is shocked to hear the stories, breaks into tears and condemns her husband for lying to her all those years and not allowing her to cradle her grandson or light the pyres, and she also condemns the foursome for tricking her and hurting her feelings. Babli then arrives with his gang and later reveals that he hid the diamonds in the urn Somnath was carrying his grand returned to India and arrived at an airport. Panducharang, an assassin previously sent by Babli as an undercover servant later joins Gopal's team and fights the gangsters off, with the fight finally ending with Gopal being accidentally stabbed by Babli in his behind with a knife, falling unconscious soon after, but not before warning Madhav, Lucky and Laxman to not touch the knife, leaving the three friends in laughter. Babli also falls unconscious after seeing blood flowing from Gopal's behind. After being admitted to a hospital, Gopal finally has the knife removed from his back, and Babli is arrested for his crimes. Laxman, Gopal, Madhav and Lucky are then rewarded with ten percent of the original value of the diamonds for arresting Babli. Nirali then chooses Lucky as her husband-to-be, saying that she found true love and loyalty in him and him alone, leaving the remaining three disappointed. Golmaal received positive reviews from critics. Sukanya Varma of Rediff said the film was "one wacky, goofy, paisa vasool ride" and that "the humour isn't exactly family audience material, and is more likely to be lapped up by college-going folk", rating the movie 3/5.  Subhash K Jha of Sify wrote that "Golmaal's neatly structured ambit of asinine anarchy tickles the funny-bone, it finally says nothing about the quality of modern life that we haven't already heard in all those blasts from the past that have come in recent weeks trying to create a ripple across our sense of humour."  Taran Adarsh of Bollywood Hungama said that "Golmaal is a thoroughly enjoyable fare, the film has all it takes to hit the bull's eye" rating it 3.5/5.  Golmaal had an average opening, and earned ₹274 million (US$3.8 million) net and grossed ₹699 million (US$9.7 million). At the end of its run, the film was declared a  hit.  Shortly following the film's release Microsoft's Skype decided to include an emoji for Golmaal as well as several other Bollywood emojis in an effort to appeal to users in India and to honor Indian culture.  Music composed by Vishal - Shekhar, lyrics penned by Vishal Dadlani & Kumaar The film spawned an sequel titled Golmaal Returns, which released on 29 October 2008. The sequel received mostly negative reviews from critics, however had a bumper opening in India and grossed a total more than the original. It was declared an Hit. On 5 November 2010, the third sequel titled Golmaal 3 was released, which broke many records. The film was declared an Blockbuster, and is currently the highest-grossing installment in the Golmaal film series until Golmaal Again came out. 