Insidious is a series of American horror films created by Leigh Whannell. There are four films in the franchise – Insidious (2010), Insidious: Chapter 2 (2013), Insidious: Chapter 3 (2015) and Insidious: The Last Key (2018) – which have grossed a total of $539 million worldwide on a combined budget of $26.5 million. The first two films were directed by James Wan, while the third film was directed by Leigh Whannell, who also served as the screenwriter for all four films. Adam Robitel directed the fourth installment. FilmDistrict released the first and second films, while Focus Features and Universal Pictures handled the third and fourth, respectively. The first two films center on a couple who, after their son mysteriously enters a comatose state and becomes a vessel for ghosts in an astral plane, are continuously haunted by demons of a hellish realm known as the Further until they take from the family what they want most: life. The third film, a prequel, focuses on the same psychic who helped the family; this time she comes to the aid of a young girl who calls out to the dead, and the fourth follows her when her own family becomes haunted. All plots are depicted as case files of demonologists. Insidious was directed by James Wan, written by Leigh Whannell, and starred Patrick Wilson, Rose Byrne and Barbara Hershey. The story centers on a couple whose son inexplicably enters a comatose state and becomes a vessel for ghosts in an astral dimension. The film was released in theaters on April 1, 2011,  and is FilmDistrict's first theatrical release. A sequel, Insidious: Chapter 2, was released on September 13, 2013, with Wan returning as director and Whannell returning as screenwriter. The film's success led to it being used as inspiration for a maze in 2013's annual Halloween Horror Nights. Insidious: Chapter 2 was also directed by James Wan. The film stars Patrick Wilson and Rose Byrne reprising their roles as Josh and Renai Lambert, a husband and wife who seek to uncover the secret that has left them dangerously connected to the spirit world. The film was released on September 13, 2013. It was a box-office success, grossing over $160 million worldwide, but received mixed reviews. Insidious: Chapter 3 is the third film in the series, written and directed by Leigh Whannell. The film is a prequel to the haunting of the Lambert family in the first two films, and stars Stefanie Scott. Dermot Mulroney, Lin Shaye, and Whannell. It's about a girl—Quinn—who is haunted by a demon after trying to call out to her mother Lillith, who died. It was released on June 5, 2015. Prior to the release of Insidious: Chapter 3, Leigh Whannell was asked, "If there is a Insidious: Chapter 4, would that be a sequel to Chapter 3, another prequel to the original or will it continue in this timeline or go to a whole new timeline?" Whannell replied, "I don't know. I haven't really thought about it yet. But for the purposes of this interview, I'll say that I'd like to explore the time between this film and the first film. That whole area there where Elise has rediscovered her gift, I think you could have a lot of adventures before she arrives. So I think there is a lot of room there. We've kind of established Lin [Shaye] in this particular film as kind of this superhero, so that would be kind of interesting to explore in the other films."  It was announced on May 16, 2016, that Chapter 4 will have an October 20, 2017, release date with Whannell writing, Jason Blum, Oren Peli and James Wan producing, Adam Robitel directing, and Lin Shaye returning to reprise her role as Elise Rainier.   On October 11, 2016, the film was given a new release date for 2018, and pushed it back to January 5, 2018. In an interview, Whannell stated that if there is going to be a sequel, he currently doesn't know if he will be the one writing the script. On February 22, 2018, reports came stating that the fifth installment is in development after the box office success of Insidious: The Last Key.  Key 