Jumanji is an American multimedia franchise based around the 1981 fantasy children's picture book of the same name, written and illustrated by the American author Chris Van Allsburg. The franchise follows the adventures of various people who find themselves imperiled when playing a magic board game called Jumanji that will either trap players within its dangerous jungle world or unleash its menaces into the real world. Ultimately, the only way to end the disruptions is to finish the game while enduring its resulting dangers with each succeeding move, after which everything is restored to normal outside of the players' memories. Two children, Peter and Judy, find and play a game in which each roll of the dice brings the jungle from the game (as well as the creatures that live in it) to life around them. In order to reset the world around them, they must finish the game. Afterward, they get rid of the game which is found by their next-door neighbors, two young brothers. Brothers Danny and Walter, neighbors of Peter and Judy from the previous book, find Jumanji but ultimately choose not to play it. Instead, they find a similar game with a space theme, "Zathura", which they begin to play. As with Jumanji, playing Zathura brings elements of the game into reality, and in order to set everything back to normal, the boys must complete the game. Two children find and play a magical board game. In doing so, they release a man trapped for decades in it and a host of dangers that can only be stopped by finishing the game. Two young brothers are drawn into an intergalactic adventure when their house is hurled through the depths of space by the magical board game they are playing. Furthermore, the brothers surmise the only way to return home is to finish the game.  Though there are no direct references in Zathura to the other films, and the movie's plot is completely self-contained, the studio marketed it as being set in the world of Jumanji, and was thematically similar. The film is based on the children's book Zathura, also written by Van Allsburg which was a sequel to the Jumanji source material. Twenty-one years after the events of the original film, the board game evolves into a video game. Four teenagers who are transported to the game's jungle setting and become the avatars of the characters they chose, and later discover another victim trapped in the game as well. The only way out is to complete the game, and in doing so, they each discover the best of themselves and  win with a newfound heroism to see the challenge through. This film serves as a sequel to the 1995 film. Following the release of Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle, the film's cast discussed in interviews what a potential third Jumanji could be about. Karen Gillan also stated that an alternate ending left the door open for another movie, but that the scene was removed from the final cut of the film.     In February of 2018, it was announced that a third Jumanji is being made with Kasdan, Rosenburg, and Pinkner returning to direct and write the project, respectively. The stars of Welcome to the Jungle are expected to reprise their roles.  The film is slated to be released December 13, 2019.  An animated television series inspired by the 1995 film ran for three seasons from 1996 to 1999. 