 Jump Street is an American multimedia franchise that commenced in 1987. The franchise concerns the lives of the Jump Street program, an undercover police unit in which young-looking detectives infiltrate schools and similar settings attended by minors to investigate crimes. 21 Jump Street is a 2012 American action comedy film directed by Phil Lord and Christopher Miller, executive produced by and starring Jonah Hill and Channing Tatum, and scripted by Michael Bacall from a story by him and Hill. The film follows two police officers who are forced to relive high school when they are assigned to go undercover as high school students to prevent the outbreak of a new synthetic drug and arrest its supplier.   22 Jump Street is a 2014 American action comedy film produced by and starring Jonah Hill and Channing Tatum, scripted by Michael Bacall, Rodney Rothman and Oreo Uziel, from a story by Hill and Bacall, and directed by Phil Lord and Christopher Miller. It starts after where 21 Jump Street left off, following Schmidt and Jenko in their next case in college. On September 10, 2014, a third Jump Street film was confirmed.  Channing Tatum has yet to sign on to the project. Tatum stated, "I don't know if that joke works three times, so we'll see."  On August 7, 2015, it was revealed that Lord and Miller will not direct the film, but instead write and produce. A first draft of the film's script has been completed.  On December 10, 2014, it was revealed that Sony was planning a crossover between Men in Black and Jump Street. The news was leaked after Sony's system was hacked  and then confirmed by the directors of the films, Chris Miller and Phil Lord, during an interview about it.   James Bobin was announced as the director in January 2016.   The title of the crossover was later revealed to be MIB 23, and the crossover would replace a 23 Jump Street film. By August 2016, Jonah Hill considered that MIB 23 would be hard to make, as "They’re trying to make all the deals, but it’s kind of impossible with all the Men in Black stuff", and "it’s hard to maintain that joke when it’s so high stakes" given the film would get too close to the sort of remake, sequel and reboot the previous films mocked. Still, Hill hoped to make a third Jump Street.  In December 2016 it was revealed that Rodney Rothman had written a script for the film, and that Bobin is still attached as director for the movie.  A female-driven 21 Jump Street film is being developed.  In December 2016, Rodney Rothman was announced as the director and screenwriter for the film. Rothman returns to the franchise after co-writing 22 Jump Street, and MIB 23 as well.  21 Jump Street is an American police procedural crime drama television series that aired on the Fox Network and in first run syndication from April 12, 1987, to April 27, 1991, with a total of 103 episodes. Booker is an American crime drama series starring Richard Grieco that aired on the Fox Network from September 24, 1989, to May 6, 1990. The series is a spin-off of 21 Jump Street and the second installment of the 21 Jump Street series. 