  Kothigalu Saar Kothigalu (Kannada: ಕೋತಿಗಳು ಸಾರ್ ಕೋತಿಗಳು; English: We are monkeys, sir) is a 2001 Indian Kannada comedy film directed by Rajendra Singh Babu. The film stars Ramesh Aravind, S. Narayan, Mohan, Prema, Tara and Urvashi in the lead roles.  This is the second film in the Saar series directed by Babu and was released on 28 December 2001 and received generally positive reviews from the critics and turned out to be box-office hit.  It completed a 100-day run in theatres.  The film was remade in Telugu as Sandade Sandadi and in Hindi as Shaadi No. 1. At the 49th Filmfare Awards South, it was awarded the Best Kannada Film.  Three friends Rammi (Ramesh Aravind), Nani (S. Narayan), Moni (Mohan), vexed with their wives Urvashi, Prema and Tara decide to take a mass suicide. But they end up saving a businessman (Mukhyamantri Chandru) who was also attempting suicide. These guys help Chandru in straightening his business and earn a good salary to support their families. But they suffer from an after marriage problem. Their wives do not allow them to have sex. Urvasi is highly devotional and spends her days with fasting. Prema is a busy lawyer and she is more dedicated to her work than her family life. Tara is a hotshot TV actress and she is more interesting in making love to the camera than to her husband. At this juncture, Chandru is confronted with another problem. His foreign returned daughters are too fast for him to make them agree for an arranged marriage with the sons of his close pal. These guys throw an idea to Chandru that he should employ three good-looking guys and make his daughters fall in love with them. After that, guys could ditch girls so that they get back to their dad to ask forgiveness and accept his proposal. Lucky asks these three friends to do the roles of lovers in spite of knowing the fact that they are married. These friends attract the girls and when its time to ditch them, they found it too discouraging as they were offered five-star luxuries by the Lucky during that time. So they decide to double cross him by marrying his daughters. However, in the end when their wives comes to know about these affairs, they confront Chandru for forcing their husbands. Chandru explains his reasoning of his act as he wanted his daughters to lead a happy life to which they accept, the trio again tries to commit suicide however they are saved by their wives. The trio conducts the marriage of three girls, it is hinted at the end of the movie, however, that the three friends have not completely turned over a new leaf with the entrance of three girls whom they meet at the marriage. Hamsalekha composed the music for the film and soundtracks, also writing the lyrics for all the soundtracks.  