Legally Blonde tells the comical adventures of Elle Woods, portrayed by actress Reese Witherspoon in the series' first two films,  a blonde California University of Los Angeles sorority president who enrolls in law school. The media franchise consists of three comedy films, a musical, a reality television series, and a book series.  The franchise is based on the 2001 novel Legally Blonde by Amanda Brown.  It is also the basis of a series of young adult fiction novels featuring the character of Elle Woods, written by Natalie Standiford.   The film series consists of Legally Blonde (2001),  Legally Blonde 2: Red, White & Blonde (2003),  and Legally Blondes (2009).  In June 2018, Reese Witherspoon has been in discussions with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer to produce a third instalment in the Legally Blonde film series. In addition to reprising her role as Elle Woods, Witherspoon is bringing back both Karen McCullah Lutz and Kirsten Smith to pen the film's script.  MGM later confirmed in a Twitter post that Legally Blonde 3 is set to be released on February 14, 2020. A Legally Blonde musical debuted in 2007,  with music and lyrics by Laurence O'Keefe and Nell Benjamin and book by Heather Hach. It premiered in pre-Broadway tryouts in San Francisco, California. In April 2007 the show moved to Broadway, opening to mostly positive reviews and grossed more than $1,000,000 a week on several occasions. Jerry Mitchell directed and choreographed. The original cast starred Laura Bell Bundy as Elle, Christian Borle as Emmett and Richard H. Blake as Warner. It received seven Tony nominations and ten Drama Desk nominations but did not win any. A reality television series based on the musical, Legally Blonde: The Musical – The Search for Elle Woods debuted on MTV in 2008.  The show debuted on June 2, 2008, and the winner of the show, Bailey Hanks, in addition to being cast in the role, was given the opportunity to record her own single of the musical's first-act closer, "So Much Better". The show concluded on July 21, 2008. Autumn Hurlbert was the runner up. She served as Hanks' understudy and performed in the ensemble of the show (replacing Becky Gulsvig who left to join the tour). Bundy's last performance in the musical was on July 20, 2008. Hanks began performances on July 23, 2008 and remained with the show until it closed on October 19, 2008.  