The Robert Langdon films are a series of American mystery thriller movies directed by Ron Howard. The films focus on Robert Langdon, a fictional character appearing in the Robert Langdon (book series) by author Dan Brown. The film series has a different chronological order than the novels, and consists of The Da Vinci Code (2006), Angels & Demons (2009) and Inferno (2016). The series has grossed almost $1.5 billion worldwide. Dan Brown’s novels about Professor Robert Langdon: Angels & Demons (2000), The Da Vinci Code (2003), and Inferno (2013), quickly became international bestsellers, and were soon adapted into films by Columbia Pictures with Ron Howard directing and producing, and Tom Hanks portraying Langdon. A murder inside the Louvre and clues in Da Vinci paintings lead to the discovery of a religious mystery protected by a secret society for two thousand years, which could shake the foundations of Christianity. Harvard symbologist Robert Langdon continues to work to solve a murder and prevent a terrorist act against the Vatican. When Robert Langdon wakes up in an Italian hospital with amnesia, he teams up with Dr. Sienna Brooks, and together they must race across Europe against the clock to foil a deadly global plot. Following the worldwide successes of The Da Vinci Code in 2006  and Angels & Demons in 2009,  which were both based on Brown's novels, starring Tom Hanks as Robert Langdon and produced and directed by Ron Howard, Columbia Pictures began production on a film adaptation of The Lost Symbol.   Hanks and Howard were expected to return for the film adaptation of The Lost Symbol, along with the franchise's producers Brian Grazer and John Calley. Sony Pictures eventually hired three screenwriters for the project, beginning with Steven Knight  and then hiring Brown himself.  In March 2012, Danny Strong was also hired to collaborate on the adaptation.  According to a January 2013 article in Los Angeles Times, the final draft of the screenplay was due sometime in February, with pre-production expected to start in the mid-2013.  In July 2013, Sony Pictures announced they would instead adapt Inferno for an October 14, 2016  release date with Howard as director, David Koepp adapting the screenplay and Hanks reprising his role as Robert Langdon.  There are many differences between the novel and the film.  