Ryanverse (or Ryaniverse) refers to the fictional universe created by Tom Clancy featuring Jack Ryan and other characters, such as John Clark and Domingo Chavez.    The first book written to feature Jack Ryan was The Hunt for Red October. Books in the order in which they were written: In the order in which they occur in the storyline (and when they occur): The key characters in the Ryanverse include: A total of five presidents are explicitly shown in the Ryanverse (although Red Rabbit takes place during the Reagan Administration, Reagan does not make an appearance as a character): It should be noted that in later books there are nevertheless multiple references to both the Reagan Presidency and the George H.W. Bush Presidency as if they had happened.  Some of the key characters have been portrayed in the following movies and television series: It was announced by Deadline that Carlton Cuse and Graham Roland will be working with Michael Bay and his production company Platinum Dunes and Paramount Television on a Jack Ryan TV series for Amazon.   On April 29, 2016, Deadline announced that John Krasinski will star as Jack Ryan in the series.  On August 16, 2016, Amazon Studios announced they had given a series order for a 10-episode first season of Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan.  On November 4, 2016, Abbie Cornish was cast as Cathy Muller in the series.  On January 6, 2017, it was reported that Morten Tyldum will direct the pilot.  In February 2017, it was announced that The Americans director Daniel Sackheim would direct multiple episodes and produce the series.  The series, said to be inspired by the Harrison Ford Jack Ryan films, premiered on August 31, 2018.  Four months earlier, Amazon had renewed the series for season two, which is set in South America.  Many video games based on the Ryanverse have been made, some based on the novels, some on the films, some on the spin-offs. In addition Tom Clancy created a multi-media franchise about a fictional international counter-terrorist unit called "Rainbow". The franchise began with Clancy's novel Rainbow Six, which was adapted into a series of tactical first-person shooter video games. The first game was developed by Red Storm Entertainment, while the novel was being written. The game later spawned a number of sequels and expansion packs. Red Storm was later acquired by Ubisoft, who currently develops and publishes the games. Mobile phone versions of the game are developed and published by Gameloft. Rainbow Six and its sequels defined the tactical shooter genre, forcing players to focus more time and effort on stealth, teamwork, and tactics rather than on sheer firepower. With some of the more recent releases however, the game has taken on more of a "mainstream" first-person shooter approach in an attempt to appeal to a wider audience. The cancelled game Rainbow 6: Patriots changed the word Six to 6. The latest game, Siege, has changed the series title back to Rainbow Six.  A South Korean-only PC game called Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Take-Down – Missions in Korea was created for the South Korean market by KAMA Digital Entertainment. The game boasted South Korean Rainbow operatives and weapons with a different story and interface. It was not sold outside South Korea.  