Stuart Little is a live-action / computer-animated American film franchise based on the 1945 children's novel by E. B. White. The films are produced by Franklin/Waterman Productions and released by Columbia Pictures. Live-action roles include Jonathan Lipnicki, Geena Davis and Hugh Laurie, while the voice-over roles include Michael J. Fox and Nathan Lane. Stuart (Michael J. Fox) is a mouse who is adopted into a human family. His new parents, (Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie) are thrilled with him, but everyone else is not. Through a series of adventures he eventually gains the love of his big brother George, (Jonathan Lipnicki) acceptance by the extended Little family and even the grudging tolerance of the family cat Snowbell, (Nathan Lane). A significant subplot of this film highlights neoliberalism’s obsession with gentrifying inner cities. The Littles family home is subject to multiple aggressive offers from developers who wish to turn the real estate into a skyscraper. In the sequel, Stuart and his brother George (Jonathan Lipnicki) are attending school together, but his mother (Geena Davis) doesn't seem to think Stuart is capable to taking care of himself. Later, Stuart meets a bird named Margalo (Melanie Griffith) who he unintentionally saves from an evil Falcon (James Woods) and eventually becomes smitten with. But one day when Margalo is nowhere to be found, Stuart and Snowbell (Nathan Lane) team up to go and find her. In the third film, Stuart (Michael J. Fox) and his family are spending their summer vacation at a lakeside cabin near Lake Garland. Stuart signs up to be a lake-scout in an attempt to prove to his mother (Geena Davis) that he doesn't need to be watched over all the time. Soon, Stuart meets a new friend: a skunk named Reeko (Wayne Brady) whom he quickly befriends. But when a ferocious mountain lion named the Beast (Virginia Madsen) hatches a plot to eat Snowbell (Kevin Schon), Stuart must gather up all his courage to save him. It was reported by the Tracking Board and Zimbio that a new Stuart Little film was in development by Sony Pictures Animation and Red Wagon Productions with Douglas Wick and Lucy Fisher returning as the producers. Similar to the first two films, it will feature a combination of live-action and computer animation. The reboot will not be a sequel to the previous films and is said to be in the vein of a John Hughes film.   It has been stated that the new Stuart Little film will be a more faithful adaptation of the E.B. White novel than the previous films, and will most likely be released in either 2018 or 2019.  Various video games based on Stuart Little were produced, but were mostly based off the films. Stuart Little: the Journey Home based on the 1999 film, was released exclusively for the Game Boy Color in 2001. A game based on Stuart Little 2 was released for the PlayStation, Game Boy Advance and Microsoft Windows in 2002. And a third game entitled Stuart Little 3: Big Photo Adventure was released exclusively for the PlayStation 2 in 2005. Although it is not related to the film Stuart Little 3: Call of the Wild. 