 The Marine is a series of action films produced by WWE Studios starring various WWE wrestlers in the lead roles. The Marine is a 2006 American action film directed by John Bonito. The film stars John Cena, Robert Patrick and Kelly Carlson. It was produced by the films division of WWE, called WWE Studios, and distributed in the United States by 20th Century Fox. The Marine 2 is a 2009 American thriller film directed by Roel Reiné, written by Christopher Borrelli and John Chapin Morgan, and produced by Michael Lake. The film stars Ted DiBiase, Temuera Morrison, Lara Cox, Robert Coleby and Michael Rooker. It is the sequel to The Marine, starring John Cena. This was Ted DiBiase's film debut. The film was released on DVD and Blu-ray in the United States on December 29, 2009. The film was inspired by the Dos Palmas kidnappings. The Marine 3: Homefront (also known as The Marine 3 and The Marine: Homefront) is a 2013 American action film starring Mike "The Miz" Mizanin and directed by Scott Wiper. The film was released on direct-to-DVD and Blu-ray in the United States on March 5, 2013.  It is a stand-alone sequel to The Marine starring John Cena and The Marine 2, starring Ted DiBiase, Jr. The Marine 4: Moving Target (also known as The Marine 4 and The Marine: Moving Target) is an American action film starring Mike "The Miz" Mizanin reprising his role from the previous film. The film marks the first time in the series that the character and actor played the role in more than one film. It was the first WWE Studios film to feature a Diva. The film was released direct-to-DVD and Blu-ray on April 21, 2015. The Marine 5: Battleground (also known as The Marine 5 and The Marine: Battleground) is an American action film starring Mike "The Miz" Mizanin reprising his role from the previous two films. It also featured Mizanin's wife Maryse Ouellet, Heath Slater, Curtis Axel, Bo Dallas and Naomi.   The Marine 6: Close Quarters (also known as The Marine 6 and The Marine: Close Quarters) is an American action film starring Mike "The Miz" Mizanin reprising his role from the previous three films. It will also feature Shawn Michaels and Becky Lynch.   The Marine The Marine 2 The Marine 3: Homefront The Marine 4: Moving Target The Marine 5: Battleground Ratings collected from film review aggregation site Rotten Tomatoes. 