Dr. Effie Ellis ( June 15,1913- July 5,1994) was a North Side Chicago pediatrician and child medical care consultant. Ellis was an activist for infant health and maternal education.  She was a specialist in maternal, prenatal, and postnatal, and preventative health care. She was the first African American woman to hold an executive position in the American Medical Association.  Dr. Ellis helped to create parenting education programs for the March of Dimes. She has notable success in research technology, helping to develop the technique used to save blue babies lacking sufficient heart function. Ellis was a proponent of public health and was determined to promote health maintenance across all socioeconomic levels. In 1989 Ellis was inducted to the Chicago Women’s Hall of Fame for her efforts in improving the lives of the black community and helping to lower infant mortality rates.   Dr. Effie Ellis was born in Hawkinsville, Georgia to Joshua P. O'Neal and Althea (Hamilton) O'Neal. In 1933 she obtained her bachelors degree in biology and chemistry upon graduating from Spelman College. Ellis then attended graduate school at Atlanta University where she acquired master's degree in biology in 1935.  In 1950 Ellis graduated from University of Illinois College of Medicine where she graduated with and fifth in her class. She married Arthur. W. Ellis in 1935 and later married James D. Solomon on March 23, 1953.   Following graduate school, she was presented with a grant to study diseases and parasites in Puerto Rico, which prompted her passion for healthcare for all socioeconomic backgrounds.  Dr. Ellis served as a pediatric residency at Massachusetts General Hospital from 1951-1952. Her primary concerns were with the black community, children, and child mortality rates. She aided in the development of parenting and education programs for the March of Dimes. She dedicated much of her treating and advising new and expecting mothers. Ellis obtained a postdoctoral fellowship studying pediatric cardiology at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine from July 1, 1952 to June 30, 1953.  Her team helped to develop the technique to help save blue babies (those infants with inadequate oxygen supply). In 1970 Dr. Ellis became the first African American woman to hold an executive position in the American Medical Association, which she held for five years. She became a Director of Maternal Care and Health Care for Ohio's Department of Health in 1960. In 1970, Ellis was appointed to the President's Committee on the Handicapped. Ellis was inducted the Chicago's Women Hall of Fame in 1989.  Dr. Ellis died in Northwestern Memorial Hospital on July 5, 1994.   