The  Department of Economic And Social Geography of Russia (Russian: Кафедра экономической и социальной географии России) is one of the oldest and the largest  Russian educational and research centers in economic geography and regional science The Department of Economic And Social Geography of Russia is the oldest department of the geographical faculty in Moscow State University. It was founded in 1929 by Nikolay Baranskiy as a chair of economic geography on geographical branch of the mehaniko-mathematical faculty. In 1933 it was a part of the soil-geographical faculty as a Chair of Economic Geography of the USSR. After foundation of the geographical faculty in Moscow State University in 1938, the department became a constant division in its structure. Since 1992 it has been called the department of economic and social geography of Russia. The first head of the department was its founder, N. Baranskiy, professor of the faculty and member-correspondent in Russian Academy of Sciences. Throughout its 80-year history the department has been headed by professor P. Stepanov (1941–1943; 1946–1949), Julian G. Saushkin (1349–1381), A. T. Khruschev (1981–2000), Vladimir E. Shuvalov (2000-2012) and V. Baburin (since July 2012). Scientists of the chair have created a school of thought known as the Soviet Regional (Rayon) school of economic geography. Its theoretical bases have been made by professors Nikolay Baranskiy and Nikolay Kolosovskiy and were developed by J. Saushkin's works. Many professors of the department brought the big contributions to the formation and development of the theory and methodology of social and economic geography, ecpecially geography of industry, agriculture, transport, non-productive sphere, geography of the population, geourbanistics, and methods of economic-geographical researches. The staff includes 6 doctors, 14 candidates of sciences, 6 professors, 9 senior lecturers, 1 assistant, 6 scientific employees and 5 leading engineers. Professors: (in Russian)* The Official site of the Department (in Russian)* The Information on a site of Geographical faculty of Moscow State University 