The person-centered systems theory (German: Personzentrierte Systemtheorie) is a multi-level concept for the understanding of processes in psychotherapy, counseling, coaching and clinical psychology under consideration of the interrelation of different levels – namely body, psyche, interpersonal and social processes. The concept has been developed by the German psychologist and psychotherapist Jürgen Kriz. Person-centered systems theory focuses on the necessity to reduce the incomprehensible complexity of (physical-chemical) stimuli by means of developing meaningful structures, patterns and rules in order to create a comprehensibly simple lifeworld. In this context, the question of stability as well as adaptive transition of the patterns is essential. Moreover, the historic perspective plays an important role because it provides the only access to an understanding of cultural patterns of explanation, metaphors, narrations as well as principles of reasoning. Here, Kriz introduces the term 'meaning attractor' (German: Sinnattraktor), which he describes as reduction of the vast possibilities of understanding and communication providing certainty and stability while limiting change, adaptation and creativity. Accordingly, it is an essential objective of person-centered systems theory to explain the effects of psychotherapy – and clinical processes in general – across various methods and schools of thought. The systems theoretical (meta-) perspective of the person-centered systems theory refers to the systems-theoretical concepts of Gestalt psychology as well as humanistic psychotherapy (Carl Rogers' person-centered approach in particular) on the one hand and the relations to modern interdisciplinary systems theory (especially concepts of self-organization and synergetics) on the other. Contrary to the common systems approach in psychotherapy – as in systemic and family therapy -, person-centered systems theory does not primarily focus on patterns of interactions and communication respectively but it takes into account the individual (the person in the sense of person-centered psychotherapy) as well as the underlying somatic processes and the cultural embedding of meaning processes. After all, central aspects like sense, mind, meaning or coherence are related to the level of personal processes – even if these are substantially affected in their biographical and historical dynamic by social processes. A social system can define and/or prescribe something as meaningful – however, experiencing it as something meaningful is an intrinsic process of that person (first person perspective). According to the model of synergetics, the patterns at each process level can be stable (for a given time) or show phase transitions. The former comes along with the positive aspects of predictability, familiarity and security, but the negative aspects of rigidity, solidification and non-adaptation. The latter is experienced as leaving old and inadequate patterns behind in order to reach new and better adapted ones. This has the positive aspects of novelty, creativity and uniqueness, but the negative aspects of instability, uncertainty and chaos. In the life-course of individuals, couples, families, groups and organizations, both phases of stability and of pattern transitions are necessary. Many symptoms and problems are related to over-stabilization of patterns, which have been good solutions to some requirements but are no longer adequate or functional due to the fact that the requirements have changed. The person-centered systems theory describes the systemic effects of communication between humans (couples, families, organizations) as well as their interrelations through internal processes (perception, thinking, feeling) in its complex, non-linear interaction both bottom-up and top-down. Kriz (2017) provides a comprehensive presentation and discussion of the person-centered systems theory. 