The Restroom Access Act, also known as Ally's Law, is legislation passed by several U.S. states that requires retail establishments that have toilet facilities for their employees to also allow customers to use the facilities if the customer has an inflammatory bowel disease or other medical condition requiring immediate access to a toilet. The law is named for Ally Bain, a 14-year-old girl from Illinois who had a flare-up of her Crohn's disease while shopping at a large retail store and was subsequently denied use of the employee-only restroom, causing  her to soil herself. Bain's mother vowed it would never happen to anyone else. The two met with Illinois State Representative Kathy Ryg, helped her draft a bill, and testified before a committee at the state capital. The  bill was signed into law in August 2005, making Illinois the first U.S. state to do so.  As of April 2013, at least 14 U.S. states had passed versions of the law. They include Colorado, Connecticut, Illinois, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, Oregon, Tennessee, Texas, Wisconsin, and Washington.   A Virginia bill, which would have levied fines of $100 for non-compliance,  was shelved due to concerns about exposing businesses to lawsuits, as well as concerns about security and intellectual property.  There is support for a federal version of the act, but some small-business people object to the public using their employee bathrooms.   In general, each state requires that the customer present a document signed by a medical professional attesting that the customer uses an ostomy device or has Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, or other inflammatory bowel disease or medical condition requiring access to a toilet facility without delay. In at least two states, Oregon and Tennessee, the customer can present an identification card issued by a national organization advocating for the eligible medical condition.   Some states also include pregnancy as a covered medical condition.  The Restroom Access Act of Illinois states: In Australia, the association Crohn's & Colitis Australia (CCA) encourages businesses to support people with such medical conditions by recognizing the Can't Wait Card issued by the CCA. The CCA states: Other countries including the UK have similar programs of voluntary participation by businesses, one such program in the UK is the Bladder & Bowel Community's Just Can't Wait Card   A card with no country specific indications is available through www.theibdlife.com/access explaining the possibility of legislation and the gravity of the card holders disability and need for restroom access.  