Wheelmap.org is an online, worldwide map for finding and marking wheelchair accessible places, developed by the German nonprofit organisation Sozialhelden e.V. Anyone can find and add public places to the map and rate them according to a simple traffic light system. The map, which is based on OpenStreetMap, was created in 2010 by a team around social entrepreneur Raul Krauthausen to help people who use wheelchairs or wheeled walkers to plan their days more easily. Parents pushing a baby carriage can also benefit from the Wheelmap information. Currently almost 600,000 public places worldwide can be found on the map. About 300 new places are added on a daily basis. Wheelmap is available on the website and as an app for iOS, Android and Windows Phone.  Anyone can mark Points of Interest (bus stations, restaurants, cinemas, museums, banks, government offices, etc.).  according to their wheelchair accessibility on Wheelmap. A simple traffic light system is used to rate the wheelchair accessibility of a place:  The markings are inserted by using the simple traffic light system: Places that have not yet been rated on their wheelchair accessibility are marked gray. They can be marked quickly and easily by anyone, without  prior registration. Registered users can add photos or comments with further details about the wheelchair accessibility of a place  Registered users can add images to a location and write a comment with further details about the wheelchair accessibility of the place. Wheelmap.org focuses on the relevant accessibility information and is not limited to wheelchair specific locations, such as therapy centers or toilets. Instead, wheelchair users should be include in everyday life, focusing on public places of daily life including cafes, clubs, theaters, and basic public services, including public transportation, government offices and banks. Similar to Wikipedia, the user enters the information such that everyone helps to grow this tool from the bottom up. In the fall of 2011 Wheelmap.org was the subject of commercials of Google Inc. for the Chrome browser,  which was broadcast on German television.  