Reproduction is a monthly peer-reviewed medical journal covering the cellular and molecular biology of reproduction, including the development of gametes and early embryos in all species; developmental processes such as cell differentiation, morphogenesis and related regulatory mechanisms in normal and disease models, assisted reproductive technologies in model systems and in a clinical environment, and reproductive endocrinology, immunology and physiology.  Emerging topics including cloning, the biology of embryonic stem cells, environmental effects on reproductive potential and health, and epigenetic effects on reproductive and developmental processes are also covered. The co-editors-in-chief are Professor Chris Price and Dr Greg FitzHarris (both from the University of Montreal, Canada). Reproduction is the journal of the Society for Reproduction and Fertility and is published by Bioscientifica. According to the ISI Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 3.086  The journal was established in 1960 as the official journal of the Society for Reproduction and Fertility under the name Journal of Reproduction and Fertility (ISSN 0022-4251). The founding editor-in-chief was Colin Russell Austin. The journal obtained its current name, Reproduction, in 2001 when it was merged with Reviews of Reproduction (ISSN 1359-6004), a journal that was published by the Society for Reproduction and Fertility from 1996–2000.  For the first two years the journal was published quarterly. This increased from six (1962–1967) to nine (1968–1970) to 12 (1971–1975) annual issues. In 1976, publication frequency reduced back down to six issues a year until 2000, since which time the journal has been published monthly. Reproduction was first published online in January 2001 in PDF format. From September 2004, the online offering was extended to include the HTML full text version of articles and separate figures. All peer-reviewed editorial and review content is free to access from publication. Research articles are under access control for the first 12 months before being made available to the public. During the first 12 months the content is accessible for those at subscribing institutions and members of the Society for Reproduction and Fertility. The journal automatically deposits articles to PubMed Central on behalf of authors who are funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), for release 12 months from publication, enabling authors to comply with the NIH Public Access Policy. Reproduction is a hybrid open access journal, offering a ‘gold’ open access option whereby authors can pay an article publishing charge upon acceptance to have their article made freely available online immediately upon publication. These articles are automatically deposited into PubMed Central.   All journal content is included in the World Health Organization’s HINARI scheme, which offers free or reduced-price access for institutions in certain developing countries to health-related research.  The full archive of published material, including the Reviews of Reproduction content from January 1996 to September 2000 and Journal of Reproduction and Fertility articles from February 1960 to December 2003, is free to read. Reproduction is indexed in: According to the ISI Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 3.1.  