For want of a nail the shoe was lost. For want of a shoe the horse was lost. For want of a horse the rider was lost. For want of a rider the message was lost. For want of a message the battle was lost. For want of a battle the kingdom was lost. And all for the want of a horseshoe nail. "For Want of a Nail" is a proverb, having numerous variations over several centuries, reminding that seemingly unimportant acts or omissions can have grave and unforeseen consequences. For want of a nail the shoe was lost, for want of a shoe the horse was lost, for want of a horse the knight was lost, for want of a knight the battle was lost, for want of a battle the kingdom was lost. So a kingdom was lost—all for want of a nail. JLA: The Nail DC Comics, 1998 The proverb has come down in many variations over the centuries. It describes a situation in which a failure to anticipate or correct some initially small dysfunction leads by successively more critical stages to an egregious outcome. The rhyme's implied small difference in initial conditions is the lack of a spare horseshoe nail, relative to a condition of its availability.  At a more literal level, it expresses the importance of military logistics in warfare. Such chains of causality are perceived only in hindsight. No one ever lamented, upon seeing his unshod horse, that the kingdom would eventually fall because of it.  Related sayings are is "A stitch, in time, saves nine" and "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure". A somewhat similar idea is referred to in the metaphor known as The Camel's nose. For want of a nail the shoe was lost, for want of a shoe the horse was lost; and for want of a horse the rider was lost; being overtaken and slain by the enemy, all for want of care about a horse-shoe nail. —Benjamin Franklin The Way to Wealth (1758)  A little neglect may breed mischief ... for want of a nail, the shoe was lost; for want of a shoe the horse was lost; and for want of a horse the rider was lost. —Benjamin Franklin Poor Richard's Almanac, preface (1758) For want of a nail the shoe was lost; For want of a shoe the horse was lost; For want of a horse the battle was lost; For the failure of battle the kingdom was lost— All for the want of a horse-shoe nail. —Unattributed from Fifty Famous People by James Baldwin  The proverb is found in a number of forms, beginning as early as the 13th century: Along with  the long history of the proverb listed above, it has continued to be referenced since the mid 20th century in modern culture.  Examples include: For want of a nail a horseshoe was lost, for want of a horseshoe a horse went lame, for want of a horse a rider never got through, for want of a rider a message never arrived, for want of a message an army was never sent, for want of an army a battle was lost, for want of a battle a war was lost, for want of a war a kingdom fell, and all for want of a nail. – Unknown  For want of a nail, the shoe was lost, For want of a shoe, the horse was lost, For want of a horse, the rider was lost, For want of a rider, the message was lost, For want of a message, the battle was lost, For want of a battle, the war was lost, For want of a war, the kingdom was lost, For want of a nail, the world was lost 'The Want of a Nail" – T. RundgrenWarner Chappell N.A., Ltd., 1989  