  Diseworth is a village in the English county of Leicestershire.  It is south of East Midlands Airport and off Junction 23A of the M1 motorway.  A village of some 670 residents, it is located 14 km to the north-west of Loughborough and 2.5 km to the south-east of Castle Donington. At the 2011 census the population was included in the civil parish of Long Watton and Diseworth. The settlement is in the Parish of Long Whatton and Diseworth, and lies within an undulating agricultural landscape and occupies a shallow valley created by the Diseworth Brook as it flows eastwards before becoming Long Whatton Brook and proceeding to its confluence with the River Soar. The four principal streets of the village - Grimes Gate, Hall Gate, Clements Gate and Lady Gate - meet at The Cross; a staggered crossroads close to the Church of St Michael's and All Angels. Page Lane runs parallel to Lady Gate. The Green running along the southern edge of the settlement gives access into Hall Gate - via The Bowley -and into Lady Gate. Diseworth Brook flows to the south of Hall Gate and is joined by tributaries to the east of Shakespear Close and near Town End. The famous astrologer and occultist, William Lilly was born in Diseworth in 1602. The Diseworth Heritage Trust is a charitable trust, registered in the UK (No. 1112223) that is dedicated to preserving the historical and architectural heritage of the village of Diseworth in Leicestershire, England, and its surrounding area, from its earliest origins to the present. The Trust was responsible for the restoration of the redundant Baptist Chapel building in Diseworth (originally built in 1752, and therefore one of the oldest in the county), as a local Heritage centre, which will provide a variety of facilities for education and entertainment. This was made possible by sponsorship from local and national organisations, including the Heritage Lottery Fund. The Trust welcomes members with a general interest in local history, as well as those directly associated with the village.  The Trust works closely with the Diseworth and Long Whatton History Societies, and other organisations to develop interest in local history. Coordinates: 52°48′55″N 1°20′02″W﻿ / ﻿52.81527°N 1.33377°W﻿ / 52.81527; -1.33377 