  During an official visit to the United Kingdom by President of the United States Donald Trump, an inflatable caricature of Trump was flown in protest of him, his visit, his racial views, his history of sexual misconduct, and his policies.  The balloon depicts Trump as an angry orange baby holding a smartphone. The balloon was flown over Parliament Square, London, on 13 July 2018, where the police estimate that over 100,000 protestors were in attendance,  and 50,000 more in the Meadows, Edinburgh, the following day, where protests were also held.  Although Trump was not visiting Edinburgh, he was spending the weekend at his Turnberry golf course,  but permission to fly the balloon there was refused by Police Scotland.  One of the organisers, Max Wakefield described the balloon protest as being in response to "the rise of far-right politics that dehumanises people in order to get into power", and saw it as an attempt to introduce some "good British humour" into the political discourse surrounding Trump's visit.  Wakefield cited the Trump administration's family separation policy and Trump's withdrawal of the United States from the Paris climate agreement as examples of the kind of policies which the protest was targeting.  Leo Murray, who led the campaign, wrote in its crowdfunding statement:   [When] Trump visits the UK on Friday the 13th of July this year, we want to make sure he knows that all of Britain is looking down on him and laughing at him. That's why a group of us have chipped in and raised enough money to have a 6 meter high blimp made by a professional inflatables company, to be flown in the skies over Parliament Square during Trump's visit. The 6-metre (20 ft) tall, helium-filled plastic inflatable, also referred to as a "balloon" or "blimp", was designed by Matt Bonner and constructed by Imagine Inflatables of Leicester.  It was made after a crowdfunding campaign on crowdfunder.co.uk  raised the GB£16,000 cost of its creation and deployment.  It depicts Trump as "an angry orange baby"  with a snarling mouth,  tiny hands,  wearing a nappy,  and holding a smartphone.  Organiser Max Wakefield said "The only way that you can make any impact with Donald Trump is to mock him, because you can't engage him in any kind of argument — it never gets anywhere."  Permission from the Greater London Authority (GLA), Metropolitan Police and National Air Traffic Service (NATS) was required for the balloon to be flown over Parliament Square, the space above which is considered restricted airspace.  Permission was granted, allowing it to be flown, while tethered, up to 30 metres (100 ft) high, for up to two hours.    Both the GLA's 'City Operations' team and NATS stressed that the nature of the protest did not play a part on their decisions.  After learning of the balloon, Trump remarked, "I guess when they put out blimps to make me feel unwelcome, no reason for me to go to London."  After its appearance in London, the balloon was taken to Edinburgh, where it was flown over the Meadows, a public park near to the city centre, as part of the protests against Trump's two-day-visit to Scotland,  permission to fly the balloon near Turnberry golf course having been refused.  On 17 July 2018, the balloon was tethered outside the O2 Arena in London during a performance by the American rock band Pearl Jam, with their blessing.  Protesters plan on flying the Trump baby balloon in Ireland in November during trump's visit to the country.  A group of activists in the United States raised nearly US$24,000 in a GoFundMe campaign to construct four Trump baby balloons that they plan to fly over Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, New Jersey. Initially, they sought US$4,500 to build one balloon, with permission from the designer, but exceeded their goals more than fivefold.    Museums including the British Museum and the Museum of London have expressed interest in acquiring or displaying the original balloon.   A month later on 30 August 2018, pictures of a balloon similar to that of Donald Trump's were circulated, this time depicting London's Mayor Sadiq Khan wearing a bright yellow bikini. The balloon, like the Donald Trump baby balloon, was crowdfunded after £58,000 was raised to create the blimp. The balloon was created in retaliation to the Trump balloon and also to the surge of violent crime in London under his tenure as mayor.  The group behind the balloon are fronting an activist group called 'Make London safe again' in reference to Donald Trump's slogan 'Make America great again' and believed that Sadiq Khan's views of Donald Trump did not represent the view of the United Kingdom as a whole. The balloon version of Sadiq Khan is wearing a yellow bikini in response to the banning of a series of Protein World advertisements on London's public transport networks, which had shown a woman in a yellow bikini with the slogan "are you beach body ready?". The adverts were criticized for allegedly objectifying women and promoting unrealistic female body images. The adverts were eventually banned, with Sadiq Khan supporting the removal of the adverts.  As with the Trump balloon, the Metropolitan Police and the Greater London Authority approved the flight of the balloon. Sadiq Khan said "If people want to spend their Saturday looking at me in a yellow bikini they're welcome to do so, I don't really think yellow's my colour though." The blimp flew over London's Parliament Square on 1 September 2018.  