THINK AGAIN is an artist-activist collaborative founded in 1997 by David John Attyah (b. Los Angeles) and S.A. Bachman (b. Columbus, Ohio.) They produce interventions that recruit art-making in the service of public address. Their work — digital murals, billboards and wallscapes, exterior projections, and viral poster campaigns — links the global to the local and combines cultural theory, sociological research, and activism to create a visual language for engaging civic dialogue. THINK AGAIN projects have explored a diverse range of issues including  queer liberation; the ways capitalism and misogyny conspire to jeopardize women and the outnumbered; the logic of militarization; international labor and the treatment of immigrants; and gentrification and displacement. Many of its projects privilege face-to-face interactions: handing out postcards at Pride parades, parking mobile billboards in front of City Halls and grocery stores, and disseminating posters to activists mobilizing against the war machine. THINK AGAIN has distributed tens of thousands of printed matter free-of-charge through art spaces, grassroots community organizations, unions and the internet. Documentation of the work of THINK AGAIN can be found at http://sabachman.com and http://www.dja-art.work THINK AGAIN exhibitions include: "Actions Speak," Worcester Museum of Art, Worcester, MA "Antagonisms," Museu d´Art Contemporani de Barcelona, Spain "The Anti-War Show: US Interventions From Korea to Iraq," Track 16 Gallery, Los Angeles, CA "Reactions," Exit Art, New York City, NY "The Culture of Class: Issues of Class in North American Culture," Maryland Institute College of Art "Not for Profit," Loyola Marymount University Art Museum "Democracy in America," Arizona State University Art Museum "A Brief History of Outrage," 16:1 Gallery, Los Angeles, CA "New Season," Museum of New Art, Detroit, MI They have received awards from the Massachusetts Cultural Council, LEF Foundation, Tanne Foundation and The Funding Exchange/Outfund. 