  Aboriginal breastplates (also called king plates or aboriginal gorgets) were a form of regalia used in pre-Federation Australia by white colonial authorities to recognise those they perceived to be local Aboriginal leaders. The breastplates were usually metallic crescent-shaped plaques worn around the neck by wearer. Aboriginal people did not traditionally have kings or chiefs. They lived in small clan groups with several elders—certain older men and perhaps women—who consulted with each other on decisions for the group. By appointing kings of tribes, and granting them king plates, the white colonial powers went against the more collegiate grain of traditional Aboriginal culture. In the 19th century, king plates were given by numerous communities in various Australian States to esteemed Aboriginal men and women, who were usually elders of their particular tribal or kinship group. The plates were presented to perceived 'chiefs', courageous men and to faithful servants.  There have been suggestions that the presentation of king plates also had a great deal to do with whether or not the recipient was seen as useful or respected by the white Australian community of the area in question. The plates were far less regal than a European monarch's crown jewels, consisting of a material composition of industrial metals such as brass or iron rather than the gold or silver that many leaders are more familiar with. A typical format of inscribing the breastplates was to write the recipients name across the upper part of the plate's face, with the title below, sometimes 'King', 'Queen', or 'Chief'.  Some particularly distinguished Aboriginal characters are said to have ironically had the royal seal of Queen Victoria engraved somewhere on the plate to add an extra air of prestige. While some Aboriginal people wore their breastplates with pride, others saw them as yet another insult to their culture from the white European settlers.  The practice of presenting respected Aboriginal leaders with king plates declined in the post-Federation years,  becoming virtually unheard of by the end of the 1930s. This could be attributed to shifts in racial relations in different parts of Australia, amongst other possible explanations. Many of the 'Indigenous kings' have fallen into obscurity and while there is hope of recovering more of the country's historical figures, many are sure to remain unknown to present and future generations. However, since there remains a fair amount of reliable historical data from the 19th Century and early 20th century, it is possible to learn about some of these Aboriginal figures, who were presented with king plates. Neddy - King of Neis Valley. Note: the Australian Capital Territory used to be part of New South Wales. 'Neis' is now spelt 'Naas'.  Billy Moore - the famous Tweed Aboriginal. This breastplate was found in 1920 under a log in Bray’s Scrub at Kynumboon, Murwillumbah, New South Wales.  Billy Andrews - King of Murwillumbah   Bungaree (Bungary) - a native chief of New South Wales. His portrait wearing the kingplate was painted by artist Augustus Earle (1793 - 1838). Coburn Jackey - Chief of Burrowmunditroy was a Koori Aborigine of the Wiradjuri people in New South Wales. He was presented with his king plate in the 1800s by James White - one of the first European settlers in the region. The two men were good friends and Jackey provided the pioneering White with much assistance in their time together. Sandy and Charlotte - King and Queen of Kynnumboon   Wilson - King of Coorin Coorin and Cudgen   Taboo Jackie - King of Karara   Umbarra - King of Bermagui, also known as King Merriman. A leader of the Yuin people of the Bermagui area. He was reported to be able to tell the future through a black duck. Jemmy - King of Bolara Maneroo. Bolara is/was in the Adaminaby district.  King John Cry - Chief of the Duedolgong tribe, Argyle   Jack the traveller - King of Bendora Bellevue and Jembicumbane   U Robert - King of Big Leather and Big River tribes   Jemmy - King of Big River   Paddy - King of Boobarrego   King Billy - King of the Barwon blacks. Brewarrina area.  Jimmy, King - Brisbane Water   Billy Kelly - King of Broadwater   Charley York - Chief of Bullangamang   Queen Milly of the Burunji  - Burunji is a language name for the people whose country straddles the Darling River in the vicinity of its junction with the Paroo River.  Dicky - King of Clyde Road    David - King of the Woronora Tribe   Tommy - King of Connai    Michael Kinsela - Chief of Cudgelbong    Tommy - King of Gongolgon    Billy Lambert - Holwood, King's Plains, 1834    Budd Billy - II, King of Jarvis Bay    Jack the Traveller - King of Bendora Bellevue and Jembicumbane    Billy Lambert - Holwood, King's Plains, 1834    John Neville - King of Mahaderree    James Fearnought - King of Merigal    Timothy - Chief of Merricumbene    Sam - King of Merton    Dennis - Chief of Morbringer    Georgy, Mudgee police man - given by Mr Whitling    Coomee, last of her tribe - Murramarang,    Thomas Tinboy - King of Nelligan    Tumberilagong - Chief of the Nuneree tribe    Mr Briney of Pialliway    Wombail Oouthenang - Chief of Shannon Vielle    Geroone - Chief of Unanderra    Dawalla - King of Wgga [sic] Wagga    Peter - Chief of Warangesda Mission    Tommy. Constable - Wellington    Sawyer - King of Wickham Hill    Jemmy Muggle -King of Wiggley    Dan - Chief of the Wiljakali. Wiljakali is a language name for the people whose country straddles the SA/NSW border in the Silverton/Barrier Range/Mootwingee/Olary region.  Eve -Queen of Wurtimurti    Jimmy - King of Wurtimurti    Jagar - King of Barron was a North Queensland Aborigine of the Yirriganydji people. He was presented with his King plate in 1898.  George of Saxby Downs was photographed at the Barambah Aboriginal Settlement in 1909 wearing his kingplate.  King Dick of Boondie was the chief of the Palparara tribe of western Queensland in the Winton-Windorah area, near Julia Creek. Bilin Bilin - King of Logan and Pimpama was known to roam through the area that is now Logan City, Queensland. He was presented his king plate in 1875. He was the leader of the Yugambeh people and held this position from the mid 19th Century to the very early years of the 20th Century. He was very well respected by Aborigines and European settlers alike.  Minippi - King of Tingalpa was a one-time companion to Bilin Bilin, who died when the two were returning from a trip to Brisbane. He is buried near the suburb of Waterford West, but the exact location is unknown. Billy - King of the Albert was an Aboriginal leader in the South of Queensland. Little is known about his historical identity, although he was a contemporary of Bilin Bilin and Minippi and may have played a significant part in the Indigenous history of the Gold Coast. Nobby, not known if he received a king plate, but was described by a white Australian living in Bundaberg as "the King of the Blacks in this district."  Brady, an aboriginal man with a king plate who died at the Bribie Island Mission Station in 1892 and was buried on the beach by the mission's schoolmaster.  Billy, King of Bonnie Doon, Lorne. Bonnie Doon and Lorne are stations now located about 70 kilometres just west of south of Blackall.  Bob 'Wheelpoolee' - King of Boulia, 1930    Nugget, 'Billee-ling-oo' - Queen of Boulia, 1930   King Pepper of the Biria - Burdekin River, 1897    Peter - King of Tchanning. current spelling of 'Tchanning'.  Billy Hippie - King of Minnon    Ada Derika - Queen of Durham    Dick - King of Evesham, Darr River    King Too Too - crack horsebreaker & Glastonbury, coach, groom    Paddy - King of Nive Downs and Duke of Tambo    Paddy - King of Nive Downs and Duke of Tambo    Hippi - King of Teraicha    Brandy - Uanda    Toby - King of Vanrook    King Tommy of Waverney    Billy Coonangul - King of Eidsvold 1857, from the Burnett district. His breast plate is held by the Queensland Women's Historical Association.  Jackey Hippi - King of Eurella, from the Warrego district. His breast plate is held by the Queensland Women's Historical Association.  King Bally Surbiton Belyando, from the South Kennedy district. His breast plate is held by the Queensland Women's Historical Association.  King Mulga of Coongie Lakes, 1911   Dick-a-Dick, member of the 1868 Australian Aboriginal cricket team to tour England, was awarded a King plate by local white authorities. King Billy of Geraldton, also known as "Left-Handed Billy" was one of Western Australia's Aboriginal leaders to be presented with a king plate. King Mallee of the Nyungar - Danoo outstation, 1881   Chief Leckie - Windarra tribe   George Dinah - Noongar tribe  Beaufort Dinah - Noongar tribe  Bulgra - King of Arremutta, 1920.   Arremutta is an unidentified location. Joey - Chief of Petraman.  Petraman is an unknown location. Count Dorsay   King Wanney, 1861    Media related to King plate at Wikimedia Commons 