Kalani Das, also known simply as Kalani (birth name Michael Bruno), is an American classically trained percussionist, performer, author, music therapist, educator, and personal development professional.  He is a frequent keynote speaker and presenter at national and international conferences and is a certified (level III) Orff Schulwerk specialist.  He has recorded percussion with numerous artists including Yanni and Suzanne Ciani, and has won several awards, including #1 Rock/Pop Percussionist through DRUM! Magazine.    He has published several instructional books and DVDs, teaching a variety of percussion instruments, including hand drums and small percussion.   Kalani presents training programs in the drum circle music approach to expressive arts facilitation and in personal development.  Kalani Das received two Bachelor of Music degrees from California State University Northridge, one in percussion performance (1986) and another in Music Therapy (2010).  He has received seven awards from DRUM! Magazine for his work as a performing artist, author, percussion clinician, and group drumming leader.     He has toured and/or recorded with such artists as Kenny Loggins, David Sanborn, Max Roach, Barry Manilow, Vic Damone, John Mayall, Chante Moore, Dr. John, Michael Kamen, and Melissa Manchester, and Benise. Kalani has completed five major concert tours with Yanni including  the "Reflections of Passion", "Revolution in Sound", "Dare to Dream", "Yanni Live, The Symphony Concerts 1993 and 1994" concert tours and is the featured percussionist on the multi-platinum concert film Yanni Live at the Acropolis.   He has performed on numerous other live recordings including Suzanne Ciani and The Wave,  and Benise's Nights Of Fire.   Kalani is also featured on recordings for Disney, Warner Bros. Records, Tri-Star Pictures, Paramount Studios, The Nature Company, and Jim Henson Records.   He has presented at several MENC state and regional conferences including Georgia, Wisconsin, Florida, Texas, California, Virginia, and Rhode Island. He has been a featured clinician and speaker at the Taipei Percussion Institute, The International Percussion Festival in Belgium, The World Rhythm Festival in Seattle, several Percussive Arts Society International Conventions, the International Music Products Industry (NAMM) conference, the American Orff Schulwerk convention, and the American Music Therapy Association regional and national conferences.   Kalani has authored several books for Alfred Publishing, two of which, Together in Rhythm and The Amazing Jamnasium, have been honored with peer-reviewed iParenting Awards.  He has also released instructional DVDs to include methods for congas, bongos, and djembe.   He is endorsed by: Gibraltar Hardware, Vic Firth Sticks, Evans Drum Heads, Paiste Cymbals, and Audio Technica Microphones. He has served as a consultant for the Kaman Music Corporation, Vic Firth Sticks and Mallets, Peripole-Bergerault Educational Instruments, The House of Blues foundation, the Boys and Girls Clubs of America, the International Music Products Association, and other state and national arts advocacy organizations.  