Purple & Gold Nazareth College is a coeducational, private, religiously independent college in Pittsford, a suburb of Rochester, in the U.S. state of New York. Founded by the Sisters of St. Joseph in 1924, the college offers more than 60 undergraduate majors  and 24 graduate programs. Alumni and locals commonly refer to the school as "Naz" for short.  At the request of Bishop Thomas Francis Hickey of Rochester, five Sisters of St. Joseph founded Nazareth College of Rochester in 1924. The first class was composed of 25 young women who began their studies in a large mansion on Lake Avenue in Rochester, New York. The original mansion that housed the college was known as "the Glass House." At that time, the college offered Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science degrees, each with a liberal arts core. In response to increasing enrollment, the college moved to a larger facility in 1928 at 402 Augustine Street. In January 1942, the college moved to its present campus on East Avenue in the suburb of Pittsford. In the 1950s, the college responded to the need for graduate study by adding majors and by the 1970s offered programs in teacher education and social work.  Study abroad programs and intercollegiate sports were also added in the 1970s. During this time, the college became co-educational and independent of the Roman Catholic Church.  Nazareth competed in men’s intercollegiate athletics for the first time in 1977. The official nickname of the sports teams became the Golden Flyers — golden for the Nazareth color, and flyers for the bird-like symbol that is part of the old Nazareth logo. Today, Nazareth supports 24 varsity and 1 junior varsity teams. The most recent sport, added in 2012, is men’s ice hockey.  The College announced it will add women's hockey in fall 2018.  In the early 2000s, the college purchased adjacent land from the Sisters of St. Joseph, including the former Motherhouse and Infirmary. This acquisition doubled the campus size to its current 150 acres.  As a result of support from college benefactors (including Tom Golisano, the founder of Paychex), the Motherhouse became the Golisano Academic Center. The Infirmary became George Hall, a residence hall that also houses a coffeehouse and late night study area. The decade of the 2000s also saw the construction of additional student housing, including Portka Hall, Clock Tower Commons, and the Lyons and Breen apartment buildings. In 2003, 30 years after becoming religiously independent, Nazareth College was removed from The Official Catholic Directory, having been declared no longer a Catholic institution by Rochester Bishop Matthew H. Clark. It was the second time since Pope John Paul II issued Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the apostolic constitution on Catholic universities in 1990, a bishop declared a historically Catholic college or university to be not Catholic.  In 2012, Nazareth added Peckham Hall, the Integrated Center for Math and Science. Named after lead donors Nancy and Larry Peckham, the $30 million facility supports majors in math and science fields, as well as education programs. It also provides important learning facilities for students in health and human services programs.  In 2015, the York Wellness and Rehabilitation Institute opened after an extensive renovation/expansion of Carroll Hall consolidated and doubled the size of the clinics associated with the college's School of Health and Human Services and added collaboration space. Nazareth College is organized into four core schools: Nazareth offers more than 60 four-year undergraduate programs, 20 master's degree programs, a Doctorate of Physical Therapy, and three post-baccalaureate certificate programs.  Undergraduate Majors and Programs Accounting, Acting, American Studies, Anthropology, Art Education, Art History, Art (Studio Art),  Art (Visual Communication Design), Biochemistry, Biology, Biomedical Sciences, Business Management, Chemistry, Chinese, Clinical Laboratory Sciences, Communication and Media, Communication Sciences and Disorders (Speech Therapy), Community Youth Development, Dance Studies, Economics, Education (Adolescence Education, Early Childhood and Elementary), Education (Special Education), English, Environmental Science and Sustainability, Finance, French, Guided Exploration of Majors (for undeclared majors) History, International and Global Studies, Italian, Law (3+3 with Syracuse U.), Legal Studies, Marketing, Mathematics, Modern Foreign Languages, Museums, Archives, and Public History, Music, Music/Business, Music Composition, Music Education, Music Performance, Music Therapy, Musical Theatre, Nursing, Nursing Accelerated Weekend R.N. to B.S., Occupational Therapy, Peace and Justice, Philosophy, Physical Therapy, Political Science, Psychology, Public Health, Religious Studies, Social Science, Social Work, Sociology, Spanish, Technical Production, Theatre Arts, Toxicology, Undeclared program, Women and Gender Studies. Graduate Programs American Studies,  Art Education,  Art Therapy, Business Organization and Management,  Educational Technology Specialist,  ESOL (post-master's certification program), Higher Education Student Affairs Administration,  Human Resource Development,  Human Resource Management,  Inclusive Adolescence Education (to teach grades 7-12),  Inclusive Childhood Education (to teach grades 1-6),  Inclusive Early Childhood Education (to teach birth-grade 2),  Integrated Marketing Communications,  Leadership and Change Management,  Literacy Specialist,  Music Education,  Music Therapy,  Performance and Pedagogy,  Physical Therapy,      Social Work,  Speech-Language Pathology,  TESOL (with and without N.Y. state teaching certification) Core curriculum In 2013, Nazareth College revised its liberal arts core, required for all undergraduates. Changes were designed to emphasize real-world questions and experiential learning. Nazareth students choose a cluster of three integrated courses and create a digital portfolio showing their work, the connections they've made across disciplines, and their skills such as critical thinking and communication. Fulbright Program at Nazareth Honors Program Clinton Global Initiative University In fall 2013, Nazareth College joined the Clinton Global Initiative University Network (CGI U), a consortium of colleges and universities that support, mentor, and provide seed funding to student leaders who are developing solutions to the world's most pressing challenges. From 2014 to 2017, CGI U selected a total of 26 students from Nazareth College to attend its three-day international conference, based on the strength of the projects they proposed in health, education, youth empowerment, and the environment.  Renovated in 2009, the Nazareth College Arts Center is a campus venue with spaces including: The Nazareth College Arts Center is the home of Bach Children’s Chorus as well as the performance home of Rochester City Ballet and Garth Fagan Dance. The Arts Center houses the Nazareth College departments of Art, Music, and Theatre & Dance. The Center for Interfaith Studies and Dialogue (CISD) at Nazareth College was founded in 2005. In 2011, the International Institute of Islamic Thought (IIIT) of Herndon, Virginia offered Nazareth a major gift, provided it was matched by local donors. Brian and Jean Hickey matched this gift, resulting in renaming the center the Hickey Center for Interfaith Studies and Dialogue at Nazareth College. The endowed chair of the Center was left to the IIIT, and they selected Dr. Muhammad Shafiq, who was imam of the Islamic Center of Rochester, the Rochester metropolitan area's largest mosque. The Center is part of Nazareth’s College of Arts and Sciences and located in the Golisano Academic Center. It has been a leader in advancing the power of dialogue and teaching students and members of the community strategies for living peacefully in a religiously diverse world. Dr. Muhammad Shafiq is the executive director of the Hickey Center for Interfaith Studies and Dialogue and a professor of Islamic and religious studies at the college. The Casa Italiana (Italian House)  is a center of Italian language, literature, and culture. It serves as a cultural center for the college and the Rochester metropolitan area. Built with the help of the Italian-American community of greater Rochester in 1978, the Casa promotes traditional and contemporary Italian culture, explores the Italian-American experience, and seeks to enhance exchanges between the United States and Italy.  The reading room at the Casa provides the college and the community with language and culture resources, and the classroom provides an environment in which students and community members can study the Italian language. Cultural events  organized by the Casa include lectures, cooking and language classes, film nights, conferences, concerts, seminars, symposia, bocce tournaments, art shows, and trips to Italy. La Maison Française (French House) is a home converted into a cultural center  and residence hall  for 13 selected foreign language majors. The French House offers a living environment and resource center for students who wish to immerse themselves in French culture and practice speaking French.  La Maison Française also offers a line-up of cultural events throughout the year.  Such gatherings, which include French film nights, cultural and historical lectures, reader’s theater showcases, Francophone regional dinners and campus diversity dinners, occur on Thursday evenings and are prepared by the French department  and the house residents. At the heart of the Spanish program  is the Casa Hispana , a lively place where students and community members enjoy films, conversation, art exhibitions, and a variety of events relating to the culture of Spain and the Latin American countries. The Casa also houses the offices of the Spanish program faculty, a library, and classrooms. Nazareth's men's and women's athletic teams are members of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's (NCAA) Division III. The Golden Flyers are a member of the Empire 8 Athletic Conference (Empire 8). For men's volleyball, Nazareth is a member of the single-sport United Volleyball Conference and for men's ice hockey, a member of the United Collegiate Hockey Conference. Athletic facilities at Nazareth include the Robert A. Kidera Gymnasium (1,200) and Golden Flyer Stadium (2,200). Men's sports include basketball, cross country, equestrian, golf, ice hockey, lacrosse, soccer, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field, and volleyball; while women's sports include basketball, cross country, equestrian, field hockey, golf, lacrosse, soccer, softball, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field, volleyball, and dance. The College announced plans to add women's hockey in 2018.  The Nazareth men's lacrosse team is a three-time NCAA Division III National Champion (1992, 1996, and 1997). The team has also appeared in the NCAA postseason tournament nineteen times. In 2011, the Nazareth men's indoor volleyball team achieved a #1 national ranking and won the Molten Division III National Championship, while in 2013 they finished runner-up in the NCAA Division III championship to Springfield. Nazareth College's traditional rival is St. John Fisher College, just a mile to the north. The annual men's basketball game between the schools is known as "The Battle of the Beaks." Nazareth College celebrates a tradition of community service in the Rochester area. More than 95 percent of students are involved in community service through academic service-learning, student organizations, athletics, and residence life. Nazareth has an on-campus Center for Civic Engagement to serve as a resource for students, staff and faculty who want to learn and serve in the context of the local, regional, national and global communities. The Center is also a point of contact for community members seeking College involvement with local organizations, programs and projects. The school also has a campus ministry program to connect students to various volunteer organizations.  In addition, over 60% of alumni are known to participate regularly in community service. In 2007, the college was named to the President's Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll (with distinction).  And in 2013, Nazareth was only one of five schools in the country named to the 2013 President's Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll, the highest honor a college or university can receive, at the federal level, for its commitment to volunteering, service-learning, and civic engagement.  Nazareth has more than 33,000 alumni residing in all 50 states and 38 countries around the world. Notable Nazareth alumni include: For more: Annual Events Calendar  Coordinates: 43°6′10″N 77°31′10″W﻿ / ﻿43.10278°N 77.51944°W﻿ / 43.10278; -77.51944 