Gender violence, also known as gender-based violence or gender based violence, encompasses a large variety of crimes committed like rape, sexual harassment, stalking, human trafficking, domestic abuse, genital mutilation, and forced prostitution all based on ones gender.  Although much gender-based violence is directed towards women and, the terms are often treated as if they were interchangeable, gender violence is not exclusively used to refer to violence against women.  Thus, violence against men, boys, transgender people, or people targeted due to LGBTQI status can also be classified as gender-based violence.  Gender is a high predictor of rape, sexual assault, and domestic abuse. According to RAINN, 99% of rape cases are committed by men, whether the person targeted is female, male, or a member of the LBGTQI community.  With that said every 98 seconds an American experiences sexual violence.  The term gender violence has a strong connotation with violence against women, because 1 in 3 women globally experience physical and or sexual violence within their lifetime.  Risk factors for these acts to occur are low levels of education, anti-social personality disorder, alcohol abuse, attitudes that condone violence, and past histories of violence.  Gender violence in the LBGTQI community has had a focus of transgender people.  In 2017, 25 transgender people were killed based on there gender identification in the United States alone; and out of those 25 people killed, 80% of them identified as female.  The LGBTQI community is a large target for gendered hate crimes because of people not believing in there lifestyles and or gender changes.  The has to do with the concept of the heterosexual matrix, which was coined by author Judith Butler in her book Gender Trouble.  The heterosexual matrix includes the concept that society must follow an invisible norm of a hetero way of living.  You see a pattern here with regards to gender minorities being singled out for how they identify. This comes down to cultural views and how people view gender.  These crimes committed are driven by unprecedented biases and or hatred against a certain group like females, and or transgender people.  According to activist Jackson Katz , one of the most important things you can do is approach gender violence as a man's issue.  As men can be the perpetrator, victim, or a bystander.  It is important they receive the education to understand how to deal with this issue.  Promoting concepts such as gender equality and integrating it in school-curriculum can prevent gender-based violence.  Another way is to recognize when you see violence being enacted and speaking out as you may be saving someone's life.   