Guy Branum (born November 12, 1975)  is an American comedian, writer, and actor best known as the head writer of, and a sketch performer on, X-Play on the G4 network and as a regular panelist on Chelsea Lately on the E! network. He currently hosts the podcast Pop Rocket on the Maximum Fun network, and he is the host of TruTV's Talk Show the Game Show. Branum was born and raised in Yuba City, California to a Protestant father and Jewish mother.   He attended the University of California, Berkeley  from 1994-1998 where he was a history and political science major. He wrote a column for the Daily Californian,  one of which brought the United States Secret Service to his apartment in November 1997 before the Big Game between Berkeley and Stanford University, in which he made suggestions that Berkeley students murder Stanford freshman Chelsea Clinton.    He then moved to Minnesota, where he attended the University of Minnesota Law School,  and was on the school's Quiz Bowl team that placed third at CBI nationals in 1999.  During his time in law school he publicly came out of the closet.  After graduating he returned to California.  After being recommended by co-hostess Laura Swisher, Branum was hired as a writer for Unscrewed with Martin Sargent while it was still on TechTV in San Francisco.  On Unscrewed, he regularly appeared as a sweater model and as The Ambassador of Gay. He was also a writer and producer on G4tv.com,  and head writer on the G4 channel program X-Play. He also contributed to the comedy podcast Weezy and the Swish. In December 2007, Branum became a writer and an onscreen comedy performer on Chelsea Lately.  He made his feature film debut in January 2011 in No Strings Attached. In 2012 Branum became a writer for the show Totally Biased with W. Kamau Bell, performing a recurring segment "No more Mr. Nice Gay."  He appeared on the eighth season of Last Comic Standing. He is currently the host and executive producer of Talk Show The Game Show on TruTV. Branum released his first comedy album, Effable, in 2014. Branum is openly gay.  