Honda Campus All-Star Challenge is a quizbowl tournament administered by College Bowl for Historically Black colleges and universities. The sponsor of the program is American Honda Motor Company. The program started in 1989 when Honda proposed a program to the College Bowl Company for HBCUs. To that end, College Bowl created a program in which all 4-year degree granting HBCUs are eligible to enroll teams, and all participating HBCUs receive grants. From 1990 to 1995, the competition format consisted of sectional matches that led up to televised National Championship games on BET (all of them hosted by Clint Holmes). The current basic format was adopted in 1996, which abandoned the sectional games and the televising of games in favor of an all-encompassing 64-team National Championship Tournament (NCT) held each spring. Since the 2010 season, only 48 teams have qualified each year. From 1989 to 2011, Honda Campus All Star Challenge used the same gameplay structure as two of its sister shows- College Bowl and University Challenge. Gameplay takes place during two eight-minute halves and include toss-up and bonus questions. Toss-up questions are always 10 points in value and, and a correct response opn a toss-up gives the team the right to answer a bonus question, which can be worth 20, 25, or 30 possible points. The toss-up questions do not permit conferring with other team members, with buzzers (using a lockout system) being used to designate who rings in to answer a question. Players may ring in before the moderator has completed the question (also known as an interrupt) but if an incorrect answer is given, the team is given a five-point deduction, and the question is completed for the other team.  Teams may confer on bonuses, but responses are only accepted from the captain (or a designated player if the captain chooses so). If team members have conflicting answers, then the captain will speak on behalf of the team. The bonus question may be one "all or nothing" question worth the full amount of the bonus, or may be a series of questions that give the team a chance to receive a portion of the maximum points (i.e. a 30-point bonus made up of three 10 point questions). Other bonuses may require a team to name items from a list at 5 points apiece, or award points based on how many clues it takes the team to identify a famous person, place, or thing (a 30-20-10 bonus). Only the team who answered the tossup correctly gets to answer the bonus question; there are no opportunities to "rebound". At the end of two halves, the team with the higher score wins the game. If there is a tie, toss up questions are asked until there is a change in score (Either one team answers correctly for 10 points, or interrupts with an incorrect answer, losing 5 points and the game.) Beginning with the 2011-12 season, the format was changed to reflect that of the Zain Africa Challenge, another academic competition run by College Bowl. Gameplay takes place over four rounds. The first three rounds are called Face Off Rounds. In each of the Face Off rounds, there are two types of questions: toss-ups, worth 10 points each and bonuses, worth 20 points. In each of the three Face Off rounds, a different player represents the team answering Face Off questions. That player is the only one who can ring in and answer for his or her team. Each round has four categories in play. The team who wins a coin toss decides the first category. After the entire question is read, the first player to signal gets to answer. If they answer correctly, the team gets a bonus question. If their answer is incorrect, the player representing the other team gets a chance to answer. Bonus questions come from the same category as their respective Face Off questions, are played by the entire team, and are always worth a possible 20 points. The team who answered the last correct tossup gets to choose the next category. In each category there are four face-off questions- once the fourth and final face-off question in a category is read, the category is out of play. At the beginning of Rounds 2 and 3, the face-off representative changes, and the team who is behind selects the category for the opening Face Off question. At the end of the three face-off rounds, play moves to the fourth and final round, called the Ultimate Challenge. The team that's behind plays first, and selects one of four new categories. The team has 60 seconds to answer 10 questions, each worth 25 points. An incorrect answer is not penalized, but the moderator moves on to the next question, and as long as there is time remaining, teams can keep coming back to questions that they missed or passed on. After the trailing team plays, their opponents choose one of the three remaining categories to play. After both teams have played the Ultimate Challenge, the team in the lead wins. If there is a tie, the teams play Face Off questions until there is a change in score. As part of a qualification process, each college/university must host a campus tournament to determine which players will represent the school's team. Schools must qualify for the NCT by competing in one of the National Qualifying Tournaments (NQT) that take place in February. 48 schools are chosen for the NCT based on their NQT performance and previous years' performance at the NCT. Schools may increase their chances of qualifying via other ways announced by HCASC officials, including service projects and  "Rep My School" contests. Defending champions automatically qualify for the tournament. After the NQTs are completed, qualifying schools compete at the National Championship Tournament (NCT). Teams are placed into eight divisions and play every team in their division once. The divisions are named after famous Blacks, with two of the eight divisions renamed each year. The preliminary round consists of divisional round robin games. The two teams from each division with the best win/loss record move onto the round of 16 playoffs. Teams are seeded based on overall performance, and the "sweet sixteen," "elite eight," quarterfinal, and semifinal matches are single elimination, with the final two teams playing a best two-of-three series of final matches. Clint Holmes, who hosted the BET broadcasts, moderated the semifinal and final matches through 2008. Beginning in 2009, moderators from the Round Robin have been used during the on-stage games on the final game day. The tournament begins with an opening banquet, and concludes with a closing banquet/awards ceremony. Both banquets include speakers and entertainers. Since 2004, the opening banquet has also introduced new members into the HCASC Hall of Fame.  Tournament format For their efforts, schools that qualify for the NCT are awarded grants. The grant awards were updated for the 2015-16 season. Numbers in parentheses denote multiple championships 