The National Ocean Sciences Bowl (NOSB) is a national, high-school science competition managed by the Consortium for Ocean Leadership (COL) which started in the 1970s (formerly the Consortium for Oceanographic Research and Education). It uses a quiz-bowl format, with lockout buzzers and extended team challenge questions to test students on their knowledge of oceanography. This includes the subjects of biology, chemistry, geology, geography, social science, technology, and physics. The annual competition was started in 1998, the International Year of the Ocean. The current director of NOSB is Kristen Yarincik, who is based out of Washington, DC. Currently there are 25 regions in the U.S. that compete in the NOSB, each with their own regional competitions. The regional competitions are coordinated by the Regional Coordinators, who are typically affiliated with a university in their region. Each year approximately 2,000 students from 300 schools across the nation compete for prizes and a trip to the national competition. The goal of this organization is to increase knowledge of the ocean among high school students and, ultimately, magnify the public understanding of ocean research. Students who participate are eligible to apply for the National Ocean Scholar Program.  Schools with greatest number of wins Top-placing teams at the 2017 National Ocean Sciences Bowl: Kalani High School won the sportsmanship award. Top-placing teams at the 2016 National Ocean Sciences Bowl: York High School won the sportsmanship award. Top-placing teams at the 2015 National Ocean Sciences Bowl: Sanger High School won the sportsmanship award. Top-placing teams at the 2014 National Ocean Sciences Bowl: Langham Creek High School won the sportsmanship award. Top-placing teams at the 2013 National Ocean Sciences Bowl: Annapolis Christian Academy won the sportsmanship award. Top-placing teams at the 2012 National Ocean Sciences Bowl: Top-placing teams at the 2011 National Ocean Sciences Bowl: Top-placing teams at the 2010 National Ocean Sciences Bowl: Langham Creek High School won the sportsmanship award. Top-placing teams at the 2009 National Ocean Sciences Bowl: Top-placing teams at the 2008 National Ocean Sciences Bowl: Kealakehe High School won the sportsmanship award. Top-placing teams at the 2007 National Ocean Sciences Bowl: Poplarville High School won the sportsmanship award. Top-placing teams at the 2006 National Ocean Sciences Bowl: Top-placing teams at the 2005 National Ocean Sciences Bowl: Past National Ocean Sciences Bowl Winners: The prizes for placing at the national competition vary from year to year. In recent years, the top two teams have received week-long experiential trips while many of the other teams at the national competition have received smaller prizes. The prizes for the three most recent competition years are listed below.   2016 2015 2014 2013 A single NOSB match consists of two 6-minute buzzer rounds with two Team Challenge Questions in between. Each round is made up of 20 questions pairs. After the break, the second half begins with the first toss-up that was not read in the first half and continues until time expires or all questions have been read. The most points a team can earn each round is 240 points (20 toss-ups and bonuses each plus full-credit on the two TCQs), but earning 100 or more points is considered very impressive. Teams may make substitutions only during the break. With the exception of articles such as "a","an", and "the", answers to multiple-choice questions must be exactly as those on the written page. Prefacing answers with phrases such as "My answer is" is not acceptable. The SEB is a mock congressional hearing where students present science recommendations on a piece of legislation, enhancing the critical thinking elements of the competition and focusing on real-world skills. Regional bowl winners must participate in the SEB to be eligible for the national finals. The National competition is held in one of the participating colleges that hold the regional bowls. These colleges draw from high schools in their area and run the regional competitions, often naming the regional according to the characteristics of the region. For example, the region encompassing Colorado and the surrounding area is called the "Trout Bowl." The annual themes, since 2008, are also listed below. Between 2009 and 2016, NOSB held a video contest. Submissions were judged on multiple criteria, with a maximum length of two minutes. The theme of the contest changes each year along with the National competition themes. The winners were: 