The apprentice perspective is an educational theory of apprenticeship concerning the process of learning through physical integration into the practices associated with the subject, such as workplace training.  By developing similar performance to other practitioners, an apprentice will come to understand the tacit (informally taught) duties of the position.  In the process of creating this awareness, the learner also affect their environment; as they are accepted by master practitioners, their specific talents and contributions within the field are taken into account and integrated into the overall practice. The Apprenticeship Perspective can be used to teach procedures to students. For example, tying a shoe, building a fire, and taking blood can all use the Apprenticeship Perspective to teach students these skills. However, it can be used to develop master practitioners in fields that involve increased complexity, numerous webs of interaction, or shifting environments demanding constant attention.  Driver education, flight training and sports training all use the Apprenticeship Perspective for learners to learn a specific skill. Apprenticeship learning has several formal definitions. Here are the most popular definitions: In summary, apprenticeship learning is a method used by teachers to teach students about a specific task. It is utilized in a problematic situation so students know how to react when faced with a similar situation. Students work very closely with an expert at learning a specific skill. Apprenticeship learning is very beneficial to the learner. Unlike most other perspectives of education, the apprenticeship perspective is rarely formally taught.  This is because the concepts communicated through apprenticeship are often practical, tacit strategies for achieving goals that do not always conform to standard procedure.  For example, in an office environment lunch breaks may be limited to thirty minutes, but through apprenticeship one learns that up to forty-five minutes is acceptable.  It would be inconvenient for the company to formally allow that allotment, but through informal training the message may still be communicated. Educational theories of apprenticeship often involve the combination of formal and information training for the development of schema, mental structures that represent individual understanding of experiences that frame a person’s conceptualization of reality.  For example, a bicycle mechanic accustomed to road cycling may study texts covering mountain biking, but he will probably find it difficult to apply that formal training on a rough course.  Educational theory’s response to this is apprenticeship; by riding with a friend on the mountain side, the cyclist can watch and learn, constantly reiterating his performance to meet the demands of the sport.  In this way he is developing his schema through formal and informal training. The Apprentice Perspective is a holistic field of learning because it involves the education of both the student and the teacher.  As the learner develops a schema that begins to incorporate the intricacies of the environment, they will be more capable of performing similarly to their peers.  Once this is recognized by the trainer, the student will become accepted as a peer; at this point, as the new worker tackles problems through their new and previously existing schema, their individual talents may start to be applied within the group practices.  In this way, apprenticeship retains fresh information and ideas within a common body of knowledge. According to Pratt (1998), successful development through apprenticeship involves three key factors.  To become a master of the field, the learning process must be active, social, and authentic.  These points will lead to the learner’s greater understanding of the field and improved future contributions: The apprenticeship perspective includes a series of phases that help articulate the roles of the learner and teacher during the process of observing and enacting concepts. There are three main goals of apprenticeship learning according to Brandt et al. (1993). These three goals have been accomplished based on published literature, learners feel apprenticeship "learning experience expands their awareness of the factors that should be considered' helps them organize and pay attention to their thought processes while handling difficult tasks, problems, and problematic situations; and emphasizes the importance of particular aspects of such tasks, problems, and problematic situations previously ignored or regarded as unimportant" (Brandt et al., 1993). Clearly the three goals of apprenticeship learning have been accomplished. Learners have been able to discover what works in situations, and knows how to handles problems and finally the learner can perform at a satisfactory level. 