   The MARA Junior Science College (Malay: Maktab Rendah Sains Mara (MRSM)) is a group of boarding schools created by the People's Trust Council (Malay: Majlis Amanah Rakyat, commonly abbreviated as MARA), a Malaysian government agency. The institution provides learning facilities for bright students in local schools throughout Malaysia. The first MRSM was established in Seremban in February 1972 with its first intake of 150 pioneering (male only) students from all over Malaysia. MRSM Seremban took in its last batch of students in 1986 and gradually converted into Kolej Mara Seremban officially in February 1994. Students are primarily assessed through a system similar to the grading systems in universities and/or colleges: the grade point average (GPA) (Malay: Purata Nilaian Gred (PNG) system. By the end of their final semesters they will be awarded a certificate of graduation for those who succeeded to pass with at least a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) (Malay: Timbunan Purata Nilaian Gred (TPNG)) of 2.00 and above. Applicants take the Form 3 Assessment (Malay: Pentaksiran Tingkatan 3) and the Malaysian Education Certificate (Malay: Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia) national examinations. MJSCs use the usual academic ladders in Malaysia when it comes to the level progression system, where students advance through year 7 (known as Form 1 in Malaysia) to Year 11 (Form 5) by age. In Malaysia, there is no system that allows for level transition according to the student's capability. Most MJSC runs all levels from Form 1 to Form 5, but there are 3 MJSCs that only run Forms 4 and 5. In 2015, there are no more MJSCs that only run Forms 1 to 3. All of these previous lower form only MJSCs have been enrolling upper form with MJSC Pasir Tumboh and MJSC Gerik both had their form 4 intakes in 2015(SPM 2016). Students who started from Form 1 can continue their studies in MJSC until Form 5 in the same college or by transferring to another college. These students can only continue their studies in MJSC if they pass their Penilaian Menengah Rendah with at least 6As, with As in Mathematics and Science. Failure to achieve this will cause their studies in the MJSC system to be discontinued, and they will have to continue their studies in an ordinary school. Dual Certificate Programme is a part of internationalisation of the Education System.It is believed that educational excellence can be achieve in a shorter time by adopting best practices from leading and prestigious schools in the world.By providing basic skills in communication skills,thinking skills and learning skills,students will be more willing to adapt to the teaching styles. Subsequently, learning activities will be truly student-centered,thus ensuring effective teaching and learning. This internationalisation programme enables MJSCs that offer this programme to take four examinations:SPM,IGCSE,PT3 and Cambridge Checkpoint. The pioneering MJSC of this programme is MRSM Tun Abdul Razak Pekan Pahang. PKP is a title that is given to MARA Junior Science Colleges who have attained a high level of quality in their students through national exams and participation in events – with the former being the primary factor. These colleges are often deemed the most superior in their category of schools in Malaysia, though others could still compete with them. Most of the students who are admitted into MRSM PKP are usually those who obtain 8As or more in the Malay: Pentaksiran Tingkatan 3 (PT3) and UPSR examination and pass the UKKM with flying colours. The quality of the students in MRSM PKP are usually higher. As such, these MJSCs usually become the role models for the other MJSCs to promote healthy competition between its students. There are eight of them: The first MRSM PKP is MRSM Kulim Kedah. First batch is 1988 batch. Second batch is 1990 batch. and after that MRSM Kulim stopped taking pkp students. and the program has moved to the eight above MRSM.  