  Sekolah Berprestasi Tinggi or High Performance School is a prestigious title conferred to a group of schools in Malaysia that have ethos, character and a unique identity to excel in all aspects of education. The schools have a tradition of high culture and excellent work with the national human capital and continuing to grow holistically and are competitive in the international arena. The title is given by Malaysian Ministry of Education (MOE). This is a section of a part of the National Key Result Areas of Government Transformation Programme (GTP). Desire to identify and create Sekolah Berprestasi Tinggi (SBT) has been announced by the Prime Minister, Dato Seri Najib Bin Tun Abdul Razak in his speech at the National Assembly administration members, civil servants and government-linked companies (GLCs) at the Putrajaya International Convention Centre (PICC) on 27 July 2009. This is as a section in one of the six main part in NKRA which is ″Improving Student Outcome". "As a pilot project, a total of 100 schools, consisting of ordinary types, schools, cluster schools and boarding schools. With this, we will provide an environment conducive to teaching and learning and promote cooperation between the public and private sector to drive the achievement of students. All these plans will be implemented within three years before the end of 2012."MOE has prepared an action plan to identify 100 SBT by 2012. This effort is in line with the "1Malaysia: People First, Performance Now". On 9 September 2009, MOE decided to recognise 100 schools consisting of government schools and government-aided schools to be set up as SBT and a SBT Sector Management Division of Residential School and Cluster School (BPSBPSK) so that management of SBT can be implemented efficiently. A total of 20 schools have been announced as SBT Cohort 1 by Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Education, Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin on 25 January 2010. The recognition ceremony was held at SMK Aminuddin Baki, Kuala Lumpur on 29 January 2010. On 18 February 2011, a total of 23 schools was announced as SBT Cohort 2  at Sarawak. Another 9 schools were elevated to SBT on 25 May 2011.  On 4 February 2012,another 14 schools recognised as SBT Cohort 3  in a recognition ceremony in Putrajaya. On 28 December 2012, 25 schools were given SBT status.  After almost 2 years, the fifth cohort consisting of 13 schools were announced, bringing the total to 128.   RM27.8mil had been allocated for the schools to enhance their quality of education. The government has agree to continue the project from 2013 to 2015 with the target of 10 SBTs each year with at least one SBT in each state.  Rational appreciation and give recognition to the school HPS is to: Selection of schools for SBT recognition were conducted by the Selection Committee of SBT, chaired by the Director General of Education (DG) and staffed by the Deputy Director of Education (TKPPM), Operations Sector Education Sector Policy and Development TKPPM Education, Teaching Professionalism TKPPM Sector Development, Director Boarding Schools Management Division and the School of Excellence (BPSBPSK) and the Secretariat of the National Key Result Areas (NKRA). The selection criteria is announced to all schools through MOE portal. SBT candidate for recognition consists of primary and secondary schools which are in Band 1 based on a composite score that takes into account the Grade Point Average (GPS) and Decision Self Rating School (SMEs) based on Malaysian Education Quality Standard (SQEM). HPS selection through three screenings: HPS schools received recognition given special provisions, incentives and training for leaders, teachers and support staff members (AKS). The management of the school are given autonomy in curriculum management, financial management, human resources management and selection of students based on their performance. The award were criticised as it only select the nation top school at current time and abandoned the other premier, historical schools.Victoria Institution, St. John's Institution, Penang Free School, Malacca High School, St. Michael's Institution, Sekolah Tuanku Abdul Rahman , St. Xavier's Institution and Bukit Mertajam High School were left behind during the announcing of 20 pioneer schools of SBT. Lee Wei Lian, Malaysian Insider journalist in his article "The tragic tale of Malaysia education" said, He further added, Wong Chun Wai, the Group Chief Editor of The Star, in his article "Surprise Exclusion", Dr. Mohamed Khir Bin Toyo, in his entry in his blog titled "Which is more important, SBT or Kids in the rural area?" questioned with some of the school already enrolled bright students such as Fully Residential School made the list, some students are only "lucky" for them to be in the awarded school. He said some teachers complain as their "ordinary" school budget were being cut down but at the same time, the government splashed RM 700 million for each SBT. He further questioned the priorities of the government of giving more to already establish schools but neglecting to lift up Low Performance School.  Politician, Lim Kit Siang, in his comment after the announcement of the nationals best students and schools for Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia 2009, said, "It is a slap for SBT's as only two of the nationals best students hails from SBT and only three schools from SBT's made up to the list in nationals best schools" .The others (8 out of 10 students and 7 out of 10 schools) is non-SBT's.  Teachers and Association leaders from Sabah and Sarawak criticised as the initial list do not contain any schools from either states.  Parents from SJK(C) Pei Hwa Pedas, Rembau on 17 February 2010, in their complain of the school did not have enough Islamic Education teachers, said "There is no use of producing SBT's if lack of educators is still a problem in our education."  20 pioneer schools were selected on 25 January 2010. 23 schools were conferred this title on 18 February 2011. Another nine schools were chosen in SBT Cohort 2 on 25 May 2011. 14 schools elevated to SBT on 2 February 2012. National Premier School 1. Sekolah Kebangsaan (SK) Infant Jesus, Malacca. 2. SK (P) Sultan Ibrahim 3. SK Ibrahim 4. SK Minden Heights, Penang 5. SK Sultan Sulaiman 1 6. SK Tengku Mahmud, Terengganu 7. SK Wellesley, Penang 8. SK Assunta Convent, Pahang National-type Premier School 1.Sekolah Jenis Kebangsaan Cina (SJKC) Foon Yew 2 2.SJKC Keat Hwa (H) 3.SJKC Kwang Hwa, Penang. Another 25 schools were conferred on 28 December 2012. On 18 September 2013, 24 school were elevated as SBT.  On 30 October 2014, 13 schools were granted this title.  On 18 Mac 2016, 6 schools were granted this title.    