The Coalition of Asian Pacifics in Entertainment (CAPE) is an organization that advocates for Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the entertainment industry. Established in 1991, CAPE "champions diversity by educating, connecting, and empowering Asian American and Pacific Islander artists and leaders in entertainment and media."  CAPE was founded in 1991 as a way to connect AAPIs in the entertainment industry by television producer and executive Wenda Fong, publicist Fritz Friedman, and film producer and executive Chris Lee. The organization had few members when it was founded, as there were very few Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders who were very visible in the media. However, since its founding, CAPE has grown to support both new and established actors, writers, directors, producers, agents, and executives.  Despite starting small, the CAPE community mobilized through volunteer efforts, and their educational programs and opportunities have helped members develop their careers in the entertainment industry by connecting them to the tools they need to enhance their careers. Additionally, CAPE has been working on developing connections with US and International film industries of China, India, Korea, Japan, Taiwan, and the Philippines. In 2009, CAPE hired its first Executive Director, Jennifer Sanderson. In 2014, CAPE moved from being a paid membership-driven organization to a mission-driven organization.  The organization decided that in order to fulfill its original goals of serving the AAPI community, they needed to open up their resources to be available to anyone who needed to access them. In December 2014, Jennifer Sanderson officially stepped down. In 2015, Michelle K. Sugihara took helm and is currently CAPE's Executive Director.  In October 2016, CAPE celebrated its 25th Anniversary. Steven Yeun, Harry Shum Jr., and Constance Wu were some of the many in attendance.  The CAPE New Writers Fellowship was established in 1999 in order to discover and help emerging AAPI writers and artists. Writers submit original works in two categories, film and television. Up to 10 fellows are selected and winners are receive $4,000 prize, a reading of their script, and opportunities to connect with entertainment executives and producers.  Additionally, fellows undergo intensive curriculum training with industry professionals. Fellowship winners are presented at an annual gala to which members of the AAPI entertainment community are invited.  Notable winners of the fellowship include Alice Wu, Randall Park, and Leonard Chang. The I Am campaign was launched in 2014 as a way to increase visibility and recognition of  Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. The goal of the campaign was to encourage Asian Americans to share their stories to commemorate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month in May.  The campaign consists of an online web series featuring well known actors, musicians, and influential members of the entertainment sector providing stories about their experiences as Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.  The following have been participants of the I Am campaign for the following years: 2014: Amy Hill, Bobby Lee, Brian Tee, Carrie Ann Inaba, Wong Fu Productions (Phillip Wang and Wesley Chan), Christine Ha, David Choi, Harry Shum Jr., Jessica Gomes, Leonardo Nam, Lisa Ling, Melissa Tang, Phil Yu of Angry Asian Man, Randall Park, Kelly Hu, Steven Yeun, Jeremy Lin, Michelle Phan, and Ryan Higa. 2015: Constance Wu, Ki Hong Lee, Daniel Dae Kim, Cassey Ho, Seoul Sausage, Jason Chen, and Arden Cho. 2016: Megan Lee, D-Trix, Ming-Na Wen, and Danny Pudi. 