The United States Academic Decathlon (USAD) is an academic competition for high school students in the United States. The Academic Decathlon consists of 10 events: Art, Economics, Essay, Interview, Language and Literature, Math, Music, Science, Social Science, Speech and Super Quiz. Each year, one of the ten subjects is chosen as the Super Quiz, which uses a different format than the other events. The topics and theme of the competition are released in March of every year, giving students time to prepare for the competition season which runs from November to April.  The events are split up into two groups: the seven objective tests (Art, Economics, Language and Literature, Math, Music, Science and Social Science) and the three subjective events (Essay, Interview and Speech). They are designated as such because the former seven are multiple choice tests, whereas the latter three are graded by judges. Students are given half an hour to answer each multiple choice exam. These exams consist of 50 questions, with the exception of Math and Super Quiz which have 35 and 52 questions respectively.  Shabanu by Suzanne Fisher Staples replaced Siddhartha for the junior varsity competition. Play Selected poems Paintings Sculptures Masks Poems Drawings Paintings Printmaking Sculptures Textiles Fixed Media Novel Poems Poems Early American Art Native American Art Photography Novel Shorter Selections Botany Ancient Near Eastern Art Ancient Egyptian Art Art of Ancient Aegean Civilizations (Cyclades, Minoa, and Mycenaea) Ancient Greek Art Ancient Etruscan and Roman Art Plays by Sophocles Shorter Selections Early to Mid Fifteenth-Century Italian Mid to Late Fifteenth-Century Italian Sixteenth-Century Italian Renaissance Outside of Italy Plays Shorter Selections Music in the Early Renaissance ( c. 1450–1520 CE) Music in the High Renaissance ( c. 1520–1600 CE) Traditions and Innovations in Painting Memorializing the Civil War Photography African-American Art Architecture Shorter Selections Public Performances and Private Amusements Music in African-American Life Music of the Conflict Africa and Europe Commodities and Trade Architecture and Power Europe Envisions the Empire Featured Novella Shorter Selections Program Music Nationalism in Music Christian Art and Architecture in Russia Art and Architecture of the Russian Empire Intersections: Literature, Dance, and the Visual Arts Modern Art and Architecture Featured Novel Shorter Selections - two poems and two short stories Introduction to Russian Folk Music Russian Music of the Nineteenth Century Russian Music of the Twentieth Century Art and World War I American Identities in the Early Modern Era Featured Novel Shorter Selections - two poems and two short stories Early Twentieth-Century "Popular" Music Musical Responses to "The Great War" Artistic Innovations In The Ancient World Artistic Innovation Of The Renaissance Eighteenth and Nineteenth Century Artistic Innovations Artistic Innovation Of The Twentieth Century Featured Novel Selected Poetry And Short Works Music And The Middle Ages Music And The Renaissance Music And The Baroque Music And The Classical Era Music And The Romantic Era Music And The Modern Era An Introduction to the Art of India Indo-Islamic Art and Architecture Colonial Art and Architecture Postcolonial Art and Architecture Featured Novel Shorter Selections India's Regional Music Traditions and Devotional Music Indian Classical Music Film and Classical Music World War II Propaganda European Art of the World War II Era American Abstract Expression World War II Memorialization Featured Novel Shorter Prose Works Poetry Listening Examples The art curriculum includes a section on art fundamentals and largely focuses on African art.   Art Fundamentals Southern and Eastern Africa Central Africa Western Africa Contemporary African Art and Art of the African Diaspora (Single drawing from movie) (Fantasy coffin of a Mercedes Benz) The economics curriculum covers fundamental economic concepts, microeconomics, and macroeconomics and also includes a thematic section on African economic history and development.   The literature curriculum includes critical reading, one long work of literature, and selected shorter works.   Featured Novel Selected Shorter Works The mathematics curriculum covers general mathematics, geometry, and an introduction to differential calculus.   General Mathematics Geometry Introduction to Differential Calculus The 2017–18 mathematics curriculum and materials are the same as they were used for the 2014–15 U.S. Academic Decathlon.   The music curriculum provides an introduction to the music of Africa.   Basic Musical Concepts and Terminology Traditional Music Modern Music Current Issues World Music An introduction to the biology of infectious diseases, with an emphasis on diseases that have had a significant impact on Africa.   Overview of Infectious Disease Diseases The social science curriculum provides an introduction to the history of Africa, with an emphasis on West Africa.   Human origins Early African Civilizations Islam, Christianity, and Traditional African Religion The Atlantic and West African Slave Trade Imperialism, Colonialism, and Revolution The Rise of Independent West Africa The art curriculum includes a section on art fundamentals and largely focuses on art of the 1960s.   Setting the Stage for the Art of the 1960s Early Sixties Art and Politics Minimalism and Conceptualism Post-Minimalism The economics curriculum covers fundamental economic concepts, microeconomics, and macroeconomics and also includes a thematic section on the US economy in the 1960s.   The literature curriculum includes critical reading, one long work of literature, and selected shorter works.   Featured Novel Selected Shorter Works The mathematics curriculum covers permutations and combinations, algebra, and an introduction to statistics.   Overview of Permutations and Combinations Algebra Statistics The 2018–19 mathematics curriculum and materials are the same as they were used for the 2015–16 U.S. Academic Decathlon.   The music curriculum provides an introduction to the music of the 1960s.   Basic Elements of Music Theory The Early 1960s The Heart of the 1960s The End of the 1960s An introduction to laser technology, and applications of lasers.   Light Optics Lasers Applications of Lasers The social science curriculum provides an introduction to US history of the 1960s.   The Days of Camelot The Apex of American Liberalism The Center does not Hold The Rise and Undoing of a Law-and-Order President 