Iran computer and video games foundation (AKA Iran National Foundation of Computer Games or shortly IRCG) is a non-profit, Semi-governmental organization established in 2007 to control and support video game industry in Iran. Iran computer and video games foundation is responsible for publishing and releasing any kind of video games (including PC games and mobile games), supporting local game manufacturers, instructing students in video game development and organize, control and monitor the activities of LAN gaming centers in Iran.  The IRCG is also responsible for banning foreign video games that are not compatible with Iran’s governmental political views and filtering video game’s websites that they might not meet the governmental rules of Iran.     Since the Iran computer and video games foundation is a non-profit organization its annual budget is supplied by the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance and other parallel organizations.   The main objective of the Iran Computer and Video games Foundation is to plan for and support the cultural, artistic, technical and business activities in the Iranian game industry. also by creating competition opportunities in scientific, technical, cultural and artistic aspects of game development it will help improving the quality of the industry.     The main objectives of Iran computer and video games foundation are: In 2007 Iran computer and video games foundation established Entertainment Software Rating Association which now is responsible for video game content rating in Iran.  The Entertainment Software Rating Association (ESRA)    is an organization that assigns age and content ratings for computer/video games. It was established by Iran National Foundation of Computer Games in 2007.One of the most important reasons of the observed necessity for ESRA principle is the lack of a proper pattern of use for computer games and the negative physical and mental effects of computer games caused by misuse and the concern of parents regarding such issues due to their lack of information about the improper and inappropriate content of such games.   Iran Game Development Institute which is game development school was found by Iran computer and video games foundation in 2010, for the purpose of training specialized video game designers and developers in various fields of expertise related to the video game development industry.  The National Game development Institute  is founded by Iran Computer & Video Games Foundation for the purpose of training specialized human resources in various fields of expertise related to the game development industry. The National Game Development Institute mission is to train game developers.      Each year, the institute accepts new students after an entrance exam. Student are currently studying in 3 majors. These Majors are: Game Programming, Game Design, and Game Art. Each of these majors takes 4 semesters in 2 years long. Digital games Research Center  (DIREC),  was founded in 2014 by Iran Computer and Video game Foundation and its mission is to promote and advance its research and analytical goals, mostly in marketing, communications, psychology, and sociology through definition and execution of multiple research projects with their main focus on behavior studies and market research.  In addition to the reports generated, DIREC provides other supplementary services: GAPP Lab   was established in 2015 by Iran Computer and Video Game Foundation and its aim is to help game developers to refine their games and test their compatibility issues. GAAP is combination of Game and Application and also referring to gap between starting developing a game and its final stages until creating a quality game. GAAP Lab provide different Services including: Iran computer and video games foundation have held its first exhibition and festival at 2011.   these festivals and exhibitions held in order to grow gaming industry of Iran and form elite game developing communities with active members.  Exhibitions happened in different parts included:  first three exhibition and festivals held together and from a fourth festival, they held separately. 