Karen Gill MBE www.everywoman.com everywoman is a membership organisation that champions the advancement of women in business to close the gender pay gap. It provides personal development resources, leadership training, events, award programmes, networking opportunities and inspiration for women in business and female entrepreneurs.  everywoman believes that getting greater representation of women across all business areas will drive better, more profitable businesses, creating wider benefits for both women and men in the workplace. They work closely with government, opinion formers and business support organisations, and are supported by leading corporate partners including NatWest & Specsavers. In November 2010 everywoman launched the Modern Muse project, designed to engage the next generation of female business leaders and entrepreneurs by showcasing women of today in all walks of business life. Modern Muse's goal is to reach out to one million young women and girls to inspire them to look at business careers and entrepreneurship as a way to achieve their dreams.  It was founded in September 1999 by friends Karen Gill and Maxine Benson, after they felt frustrated with the lack of resources available for women in business in the UK.  Karen Gill and Maxine Benson were awarded MBEs in the New Year's Honours 2009 for their services to women's enterprise.   They are regularly called on for comment in the media on issues relating to small business and enterprise. everywomanNetwork - This online network is for women who want to advance their careers and develop themselves. Online resources, expert advice, monthly workbooks, real-life experiences and live webinars to support career development are just a few of the benefits. everywomanClub - Where senior level women in organisations and successful entrepreneurs at the helm of large businesses connect, shape business and influence change for all women in business. Peer to peer networking and profile raising initiatives are just a few of the benefits. NatWest everywoman awards  everywoman's flagship awards programme, the NatWest everywoman awards, launched in 2003 recognises the achievements of women business owners, and in the past has rewarded high-profile women such as Elle Macpherson, Alexandra Taylor, Dame Stella Rimington and Dame Mary Perkins, founder of Specsavers. FDM everywoman in Technology Awards  were launched to demonstrate this profession holds a wealth of career opportunities for women and they will shine the spotlight on women who are enjoying successful careers. FTA everywoman in Transport & Logistics Awards  Launched in 2008, the awards are breaking down stereotypes and creating industry role models in a traditionally a male dominated industry. Specsavers everywoman in Retail Ambassadors Programme  seek to identify the dynamic female talent working at the top of the retail industry and showcase the broad range of career opportunities that retail can offer women, beyond the shop floor. Sector specific Leadership Academies feature personal development masterclasses, motivation and inspirational speeches by key figures and experts. 