The Gender Balance Council (Arabic: مجلس الإمارات للتوازن بين الجنسين majlis al-ʾimārāt lit-tawāzun bayna al-jinsayn) is a federal entity in the UAE. According to Sheikha Jawaher bint Mohammed Al Qasimi, the Gender Balance Council seeks empowering women and enhancing their role in the development of the UAE.  In the country, more women graduate from universities than; however, social and legal constrains are put on women's work.  The GBC is chaired by President of Dubai Women Establishment, Shaikha Manal bint Mohammed Al Maktoum. Currently 41st on the international gender equality index, the UAE is set to be one of the world’s top 25 by the year 2021.  The UAE Gender Balance Council was created by virtue of a Cabinet resolution issued in February 2015. "The focus of the GBC is women empowerment in order to achieve more development in the country.  As of 2016, the hierarchy of the council includes  In addition to representatives of presidency affairs ministries, cabinet affairs and ministries of foreign affairs, economics, social affairs, labor and the federal committee for human resources. The Gender Balance Council's goal is to achieve female empowerment.  The establishment of the GBC was announced by Sh. Mohammed during a session, "Toward Gender Balance in Governments", on the role of women in development and the UAE’s international competitiveness.  The GBC’s role consists of bridging the gap between women and men and enhancing the UAE’s global status in the matter. The GBC undertakes several legal roles, notably review of legislation introduced and policies proposed in the matter of gender balance, but also seeks to balance rights like nationality rights, divorce rights, guardianship and custody rights, inheritance rights, freedom of movement, protection from child, marriage, and protection from gender-based violence.  Set by ruler of Dubai, a goal for the UAE to become one of the world’s top 25 countries for gender equality by 2021.  The Constitution of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) upholds the principle of equal treatment of all citizens, but does not specifically address gender-based discrimination and contains references that primarily identify women as wives and mothers.As such, the Constitution, as well as other laws, tends to reinforce traditional gender roles, rather than promoting equality between women and men in the UAE. Aware of this situation, the United Arab Emirates tends to make the necessary and possible legal amendment to surpass any noted shortage in gender balance. The General Women’s Union is a national organization which launched the “Know your Rights” campaign with MEPI in October 2009 to empower Emirati women to understand their rights, under UAE law and international conventions, and increase their awareness of the current personal status law in the UAE, as issued in 2006, and its application. The strategy aims at activating the role of women in the UAE and ensuring their positive participation in eight key areas: education, economy, media, social work, health; legislation; environment as well as political and executive fields.  In August 2016 the GBC announced the establishment of a committee to review the law and to activate the Gender Balance Index across various sectors.  The country's 'Ministry of Happiness' is headed by Ohoud Al Roumi, while five roles in the new cabinet went to women as well.  The UAE encourages the creation of NGO’s that defend women rights as a very effective manner to guarantee that the Emirati society adopt the values that champion human rights in general, notably women rights. The GBC has a priority of creating a supportive environment for women and working "to alter stereotypes" about Arab women.  The literacy rate of women in the UAE was 80.7 percent in 2003, higher than the male literacy rate of 75.6 percent. Across all institutions of higher education in the UAE, including both Federal and private institutions, the total number of UAE National women enrolled in higher education is approximately 190 percent of the number of UAE National males. In August 2016,The GBC announced it would review the country’s maternity law, and some private sector firms have already enhanced their policies. Dubai-based Omnicom Media Group MENA recently increased entitlement to 90 days, following a number of requests.  General references 