The Network of Executive Women (NEW) is a women's leadership organization serving the retail, consumer goods, financial services and technology industries. It represents more than 11,000 members from 850 companies, 100 corporate partners and 21 regions in the U.S. and Canada.  NEW's mission is to advance all women and create a better workplace for everyone through research, advocacy, leadership development and organizational change.  Sarah Alter — named president and CEO of NEW in June 2017 — has wide-ranging experience in the retail, financial services and technology markets. As vice president of Discover Financial Services, she led the product strategy for all credit card features, benefits and services. As vice president for digital sales and marketing at Quill.com, Alter helped expand digital sales for office supply company Staples. As chief marketing officer for General Growth Properties, Alter developed and executed marketing strategies for 200 shopping mall properties and their top retailers. Alter has served on a number of non-profit boards and has been an organizer of Chicago's annual JDRF Gala, which raised millions of dollars for Type 1 diabetes. She is a graduate of Northwestern University and has a Harvard MBA.  Other NEW leaders include Board Chair Lisa Walsh, CEO of Truco Enterprises, Immediate Past Board Chair Karen Stuckey of Walmart Inc., Vice Chair Monica Turner of Procter & Gamble, Treasurer Erby Foster of Foster Inclusion and Secretary Regenia Stein of Ingenuity Consulting. The Board's Executive Committee also includes Audit Chair Dagmar Boggs of 7-Eleven, Compensation Chair Karen Mooney, Regional Advisory Chair Elizabeth Marrion of Accenture, and Transformation Chair Vicki Felker of Nestlé Purina PetCare.  NEW conducts independent research and partners with other organizations to produce insights to help companies achieve gender equality and inclusion. NEW released "The Female Leadership Crisis:  Why Women Are Leaving (and What We Can Do About It)" in February 2018 with Mercer & Co and Accenture.  The Network of Executive Women has 21 regional groups in the United States and Canada that provide local events, outreach and services to the communities where NEW members and supporters live and work.  NEW founders held organizational meetings in Atlanta, New York and elsewhere in 2000-2001, and the Network of Executive Women was incorporated April 1, 2001. Five thousand dollars in seed money was provided by The Minute Maid Company (then CEO Don Knauss was an early Champion; Ahold USA CEO Bill Grize was one of the first retail leaders to lend his support). NEW held a kick-off meeting at the FMI Midwinter Executive Conference, January 22, 2001, and NEW's first official meeting was held April 2, 2001 in New York City. On June 1, 2001, NEW held its second official meeting and elected its first Board and Officer slate. 