The OECD Development Centre was established in 1961 as an independent platform for knowledge sharing and policy dialogue between Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development member countries and developing economies, allowing these countries to interact on an equal footing. Today, 27 OECD member countries and 25 non-OECD member countries are members of the Centre. The Centre draws attention to emerging systemic issues likely to affect global development and more specific development challenges faced by today’s developing and emerging economies. It uses evidence-based analysis, and strategic partnerships, to help countries formulate innovative policy solutions to the global challenges of development. The Development Centre of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development was established in 1961 and ‌comprises 52 countries, of which 27 are OECD members: Belgium, Chile, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Luxembourg, Mexico, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and the United Kingdom. In addition, 25 non-OECD countries are full members of the Development Centre: Brazil (since March 1994); India (February 2001); Romania (October 2004); Thailand (March 2005); South Africa (May 2006); Egypt and Viet Nam (March 2008); Colombia (July 2008); Indonesia (February 2009); Costa Rica, Mauritius, Morocco and Peru (March 2009); the Dominican Republic (November 2009); Senegal (February 2011); Argentina and Cabo Verde (March 2011); Panama (July 2013); Côte d'Ivoire, Kazakhstan and Tunisia (January 2015); the People’s Republic of China (July 2015); Ghana and Uruguay (October 2015); and Paraguay (March 2017). The European Union also takes part in the work of the Governing Board.  Participating OECD members:  Belgium, Chile, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Korea, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. Participating non-OECD members: Argentina, Brazil, Cabo Verde, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Mauritius, Morocco, Panama, Peru, Romania, Senegal, South Africa, Thailand, Uruguay, Viet Nam. Non-participating OECD members: Australia, Estonia, Hungary, Japan, and New Zealand. For an inclusive membership strategy the Development Centre offers tools for engagement for countries in different regions and stages of development to debate appropriate policy options with development partners and stakeholders, including traditional and new actors from the public and private sector: Policy dialogue and knowledge-sharing Cross sectoral analysis Global, regional and country analysis Statistics and indicators: OECD Better Life Index Social Media. The Development Centre is active on numerous social networks such as: 