Rob Okun is a writer, editor, speaker, activist, and psychotherapist known for his involvement in the pro-feminist men's movement.   He is the former executive director of the Men’s Resource Center for Change, one of the earliest men’s centers in North America. His work has appeared in numerous  publications and websites including Women's eNews, Ms., Counterpunch, The Telegraph of London, San Diego UnionTribune, and Dallas Morning News. Beginning as an anti-Vietnam War activist, Okun's critique of male-dominated leadership in the New Left led to his interest in Feminism and Pro-feminism.  Since 1996, he has been editor of Voice Male, a magazine that covers a range of topics, including: boys becoming men, men of color, fathering, male survivors of abuse, men and feminism, men's health, men and violence, and LGBTQ issues.  It emphasizes "the social transformation of masculinities in the world today."    He is known for his outspoken views against gender-based violence and for arguing that men must take more active roles in preventing violence.  He is a frequent op-ed contributor to Ms., V-Day, AlterNet, and other publications,   and the editor of two books: The Rosenbergs: Collected Visions of Artists and Writers and Voice Male: The Untold Story of the Profeminist Men's Movement.  VOICE MALE: The Untold Story of the Profeminist Men’s Movement chronicles the transformation of men and masculinity through the pages of the magazine, bringing readers inside “one of the most important social justice movements most people have never heard of”—the anti-sexist men’s movement. The new edition of the book  was published at the end of 2017. Women's eNews selected Okun as one of 21 Leaders for the 21st Century honored May 7, 2018 at the global news site's annual awards gala in New York City. Recipients include a range of gender equity leaders whose work promote the rights of women and girls. Okun is also the recipient of the 2018 Gordon Gray Outstanding Male Leadership Award. His op-ed on gender and mass shootings in the aftermath of the Parkland, Florida school shooting can be found here: https://womensenews.org/2018/03/students-time-is-ripe-to-add-gender-to-gun-debate/. Okun is on the board of directors of the Center for the Study of Men and Masculinitites and North American MenEngage. Okun's magazine, Voice Male is a member of the MenEngage Alliance, an international network of nearly 700 organizations worldwide working with men and boys for gender equality. MenEngage was first founded by Sonke Gender Justice in South Africa and Promundo in Brazil. Okun's columns and commentaries are syndicated by PeaceVoice. 