Maker Faire is an event created by Make magazine to "celebrate arts, crafts, engineering, science projects and the Do-It-Yourself (DIY) mindset". Flagship Maker Faires are held in San Mateo, California, Detroit and New York City.  The New York Maker Faire is also known as the "World Maker Faire". Maker Faire has recently happened in New York in 2017.  Maker Faire 2008 was held on 3–4 May 2008, at the San Mateo County Event Center.  Highlights of the Faire included a human-sized Mouse Trap board game, kinetic squid sculpture, 55' wingspan kinetic steel butterfly, bicycle-powered music stage, a solar-powered chariot pulled by an Arnold Schwarzenegger robot,  and over 500 other booths from different makers. There were approximately 65,000 people in attendance.   Featured guests included Adam Savage, Stephanie Pearl-McPhee, Lee David Zlotoff,  Tony Baxter and Eepybird. An additional 2008 Maker Faire was held on October 18–19, 2008, in Austin, Texas.  Make Magazine assists independent event organizers in producing small-scale Maker Faire events in local communities. We call independently-organized events "Mini Maker Faires." Community-driven Mini Maker Faires have sprouted up around the United States, with events in Ann Arbor, Pittsburgh, Sebastopol, Aspen, Kansas City, Durham, Oakland, Boston and Delhi. Canada now has four Mini Maker Faires: Ottawa, Toronto, Vancouver Island and Vancouver.   2011 Mini Maker Faires were held in Canada (Toronto, Vancouver), the United Kingdom (Brighton) and a number of cities in the USA: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Phoenix, Arizona; Oakland, California; Fort Wayne, Indiana; Fishers, Indiana; Providence, Rhode Island; Atlanta, Georgia; Kansas City, Missouri; Raleigh, North Carolina; Poulsbo, Washington, Ann Arbor, Michigan; Linthicum, Maryland; Westport, Connecticut; and Urbana, Illinois. Maker Faires are also held in Europe, Asia, South America and Africa. The first Maker Faire in the United Kingdom took place on March 14–15, 2009, in Newcastle upon Tyne, as a joint venture with the Newcastle ScienceFest. In the US, the 2009 Maker Faire Rhode Island was scheduled for September 6–19.  The first Maker Faire North Carolina 2010 was held on April 25 in Durham, North Carolina. It moved to Raleigh, North Carolina for 2011.  In 2010, Canada had their first Mini Maker Faire in Ottawa, Ontario on November 6–7.  Maker Faire has been spread over to Area Regions, and the first Maker Faire in Hong Kong was held in 2014, and the mega scale Maker Faire Hong Kong was organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, leading by Dr. Clifford Choy from School of Design in November 2015 as well as in April 2017.    