 A sports rivalry is intense competition between athletic teams or athletes, but not directly related to the formal sport and the practice thereof. This pressure of competition is felt by players, coaches, and management, but is perhaps felt strongest by the fans. The intensity of the rivalry varies from a friendly competition on one end to serious violence on the other that, in one case (the Football War), was suggested to have led to military conflicts. Owners typically encourage rivalries as they tend to improve game attendance and television ratings for rivalry matches, but a rivalry that gets out of control can lead to fighting, hooliganism, rioting and some, with career-ending or even fatal consequences. Clubs can reduce fan aggression surrounding rivalry games by acknowledging rather than downplaying the conflict  because the rivalry is an integral part of fan identity . Rivalries stem from various sources. Simple geographic proximity as well as frequent meetings in important games can lead to rivalries. Games between two rivals of close geographical proximity are usually called a local derby, or simply just derby (UK: /ˈdɑːrbi/ DAR-bee, US: /ˈdɜːrbi/ DUR-bee); a sporting fixture between two teams from the same town, city or region, particularly in association football.  The phrase most likely originated from The Derby, a horse race in England, founded by the 12th Earl of Derby in 1780. The 19th Earl has since confirmed the Derby name was given to only two sporting events: the Rugby league game from either end of the family's Knowsley estate between St Helens and Wigan being the other. Since at least as early as 1840 'derby' has been used as a noun in English to denote any kind of sporting contest.  Another possible origin of the term is that the town of Derby was renowned as the site of a chaotic and exuberant game that involved the whole town and often resulted in fatalities. The goals were at Nuns Mill in the north and the Gallows Balk in the south of the town, and much of the action took place in the River Derwent or the Markeaton Brook. Nominally the players came from All Saints' and St Peter's parishes, but in practice the game was a free-for-all with as many as 1,000 players. A Frenchman who observed the match in 1829 wrote in horror, 'if Englishmen call this play, it would be impossible to say what they call fighting'. The traditional Shrovetide football match is still an annual event in the town of Ashbourne, Derbyshire.  In the United States, the term crosstown rivalry is more commonly encountered for this type of rivalry. ONEFA/CONADEIP (National College Association of American Football/National College Sports Commission of Private Institutions)  In Swedish bandy, derby games are often played on Saint Stephen's Day.  