 Shorts are a garment worn over the pelvic area, circling the waist and splitting to cover the upper part of the legs, sometimes extending down to the knees but not covering the entire length of the leg. They are called "shorts" because they are a shortened version of trousers, which cover the entire leg, but not the foot. Shorts are typically worn in warm weather or in an environment where comfort and air flow are more important than the protection of the legs. There are a variety of shorts, ranging from knee-length short trousers that can in some situations be worn as formal clothes to beachwear and athletic shorts. Some types of shorts are typically worn by women, such as culottes, which are a divided skirt resembling a pair of loose-cut shorts. In British English the term "short trousers" has been used, but only for shorts that are a short version of real[clarification needed] trousers (pants), e.g. tailored shorts, often lined, as typically worn as part of school uniform for boys up to their early teens,    and by servicemen and policemen in tropical climates. The American term "short pants" is probably the nearest equivalent in the US, there they might now be called "dress shorts", a term that has not gained much currency in Britain. A somewhat similar garment worn by men in Australia is called "stubbies". "Shorts" is used unqualified in British English to refer to sports shorts, athletic shorts, or casual shorts: the last is nowadays commonplace in warm weather in the UK. The term "boxer shorts" was an American coinage for a particular kind of men's underwear, and is now common in Britain. However, boxer shorts are often referred to as "boxers" in the USA. The word "pants" refers to outerwear (trousers) in American usage (except when modified to "underpants") but when used unqualified in British English generally means underwear. In much of Europe and the Americas during the 19th and early 20th centuries, shorts were worn as outerwear only by young boys until they reached a certain height or maturity. When boys got older, typically around puberty, they would receive their first pair of long trousers. This produced the perception that shorts were only for young boys.  Because of this, men would not wear shorts to avoid looking immature. Women tended not to wear shorts in most cultures, due to social mores: they were expected to wear dresses, or skirts and blouses. In the 1890s, knee pants (an early type of short pants) became the standard wear for American boys. Many urban school portraits from the 1890s show all but the oldest boys wearing knee pants.  North American boys normally wore knee pants with short stockings.  This began to change after the 1900s when North American boys began wearing knickerbockers, while short pants became more popular in Europe. In the 1930s, shorts started to be worn for casual comfort (e.g. outdoor and athletic activities) by both men and women. However, it was still taboo to wear shorts outside certain activities. Since about the time of The First World War, when many soldiers served in tropical locations, adult men have worn shorts more often, especially in summer weather, but the perception of shorts as being only for young boys took several decades to change, and to some extent still exists in certain circles. By the late 20th century however it became common for men to wear shorts as casual wear in summer. However, in many countries there are few formal settings where wearing shorts would be acceptable, as they are considered casual wear. Notable exceptions where men may wear short trousers to the office or at a formal gathering are South Africa, Bermuda, Australia and New Zealand. Since the 1990s, casual office dress has grown to include formal shorts in some U.K. and U.S. businesses, but by no means universally. Adults are also commonly seen wearing shorts, however wearing shorts is less common among women in traditional eastern countries than in the West, although this varies widely by region - women more often wear shorts in large, cosmopolitan cities. In some countries adult women can be seen wearing loose-fitting shorts that end at or just below the knee, as these are seen as sufficiently modest.  "Baggies" is also an alternative term for boardshorts (see below).   Short trousers, terminating three to four inches above the knee, commonly worn by men in Bermuda (with knee-socks and a blazer and tie) for business attire and even at cocktail parties.   They are available in a wide range of colors, ranging from conservative grey and navy, to brighter hues such as orange, green and pink.  Despite their name, they are not of Bermudian origin, but were originally designed around 1900 for military wear by the British armed forces in tropical climates.  From the 1920s onwards these military uniform shorts began to be copied by Bermudian tailors and civilians, and were subsequently taken up by tourists who spread the style around the world.  The tourists who appropriated the style wore Bermuda shorts almost exclusively as casual wear.  In the early 1990s Bermuda shorts became accepted in France as a fashionable option for women, although since the 1930s they had been increasingly established as an option for American women's fashionable sportswear.   In America, despite widespread criticism, Bermuda shorts were taken up by male and female students on college campuses from the 1920s and 1930s onwards, and by the 1950s, were widely worn.  In early 21st century America, women's Bermuda shorts are known as "city shorts," and are usually knee-length, resembling a pencil skirt.  In 1970 the company Quiksilver offered a highly successful boardshort design that rapidly gained a reputation among surfers as the best to be had.  They would later pioneer a line of boardshorts specifically designed for the female wearer.  Other leading boardshort manufacturers include Billabong and Rip Curl.  By 2010, the boardshort was widely worn as a fashionable garment beyond the beach, including as clubwear and in schools.  In the early 21st century, polyester is increasingly used, often blended with other fibres such as Lycra, elastane, or spandex, creating an ultrasuede effect.  Elastic-waisted soft fabric shorts usually worn as underwear, but originally designed for wear by boxing participants. In their current form "boxers" were introduced in 1925 by Jacob Golomb (founder of the sports equipment and clothing company Everlast) as an alternative to the leather-belted trunks that boxers typically wore.  They subsequently became an alternative to long underwear as well.  Men's boxers as undergarments began to be presented in novelty prints and patterns from the late 1950s onwards.  During the 1980s and 1990s women began to wear boxer shorts paired with T-shirts as loungewear or sleepwear.  Boxer briefs, which emerged in the 1990s, are an underwear-specific variation on boxer shorts, but made from elastic knit fabric for a snug fit.  Since the 1980s, 'bike shorts' have also been worn as fashion garments, although these versions often lack the internal padding and construction required by cyclists.   However, the term can describe many styles of shorts made from denim,  such as cut-offs (see above), or Daisy Dukes (see above).  The term "jorts," defined simply as denim shorts, was added to the Oxford English Dictionary in 2013.   Whilst the term "hotpants" is used generically to describe short shorts (see below) made in any material, similar garments had been worn since the 1930s.  Very short men's shorts may also be occasionally called hotpants.  Trail running shorts are typically made longer and in harder-wearing fabric that is less likely to catch and tear on protruding branches.  The traditional grey flannel shorts associated with British school uniform had become well-established by the 1920s, when they were knee-length or just above knee-length.   Up until the 1950s school shorts were also described as 'knickers' in tailoring catalogues and jargon.  This term possibly originated as an abbreviation of knickerbockers, which began being worn by schoolboys for sports in the 1880s.  As the term 'knickers' had become synonymous with panties in the 20th century, it was rarely used colloquially for shorts. By 2004, a study of British private schools noted that traditional grey school shorts had become denoters of private or public school uniform, as they were no longer required wear by state schools.  Similar tailored shorts form part of school uniform in a number of countries, including Australia, Singapore, South Africa and New Zealand,  and are also part of the uniform worn by children in organisations such as the Cub Scouts.  