 David Monn is an American event planner, interior designer, author, and artist.     He is the founder and CEO of David Monn, LLC, an event production firm based in New York City.   As part of the firm, Monn has been responsible for organizing and producing a variety of prominent events at locations like the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the New York Public Library, Guggenheim Museum, among others.    Monn designed a White House State Dinner for former United States President Barack Obama.    Monn's most recent book, David Monn: The Art of Celebrating, was released in November 2016.    Monn was born and raised in Fayetteville, Pennsylvania as one of six children. As a child, he showed an early interest in fashion design with hopes of attending the Parsons School of Design. In 1981 at age 18, Monn earned a job at Butte Knit, a clothing factory in his town that was a part of the Jonathan Logan Corporation. This job soon led him to New York City where he rented a studio apartment near Mindy Grossman's. While in New York, Monn took up interior decorating for himself and his friends (including Grossman).   Prior to beginning his event and interior design career, Monn worked in the jewelry business for 12 years. In 2003, Gayfryd Steinberg hired Monn as the event planner and designer for the Library Lions Gala at the New York Public Library's main campus. Since then, Monn has been designing events for a wide variety of occasions.   In 2004, he managed the festivities for the grand opening of the Time Warner Center. The following year, Monn was responsible for the design of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute Gala.  By 2007, his clients included the Guggenheim Museum, LVMH, and the Metropolitan Opera (among others).  In November 2007, Monn designed the Frank Gehry-inspired Guggenheim International Gala at Pier 40.  He also designed the 100th anniversary celebration for the Plaza Hotel that year.  In May 2010, Monn designed the White House State Dinner honoring then Mexican President Felipe Calderón.  In November 2016, he released his book, David Monn: The Art of Celebrating, which contains 360 pages of images and text about events he has planned and designed. The book's release date was marked with a party at the New York Public Library's main campus.   In January 2017, Monn designed an opening candlelight dinner for the inauguration festivities of President Donald Trump.   