Tim Soar is a British fashion designer, graphic designer, event planner and DJ. Soar began his creative career working with designer Neville Brody on an interiors project POST Design.  This was followed by independent practice as a graphic designer, and then in the design company STAC collaborating with photographer Andrew Catlin. His work was focussed in music, producing artwork for numerous international record sleeves, publications and campaigns. While working with Neville Brody, Soar became involved in the music industry and began working as a DJ. Soar had residencies at a number of venues and clubs across London. He was also involved in the writing and arrangement of 23 Skidoo's song Just Like Everybody. He was also part of the band called Toll, which released the album Christ Knows in 2006.  In 2005, Soar launched the Tim Soar design label and this was described as “really well-made menswear that mixes minimalism, sportswear, tailoring, and unusual fabrications.”  In an interview, Soar described his foray from music to fashion design with these words:I felt that I had something to say about modern menswear and that it was time to move on from the flippant to something more serious. I was tired of seeing gimmicky menswear that was badly made and did not fit correctly. I set out to produce clothes that are a synthesis of minimalism and the avant garde made to the highest possible standards. The first collection was presented by the London-based B-Store, the second collection by Liberty, and has continued with packed shows at each London Fashion Week since Spring/Summer 09. His women's wear line debuted in 2011 with a capsule collection for Browns 24. Soar told British Vogue that the concept is womenswear for boyish women.  Soar's collections are now available in numerous countries worldwide. Soar is also creative head of Music Concrete, a music consultancy that was established in 1987. It initially catered to the boutique hotel market but has since expanded into launches, fashion, and events.  He has worked with many of the leading UK and international fashion designers and design houses, including Donna Karen Prada, Ralph Lauren, Levi's, Fendi, LVMH, Mathew Williamson, Fendi and Adidas. Through Music Concrete, Soar also collaborated with luxury hotels groups including Schrager Hotels,  St. Martin's Lane Hotel, Sanderson, Columbus and Great Eastern. 