The Department of Arkansas Heritage (DAH) is a department of the U.S. State of Arkansas responsible for preserving, promoting and protecting Arkansas's natural and cultural history and heritage.  The department consists of eight separate divisions: four heritage museums and four heritage resource agencies.  The department’s central office coordinates and promotes all division efforts to make information and materials about the state readily accessible to all Arkansans through heritage and cultural events, educational resources and special publications.   The common goal of all divisions is to seek out and protect the legacy and lore of Arkansas and what distinguishes it from other states.  The department is headquartered in downtown Little Rock along the banks of the Arkansas River. Its headquarters is about 34,000 square feet at 1100 North St. in Little Rock and includes offices, a materials and collections storage facility, a fleet-management physical plant, an herbarium, a library and multiple meeting spaces available for public use.   The heritage museums are: The heritage resource agencies are:   It was established in 1966 and became part of the Department of Arkansas Heritage in 1975.    AAC is also funded in part by the National Endowment for the Arts.       Arkansans across the state can access databases and historical materials for genealogy and other research, whether at the Little Rock headquarters or at one of its two branches, Northeast Arkansas Regional Archives (NEARA) and Southwest Arkansas Regional Archives (SARA). Artifacts and records from everyday Arkansans are collected and preserved through the Archives.   The Black History Commission of Arkansas serves to collect materials on Arkansas’s African American history for the Arkansas State Archives, working to raise awareness of the contributions of African American Arkansans.   Anne Bartley was the first director appointed to the Department of Arkansas Heritage in 1975 by Gov. David Pryor to lead the agency after its creation. Cathie Matthews, who held the position from 1997 until 2012, was the longest-serving director.   Stacy Hurst, appointed by Governor Asa Hutchinson in January 2015, is the current director.   The Department of Arkansas Heritage promotes Arkansas Heritage Month each May to promote Arkansas history and tourism. Each year has a different theme. Local entities can apply for and receive grants in order to create specific Heritage Month events, focused on the year’s theme.   In the past, Arkansas Heritage Month event have included historical biking tours, special exhibits in local museums or libraries or history fairs with reenactments and historic activities.   On March 31, 2016, Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson created the Arkansas World War I Centennial Commemoration Committee to lead the state's remembrance of the events of 100 years ago. <ref>"State of Arkansas Executive Department Proclamation" (PDF). arkansas.gov. Retrieved 9 November 2017.  The Committee works with the people of Arkansas to plan activities, conduct research, and otherwise expand the understanding and appreciation of the significance of World War I, until December 31, 2018. <ref>"Governor creates World War I commemoration panel". arkansasnews.com. Retrieved 9 November 2017.  The Arkansas Food Hall of Fame program was founded in 2016 by the Department of Arkansas Heritage to honor the unique foods and food traditions of Arkansas.  <ref>"The Arkansas Food Hall of Fame – Celebrating the Great State of the Plate". TieDyeTravels.com. Retrieved 6 February 2018.  It was originally made up of four categories for nominations, Proprietor or Chef of the Year, Food-themed Event, Food Hall of Fame and People's Choice, with a fifth category added in 2017 titled Gone But Not Forgotten. A 13-member committee selects the finalists and winners from the entries. Honorees and finalists are announced at a special ceremony every spring. 