The Philippine Registry of Cultural Property, abbreviated as PRECUP is a national registry of the Philippine Government used to consolidate in one record all cultural property that are deemed important to the cultural heritage, tangible and intangible, of the Philippines.  In June 11, 2018, the entries in the newly-updated PRECUP was at 3,921. Additionally, 1,259 out of 1,715 LGUs (provincial, municipal/city-levels), or 73 percent of LGUs have established local cultural inventories (LCI).  This registry was established by the National Cultural Heritage Act of 2009 (Republic Act No. 10066) Section 14 which says "All cultural property of the country deemed important to cultural heritage shall be registered in the Philippine Registry of Cultural Property." The National Commission for Culture and the Arts is mandated to establish and maintain the registry, through the appropriate cultural agencies and local government units, within three years from the effectivity of the act. As stated in Section 14 of said legislation, the guidelines in the registration of cultural property are as follows:  (b) Local government units, through their cultural offices, shall likewise maintain an inventory of cultural property under its jurisdiction and shall furnish the Commission a copy of the same; (c) Both cultural agencies concerned and local government units shall continuously coordinate in making entries and in monitoring the various cultural properties in their respective inventory; (d) All government agencies and instrumentalities, government-owned and/or controlled corporations and their subsidiaries, including public and private educational institutions, shall report their ownership and/or possession of such items to the pertinent cultural agency and shall register such properties within three (3) years from the effectivity of this Act; (e) Private collectors and owners of cultural property shall register such properties, within three (3) years from the effectivity of this Act. The private collectors and owners of cultural property shall not be divested of their possession and ownership thereof even after registration of said property as herein required. Information on registered cultural properties owned by private individuals shall remain confidential and may be given only upon prior consent of the private owner. The Commission shall operate the Registry in the NCCA portal cultural databank. It was clarified that by its enactment, Republic Act No. 10066 does not transfer ownership of the properties, identified as part of the Philippines' cultural heritage, to the state.  The highest cultural properties under the PRECUP are UNESCO inscriptions, followed by National Cultural Treasures and Important Cultural Properties. In resolution 2017-330 released in December 19, 2017 entitled "Guidelines governing PRECUP" , the properties that can be included in the PRECUP are as follow: The law mandates that all LGUs should have a cultural inventory by 2013, however, by November 2017, only 39 out of the 1,930 LGU's in the Philippines have registered their partial or full list of cultural properties in PRECUP. This lack of LGU participation is partially made due to the non-existence of a Department of Culture. A bill has been filed in Congress in middle of 2017 for the establishment of such a department. Another reason for the lack of participation is the non-existence of cultural councils within certain LGUs despite a law madating for their creation. The council is usually initiated by the town mayor or the provincial governor. Cultural properties are registered through the combined effort of Cultural Agencies including the National Museum, the National Historical Commission of the Philippines, the National Archives, and the National Library of the Philippines as well as of Local Government Units (LGUs). They shall work together in updating the PRECUP. 