The Southwestern Pennsylvania Heritage Preservation Commission was a federal commission established within the Department of the Interior to oversee the America's Industrial Heritage Project. It was created in 1988 as a  means  for  "recognizing,  preserving,  promoting,  and  interpreting  the cultural  heritage  of  the  9-county  region  in  southwestern Pennsylvania associated with the three basic industries of iron and steel, coal, and transportation.   The Commission sunset on November 18,2008. The purpose of America's Industrial Heritage Project is twofold. First, there will be an examination of the significant contribution of the region's iron, steel, coal, and transportation industries, which helped fuel and move America's industrial growth and development and establish its standing among the nations of the world. Many of the region's cultural resources relate not only to its heritage but to the present and future as well. Second, in addition to the historic sites, the project will use sites within Johnstown and Altoona as focal points for a nine-county tourism promotion program. Tourism development efforts will take advantage of the region's scenic, natural, and recreational areas and will include these resources as integral to the planning process. Much of the project's background is based in a 1985 National Park Service (NPS) study of the region entitled Reconnaissance Survey of Western Pennsylvania Roads and Sites. The NPS study identified the significant cultural resources at Johnstown and Altoona as focal points for new tourism initiatives.   Early on in AIHP planning, Altoona, Pennsylvania, was identified as the focal point around which the story of rail transportation could revolve. However, other resources in the nine-county area are integral components of the rail transportation theme of the AIHP.  Two such resources were the Allegheny Portage Railroad National Historic Site (a unit of the Park Service) and Horseshoe Curve (a national historic landmark).   A third resource was the privately owned East Broad Top Railroad and Coal Company   relating to the "secondary theme of support industries, including refractory industries, timber, and iron ore production."    For the America's Industrial Heritage Project, the East Broad Top Railroad National Historic Landmark was "...the best remaining example in the nation of a regional narrow-gauge railroad system ...(and) ... probably the only opportunity in the nation to tell a comprehensive railroad industry story."    The landmark however was "...seriously threatened through deterioration, lack of operating capital, and legal threats to the right-of-way."   Although the heritage project made efforts to preserve the landmark, they were not successful before the Commission was sunset in 2008. The Commission sunset on November 18,2008.   The Commission partnered with the National Park service for a number of projects such as the following sample: 