The Institute for Women's Leadership (IWL) at Rutgers University is a consortium of nine units based at the Rutgers-New Brunswick campus and dedicated to the study of women and gender, to advocacy on behalf of gender equity, and to the promotion of women’s leadership locally, nationally, and globally. Established in 1991 by former Dean of Douglass Residential College, Mary S. Hartman, the current Interim Director is Lisa Hetfield. The IWL leads activities in three broad areas: model leadership programs for women in the public and private sectors; interdisciplinary research on women’s leadership; and collaborative programs that utilize the expertise of unit members for the benefit of the consortium. The Institute for Women’s Leadership conducts research on women’s leadership and women’s lives. The IWL disseminates their findings through books, reports, transcripts and documentaries about women leaders, as well as fact sheets and data on the status of women in New Jersey, the nation, and the world. The goal is to encourage the interdisciplinary examination of leadership in different contexts of science, technology, politics and public policy, the arts, business, law, the humanities, higher education, and the global arena, considering perspectives of gender, race, ethnicity, and age in exercising leadership. Notable publications include:  All publications can be found on the Rutgers Press website. In addition, the Institute for Women’s Leadership seeks to contribute to the advancement of women’s leadership studies, women’s education, and higher education by publishing collected essays and case studies on the work of the Institute for Women’s Leadership and by sponsoring research and forums on leadership issues. The National Dialogue on Educating Women for Leadership is a national, continuing conversation among educators, scholars and experts that explores a range of women's leadership issues, programs and research. Launching the Institute for Women’s Leadership Consortium  In the late 1980s Mary S. Hartman, then Dean of Douglass, began to meet informally with the directors of the women’s programs and centers located on the Douglass campus. These gatherings became a forum for working collaboratively to develop and strengthen women’s education at Rutgers and to consider the critical underrepresentation of women in leadership in all arenas at the local, national and international levels. In 1991, under Mary Hartman’s leadership, the directors formed a consortium to address this underrepresentation. Declaring the mission of the Institute as “dedicated to examining issues of leadership and advancing women’s leadership in education, research, politics, the workplace, and the world,” the founding directors established the Institute as a collaborative enterprise, the nation’s first consortium dedicated to women’s lives and leadership. The founding directors of the new Institute for Women’s Leadership were:  Shortly after its founding, the Institute added the new Center for Women and Work, directed by Dorothy Sue Cobble at the Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (1993). In 2007, the Institute for Women and Art joined the consortium, Judith Brodsky and Ferris Olin, Co-directors, and in 2008, the Office for the Promotion of Women in Science, Engineering and Mathematics, under the direction of Vice President Joan Bennett, became the eighth member unit of the Institute for Women’s Leadership.  Chronology of Progress for the Consortium 1991-1995  1996-2000  2001-2005  2006-2010  2011-present  