The Society for Medieval Feminist Scholarship (SMFS) is an academic organization which "promotes the study of the Patristic Age, the Middle Ages, and the Early Modern era from the perspective of gender studies, women's studies, and feminist studies".  Its development followed the rise of the study of medieval women in the 1970s and 1980s, and sought to increase the number of and sponsor papers about medieval women, and feminist theory driven scholarship, at the largest international medieval studies conferences, Kalamazoo and Leeds IMC.   The origins of SMFS lay in the Medieval Feminist Newsletter, begun in 1986 by the organization's founders, E. Jane Burns, Roberta (Bonnie) Krueger, Elizabeth Robertson, and Thelma Fenster. The group became SMFS in 1992, driven by a desire to establish more formal networks for communication, funding, and with a view to producing publications.  Since 1999, SFMS has produced Medieval Feminist Forum, a peer-reviewed journal which became an online-only journal in 2009. The organization is affiliated with the MLA and the AHA    and has sponsored sessions at annual meetings of these societies. SMFS has also sponsored sessions at other major international conferences, including the International Congress on Medieval Studies in Kalamazoo, the International Medieval Congress at the University of Leeds, the Medieval Academy of America's annual meeting, and the Australia & New Zealand Association for Medieval & Early Modern Studies. SMFS provides a Mentoring Exchange at most major conferences where it has a presence. It also awards several annual prizes, including one for the Best Graduate Essay, Best First Article of Feminist Scholarship on the Middle Ages, and Best First Book of Feminist Scholarship on the Middle Ages. It also manages a Listserv, MEDFEM-L. In 2014, SMFS hosted a Wikipedia Write-In at the 49th Annual International Congress on Medieval Studies  at Kalamazoo, where members were encouraged to contribute their time and expertise to adding and editing articles in their fields.  