Avion Roe is an American rock band from Dallas, Texas formed in 2011. They have released two full-length albums, and one EP, The Art of Fiction, and In Separation. their EP Into The Rest. Avion Roe formed in 2011 by frontman Evan Lester and drummer Josh Cutlip after the disbanding of Red Car Wire (Universal Records) which they were in together. After adding their friends Sean Humphrey and Jordan Modro to the mix, the band knew this was the final lineup. Here on January 4, 2011 in Dallas, Texas, Avion Roe was formed. Our band started on Jan 4th, 2011. We had thought we would be a five piece band but when we flew Jordan down to try out we knew we had it. We were immediately four brothers. We released our full length record in spring and jumped on the Vans Warped Tour. We shot a music video for our first single ‘Who I Am…’ and then jumped on a national tour with Madina Lake and Me Talk Pretty. We have had two songs on MTV and are shooting our second music video next week. This band is only beginning to unfold.  Avion Roe were the first independent artist to release a 3D Music Video.  The video was recorded for their song called 'The Escape'. It was released on October 1, 2013. Avion Roe's debut album "The Art of Fiction" was released on May 3, 2011, which only took four months to make after the band formed in early January of the same year.  The album has an emo, emo pop and post-hardcore sound to it such as bands like Escape The Fate, Taking Back Sunday and The Used. The most popular song on the album is their debut song Who I Am… (which now has over 2 million views on the music video) but songs such as The Difference Between Us and I'm Not Afraid To Die received popularity by their fans as well. Avion Roe released "Into The Rest - Single" which features Kellin Quinn of Sleeping with Sirens on September 25, 2015. The same day they announced their signing to Epitaph Records On October, 16th they released their debut EP on Epitaph Records, Into The Rest. They announced that they would be part of Vans Warped Tour in 2016, playing dates 6/24-7/21. They released In Separation, their debut full-length on Epitaph Records on June 17, 2016. The band announced via Twitter that their song 'This Loneliness' would be featured in the video game Forza Horizon 3, for Xbox ONE and PC   