The emo revival (also known as the post-emo revival, the Midwestern emo revival, and fourth wave emo)     is an underground emo movement which came about in the early 2010s. Groups of the emo revival largely abandon the style of mid 2000s emo in favor of a style influenced by that of 1990s emo acts.  By the early 2010s emo had largely waned in commercial popularity. A number of bands that were popular during the mid 2000s either broke up or changed their sound. Meanwhile an underground revival began to emerge with bands such as Snowing and Algernon Cadwallader being forerunners of the movement.  Bands of the revival are influenced by the second wave emo acts from the Midwestern emo scene of the 1990s and early 2000s. Bands often display a "DIY sound" and lyrical themes range from nostalgia to adulthood.   Emo revival scenes have sprung up throughout the United States and United Kingdom, with notable scenes in cities such as Philadelphia which has produced important groups to the scene such as Everyone Everywhere, Modern Baseball, Hop Along, Cayetana, Jank, Marietta, Algernon Callawader, and Snowing.  Other important emo revival acts include Citizen, Title Fight, The World Is a Beautiful Place & I Am No Longer Afraid to Die , Touché Amoré,  Into It. Over It.,  Tiny Moving Parts, Foxing, The Front Bottoms, Turnover, Tigers Jaw, Dowsing, Joyce Manor , Joie De Vivre , and the Hotelier.  This revival has also been credited with, even further, expanding the style of emo, with many bands introducing new elements and sounds while keeping the "classic twinkly emo sound".  In the early 2010s the term screamo began to be largely reclaimed by a new crop of do-it-yourself bands, with many screamo acts, like Loma Prieta, Pianos Become the Teeth, La Dispute, and Touché Amoré releasing records on fairly large independent labels such as Deathwish Inc.  In 2011 Alternative Press noted that La Dispute is "at the forefront of a traditional-screamo revival" for their critically acclaimed release Wildlife.  They are a part of a group of stylistically similar screamo-revival bands self-defined as "The Wave," made up of Touché Amoré, La Dispute, Defeater, Pianos Become the Teeth, and Make Do and Mend.    Some notable post-hardcore outfits have also been included as part of the screamo revival including Before Their Eyes, The Ongoing Concept, Too Close to Touch, I Am Terrified and Saosin.  Alternative Press has referred to this style as the "pop-screamo revival", citing bands such as Senses Fail, Silverstein, The Used, Hawthorne Heights, Chiodos, Thursday, From First to Last, Thrice and Finch as massive influences on the sound.  The name "Emo revival" has been cause of controversy. A number of acts and journalists have stated that it is not a revival at all and people have simply stopped paying attention to underground emo.   Evan Weiss stated “It's funny that people are only noticing it now because I feel like that revival has been happening for the last six years...It doesn't seem new to me, but if it's new to them, let them enjoy it".  