Queering Paradigms (QP) refers to an informal network, a series of conferences and a book series. QP originally started as a colloquium in February 2008 to celebrate LGBT History Month at Canterbury Christ Church University. This colloquium was in part a protest against the university's stance to prevent civil partnership ceremonies from taking place on campus.   The conferences have since taken place in Canterbury (UK), Brisbane (Australia), Oneonta (US), Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), Quito (Ecuador) and, again in the South of England (Winchester and Canterbury). The book series has five volumes so far.  The first official Queering Paradigms conference was organised in February 2009  in Canterbury by B Scherer, a professor of comparative religion, gender and sexuality at Canterbury Christ Church University.  The book resulting from this conference was published by Peter Lang Oxford in 2010 and was edited by Scherer.  This conference took place at the Queensland University of Technology   and was organised by Sharon Hayes,  Matthew Ball  and Angela Dwyer.  Former High Court Justice Michael Kirby gave a keynote speech,  which was widely commented upon in  Australian newspapers.       Also the second book was published by Peter Lang and was edited by Scherer and Ball.  QP 3 was organised at SUNY, Oneonta, by Kathleen O'Mara and Betty Wambui.     O'Mara and Liz Morrish edited the book.  QP 4 took place in Rio de Janeiro and was organised by Rodrigo Borba, Elizabeth Lewis, Branca Fabrício and Diana Pinto,   who are also the editors of the QP 4 book(s): one book in English was published in 2014  and another volume has been planned as a bilingual book in Portuguese and Spanish.  QP 5 took place in Quito, Ecuador in February 2014.     A regional QP colloquium was organised in Quito in October 2012.  QP 5 organisers continue to create social impact after the event, e.g. by lobbying for Equal Marriage in Ecuador.  The QP 5 book appeared early 2016.  Organised by QP founder B Scherer, QP 6 has taken place in the south of England in July 2015 and focused on the intersection of disability studies and queer studies. Held both at the University of Winchester and Canterbury Christ Church University, QP 6 part-merged with the VariAbilities II conference.   In a final event an Emerging Scholars' day was held at the University of Kent organised by the Centre for Gender, Sexuality and Writing.  QP 7 took place on the Cayman Islands and was organised by local LGBTIQ+ activists under the sponsorship of Canterbury Christ Church University, UK.  Key speakers were the Rt. Rev. Dr. Alan Wilson, Bishop of Buckingham and Professor Emeritus Eugenio Raúl Zaffaroni, justice of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights.  Because the conference attracted some opposition from local politicians there was a police presence; there were however no reported disturbances.   QP 8 was organised by a collective of activists and academics (M. Katharina Wiedlack, Masha Neufeld, Masha Godovannaya, Tania Zabolotnaya and others) in Vienna from 20 September until 23 September 2017 at the University of Vienna.  Organised by Nicole L Asquith (Western Sydney University), Matthew Ball (Queensland University of Technology), Trudie Broderick (Black Rainbow), Angela Dwyer (University of Tasmania),Justin Ellis (University of Sydney) QP9 took place in Sydney from 11 July to 13 July at the University of Sydney.  Key Speakers were Dameyon Bonson (Black Rainbow, Australia), Professor Jo Phoenix (Open University, UK) and Dr Jace Valcore (University of Houston Downtown, USA) 