Jim Moss (born March 3, 1977 in Toronto, Ontario) is a former professional lacrosse player. Moss was named the National Lacrosse League's Defensive Player of the Year in 2003.  Entered into the Brampton Sports Hall of Fame in 2007 as well as the Canadian Lacrosse Hall of Fame as a member of Team Canada in 2007.  Moss represented Team Canada in three sports (Ice Hockey, Field Lacrosse, Indoor Lacrosse) winning gold, silver, and bronze medals in international competition and is a winner of Canada's historic Mann Cup. After suffering recovering from a career ending illness in 2009, In 2012, Jim founded "The Smile Epidemic", an online gratitude project where individuals share photos of what has made them smile throughout their day. The project attracted participants from over 450 cities and 100 countries around the globe.  In 2014, The Smile Epidemic Inc. launched Plasticity Labs of which Mr Moss is the Chief Happiness Officer (CEO). Plasticity is a research and technology platform that develops the psychological skills that drive happiness to 1 billion people. Plasticity's web and mobile apps are used by small and large enterprises (TD Bank, Lululemon) to help improve workplace culture and deliver happiness to employees and customers. Plasticity is founded in Positive and Social Psychology principles and delivers behavioural habit training to leverage Neuroplasticity when training individuals online. Articles about Plasticity's research findings have been published in the Harvard Business Review and the company recently has recently launched its first book "Unlocking Happiness at Work", authored by co-founder and wife Jennifer Moss. in 2015 Canadian Business Magazine featured Moss and his co-founders on their cover as they were named 2015 Innovators of the Year - they have since been featured on CNN, BNN, and co-founded the first World Happiness Summit (WOHASU) held in Miami Florida in March 2017. Jim Moss played both ice hockey and lacrosse his entire early life and ultimately earned the opportunity to represent team Canada in three sports - Ice Hockey, Field Lacrosse, and Indoor Lacrosse. Growing up, he played hockey in Brampton, Ontario, Canada starting at the age of seven, where he is now a member of the Brampton Sports Hall of Fame. He began playing Junior A tier 2 for the Brampton Capitals at the age of 15 and then went on to become a member of the London Knights OHL hockey club for the 96-97 season and the 97-98 season. He was named team captain of the 97-98 squad. Following the Ontario Hockey League, he played for the Western Mustangs University team in the CIAU and represented Team Canada at the FISU World Games in Slovakia, where the team earned a bronze medal. He finished his hockey career off with the Huntington Blizzards of the ECHL after suffering a number of concussions he was forced to take a season off and decided at that time to return to professional lacrosse in NLL. Jim's lacrosse career also began in Brampton Ontario, playing in the Ontario Minor Lacrosse Association. He was called up to play Junior for the Brampton Excelsiors in 1992, and then represented Canada with the Jr Men's National Lacrosse team in 1996. Jim served as Team Captain in their silver medal winning effort. Jim was also selected to represent Team Canada in the first ever World Indoor Lacrosse Championship where he won his first gold medal. Jim also played for the Brampton Excelsiors Sr. Lacrosse team where he won his first Mann Cup in 2005, scoring the series winning goal against the Victoria Shamrocks. While living and playing lacrosse in San Jose California, Jim coached children at all ages and competitive classes, both men's and women's lacrosse, and including an assistant coaching role with the Stanford NCAA Division 1 Women's lacrosse program. Jim has been married to his wife Jennifer Leigh Moss (formerly Jennifer Young) since July 9, 2005. The couple has one son, Wyatt, and two daughters, Olivia and Lyla. Wyatt is a high potential competitive dancer finishing in the top 10 for boys his age in North America. In September 2009, Jim Moss contracted what was believed to be  Guillane-Barre Syndrome.  Since then this diagnosis has been rescinded, leaving his diagnosis as an undefined post-viral neuro-muscular disease. The Auto-immune disease ended Jim's professional sports career. After keeping a private gratitude journal in the hospital and while he learned to walk again, he began to share this publicly which garnered much support. By simply writing what made him smile or that he was grateful for on a piece of paper above an image of a smile, his current project, The Smile Epidemic, was born.  Experiencing Post Traumatic Growth Jim began The Smile Epidemic, an update on the classic concept of a gratitude journal, which capitalizes on the popularity and capacities of Internet sharing and social network technologies. In its simplest format, users interface digitally, capturing and sharing photos of what made them smile throughout their day. The campaign garnered significant momentum, including a feature on CTV and CBC News.  Jim was also featured on the Oprah Winfrey Network's Life Story Project in February 2013. The Smile Epidemic was selected to present at the SXSW 2013 festival in Austin, Texas in March, 2013.  The Smile Epidemic has since blossomed into a B2B Software company, called Plasticity Labs building research-based applications to improve people's health happiness and performance in the workplace. Plasticity is a Social Innovation company where they charge companies and organisations to use their software and give it away for free to individuals and school aged children. With a deeply held belief that research is the key to understanding human happiness, Plasticity continuously contributes to the academic understanding of human flourishing. The HERO Generation is the research and technology solution that focuses on giving school-aged children the character traits they need to thrive at school, and in life. Moss's personal lifelong mission is to create the world's leading international research facility to understand and improve the happiness of people of all ages, genders, races, and cultures around the world. 