Coding bootcamps are intensive programs of software development which started in 2011.  Coding bootcamps made their debut in 2011 with the Code Academy (now Starter League). Since then, many others have followed.  As of July 2017, there are 95 full-time coding bootcamp courses in the United States.  The length of courses typically ranges from between 8 to 36 weeks, with most lasting 10 to 12 (averaging 12.9) weeks.  Following the increased popularity of coding bootcamps, some universities have started their own intensive coding programs or partnered with existing private coding bootcamps.  There are various online options for online bootcamps. Bootcamps usually match students with a mentor and are also generally cheaper and more accommodating to specific student needs.  Bootcamps that focus less on full stack development and more on producing data scientists and data engineers are known as data science bootcamps.   Coding bootcamps can be part-time or online, they may be funded by employers or qualify for student loans.  According to a 2017 market research report, tuition ranges from free to $21,000 for a course, with an average tuition of $11,874.   "Deferred Tuition" refers to a payment model in which students pay the school a percentage (18%-22.5%) of their salary for 1–3 years after graduation, instead of upfront tuition.  In Europe, coding bootcamps can be free or a couple thousand euros per program. In contrast to formal university education, private offerings for training appear expensive.  On August 16, 2016, the US Department of Education announced up to $17 million in loans or grants for students to study with nontraditional training providers, including coding bootcamps.  These grants or loans will be administered through the pilot program, EQUIP which stands for Educational Quality through Innovation Partnerships.   Programs must partner with an accredited college and third-party quality assurance entity (QAE) in order to receive federal financial aid.  There are concerns that partnering private coding bootcamps with federal financial aid could attract less reputable organizations to create coding bootcamp programs.  Barriers to entry and exit mean established schools face less competition than in a free market, which can lead to deterioration of quality, and increase in prices. Also, problems within traditional university models could easily transfer to the university/bootcamp partnerships.  On the other hand, others believe that enhancing policy around financial aid will help lower income prospective students attend. There are several sentiments of coding bootcamps being accessible only for the rich.  