  Exeed School of Business and Finance is a business school and Higher Education institution based out of Sharjah, United Arab Emirates. The school is one of the few higher center of learning in the Middle East region to offer chartered and professional qualifications programs with core focus on Managers, Senior Managers and Executives. The school offers Academic Master Programs, Executive Education, International Professional Certifications, Corporate Training, Public Workshops and an Action Lab through Blue Ocean Strategy. The school runs flagship masters in banking and finance through one of the most reputed chartered body in United Kingdom. The school also runs several Executive Education programs in both the Open and Custom formats to meet the training requirements of senior executives and corporate. Exeed School of Business and Finance offers lot of specialized courses with focus on industry domains such as Supply Chain Management & Logistics, Islamic Finance & Banking, Project Management, Finance and Risk management, Banking and Finance, Shipping and Freight Forwarding, Procurement and Contracts Management, Tourism and Hospitality Management and Health Care Management as well as generic management programs such as Strategic Management and Leadership, Strategic Human Resource Management and Business Strategy. In the year 2017, Exeed School of Business and Finance entered into strategic alliance with London Institute of Banking and Finance, UK's oldest chartered body, for offering specialized programs for banking and financial professionals in the Arab world. Through LIBF, Exeed is reaching out to banking organizations and financial institutions to design customized program for their staff. Exeed also launched professional short term programs in banking and finance as open enrollment. Through LIBF, Exeed is also launching specialized academic degree in banking and finance. Exeed School of Business and Finance in partnership with Chartered Management Institute, UK and Cambridge International Qualifications, UK designed professional short term programs which helps the professionals in attaining Level 7 Post Graduate Diploma and a charter status. The short term programs are in the domain of Project Management, Health Care Management, Supply Chain Management, Human Resource Management, Engineering Management and Business Analysis. Currently ESBF is an institute of choice for many professional certifications preparation including SHRM - CP, SHRM - SCP, PHR, SPHR, GPHR, PMP, Prince 2, Scrum Master, ITIL, ITSM, CSCP, CLTD, CPIM, CISI, CIMA, CII, CISSP and ISO certifications. Exeed School of Business and Finance offers wide range of bespoke and customized program for the organizations and executives who are looking for improving performance. ESBF facilitates corporate training through its customized develop 3D Model. The program team of ESBF incorporates Business Driven Action Learning approach in the training. ESBF also consult organizations on human resource management, assessment, policy and feasibility study. Some of the well known brands including ADNOC, Emirates NBD, Qatar Petroleum, Commercial Bank of Dubai, Al Shirawi, Fujitsu, FedEx, DP World, International Medical Center, NMC Health Care and KACST engaged Exeed School of Business and Finance to train the professionals and consult them on talent development. ESBF team specializes in leadership development, project management, business analysis, big data analytics, advance excel, supply chain management, logistics management, contracts management, finance for non finance managers, advance financial management, ISO awareness, hospitality management, diversity, supervisory, soft skills, product management, strategy and general management. Exeed School of Business and Finance represent Blue Ocean Strategy in Middle East region through UCSI Blue Ocean Strategy Consulting and offer a three-day Action Lab for Business owners, Entrepreneurs and Senior Managers on Blue Ocean Strategy tools and Blue Ocean Leadership. The previous Lab was attended by professionals of BDL Group, NMC Health Care, Trans World and Al Masraf Bank. Exeed School of Business and Finance facilitates simulation learning workshops on various topics, some of the topics are:  