NYU Tandon School of Engineering NYU Tandon Online, formerly known as NYU-ePoly, is the online learning department for higher education at New York University Tandon School of Engineering.  which is one of the schools of engineering, technology, management and applied sciences in the United States. Currently, the School of Engineering offers 8 graduate level programs online, including 6 master's degrees,  and 2 advanced certificates .Nasir Memon joined the department as the head in 2017 and introduced the units first non-credit course offering, A Bridge to Tandon.  NYU Tandon Online's master's degree programs offer the same curriculum and credentials as their on-campus counterparts. The unit piloted active learning in online courses, engaging students in interactive, high-quality learning modules paired with the university's pedagogical approaches. The platform has been recognized by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, Online Learning Consortium & by US News and World Report. The “e-Poly” story began back in 2006, as the online learning wing of the then Polytechnic University. The department was initially designed for its on-campus students to blend and accelerate their time to degree completion by taking some courses online. The first program offered entirely online was the Cybersecurity master's degree. By 2009, e-Poly program offerings included 3 master’s degrees and 2 advanced certificates. In 2009, e-Poly was renamed NYU-ePoly, in recognition of the university’s affiliation with NYU. Following the School's name change in October, 2015, the department was renamed NYU Tandon Online.  As growth remains constant, today NYU Tandon Online offers over 65 online courses in diverse technology and management fields. NYU Tandon Online offers online graduate programs in conjunction with various Departments at NYU Tandon School of Engineering. Among them, Cybersecurity, Bioinformatics, Electrical Engineering, Management of Technology, Industrial Engineering, and Computer Engineering. The masters programs offered by NYU Tandon Online follow the same curriculum and approach as their on-campus counterparts.  In addition to the 6 Masters programs, it also offers 2 Advanced Certificate programs and the Bridge Program offered in 4 different pathways towards a master's program.  NYU Tandon Online offered its first non-credit offering in 2016. A bridge to NYU Tandon, a computer science bridge for non-computer scientists. The $1,500 program provides individuals, the equivalent of three traditional courses qualifying them for admissions into the Computer Science/Cybersecurity/Bioinformatics/Computer Engineering master's degree programs. The program is specially designed for students who wish to apply to the MS in Computer Science/MS in Cybersecurity/MS in Bioinformatics or MS in Computer Engineering programs at the NYU Tandon School of Engineering but lack the prerequisite computer science training.  Apart from the regular masters and certificate programs, NYU Tandon Online also allows individuals to take up to 9 credits at NYU Tandon School of Engineering, without formally applying for admissions. This option is especially beneficial for students who want to learn an advanced topic for personal and professional development.  NYU Tandon School of Engineering is accredited by the  Middle States Commission on Higher Education  and New York State Education Department  to award master’s and graduate certificate degrees. NYU Tandon Online is associated with many corporations,  societies  and companies. NYU Tandon Online is also associated with the National Security Agency through their National Centers of Academic Excellence in Cyber Operations Program.  Under the direction of NYU Enterprise Learning, the unit partnered with Scientific American to provide interactive short courses called Professional Learning.  