The National Association of Educational Broadcasters (NAEB) was founded as the Association of College University Broadcasting Stations (ACUBS) in 1925.  In September 1934, the organization rewrote its constitution, and changed its name from the Association of College University Broadcasting Stations (ACUBS) to the "National Association of Educational Broadcasters."  In 1938, NAEB persuaded the Federal Communications Commission to reserve five radio channels for educational broadcasting. In 1945 the FCC reserved five of the 40 channels in new high-frequency band for Non-commercial educational stations. There were initially planned to be AM services; however, they eventually manifested as FM ones. NAEB merged with the Association of Education by Radio-Television in 1956. It was reorganized in 1963 with two new divisions, Educational Television Stations and National Educational Radio.  These divisions lasted until 1973, when they were diminished. Their roles were taken over by Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) and Association of Public Radio Stations respectively.  The Association of Public Radio Stations (APRS) became the "Washington lobby and public relations arm of CPB-qualified radio stations."  The Association of Public Radio Stations (APRS) merged with National Public Radio (NPR) in 1977, which allowed NPR to provide "leadership of a full-fledged membership organization providing member stations with training, program promotion and management, and representing the interests of public radio stations before Congress, the FCC and other regulatory organizations."  Before this merger, National Public Radio (NPR) was "largely a production and distribution center," so the merger was influential in making National Public Radio (NPR) what it is today.  Until it folded in 1981, NAEB was public broadcasting's primary voice, forum and program distributor. Full documention: National Public Broadcasting Archives, University of Maryland Libraries  http://www.lib.umd.edu/special/collections/massmedia/publicandeducationalbroadcasting  