The Viking Age (793–1066 AD) is a period in European history, especially Northern European and Scandinavian history, following the Germanic Iron Age. It is the period of history when Scandinavian Norsemen explored Europe by its seas and rivers for trade, raids, colonization, and conquest. In this period, the Norsemen settled in Norse Greenland, Newfoundland, and present-day Faroe Islands, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Normandy, Scotland, England, Ireland, Isle of Man, the Netherlands, Germany, Ukraine, Russia, and Turkey. Viking travellers and colonists were seen at many points in history as brutal raiders. Many historical documents suggest that their invasion of other countries was retaliation in response to the encroachment upon tribal lands by Christian missionaries, and perhaps by the Saxon Wars prosecuted by Charlemagne and his kin to the south, or were motivated by overpopulation, trade inequities, and the lack of viable farmland in their homeland. Do you have a question about Viking Age that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. Guests from Overseas, Nicholas Roerich (1899) Viking-era towns of Scandinavia Modern replica of a Viking longship Viking expansion in Europe between the eighth and 11th centuries: The yellow colour corresponds to the expansion of the Normans, only partly descending from the Vikings Statue in Catoira, Galicia, commemorating the Viking invasions Stone ships at Altes Lager Menzlin A typical fortified Viking town. This is a model of the town of Aros about 950. The town is now known as Aarhus Viking expeditions (blue line): depicting the immense breadth of their voyages through most of Europe, the Mediterranean Sea, Northern Africa, Asia Minor, the Arctic, and North America. Lower Normandy, depicted as a ″Viking territory in 911″, was not part of the lands granted by the king of the Franks to Rollo in 911, but Upper Normandy. The Anglo-Saxon dioceses before 925: Normal diocesan life was greatly disrupted in England during the Viking Age. Viking voyages in the North Atlantic Anglo-Saxon-Viking coin weight, used for trading bullion and hacksilver: Material is lead and weighs around 36 g (1.3 oz). It is embedded with an Anglo-Saxon sceat (Series K type 32a) dating to 720–750 and minted in Kent. It is edged in a dotted triangle pattern. Origin is the Danelaw region and dates to 870–930. Fire-gilded dragon's head from Ireland, found in a Viking grave at Stavanger, Norway (Nationalmuseet, Copenhagen) The fortified Viking Age town of Aros The last written records of the Norse Greenlanders are from a 1408 marriage in the Church of Hvalsey. The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 