Welcome to the WikiProject Gender Studies!  This WikiProject is aimed at improving the quality of articles related to gender studies. For a list of articles and tasks to contribute to, please see WikiProject Gender Studies/to do. for alerting all users to AfDs, RfCs, disputes etc. Following discussions in January 2007 and further comments in March 2007 it was decided to split this project's original aims and goals - creating a separate Wikiproject for Countering Systemic Gender Bias (CSGB).  Until this new project is created a sub-page for CSGB has been created here. This project is for editors with knowledge or an interest in gender studies and who want to help improve articles about the topic. All that's required to join is an understanding of Wikipedia's core principles and an interest in improving and collaborating on articles within this project's scope. If you're interested, add your name to the list of contributors! Glad you asked! Feel free to sign up under contributors. If you come across an article which either needs attention, or alternatively that doesn't exist (even though it should), add it to the lists under "Requested articles", "Requests for expansion", or "Requests for review/attention" headings. If articles under those headings seem mature enough to no longer need attention, feel free to clean them off the list. If there are categories or templates you come across on Wikipedia which may be of interest to contributors of this project, feel free to add them under "Useful Categories" or "Useful Templates". You can also 'adopt' an article, or use the Discussion page to discuss issues relating to Gender Studies on Wikipedia. Finally, beyond Wikipedia, some contributors of this project are working on a Wikibook (textbook) on Feminism at Wikibooks (available here, feel free to contribute). Last edit before June 2014 Feminism Task Force To Do List I would like to submit a new article on women's political participation in India. I am currently enrolled in a gender studies class and I am required to submit an article to Wikipedia on a gender studies topic. The reason why I would like to submit a new article is because information on women's political participation in India are spread over several Wikipedia articles, including articles on the women's reservation bill, women in government, etc. My new article would cover gender differences between male and female participation. I will have specific sections on voting, political parties, government representation, political activism, and the challenges to female political participation. This would give the reader an overall look at female political participation in India. Jaccarlton (talk) 18:32, 6 March 2014 (UTC) A main task of the Project Gender Studies is to assess the quality of Wikipedia's Gender Studies articles.  The resulting article ratings are used within the project to help in recognising excellent contributions and identifying topics in need of further work. This also plays a role in the WP:1.0 program, which the WikiProject uses to help automate some of the assessing process. It is easiest if you simply tag and assess articles as you come across or edit them, though you can go through Category:Gender studies if you wish. To find out more, see Wikipedia:WikiProject Gender Studies/Assessment.  Categories for discussion Peer reviews Requested moves   Project Gender Studies runs frequent collaborations to encourage as much of the Project as possible to use their editing skills to bring one article up to Featured Article standard a month. See Wikipedia:WikiProject Gender Studies/Collaboration for more information. If you have another language besides English, please consider adding your name to our List of Translators.   A list of articles for translation is here A temporary department for the nascent Countering Systemic Gender Bias.  Created after it was decided to split Project Gender Studies in Spring 2007. It can be found here. Cleanup listing for this project is available. See also the tool's wiki page and the index of WikiProjects. There is an official Gender studies barnstar for anyone who has made significant contributions to Gender studies articles: approved Wednesday 21 Feb, 2007  