Welcome to the Women's Football / Soccer Task Force, a joint initiative of WikiProject Women's sport and WikiProject Football. This task force focuses on articles related to women's football / soccer including: Our main goals are to: To join, please add your name to the Members section. There are many ways for you to contribute - small and large. If you have a question, post it on the project's talk page. Although the majority of top women's leagues and players around the world are not included currently under WikiProject Football's frequently debated notability guideline: WP:NFOOTY, often times there is enough media coverage about a player, team, or league that meets the WP:GNG or WP:SPORTCRIT guidelines, which take precedence over WP:NFOOTY. For college athletes and coaches, see WP:NCOLLATH. For younger athletes, see WP:YOUNGATH. The key to ensuring that an article that you create is not deleted is providing adequate referencing to meet WP:GNG or WP:SPORTCRIT. Per WP: SPORTCRIT, a player is considered notable if they have "participated in a major international amateur or professional competition at the highest level." This includes national team championships and club championships. If you have any questions or run into any issues, feel free to post them on the this project's talk page. For a list of active and former top-division leagues, see LEAGUES.  Articles about players or managers in these leagues must meet WP:GNG or WP:SPORTCRIT guidelines, which take precedence over WP:NFOOTY. For college athletes and coaches, see WP:NCOLLATH. For younger athletes, see WP:YOUNGATH. Articles about seasons must meet WP:GNG or WP:NSEASONS. Articles about referees, officials, staff or other notable figures must meet WP:GNG. See the notability criteria section above for more information.  Wikipedia:Version 1.0 Editorial Team/Women's football articles by quality    91.7%   assessed (estimate: some more article talk pages may still need a banner)            The proportion of all articles with known importance is:    92.9%   known importance (estimate: some more articles may still need a banner)            See Wikipedia:WikiProject Football/Assessment for further information.  Join the discussion about the following articles (& categories) related to women's football: Please see my proposal to delete  (and upmerge where necessary) the following categories: Hugo999 (talk) 01:45, 17 September 2018 (UTC)  Categories for discussion  