The Bar National Mock Trial Competition aims to give young people an insight into the workings of the legal system. Now[when?] in its 27th year, it involves over 2,000 students, 200 barristers/advocates and 90 judges from across England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. In 2012/2013 the final was held in the Royal Courts of Justice in London. The finalists were Penyrheol Comprehensive School of Swansea and Plymouth High School for Girls of Plymouth. Plymouth High School emerged as the National Champions after a very close competition. The 2010/2011 final was held at the Royal Courts of Justice in Belfast on 12 March 2011. In 2009/10 the final was held at Edinburgh Crown Court. The National Champions were the Whitley Bay High School team which included including barristers Katy Ames and Joseph Taylder, witnesses Caroline Armstrong, Jennifer Combe and Laura Robson, and clerk of the court Robert Hollis. In 2008/09 the final was held in the Old Bailey of London – two points separated the winner and runner up. The National Champion was Ponteland High School (Winners of League Two) and runner up, The Sir Henry Floyd Grammar School (Winners of League Four and regional Oxford round) In 2007/2008 the final was held at Liverpool Crown Court on 1 March 2008. In 2007/2008 the final was held at Queen Elizabeth II Law Courts, Liverpool on Saturday 1 March 2008.  The sixteen Regional Heat winners from across England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland competed in three preliminary rounds in order to determine the top two finalist teams that would progress onto the Grand Final. Queen Elizabeth's Community College, Crediton (winners of the Plymouth Regional Heat) and Whitley Bay High School (winners of the Newcastle Regional Heat) were announced as the two finalists. In the Grand Final the teams presented the case of Jordan Potter before a panel of five judges and senior counsel from across the UK: HHJ Clifton, HHJ Harris QC, Brian Kennedy QC, Herbert Kerrigan QC and HHJ Roddy. Whitley Bay High School were declared national champions.  HHJ Clifton praised both teams on the high standard of their performances, noting the dramatic flair of the witnesses and the quality of all four barristers. The new national champions received their trophy and prizes from the judges. A total of 158 schools had taken part in the Competition since heats began in November the previous year. Lumen Christi College was the winner of the 2006/2007 competition. The Lumen Christi student who played the role of a barrister said: "The opportunity to work with real barristers and prepare a case has been a great experience. It gave us a real insight into how the justice system works"[This quote needs a citation] Her teacher added: "I was impressed by how a number of shy students flourished and came out of their shells by taking part in the competition and the level of articulation and analytical skills was heartening to see. The actual day in court showed me how readily students rose to the challenge of such a pressurised setting. Their confidence shone through. The school was enlivened by our victory and the level of support has been fantastic."[This quote needs a citation] 