 The Blackstone Legal Fellowship is an American legal training and internship program developed and facilitated by Christian legal group Alliance Defending Freedom (ADF). Since its inception in 2000, more than 1,900 law students have participated in the program. Its main campus is in Scottsdale, Arizona. Notable faculty have included U.S. Court of Appeals Judge Amy Coney Barrett. Blackstone Legal Fellowship is a highly competitive, nine week intensive summer legal training program which spans June though August. It was founded in 2000 for the purpose of preparing Christian law students for professional legal careers. The first class comprised 24 interns.  Since its inception Blackstone has trained more than 1,900 Christian law students.  In an interview, ADF co-founder Alan Sears said in 2000 Blackstone was created in response to his observation, "There’s got to be a better way for law students in America and for young lawyers than we currently have."  The program is made up of interns, called Fellows, from a diverse selection of law schools as well as elite institutions such as Harvard and Yale.  The program is named for Sir William Blackstone, the famed eighteenth century English legal scholar and jurist whose influential commentaries on the common law had a profound impact on the Founding Fathers of the United States.  In 2012, Sears was asked about the major achievements of ADF. He said "among the things I am most thankful for are our Blackstone Legal Fellowship graduates."  In 2017, President Donald Trump's nominee to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, Amy Coney Barrett, was criticized by Senator Al Franken for teaching constitutional law at Blackstone. In her Senate committee hearing he referred to ADF as a "hate group". Barrett responded that the hate group label is "controversial". Barrett was confirmed to the court by the full Senate.  The Blackstone Fellowship consists of three phases described as Learn, Lead, and Defend. Fellows spend the first two weeks of the program in the classroom studying in areas such as ethics, theology and jurisprudence. Sessions consist of lectures as well as hands-on interactive presentations.   The second phase of the program focuses on six-week field placements at a variety of venues across the United States and abroad including "public-interest law firms, attorneys, law professors, think tanks, and public-policy organizations." Placements are selected based on students' aptitude and career goals.   Finally, the Fellows return to ADF in Scottsdale for a week long series of presentations focusing on career development and professional networking. Speakers include legal academics, members of the judiciary, elected representatives, and practicing attorneys. Interns are given an orientation to the Blackstone alumni network.  The cost of attendance at Blackstone is $6,300. Most Blackstone Fellows receive a scholarship to attend the program. In addition, stipends are available to cover expenses during the placement phase of the program.   The following is a list of people who are currently or have been affiliated with Blackstone. 