The Geneva Centre for Education and Research in Humanitarian Action (French: Centre d'enseignement et de recherche en action humanitaire de Genève) (CERAH) offers a wide range of comprehensive and specialized postgraduate training programmes for professionals active in the humanitarian sector. A joint Centre of the University of Geneva and the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies,  CERAH is firmly anchored in Geneva's rich academic environment. It is one of the few institutes dedicated to the study of humanitarian action. It offers modular and flexible academic training programmes, distance or residential ones, and scholarship opportunities.  As Geneva's academic platform for humanitarian action, CERAH's focus lies on capacity strengthening and the reinforcement of both individual and collective competencies with the ultimate goal of contributing to an improved quality of the humanitarian response. Its programmes allow participants to develop a strong understanding of various conceptual and operational aspects of humanitarian action and equip them to define and implement strategic humanitarian responses.  Offering a variety of courses ranging from short courses (TSC) to a comprehensive Master's programme, CERAH provides flexible and modular opportunities for professionals to deepen their knowledge. The current educational offer encompasses seven postgraduate programmes (a master programme, one diploma, and five certificate courses) and a dozen of intensive courses on specific issues (TSC). Responding to its international audience, CERAH offers a distance-learning course in "Designing Strategies and Projects for Humanitarian Action" which allows participants to study and learn from their own context, without having to be in Geneva. During the course students develop an action plan, which they can directly implement in their work situation. In addition, CERAH offers a Massive Open Online Course on Humanitarian Communications, in partnership with the University of Geneva.  Humanitarian studies lie at the crossroads of various disciplines. As a result, CERAH promotes a multi-disciplinary approach to learning, and draws on the expertise of a range of academics and practitioners.  CERAH also undertakes critical research that aims to assess concepts, policies and responses in order to improve humanitarian responses.  CERAH was founded in 1998 with the support of the University of Geneva and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation. Its existence is a testimony to the gradual and collective effort over the past 19 years of bringing together a multitude of academic and humanitarian actors.  The Centre underwent several phases of transformation. At the time of its establishment, it was known as the Multifaculty Programme for Humanitarian Action (PPAH) and only offered a university diploma. It was set up to provide high-level, continuing university education to humanitarian practitioners.  The Centre was transformed in 2004, following its partnership with the Graduate Institute of International Aid Development studies. Renamed as the Interdisciplinary Programme in Humanitarian Action (PIAH), it introduced an advanced masters programme in collaboration with the I International Committee of the Red Cross and Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) Suisse. A reform process in 2008 led to the creation of CERAH, as we know it today. Changes at the international level as well as in the academic and humanitarian fields led the Geneva university community to envisage a more ambitious role for CERAH.  In subsequent years, particularly after 2011, under the leadership of Professor Doris Schopper, CERAH revised its postgraduate educational offer to better respond to the needs of humanitarian organizations and professionals. It led to the development of seven postgraduate degrees (1 MAS, 1 DAS, 5 CAS) and several one-week intensive seminars on specific issues. The MAS in Humanitarian Action is a 10- to 12-month full-time programme of 60 European Credit Transfer System (ECTS) credits.  The programme is focused on building in-depth understanding of the central conceptual and operational aspects of humanitarian action. The multidisciplinary and interactive programme, delivered in English, comprises three parts: Since 2012, the MAS in Humanitarian Action is offered to international managers in the humanitarian and development sector (with at least 2 years of working experience and holding a higher education institution degree), who wish to deepen their competencies in specific areas and add an academic and analytical dimension to their professional skills. Its modular set-up allows for maximum flexibility. Participant can complete the MAS in 1, 2 or 3 years.  This programme was awarded unconditional accreditation by the Swiss Center of Accreditation and Quality Assurance in Higher Education (AAQ).  The Diploma of Advanced Studies in Humanitarian Action is a 19-week programme of 30 ECTS credits.  This core course is divided in three modules and completed by an individual work (dissertation). Through the study of past and present humanitarian crises, participants acquire the tools needed to analyse, understand and engage in critical reflection on the response to humanitarian emergencies today. Academics and experts from a wide range of NGOs and international organisations deliver lectures. The programme is participatory, based on case studies and discussions. CERAH also offers seven-week 10-ECTS certificate courses. The courses are designed for managers to improve their competencies and leadership in defining and implementing specific strategies, while focusing on problem-solving in professional realities. List of CAS courses available: Within the CAS programmes, CERAH offers an 8-month distance-learning programme "Designing Strategies and Projects in Humanitarian Action", which comprises 15 ECTS. The course enhances the capacity of individual and institutional humanitarian actors to devise and implement effective humanitarian responses:  "Learn as you work, work as you learn." Specifically adapted to the needs of working humanitarian professionals, this course allows participants to study and learn from their own context. During the course students develop an action plan, which they can directly implement in their work situation. The programme is fairly autonomous where students develop their own learning objectives based on current challenges. At the end of the programme, participants develop relevant competencies to design and adapt humanitarian strategies and projects according to the specifics of each context. The course involves e-learning, a residential session in Kampala (Uganda) and individual coaching.  CERAH developed the Humanitarian Distance Learning programme to increase access to training particularly for national staff as well as to allow students to study from their own context. Specific themes are proposed as 1-week Thematic Short Courses (TSC). Offering topics that matter (e.g. nutrition, sexual violence, forced migration, negotiation) the courses attract new audiences and eventually, encourage participants to enrol in other trainings. List of TSC courses available:  The Massive Online Open Course (MOOC) "Humanitarian communication: addressing key challenges" focuses on the challenges of communication in humanitarian settings and the means of addressing these. This 5-week online course is repeated throughout the academic year.  CERAH staff conducts research on a range of themes linked to humanitarian action including health, law, protracted crises and the political economy of humanitarian crises. The Humanitarian Encyclopedia is a flagship project from CERAH to explore the different ways key humanitarian concepts are understood across space, time and disciplines .  This new project offers a conceptual framework for humanitarian action, and providing a dynamic platform for national and international practitioners, community leaders, policy makers and academics to reflect on humanitarian concepts and practice for the 21st century. 