Kim Coral McKay AO (born 1959) is an Australian environmentalist, author, entrepreneur and business person. Since April 2014, she has been the Director and CEO of the Australian Museum, the first woman to hold the position in the museum's 191-year history.  She co-founded the Clean Up Australia campaign in 1989 and the Clean Up the World campaign in 1992,  with the support of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). Clean Up the World operates in more than 125 countries. She co-created The National Geographic Society's The Genographic Project, the world's largest DNA population study, and is the co-author of five books.  McKay was born in Sydney to Francis Gordon McKay and Coral McKay (nee Thompson). She attended Mackellar Girls’ High School, in Manly Vale, and The University of Technology, Sydney (UTS), where she graduated with a BA Communications degree majoring in journalism, public relations and sociology, in 1980. From 1983-87, McKay was a consultant and then partner at Harfield McKay Communications, where she specialised in major events sponsorship and tourism activities, including The BOC Challenge solo around the world yacht race in 1982/82 and 1986-87. She also worked on Australian Professional Surfing Association events and Law Week for the Law Society of New South Wales. 	 In 1989, McKay co-founded Clean Up  following the voluntary coordination of the historic Clean Up the Harbour Day in Sydney. She worked in partnership for 10 years with 1994 Australian of the Year Ian Kiernan AO to develop Clean Up into a leading non-profit community environmental organisation. She served as Deputy Chairwoman from 1989 to 2009 and developed the "Rubbish Report" volunteer citizen science program for data collection and analysis, one of the first "citizen science" community initiatives. Clean Up Australia became one of the largest community environmental projects in Australia, operating in more than 900 cities and towns across the country, involving more than half a million volunteers at its peak. In 1992, McKay co-founded Clean Up the World, securing a partnership with UNEP to endorse and support the activity, along with international corporate support. The program operates in more than 125 countries and involves many millions of volunteers.  McKay, who was also Deputy Chairwoman of Clean Up the World from 1993-2009, told ABC radio that: "The belief that everyone can make a difference is a driving theme behind my actions."  In 1989, McKay established Profile Communications Pty Ltd, a Sydney-based event marketing and communications consultancy. The company focused on special event creation and marketing communications programs, with clients including Discovery Communications and Discovery Channel Eco-Challenge in Cairns. McKay was Managing Director of Profile Communications until 1998, when she closed the company to move to the United States to work for Discovery Communications. In 1998, McKay joined Discovery Communications, based in Washington D.C., where she oversaw the marketing and communications for Discovery Channel's largest event and documentary production — the Emmy-award winning Discovery Channel Eco-Challenge, the world's leading adventure sports race. She worked in close collaboration with the Executive Producer and the Race Director Mark Burnett to ensure the successful operation of the extreme sports event, held annually in remote locations around the world including Morocco and Patagonia. In 2000, McKay joined National Geographic Channels International, where she was responsible for the global marketing and communications activities for the world's fastest-growing cable channel.  In 2004, McKay returned to Australia to start Momentum2,  a Sydney-based marketing and communications agency specialising in major events, corporate sustainability and social responsibility programs. Key clients included National Geographic, Qantas and Harpo Productions (Oprah's Ultimate Australian Adventure)  . McKay co-created The Genographic Project  with population geneticist Dr Spencer Wells for the National Geographic Society, in partnership with IBM. The multiyear research project, the world's largest DNA population study, uses cutting-edge genetic and computational technologies to analyze historical patterns in DNA from around the world, to better understand our shared genetic roots.  In February 2014, McKay was appointed as the 17th director/curator of the Australian Museum, succeeding Mr Frank Howarth . She had previously served from 2012-14 as a Trustee of the museum. Since starting in the role as Director and CEO, in April 2014, McKay has initiated a transformation program at the museum, including enshrining free general admission for children into government policy, , constructing the new award-winning entrance pavilion, Crystal Hall, , establishing the Australian Museum Centre for Citizen Science  (part of the Australian Museum Research Institute), creating new galleries and programs, and restoring the Westpac Long Gallery, Australia's first museum gallery, which reopened in October 2017 and now houses the permanent exhibition "200 Treasures of the Australian Museum".  In 2008, McKay was awarded an Officer of the Order of Australia AO for distinguished service to the environment and the community . In 2011, McKay was included in the book "The Power of 100...One Hundred Women who have Shaped Australia". In 2013, McKay was named in The Australian Financial Review's 100 Women of Influence list. McKay holds a BA Communications from University of Technology, Sydney (formerly NSWIT) and was awarded the UTS Chancellor's Award for Excellence in 2010. She is an honorary Adjunct Professor at the Macquarie Graduate School of Management.  McKay is the co-author with Jenny Bonnin of the "True Green" series of books, published in Australia by ABC Books and by National Geographic Books in the United States.  True Green Kids won the AAAS/Subaru Book Prize for Best Hands On Science Book in 2009  and was featured in the journal Science Magazine. McKay is a media commentator on practical environmental action and is a public speaker addressing business and not-for-profit conferences, as well as schools and community groups. She presented a series of on-camera "True Green Tips" for Sky News in Australia (as part of the weekly Eco Report in 2009), co-authored a weekly "True Green" column for The Sunday Telegraph (Sydney) Body and Soul section in 2007 and was named one of G Magazine’s Top 20 Australian Eco Heroes in November 2009. McKay has also presented a weekly "True Green" radio spot for ABC regional radio in NSW. She was the master of ceremonies at the media conference for "Oprah's Ultimate Australian Adventure" at the Sydney Opera House, in December 2010.  McKay’s previous roles have included: Clean Up Australia/World Deputy Chairwoman; Fairtrade Australia and New Zealand Board Member; RANZCO Eye Foundation Board Member; National Business Leaders Forum on Sustainable Development Steering Committee; CSIRO’s ECOS Magazine Chairwoman of the Advisory Board; Center for Australian and New Zealand Studies, Georgetown University, Board Member; National Breast Cancer Foundation Marketing Advisory Committee; Sydney Olympic Games Bid Community Relations Committee; Short-handed Sailing Association of Australia Co-founder.  In 2008, she travelled to Antarctica as part of the Expedition Team, lecturing on board the Australian-based cruise ship ORION.  