Eighth grade is the term used for the eighth year of formal education in the US, and is typically the last year of middle school. In England, the equivalent is Year 9. In Brazil, the equivalent is nono ano (ninth grade), and in Scotland the equivalent is S2. Usually, students will be 13-14 years old. In the United States, Eighth Grade is most commonly thought to be a child's eighth year of education. However, for some, 8th Grade may be thought of as a child's 9th, 10th, or, possibly, 11th year of education. Though this depends upon whether or not the child attended Kindergarten and Preschool, and for how many years they attended Preschool (usually, a child attends Preschool for one year, but two years is somewhat common as well). Yet, most disagree to this because Preschool and Kindergarten are considered to be years of preparation, rather than actual education. In some parts of Canada (such as Newfoundland), and much of British Columbia, 8th grade is the first year of high school, or secondary school. Students are usually 13-14 years old. In Quebec, eighth Grade is equivalent to Secondary II (French: 2e Secondaire ("Seconde")) or Secondary Cycle 1, Year 2. The eighth grade mathematics curriculum in Canada and the United States usually includes either Pre-algebra or Algebra I. Occasionally, Geometry, or Algebra II are also taught in very advanced schools.  In some schools, especially the ones that are witnessing the required Basic Standards Test, basic everyday "real world" mathematical skills such as check writing, money management, and geometry are taught as well. In cultural and language curriculum, many students may opt to take a foreign language course, either for a semester or the full school year. In the United States, American history is often the primary focus in eighth grade social studies.  Other schools may also focus on other subject areas such as geography and world history. In most states in Australia, eighth grade is the equivalent of Year 8, which is the second year of high school. In Western Australia and South Australia, Year 8 is the first year of high school. In New Zealand, Year 9 (formerly Form 3) is the equivalent of eighth grade, with students aged 12 or 13 at the beginning of the year. It is the first year of secondary school and the ninth year of compulsory education. Students in Year 9 typically study English, mathematics, science, social science, health and physical education, the arts, and technology. 