Seventh grade, equivalent to Year 8 in England and Wales, and S1 in Scotland, is a year of education in many nations. The seventh grade is the seventh school year after kindergarten. Students are usually 12–13 years old. In the United States, in math, students focus commonly on an introduction to pre-algebra or the beginnings of algebra including ratio, proportion, and percent. New topics sometimes include scientific notation, concepts with negative numbers, and more advanced geometry.   In social studies, advanced pre-Civil War History is taught. Though American history is usually the norm, other cultures and time periods may be taught.   In science, it is usually moderate-level biology. In some parts of the United States, seventh grade is the first school year in which students have different teachers for each of their subjects, and so they change classrooms at the end of each period. Foreign language is often introduced at this level. The students can typically choose from several languages depending on school ability. In England and Wales, pupils aged between 12 and 13 are in Year 8 which is the second year of Secondary School. The Scottish equivalent is Secondary 1 or S1 - the first year of Secondary education. The Northern Irish equivalent is Year 9 or Second Form, the second year of secondary education. It is rare for pupils younger than 12-13 to enter Year 8. In Hong Kong, pupils aged 12 to 14 are in Secondary 1 or Form 1, the first year of secondary education. In some states of Australia including Victoria, New South Wales, Queensland, Australian Capital Territory, and Tasmania, Year 7 is the first year of secondary school, but it is actually the eighth year of schooling (Prep/Kindergarten, 1 through 6 then Year 7). In Australia, Year 7 students are aged 12–13 years old. The Irish equivalent to seventh grade is First Year, which is the first year of secondary education. Students are usually 12-13 years old. This is usually the time when students begin having different teachers for different subjects, and move classrooms after each period. In Iran, Grade 7 is the first year of Highschool A. There are 2 stages of Highschool in Iran: A and B. A ranges from grade 7 to 9 and B ranges from 9 to 12. Most of Iranian 7 graders are 13 years old. In Belgium and the Netherlands the 7th grade is called "de eerste klas" or "brugklas" in the Netherlands, and "1e middelbaar" or "1ière secondaire" in Belgium, the first year of high school (middle school doesn't exist in Belgium and the Netherlands, when you're 12 you go from primary school (basisschool) to high school (middelbare school) ). After 4/5/6 years (depending on your level of education) you can get your diploma. In Brazil, the time for elementary school was recently raised from 8 to 9 years, and the minimum age required to enter the seventh grade was changed from 11 to 12 years old. The students are usually between 12 and 13 years old. In Bulgaria, it would correspond to седми клас or 7-ми клас. Students are usually 13 years old. In the Philippines, Grade 7 is the first year of Junior High School. Topics mainly discussed are the following subjects like, for the major subjects are Elementary-based Algebra (Math in Grade 7), Integrated Science (Science in Grade 7), Filipino subject with Ibong Adarna, English and Asian Studies (Political Studies in Grade 7). Values Education, World Literature, MAPEH (Music, Arts, Physical Education and Health), Computer and TLE (Technology and Livelihood Education) are some of the minor subjects. Students are usually 12–13 years old. In Israel, in most formal places, the seventh grade is the first year of middle school. In South Africa, Grade 7 is the final year of primary school and is also the final year before High School as there is no such thing as Middle School in South Africa. Pupils (called Learners by the Department of Education) are usually between the ages of 11,12 and 13. In Sweden and Finland, this is the seventh year of compulsory school and the first year of "junior high". In Norway, students enter the seventh grade the year they turn twelve years old. This is the final year of Barneskole (literally Kids School), equivalent to Elementary School. In New Zealand, Year 8 (formerly Form 2) is the equivalent of seventh grade, with students aged 12 or 13 during the year. It is the eighth and final year of primary school and the eighth year of compulsory education. Depending on the area, students may take Years 7 and 8 at a full primary school, a secondary school, or a separate intermediate school. In India, Pakistan and other South Asian Countries, grade seven is called Class Seven and forms middle school. In Singapore, seventh grade is called Secondary One, and it is the start of one's secondary education after one completes primary education. Pupils are typically at the age of 13 in seventh grade. In France, seventh grade is called 5ème (5 years before Terminale, where most students take the Baccalauréat). 5ème is the second year of French secondary school, which is called collège. In Romania, seventh grade is called Seventh Class. Grade 7 in Canada is the first year of intermediate school, junior high school, or the last grade of elementary school. Intermediate schools (grades 7 and 8) provide education in Literature and Mathematics, as well as History, Geography, Music, Drama, Dance, Science (Biology, Chemistry and Physics in particular), Art, French (English if in French Immersion), and Physical Education (phys ed. or gym). French and ‘foreign’ languages, which used to be taught only at high schools, are now introduced during the last few years of elementary school and all years of intermediate school. In Taiwan, seventh grade refers to two things: students in the first year of junior-high but also to people born between the years 70-79 (the seventh decade) of the Minguo calendar, which equates to between 1981 and 1989. In Greece, seventh grade is called 1st year of middle school (1η γυμνασίου in Greek). It is the first year of Greece's middle school (γυμνάσιο). Students are taught subjects such as: Physical Education, Science (Chemistry, Physics, Biology), Religious Education, and language subjects In Russia, students in seventh grade are usually 12–14 years old. It is third grade of the middle school. Children study such subjects as: Algebra, Geometry, Russian language, foreign language (often English), Physics, Biology, History, Social studies, Geography, Arts, Literature, Music, Physical Education, Information Technologies, labour training (wood processing, sewing, cooking), in some regions native languages. In Malaysia, the seventh grade can be referred as Form 1. It is the beginning of student's secondary school after completing primary school at the age of 13. In Saudi Arabia, seventh grade is the first year of Middle School. 