Third grade (equivalent to Primary 4 in the UK) is a year of primary education in many countries. It is the third school year of primary school. Students are usually 8–9 years old, depending on when their birthday occurs. Grade 3 students learn how to work on projects on their own and with others. This may start as early as second and first grade as well. Social skills, empathy and leadership are considered by some educators  to be as important to develop as the academic skills of reading, writing and arithmetic. In Brazil, children begin their first year of elementary school at age 6 or 7 depending on their birthdate. Therefore, the 3rd year of elementary school is typically for students of 8–9 years of age. At the same age, Scottish and Welsh pupils are in their fourth year of compulsory education.  In Northern Ireland pupils are in "Primary 4", their fourth year of compulsory education. In England, the year of school that is the same age as 3rd Grade is Year 4, which is the fourth year of compulsory education. Most children start one year earlier however, in the Reception class.  In Canada, the year is called Grade 3, and the pupils are known as "3rd grade". In France, children aged 8 join CE2 ("Cours élémentaire deuxième année"), the third school year of primary school. It was formerly called "neuvième" (ninth year before Terminale, the "baccalauréat" year).  In India children enter Class 3 or 4 at ages 8 to 9.  In the Republic of Ireland, the equivalent is Third Class or Rang a trí (for 9-10 year olds) which is the fifth year of Primary School. In New Zealand, this level of class is called Standard 2 or Year 4. Children generally start this level between the ages of eight and nine. In Portugal, the third grade (terceiro ano, 3.º ano) is the third year of the four-year 1.º Ciclo do Ensino Básico that includes also the first grade, the second grade and the fourth grade.  In Spain for children from 8 to 9 years old is also the third year of elementary education (tercero de EGB). Also, elementary education is further subdivided into three stages. This is the first year in the second stage or Ciclo Medio in Spanish. 