In linguistics, an A-not-A question is a polar question that offers two opposite possibilities for the answer. This disjunctive question is predominantly found in Sinitic languages that offers a choice between an affirmative predicate and its negative counterpart. They are functionally regarded as a type of "yes/no" question as they are very similar to a large extent. "A-not-A" questions are often interpreted as having a 'neutral' presupposition or is used in a neutral context.  This means that the person asking the A-not-A question does not assume the truth value of the proposition expressed by the question. The “A-not-A” question structure is commonly found in Chinese. The overarching principle is the contrasting of the positive and negative form of a premise side by side. A-not-A questions have a special interrogative type pattern of which YES/NO answers are not permitted, and instead requires an echo response. Therefore, to properly answer the query, the recipient must select the positive (affirmative form “A”) or negative (negative predicate form “not-A”) version and use it in the formation of their response.  An example of an A-not-A question in English is in (1.a) "Are you happy or sad?". The response to this question must be an echo answer, stating either "I am happy," or the correct alternative, "I am sad". In other words, this sentence is a leading question, where the speaker has an expectation as to what the answer will be. In contrast, (1.b) "Are you happy or not?" is a neutral question where the answer to this can be yes or no in response to the first and more explicitly stated alternative.  A-not-A questions are not usually used in English, but the following example shows how A-not-A questions are answered. As seen in this example, simply answering "Yes" or "No" does not suffice as a response to the question. This question must be answered in the "A" or "not A" form. If this question was asked in the A-not-A pattern, its direct form would be "Did John eat or not eat the beans?" In forming A-not-A questions, "A" must remain the same on both sides. "A" is essentially a variable which can be replaced with a grammatical particle such as a modal, adverb, adjective, verb, or preposition. In Chinese, there are 6  attested patterns of A-not-A: A-not-A, AB-not-AB, A-not-AB, AB-not-A, a-not-A, and a-not-AB of which "A" stands for the full form of the predicate, "B" stands for the complement, and "a" stands for the first syllable of a disyllabic predicate.  A-not-A can be formed by a verb, an adjective, or an adverb,  as well as modals.  In the interrogative clause, A-not-A occurs by repeating the first part in the verbal group (with the option of an auxiliary) and the negative form of the particle is placed in between. However, this clause does not apply when using perfective in aspect. Instead, 沒有 meiyou is used to replace the repeated verb used in A-not-A form.  Here, the verb go is "A", and there is no object. Here, the verb watch is "A", and while there is an object, the object is not included in "A", and is therefore not reduplicated. Here, the verb watch is "A", and while the object is included before NEG, it is not included in "A", and is therefore not reduplicated. Reduplication is optional here. Here, the verb watch is "A", and while the object is included before NEG, it is not included in "A", and is therefore not reduplicated. "A" is reduplicated here. There is some debate amongst speakers as to whether or not 3.d. is grammatical, and Gasde argues that it is. Here, the adjective good is "A", and it is reduplicated. The word ben is a classifier, which means it is a counter word for the Noun book. Here, the adjective good is "A", but it is not reduplicated. Here, the preposition at is "A", and it is reduplicated. Here, the preposition at is "A", and it is not reduplicated. Here, the modal dare is "A" and it is reduplicated. Despite having the same negative marker as Standard Chinese, "不" bat1 is only used in fixed expressions or to give literacy quality.   And only "唔" m4  is used as a negative marker in A-not-A questions.  One distinction in Cantonese when compared to Standard Chinese is that certain forms of A-not-A questions are not attested due to dialectal differences.  Like it's Standard Chinese counterpart, this form is attested in Cantonese as shown by the sentence pair in (13).  As shown by (14.a), this is not an attested form in Cantonese, unlike the counterpart in Standard Chinese in (14.b).  This form is only attested in Cantonese if the predicate is a monosyllabic word as shown by (15.a), compared to the Standard Chinese counterpart in (15.b).  A-not-AB is not attested in Cantonese if the predicate is a bi-syllabic word as shown by (16.a), unlike it's Standard Chinese counterpart in (16.b).  In such cases, Cantonese speakers usually use the form a-not-AB, like (19).  This form is only attested if the predicate is a monosyllabic word ("A") with an object ("B") as shown by the sentence pair with its Standard Chinese counterpart in (17).  Note that such forms of AB-not-A in monosyllabic word is used by the old generation.  When the predicate is a bi-syllabic word, then AB-not-A form is not attested as shown in (18.a), unlike it's Standard Chinese counterpart in (18.b).  This form is attested in both Cantonese and its Standard Chinese counterpart as shown in the sentence pair in (18).  This form is attested in both Cantonese and its Standard Chinese as shown in the sentence pair in (19).  There are three salient morphological varieties of A-not-A question in Korean.  And like all A-not-A questions, the questions cannot be answered with Yes ("네" Ney) or No ("아니요" Anyo) Both "an" and "mos" can precede the predicate in A-not-A "An", short form for "ani-", expresses simple negation "Mos" expresses impossibility or inability Korean has three negative predicates that can form A-not-A question, "molu-", "eps-", and "ani-" "Molu-" means "don't know" "Esp-" means "do not have; do not exist" "Ani-" means "is not" Meaning "desist from", "mal" follows an affirmative polar question, and will occur instead of a reduplicated full verb that has a post predicate negation. This means that there is only one full verb in this type of A-not-A question. However, the modal auxiliary verb "mal" is restricted in that it does not co-occur in predicative adjectives or the factual complementizer "ni". Moreover, with "mal" being a bound form, it cannot be the echo negative answer. Instead, the full negative verb will be provided as the answer, taking "an-" negation, as illustrated in (26) One analysis of the formation of the A-not-A construction is the post-syntactic approach, through two stages of M-merger. First, the A-not-A operator targets the MWd which is the head that is closest to it and undergoes lowering. Then, reduplication occurs to yield the surface form of the A-not-A question.  Tseng suggests A-not-A occurs post-syntactically, at the morphological level. It is movement that occurs overtly at the phonetic form, after the syntactic movement has occurred. A-not-A is a feature of T that operates on the closest, c-commanded morphosyntactic words (MWd), and not subwords (SWd). The elements that undergo post-syntactic movement are morphosyntactic words (MWd). A node X  is a MWd iff X is the highest segment and X is not contained in another X. A node X is a SWd if X  is a terminal node and not an MWd.  The A-not-A operation is a MWd to MWd movement. The A-not-A operator is defined as an MWd. The A-not-A operator can only lower to a MWd which is immediately dominated by the maximal projection that is also immediately dominated by the maximal projection of the A-not-A operator. An SWd cannot be the target for the A-not-A operator. In addition, if there is an intervening MWd or SWd between the A-not-A operator and its target, the A-not-A operation fails.  A-not-A operator lowering must satisfy four conditions: After lowering, the A-not-A operator triggers reduplication on the target node. The reduplication domain can be the first syllable of the targeted element, the targeted element itself, and the maximal projection that contains the targeted element. Reduplication is linear and the A-not-A operator cannot skip the adjacent constituent to copy the next constituent.  In first syllable reduplication, the A-not-A operator copies the first syllable of the adjacent MWd and moves the reduplicant, the copied syllable, to the left of the base MWd. Then the negation is inserted between the reduplicant and base to form a grammatical sentence. In fig. (1.a) The A-not-A operator copies the first syllable tao of the MWd taoyan. The reduplicant tao is put at the left of the base taoyan and then the negative constituent bu is inserted in between. In fig. (1.b) *Zhangsan taoyan Lisi-bu-tao is ungrammatical because tao cannot be put to the right of the maximal projection VP, taoyan Lisi. In MWd reduplication, the A-not-A operator copies the adjacent MWd and moves the reduplicant MWd overtly to the left of the base MWd or to right of the base maximal projection containing the MWd. Otherwise, the reduplicant can move covertly, not spelled-out, to the right of the base maximal projection containing the MWd. The negation is then inserted between the reduplicant and base to form a grammatical sentence. In (9.a) the A-not-A operator copies the MWd taoyan. The reduplicant taoyan is overtly put at the left of the base taoyan and then the negative constituent bu is inserted in between. In (9.b) the A-not-A operator copies the MWd taoyan. The reduplicant taoyan is overtly put at the right of the base taoyan Lisi and then the negative constituent bu is inserted in between. In (9.c) the A-not-A operator copies the MWd taoyan. The reduplicant taoyan, not spelled-out here, is covertly put at the right of the base taoyan Lisi and then the negative constituent bu is inserted. In maximal projection reduplication, the A-not-A operator copies the maximal projection that contains the adjacent MWd and moves the reduplicant either to the left or to the right of the base. The base may be just the MWd or the maximal projection containing the MWd. The maximal projection may be any XP (VP, AP, PP etc.). The negation is then inserted between the reduplicant and base to form a grammatical sentence. In (10.a) the A-not-A operator copies the maximal projection VP taoyan Lisi. The reduplicant taoyan Lisi is put at the left of the base taoyan Lisi and then the negative constituent bu is inserted in between. 