In linguistics, morphosyntactic alignment is the grammatical relationship between arguments—specifically, between the two arguments (in English, subject and object) of transitive verbs like the dog chased the cat, and the single argument of intransitive verbs like the cat ran away. English has a subject, which merges the more active argument of transitive verbs with the argument of intransitive verbs, leaving the object distinct; other languages may have different strategies, or, rarely, make no distinction at all. Distinctions may be made morphologically (through grammatical case or verbal agreement), syntactically (through word order), or both. For example, in English, in the dog chased the cat (transitive verb, two arguments), and in the bird flew (intransitive verb, one argument), 'dog' and 'bird' are both subjects, which is shown by their appearance before the verb, while 'cat' is different, an object, coming after the verb. Not all languages treat 'dog' and 'bird' as equivalent the way English does: in some 'cat' and 'bird' will be equivalent, while 'dog' is different, and there are yet other systems.  Transitive verbs have two core arguments, labelled A (the more active or in-control) and O, which in a language like English are subject (A) and object (O). Intransitive verbs have a single core argument, labelled S, which in English (but not in all languages) is also a subject.  (The label P is sometimes used in place of O. Note that while the labels S, A, O, and P originally stood for "subject", "agent", "object", and "patient" respectively, the concepts of S, A, and O/P are distinct both from the traditional grammatical relations "subject" and "object", and from the thematic relations "agent" and "patient": an A or S need not be an agent or subject, an O need not be a patient, even in a language where they usually are.) Generally, not all three of these labelled arguments (S, A, O) are distinct. In most languages, two are treated one way (such as the subject in English, which covers S and A) and the third is distinct (as the object in English, which covers O). That is, the labels are abstractions. They help illustrate the similarities and differences between languages, but are not real in all but a handful. There is no reality to S vs A in English, for example, only between S/A and O; in other languages, A will be realized, but not S vs O.  The best-known system is the English type, with a distinct O (object). These are called nominative–accusative languages, or just accusative languages, after the nominative and accusative cases, which are how A/S and O are distinguished in Latin. The best known of the other systems is the ergative system, named after the ergative case, which is how A is marked in many languages (such as Inuit and Basque) which distinguish A from S/O. Yet other systems are found in many Native American languages and in the Philippines. Many Australian languages will sometimes be one, and sometimes another, depending on the situation. The principal types, or alignments, so called because S is said to "align" with either A (as in English) or O (as in Inuit languages) are summarized here. The distinction between the two most common systems is expanded upon in the next section. For further information, including the rarer systems, see the individual articles. The direct, tripartite, and transitive alignment types are all quite rare. The alignment types other than Austronesian and Fluid can be shown graphically like this:  In addition, in some languages,  both nominative–accusative and ergative–absolutive systems may be used, split between different grammatical contexts, called split ergativity. The split may sometimes be linked to animacy, as in many Australian Aboriginal languages, or to aspect, as in Mayan languages. A few Australian languages, such as Diyari, are split among accusative, ergative, and tripartite alignment, depending on animacy. A popular idea, introduced in Anderson (1976),  is that some constructions universally favor accusative alignment while others are more flexible. In general, behavioral constructions (control, raising, relativization) are claimed to favor nominative–accusative alignment while coding constructions (especially case constructions) do not show any alignment preferences. This idea underlies early notions of ‘deep’ vs. ‘surface’ (or ‘syntactic’ vs. ‘morphological’) ergativity (e.g. Comrie 1978;  Dixon 1994 ): many languages have surface ergativity only (ergative alignments only in their coding constructions, like case or agreement) but not in their behavioral constructions or at least not in all of them. Languages with deep ergativity (with ergative alignment in behavioral constructions) appear to be less common. Ergative languages contrast with nominative–accusative languages (such as English), which treat the objects of transitive verbs distinctly from other core arguments. These different arguments can be symbolized as follows: The S/A/O terminology avoids the use of terms like "subject" and "object", which are not stable concepts from language to language. Moreover, it avoids the terms "agent" and "patient", which are semantic roles that do not correspond consistently to particular arguments. For instance, the A might be an experiencer or a source, semantically, not just an agent. The relationship between ergative and accusative systems can be schematically represented as the following: The following Basque examples demonstrate ergative–absolutive case marking system: In Basque, gizona is "the man" and mutila is "the boy". In a sentence like  mutila gizonak ikusi du, you know who's seeing whom because -k is always added to the one doing the seeing. So this means 'the man saw the boy'. To say 'the boy saw the man', just add the "-k" to the boy: mutilak gizona ikusi du. With a verb like etorri "come" there's no need to tell "who's coming whom", so no -k is ever added. "The boy came" is 'mutila etorri da'.  To contrast with a nominative–accusative language, Japanese marks nouns with a different case marking: In this language, in the sentence "man saw child", the one doing the seeing (man) may be marked with ga, which works like Basque  "-k" (and the one who is seen may be marked with o). However, in the sentences like the child arrived, where there's no need of telling "who arrived whom", there may be a ga. This is unlike Basque, where "-k" is completely forbidden in such sentences. 