Polysyndeton comes from the Ancient Greek πολύ poly, meaning "many", and συνδετόν syndeton, meaning "bound together with".  A stylistic scheme, polysyndeton is the deliberate insertion of  conjunctions into a sentence for the purpose of “slow[ing] up the rhythm of the prose” so as to produce “an impressively solemn note.”   In grammar, a polysyndetic coordination is a coordination in which all conjuncts are linked by coordinating conjunctions (usually and, but, or, nor in English). A passage from The Book of Genesis, 1:24-25 exemplifies the stately effect of polysyndeton:  And God said, “Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kind.”  And it was so. And God made the beast of the earth after his kind and cattle after their kind, and everything that creeps upon the earth to its kind. And God saw that it was good.   Author Ernest Hemingway employs the conjunction “and” to convey “a flow and continuity of experience” in a passage from his short story “After the Storm”:  "I said, 'Who killed him?' and he said 'I don't know who killed him, but he's dead all right,' and it was dark and there was water standing in the street and no lights or windows broke and boats all up in the town and trees blown down and everything all blown and I got a skiff and went out and found my boat where I had her inside Mango Key and she was right only she was full of water."   The poet Keats used conjunctions in a verse from  Endymion:   And soon it lightly dipped, and rose, and sank, And dipped again...  Polysyndeton is used extensively in the King James Version of the Bible, where and is used as a literal translation of the Hebrew waw-consecutive and the Ancient Greek particle δέ. For example: Shakespeare is known for using various rhetorical devices in his works, including polysyndeton. Writers of modern times have also used the scheme: Cormac McCarthy used polysyndeton extensively throughout his ten novels (1965–2006), especially "and" to replace an increasing number of commas. (By The Border Trilogy, commas are mostly used between unquoted voices and narration, as in: "Bring it here, he said.") Examples from each novel: It can be contrasted with asyndeton, which is a coordination containing no conjunctions often manipulating the rhythm of a passage in the attempt to make a thought more memorable, and syndeton, which is a coordination with one conjunction. Two examples of asyndeton: An example of syndeton:  