The T(ea)-rules (T(hee)-regels), are a set of conjugation rules used in the Dutch language to determine whether the second person singular/plural and the first and third person singular of a verb end in -t or not. These rules are related to the 't kofschip-rule, which is used to determine the verb end for past tenses and participles. The combined sets of rules are also known as the d/t-rules. However the actual rules for Dutch conjugation are more complex. The pronoun jij/je only makes the verb end in -t if it precedes the verb, and if the verb is in the present simple  or present perfect indicative. Modal verbs and the future/conditional auxiliary zullen allow forms with and without -t (but the subject pronoun must still precede the verb for the -t form to appear). This pronoun is informal and can be used in written language. If the radical of the verb end in -t, the jij form always ends in -t: With the verbs houden, rijden and verbs derived from them, the -d of the radical can be dropped if it is not followed by -t. In a formal context, usually the d is not dropped. The pronoun jullie always makes the verb end in -en. The ending -t is also possible, but this form is archaic (although it does survive in Brabantian dialect). The pronoun gij/ge makes the verb end in -t, whether the pronoun precede or follow the verb. Modal and auxiliary forms also end in -t. This pronoun is used informally in spoken language in North Brabant and Flanders only. Its written form only appears in archaic texts where it compares to English thou. No extra -t is added if the verb stem already end in -t. The ending -t is added after -d: In the subjunctive and in the regular past, the -t survives only as an archaic form: In informal speech (only in Flanders/Brabant), the verb ends in -de or -te, if gij follows the verb. In very informal speech (only in Flanders/Brabant), the subject is dropped altogether. The -e ending after the stem is a remnant of the Middle Dutch pronoun di which, over the centuries, developed into a clitic. The rules for third person singular subjects and the pronoun u/U  (2nd person sing./plur.) are the same: the verb takes -t in the simple present and present perfect tense of the indicative. Modal verbs and zullen (will) have forms without -t. This pronoun is formal and is used in both written and spoken language. The spelling with a capital U is very formal and is used for royalty or deities. The first person singular for non-modal verb is identical to the radical. The form can end in a vowel or in a consonant (including t). For the verbs houden, rijden and their derivatives, the -d of the radical can be dropped in spoken language. In a formal context, the d is not dropped. 