In linguistics, veridicality is a semantic or grammatical assertion of the truth of an utterance. For example, the statement "Paul saw a snake" asserts the truthfulness of the claim, while "Paul did see a snake" is an even stronger assertion. Negation is veridical, though of opposite polarity, sometimes called antiveridical: "Paul didn't see a snake" asserts that the statement "Paul saw a snake" is false.  In English, non-indicative moods are frequently used in a nonveridical sense: "Paul may have seen a snake" and "Paul would have seen a snake" do not assert that Paul actually saw a snake (and the second implies that he did not), though "Paul would indeed have seen a snake" is veridical, and some languages have separate veridical conditional moods for such cases. The formal definition of veridicality views the context as a propositional operator. For temporal and aspectual operators, the definition of veridicality is somewhat more complex: Nonveridical operators typically license the use of polarity items, which in veridical contexts normally is ungrammatical: All downward entailing contexts are nonveridical. Because of this, theories based on nonveridicality can be seen as extending those based on downward entailment, allowing to explain more cases of PI licensing. Downward entailment predicts that polarity items will be licensed in the scope of negation, downward entailing quantifiers like few N, at most n N, no N, and the restriction of every: Quantifiers like exactly three students, nobody but John, and almost nobody are non-monotone (and thus not downward entailing) but nevertheless admit any: Hardly and barely allow for any despite not being downward entailing. Polarity items are quite frequent in questions, although questions are not monotone. Although questions biased towards the negative answer, such as "Do you [even] give a damn about any books?" (tag questions based on negative sentences exhibit even more such bias), can sometimes be seen as downward entailing, this approach cannot account for the general case, such as the above example where the context is perfectly neutral. Neither can it explain why negative questions, which naturally tend to be biased, don't license negative polarity items. In semantics which treats a question as the set of its true answers, the denotation of a polar question contains two possible answers: Because disjunction p ∨ q entails neither p nor q, the context is nonveridical, which explains the admittance of any. Polarity items appear in future sentences. According to the formal definition of veridicality for temporal operators, future is nonveridical: that "John will buy a bottle of Merlot" is true now does not entail that "John buys a bottle of Merlot" is true at any instant up to and including now. On the other hand, past is veridical: that "John bought a bottle of Merlot" is true now entails that there is an instant preceding now at which "John buys a bottle of Merlot" is true. Likewise, nonveridicality of the habitual aspect licenses polarity items. The habitual aspect is nonveridical because e.g., that "He is usually cheerful" is true over some interval of time does not entail that "He is cheerful" is true over every subinterval of that. This is in contrast to e.g., the progressive aspect, which is veridical and prohibits negative polarity items. Non-monotone generic sentences accept polarity items. Modal verbs create generally good environments for polarity items: Such contexts are nonveridical despite being non-monotone and sometimes even upward entailing ("John must tango" entails "John must dance"). Imperatives are roughly parallel to modal verbs and intensional contexts in general. Protasis of conditionals is one of the most common environments for polarity items. Polarity items are licensed with directive propositional attitudes but not with epistemic ones. 