  The Health Policy has 19 goals and objectives, 16 policy principles and 39 strategies. The Bangladesh health policy document was published in 2011 and adheres to the following principles: Health is defined as "A state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity."  In the absence of a written and approved Health Policy, the national Annual Development Program and Five Year Plans substituted for policy principles. The problems in the health services multiplied in the absence of a clear policy. Bangladesh is a developing country with the world's highest population density. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare  assembled a Committee in 1996 for the purpose of preparing a health policy, with members drawn from civil society and professional bodies, including technocrats and bureaucrats. A further five sub-committees were formed to: The sub-committees worked for more than a year and submitted their efforts/recommendations. A working group was formed and entrusted with the responsibilities for compiling the recommendations contained in the reports. The working group also organised workshops in all six Divisions to elicit opinions of cross-section of the society on these reports. Finally the working group presented the proposals and recommendations to the National Health Policy Formulation Committee.  A report on the health policy was thus formulated on the basis of consensus. The Cabinet on 14 Aug 2000 approved the National Health Policy. The health care are designated to meet the health needs of the community through the use of available knowledge and resources. The services provided should be comprehensive and community based. The resources must be distributed according to the needs of the community. The final outcome of good health care system is the changed health status or improve health status of the community which is expressed in terms of lives saved, death averted, disease prevented, disease treated, prolongation of life etc. Health care delivery system in Bangladesh based on PHC concept has got various Level of service delivery: A) Primary level health care is delivered though USC or HFWC with one in each union domiciliary level,  integrated health and family planning services through field workers for every 3000–4000 population and 31  bed capacities in hospitals. B) The secondary level health care is provided through 100 bed capacities in district hospital. Facilities provide specialist services in internal medicine, general surgery, gynecology, paediatrics and obstetrics, eye clinical, pathology, blood transfusion and public health laboratories. C) Tertiary Level health care is available at the medical college hospital, public health and medical institutes and other specialist hospitals at the national level where a mass wide range of specialised as well as better  laboratory facilities are available. The referral system will be developed keeping in view the following. 1. A clearly spent-out linkage between the specialised national institutes, medical college and district hospitals to ensure proper care and treatment of patients from the rural areas served by lower level facilities. 2. Patients from the rural areas referred by lower level facilities to district and medical college hospitals and  specialised institutions should get preferential treatment after admission 