The Council for Dance, Drama and Musical Theatre—CDMT (formerly known as CDET—Council for Dance Education and Training)  is the quality assurance and membership body for the professional dance, drama and musical theatre industries.  CDMT was founded in 1979   and it is the industry body offering quality assurance and membership services to institutions delivering training, education and assessment in dance, drama and musical theatre. Overview In 1979, alarmed at the indifferent quality of what was being presented as appropriate professional training and education in dance, musical theatre and the related performing arts, a number of eminent artists met with representatives of the leading industry organisations to discuss how the sector could work together to ensure high standards of provision. What emerged was CDMT. Over the years CDMT has become the first point of contact for employers, students and teachers seeking information about high quality training, education and assessment not only dance and musical theatre, but also drama across the UK. The organisation works hand in hand with Accredited Schools and Validated Awarding organisations to ensure that professional training and assessments both remain abreast of current industry trends and, importantly, address the real world needs of employers, with the purpose of securing the supply of high quality practitioners for the future.  CDMT ensures the provision of high quality professional dance, drama and musical theatre training through the accreditation of full-time performing arts schools. Accreditation is only awarded to those schools and colleges that have successfully undertaken a thorough and comprehensive institutional-level review by a panel of nominated industry experts.  CDMT validates the world's leading awarding organisations offering graded, vocational and diploma examinations in dance, musical theatre and the performing arts, ensuring excellence in examination provision by carrying out quality assurance inspections and annual comparability studies of assessment standards. Affiliates are committed to working with CDMT to develop the highest standards in their scrutinised courses. Some programmes focus on progression towards a specific role in the performing arts, others encourage reflective practice in a work-based context, including continuing professional development, whilst others develop skills in research and analysis which contribute to the sector’s wider understanding of its history and contextual influences. The Recognised Awards engage pre-vocational schools delivering provision across the performing arts, with associated teachers holding specialist teaching diplomas in dance, drama, musical theatre and music. This self-certification scheme makes a valuable contribution to the development of safe and professional standards of practice in pre- or non-vocational teaching settings.   Advocacy on behalf of the sector is a significant CDMT undertaking. The organisation provides a UK-wide forum in which authorities, educators and employers can come together to discuss common concerns and work strategically to promote training, education and assessment. Membership services are coordinated through the Conference of Professional Schools, Awarding Organisations Committee and affiliate meetings. cdmt.org.uk  is the primary source of up-to-date information on high quality provision across the sector, including an up-to-date list of membership and initiatives. CDMT publishes the annual UK Guide to professional training, education and assessment in dance, drama and musical theatre which is the definitive resource for those seeking information on quality provision in the sector. The publication is sponsored by Spotlight. CDMT administers the steering group for the Dance and Drama Awards (DaDA) on behalf of members, which involves facilitating communications between the Education Funding Agency and schools delivering dance, drama and musical theatre courses within the scheme; developing briefing papers on funding for government ministers; and administering the DaDA information website  dadainfo.org.uk on behalf of stakeholders. CDMT coordinates and progresses cooperation across all Ofqual recognised organisations awarding graded examinations in dance, drama, music and musical theatre. Projects to date include the booklet Graded Exams: The Definitive Guide, its associated website gradedexams.com and many detailed sector reports. The most recent Careers Conference took place at the Liverpool Institute of Performing Arts in November 2017 which disseminated up-to-date guidance on careers, funding and training opportunities for prospective students and their parents, culminating in showcase performances by current students of CDMT Accredited Schools. Previous conferences have taken place at the Hammond, Chester, Elmhurst Ballet School, Birmingham. The next Careers Conference is organised for the Urdang Academy, at the Shaw Theatre, London on 25 November 2018.   CDMT members contribute to the sustainability and international profile of the UK creative industries.  By supporting the performers, students and teachers of tomorrow, collectively they keep professional training and rigorous assessment as the two cornerstones of a dependable progression route to a career in the performing arts.  CDMT validates offers graded,vocational and diploma examinations in the performing arts, carrying out quality assurance inspections and annual comparability studies of assessment standards.   Some Affiliate programmes such as Access to Professional Training and Performing Arts Training  focus on progression towards a specific role. Others, including Continuing Professional Development encourage reflective practice in a work-based context. Higher Education modules help users develop skills in research and analysis.  