Delta Chi Xi Honorary Dance Fraternity (ΔΧΞ), more commonly referred to as Delta Chi Xi, is a co-ed honorary professional fraternity and member of the Professional Fraternity Association organized to acknowledge academic excellence, serve the community, and share the art of dance among fellow students.  Delta Chi Xi Honorary Dance Fraternity, Inc. was founded in the UNCG School of Music, Theatre and Dance at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro on April 20, 2010. The organization was established as an Honorary Dance Society by Kara J. Wade, Jennifer R. Cheek, and Kristina M. Rogers and was officially founded by Kara J. Wade and Jennifer R. Cheek under the advising of UNCG Dance Department Faculty member Robin Gee. Later it was transformed from an Honors Society into an Honors Fraternity and then a Professional Fraternity.  Delta Chi Xi was officially incorporated on October 20, 2011 by the North Carolina Secretary of State, Elaine Marshall. On November 12, 2013 Delta Chi Xi was officially accepted into the Professional Fraternity Association, making it the first and only fraternity for collegiate dance students in the association. Delta Chi Xi was officially founded by Kara J. Wade, Jennifer R. Cheek, and Kristina M. Rogers under the guidance of Robin Gee. The fourteen original charter members were Jennifer Cheek, Whitleigh Cook, Molly Derrickson, Lauren Drake, Rebekah Gonzalez, Joy Kelly, Andrea Lalley, Ann Brady Lewis, Margaret Moncure, Meredith Shaver, Carrie Simpson, Kristi Townsend, Kara Wade, and Ruth Ward. Delta Chi Xi's colors are royal purple and teal. Purple is symbolic of royalty, power, nobility, and ambition; it is also associated with wisdom and creativity. Teal represents sophistication, uniqueness, guidance and leadership. The official symbol of Delta Chi Xi is a combined sun and spiral to represent the unity and connection between dance, service, and academics. The sun is depicted by a silhouette of a dancer in a 'C jump' pose with 14 spirals as sun rays to represent the 14 original charter members. The official Statement of Purpose of Delta Chi Xi:  Dance is an avenue and pathway that can be seen and appreciated, our mission is to create a social network between passionate artists and educators of the arts; to inform and educate students about the arts and challenge them to reach out to the world through the gift of dance; to create a well-rounded individual; to fully understand the concept of dance as a physical embodiment of the whole self rather than solely a technical challenge to master; to challenge students to reach out in each of the components that make up the organization; to connect an appreciation for cultural diversity.  The official Mission Statement of Delta Chi Xi: Our purpose is to create a connection between passionate artists and educators of this art to merge talent and scholarship, and to establish a network among these individuals. We have a mission to inform and educate students about dance, and to challenge them to reach out to the world through their gift and ability to serve. We strive to: create a well-rounded individual; to help someone fully understand the concept of dance as a physical embodiment of the whole self rather than solely a technical challenge to master; to challenge students to reach out in each of the components that make up the organization; and to connect an appreciation for cultural diversity. Delta Chi Xi hosts workshops, programs, and free dance classes for the community, and volunteers to assist any areas of need in the community. Delta Chi Xi's goals and purpose are organized into a Six POINTE Program: Delta Chi Xi is currently divided into six different chapters.  Delta Chi Xi Honorary Dance Fraternity, Inc. is divided into six active college chapters. The official alumnae chapter, The North Carolina Alumni Chapter, was chartered on April 22, 2012. The following is a list of chapters of Delta Chi Xi: Delta Chi Xi hosts a national conference, DanCe fluX, every year at the University of Maryland.   The conference includes master classes taught by guest artists, activities for fellowship among brothers of different chapters, and a dance concert.  