The National Dance Association (NDA), is a defunct association of SHAPEAmerica, formerly the American Alliance for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance (AAHPERD).  It was the oldest of dance education organizations, and developed programs, published books and materials, and sponsored professional development conferences for dance educators in a broad range of disciplines. The National Dance Association was originally established in 1932 as the section on Dance by the American Physical Education Association (APEA), a forerunner to the American Alliance for Health, Physical Education and Recreation (AAHPER). It was elevated to Divisional status in 1965 and nine years later became an association within the newly renamed American Alliance for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance (AAHPERD). In 2013 NDA was dissolved as AAHPERD became one unified organization and changed its name to SHAPE America (Society of Health and Physical Education). NDA serves dance educators in the following areas: Early Childhood Elementary Secondary College/University Private Studios/ Schools Dance Medicine & Science Dance Technology Curriculum Development Publications Development Dance Performance Dance for the Differently Abled Advocacy and Public Relations [clarification needed] NDA promoted dance professionalism through continuing education credits in workshops and conventions held at national, district and state levels. Publications included NDA's landmark document, the National Standards for Dance Education, Opportunity- to- Learn Standards for Dance and Anne Green Gilbert's Creative Dance for All Ages. NDA was at the forefront supporting efforts to integrate technology within the arts through such conferences as Dancing with the Mouse and Page-to-Stage. It supported healthy lifestyles through its publications Dance Movement Therapy and Preventing Dance Injuries. Nu Delta Alpha was an Honor Society that recognized Students and Professionals for High Achievements in Dance. It was designed for dance education students, dance educators, and professional dancers to express their devotion to the art form by sharing, recognizing, and promoting dance education within schools and communities.  Nu Delta Alpha chapters were designated for middle through high school, college through professional levels, private studios, and preparatory and home schools.  Affiliation with Nu Delta Alpha provided students and professionals with the opportunity to advocate for dance education. NDA is governed by a Board of Directors. The Heritage Award recognized individuals who made outstanding contribution of national or international significance to dance in the following categories: Teaching excellence; Establishment or administration of a functioning dance department, center or program; Research or publication; Consulting; Choreography; Performance; Notation; or Related Arts. The first Heritage Award was presented in 1953. Heritage Award Winners 2010 Marlys Waller and Anne Pittman The NDA Scholar/Artist is selected by the NDA Research Committee. The awardee serves for one year beginning at the AAHPERD National Convention at which he/she delivers the NDA Scholar/Artist Lecture. The NDA Scholar/Artist is chosen by the following criteria: • A scholarly record as evidenced by publications, presentations and other creative works including choreography extending over ten (10) years. • Currently producing scholarly materials or other creative works. • Document in-depth study of dance. • Capable of communicating ideas and knowledge to selected arts groups as well as to groups in the Alliance disciplines The first NDA Scholar was selected in 1977. The designation of Scholar was changed in 1995 to include "Artist" in the title; whereas, the first NDA Scholar/Artist was named in 1996. Dance Scholar/Artists 