The Cabiri, a Seattle-based non-profit physical theater troupe, was founded in 1999 by Artistic Director John S. Murphy.  In 2001, the troupe became legally incorporated (under the organization The Anunnaki Project) and obtained 501(c)(3) status from the IRS. The mission of The Cabiri and The Anunnaki Project is to preserve the mythologies of cultures that have passed into antiquity, utilizing theatrical, storytelling dance performances, educational presentations, and a free online encyclopedia of terms from folklore and mythology. Since its inception, the troupe has utilized a variety of mediums to present "performative mythology," theatrical depictions of tales from folklore and mythology. Tales from Babylonian mythology, Celtic mythology, Chinese mythology, Greek mythology, Italian folklore, Japanese mythology, Romanian folklore, Russian mythology, Sumerian mythology, and other mythos have been utilized in past productions. The Cabiri's early work consisted primarily of street theater and performance art including fire dancing, stilt walking, and juggling. In 2001 the company began incorporating aerial dance on low-flying trapeze, aerial sling, aerial hoop (lyra), and other apparatus. Aerial dance has since become the primary performance focus of the troupe. In 2006, the organization expanded its activities to include aerial dance instruction for adults. The troupe draws from accredited academic resources that have undergone peer review when creating new work, and strives to educate the public about folklore and mythology via its theatrical productions. The organization's work has been presented to thousands of audience members throughout North America in the last decade and has been featured in a variety of media and arts-related publications. In April 2012, the organization published its first book "Tarhun: Legend of the Lightning God." Co-authored by Mark Teppo and John Murphy, the text explores Hittite mythology, focusing upon storm god mythos and includes a novelization of the script for the theatrical production by the same name. ISBN 978-0-9853031-4-3. Members of The Cabiri performance troupe as "Ishtar", June 2009 The Cabiri performance troupe in "Nergal", July 2008 