The Arabic Shiite reform journal al-ʿIrfān (Arabic: العرفان; DMG: al-ʿIrfān; English: "Knowledge") was founded in Beirut by Aḥmad ʿĀrif az-Zain (1884-1960) in 1909. From 1910 the publication was transferred to a special printing house in Saida, South Lebanon. Az-Zain, who had worked before for different magazines, among others Ṯamarāt al-funūn (1875-1908), was in charge until 1960. Together with Aḥmad Riḍā (1872-1953) and Sulaimān Ẓāhir (1873-1960) he initiated a new stage of Nahḍa with this encyclopedic educational journal in South Lebanon.  The subtitle ("maǧalla ʿilmīya, adabīya, aḫlāqīya, iǧtimāʿīya") explains clearly that al-ʿIrfān was a journal for science, literature, morals and social issues.  Moreover, in the preface of the first edition it was formulated that no political or controverse religious articles should be published.  Its stated objectives were to create a suitable educational institution for a broader audience that should guarantee the well-being of the public and serve the progress. As South Lebanon was not included in this process yet, the editor wanted to take this initiative by founding al-ʿIrfān.  From 1910/1911 the range of content was extended. Articles on technical progress and new inventions, on Shiite history as well as on women’s topics such as upbringing and emancipation were now included. Numerous illustrations should give the journal a modern look and maybe to address those who could not read.  From 1922/1923 on an additional page with jokes and anecdotes was published to address a wider audience. Topics such as rights, freedom and democracy were gradually taken up. Al-ʿIrfān wanted to be, in contrast to other model-journals like al-Muqtataf and al-Hilal, a mouthpiece for the religious groups of Arabic Shiites.  This was explicitly shown, i. e. in the cover of the 5th year, with the addition šuʿūn aš-šīʿa („concerns of the Shia“).  90% of the subscribers were Shiites from Lebanon, Iraq, Bahrain, Kuwait and other countries.  Az-Zain considered himself a reformer, who understands the Islamic world as a cultural and not only as a religious unit.  Objectives and content of the journal changed over time. Instead of spreading progress and enlightenment, other current and political topics became predominant. After the independence of Lebanon in 1943 the thematic focus was more and more on the rights of Shiites in Lebanon. Az-Zain's son Nizar took over the management of the journal after his father’s death in 1960, which now published mainly literature topics. After Nizar's death in 1981 the publication was handed over to his nephew Fuʿād az-Zain. 