The Career Enrichment Center, or CEC, is an Albuquerque Public Schools Magnet High School. Its full name is the Charles R. Spain Career Enrichment Center, named in honor of a former Superintendent of Albuquerque Public Schools.  The name means that the curriculum prepares high school students for actual careers in very specific ways.  The school provides specialized Science, Technology and Vocational classes for students from all APS High Schools. It also has its own specialized high school and associate degree program. This program is called the Early College Academy, or ECA, and is a cooperation between CEC and Central New Mexico Community College. There are a wide variety of opportunities offered by CEC. The course is connected to another course at the school, Robotics. This is a college preparatory program and is a school itself within CEC. Students take classes at CEC in the morning and in the afternoon take classes at CNM for dual credit as both college and high-school classes.   CEC offers an ACEN accredited Practical Nursing program, founded in 1983 for which High School Sophomores may apply. All High School Sophomores enrolled in an APS school who meet the requirements are eligible to apply. The application process is fairly rigorous and includes testing and interview stages, of nearly 300 applicants 50-60 students are accepted. Once accepted students will spend 5 semesters, including some time in the summers working to further their knowledge of medical care. The program has an average attrition rate of 50% associated to course difficulty and high standards, students must attain an average of 75% each semester to continue through the program. Students take classes and also receive experience with various healthcare facilities and care providers around the Albuquerque area. Throughout the program students will attain over 1300 hours of theory and 500 hours of clinical. After completing the program students are able to take the NCLEX-PN and attempt to receive status to practice as Licensed Practical Nurse. The program has had passing rates above 90% for first time test takers for the past 10 years.  The CEC PN program is well respected among the Albuquerque healthcare community.  Coordinates: 35°5′38.2″N 106°38′8.2″W﻿ / ﻿35.093944°N 106.635611°W﻿ / 35.093944; -106.635611 