Jersey College is a private 2-year college specializing in nursing education with its main campus in Teterboro, New Jersey.  The college was established in 2003 and has five other locations in New Jersey and Florida. Established in 2003, Jersey College nursing school was founded in New Jersey by Greg Karzhevsky and originally called The Center for Allied Health & Nursing Education. The aim of the institution was to develop highly trained and skilled nurses to work at Loving Care Agency, New Jersey's largest home care agency, run by the Karzhevsky family. The agency originally employed over 600 registered nurses and licensed practical nurses (LPNs) and provided pediatric services to medically fragile children. In 2004, The Center was approved by the New Jersey Board of Nursing to offer a Practical Nursing Program. The Center expanded its student body and increased its staff of instructors and administrators. In 2007, following its national accreditation from The Council on Occupational Education and approval from the United States Department of Education, the school opened a second campus in Tampa, FL. The South Jersey campus in Ewing, NJ opened  shortly after in 2009. The school was awarded approval for a Professional Nursing Program in 2010 and opened the Jacksonville campus. The Fort Lauderdale campus was created in 2012. In November of that year, the school received approval from the New Jersey Commission on Higher Education and the New Jersey Board of Nursing to offer a Registered Nursing Program with an Associate Degree.  The Center for Allied Health and Nursing Education changed its name to Jersey College  to coincide with the pursuit of higher education opportunities. The college has produced more than 1,700 graduates in the nursing field. In July 2014, the Jersey College campus at Tampa, Florida expanded  to a 40,000 square foot facility in Sabal Park, that includes two floors of observation rooms, computer labs, simulation labs, classrooms, a library, and a cafeteria.  In 2016, Jersey College added its sixth campus through a partnership with Hospital Corporation of America (HCA) by establishing a campus inside of Largo Medical Center in Largo, Florida. The Largo campus hosts the Nurse Residency track of the Professional Nursing program.  Jersey College has six locations in New Jersey and Florida: Jersey College offers two programs. The Practical Nursing or LPN Program prepares students for careers in Licensed Practical Nursing. The program includes theoretical instruction on the foundations of practical nursing and clinical experience in practicing patient care. The program covers basic anatomy, disease processes, medications, treatments, care planning, and preparation for NCLEX-PN licensing examination. The Professional Nursing or RN Program consists of three tracks. The generic track is for students starting their nursing education who aim to become registered nurses. The bridge track allows already licensed LPNs to become registered nurses. The Nurse Residency track is a hospital-based program housed at Largo Medical Center. Graduates receive an Associate of Applied Science (AAS) degree in Nursing in New Jersey and an Associate of Science degree in Nursing in Florida. The program covers medical-surgical, geriatric, maternal, pediatric, and mental health topics as well as preparation for the NCLEX-RN examination. Jersey College has received accreditation and licensing from the following organizations: Coordinates: 40°51′45″N 74°03′27″W﻿ / ﻿40.86249°N 74.05756°W﻿ / 40.86249; -74.05756 