A state dinner in the United States is a formal dinner held in honor of a foreign head of state, such as a king, queen, president, or any head of government. It is hosted by the President of the United States and is usually held in the State Dining Room at the White House in Washington D.C.  Other formal dinners for important people of other nations, such as a prince or princess, are called official dinners, the difference being that the federal government does not pay for them. Nowadays these dinners are more often black tie rather than white tie (see formal wear). The first state dinner was held on December 22, 1874,  by President Ulysses S. Grant to welcome King David Kalakaua of the Kingdom of Hawai'i.   United Kingdom Clement Attlee  Canada  Denmark  France  Iceland  Italy  Luxembourg  Netherlands  Portugal  United Kingdom Lester B. Pearson, Humphrey Hume Wrong Gustav Rasmussen, Henrik Kauffmann Robert Schuman, Henri Bonnet Bjarni Benediktsson, Thor Thors Carlo Sforza, Alberto Tarchiani Joseph Bech, Hugues Le Gallais Dirk Stikker, Eelco van Kleffens Jose Caeiro da Mata, Pedro Teotónio Pereira Ernest Bevin, Oliver Franks, Baron Franks  Dominican Republic  Bolivia  Chile  Costa Rica  Venezuela  Guatemala  Colombia  Honduras  Peru  Ecuador  Argentina  Uruguay  El Salvador  Canada  Panama  Jamaica  Bahamas  Grenada  Brazil  Guyana  Haiti  Nicaragua  Mexico  Trinidad and Tobago  Suriname  Barbados (dinner held in connection with the signing of the Torrijos–Carter Treaties regarding the transfer of the Panama Canal)   Joaquin Balaguer Hugo Banzer Suarez Augusto Pinochet Ugarte Daniel Oduber Quiros Carlos Andres Perez Kjell Eugenio Laugerud Garcia Alfonso Lopez Michelsen Juan Alberto Melgar Castro Francisco Morales Bermudez Alfredo Poveda Burbano Jorge Rafael Videla Aparicio Mendez Carlos Humberto Romero Pierre Elliott Trudeau Omar Torrijos Herrera Michael Norman Manley Lynden O. Pindling Eric Gairy Adalberto Pereira dos Santos Ptolemy A. Reid Edner Brutus Cornelio Hueck Santiago Garcia Victor C. McIntyre Roel F. Karamat Oliver H. Jackman 