The Ten Medieval Commentators (Tamil: உரையாசிரியர்கள் பதின்மர்) were a canonical group of Tamil scholars whose commentaries on the ancient Indian didactic work of the Kural are esteemed by later scholars as worthy of critical analysis.  These poets lived in the Medieval era between 10th century CE and 13th century CE. Among these medieval commentaries, the commentaries of Manakkudavar and Parimelalhagar are considered pioneer by modern scholars.  The Kural remains the most reviewed work of the Tamil literature, with almost every scholar down the ages having written commentaries on it. Of the several hundred commentaries written on the didactic work over the centuries, the commentaries written by a group of ten medieval scholars are considered to have high literary value. The ten poets are:  Of these, only the commentaries of Manakkudavar, Paridhi, Pariperumal, Kaalingar, and Parimelalhagar are extant in their complete (or almost complete) form.   The commentaries of Dharumar, Dhamatthar, and Nacchar have survived only in fragmentary form, and those of Thirumalaiyar and Mallar are now lost completely. The oldest of these is the commentary of Manakkudavar, which is considered to be the closest to the original text of the Kural, and is considered the cornerstone against which other medieval commentaries are compared in order to find variations in them. Each commentators followed his own sense of logic in the arrangement of the chapters and the couplets within them. Researchers have found as many as 16, 20, 120, and 171 variations in the ordering of the Kural couplets by Pari Perumal, Paridhi, Parimelazhagar, and Kaalingar, respectively, with respect to the commentary by Manakkudavar.  According to M. Shanmugham Pillai, there are about 305 textual variations in all the commentaries combined.  The last of these medieval commentaries is that of Parimelalhagar, who wrote the commentary around 1271–1272 CE, as indicated in an inscription at the Varadharaja Perumal Temple at Kanchipuram.  Parimelalhagar's commentary is followed ever since as the standard for numbering of the Kural chapters and the couplets within each chapter. Valluvar wrote the Kural literature in the form of three parts, namely, Book I, Book II, and Book III, containing a total of 133 chapters in all, without splitting the books further into any subdivisions.  However, later scholars both from the Late Sangam period and from the medieval era divided each book into various divisions known as Iyal and grouped the chapters variously under each iyals. They also changed the ordering of the couplets within each chapter widely. These variations are not absolute either but vary according to different commentators. While the variations in the ordering of the couplets according to various commentators are found across the work, variations in the grouping and ordering of chapters are found only in the Book on Virtue (Book I). The following table lists the variations between ordering of chapters in Book I by Manakkudavar (the oldest) and that by Parimelalhagar (the latest).  An old Tamil poem describes all these ten commentators thus: Translation: 