According to the Hebrew Bible, the Twelve Tribes of Israel or Tribes of Israel (Hebrew: שבטי ישראל‎) were said to have descended from the 12 sons of the patriarch Jacob (who was later named Israel) by two wives, Leah and Rachel, and two concubines, Zilpah and Bilhah. Deuteronomy 33:6–25 and Judges 5:14–18 present parallel listings of the twelve tribes: Jacob elevated the descendants of Ephraim and Manasseh (the two sons of Joseph and his Egyptian wife Asenath)  to the status of full tribes in their own right, replacing the tribe of Joseph.  In the Bible's version of events, the period from the conquest of Canaan under the leadership of Joshua until the formation of the first Kingdom of Israel, passed with the tribes forming a loose confederation, described in the Book of Judges. Modern scholarship has called into question the beginning, middle, and end of this picture   and the account of the conquest under Joshua has largely been abandoned.    The Bible's depiction of the 'period of the Judges' is widely considered doubtful.    The extent to which a united Kingdom of Israel ever existed is also a matter of ongoing dispute.    Living in exile in the sixth century BCE, the prophet Ezekiel has a vision for the restoration of Israel,  of a future utopia in which the twelve tribes of Israel are living in their land again.   In the Christian New Testament, the twelve tribes of Israel are referred to twice in the gospels and twice in the Book of Revelation. In Matthew, paralleled by Luke, Jesus anticipates that in the Kingdom of God, his followers will "sit on [twelve] thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel".   In the vision of the writer of the Book of Revelation, 144,000 of all the tribes of the children of Israel were "sealed", 12,000 from each tribe  and in his vision of the New or Heavenly Jerusalem, the tribes' names were written on the city gates:The names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel: three gates on the east, three gates on the north, three gates on the south, and three gates on the west.  Thesouro de Nobreza, 1675 Asher Benjamin Dan Ephraim Gad Issachar Judah Manasseh Naphtali Reuben Simeon Zebulun 