The Kailao is a Tongan cultural dance. It's origin is from Wallis and Futuna. It's origin is from Wallis and Futuna where it is still performed in public ceremonies. In Tonga it is usually performed at public and private ceremonies. The men, bearing stylized clubs (pate kailao), dance in a fierce manner that emulates fighting, all to the accompaniment of a beaten slit drum or a tin box, which sets the tempo. Unlike most other Tongan dances, the kailao is performed without singing. The sequences of movements to be performed by the group are called by the lead dancer, who will give the name of the sequence, then will signal when to do it. The sequences can involve mock combat between dancers, changes in formation, and tricks involving the pate kailao themselves. The dance displays the dancers' discipline, obedience and skill with their weapon. A similar Rotuman dance, also derived from the 'Uvean original is similarly titled "ka'loa". The 'Ikale Tahi, the national rugby union team used to perform the kailao with kailao clubs or sticks, as they did against Wales in 1974. However in the 1980's, the Tonga national team stopped performing the Kailao and switched to the Sipitau which is performed without sticks. The Tonga rugby union national team's pre-game challenge, the Sipi Tau was penned by King Tama Tu'i Tāufaʻāhau Tupou IV in 1994, but its origins can be traced back much further. In Tonga in the pre-1800s there were no challenges before war. Indeed talking was considered a sign of weakness in battle. But in the 19th century a war dance was introduced from the neighbouring Wallis and Futuna Islands and Tonga quickly annexed it. There have been several different Sipi Tau used by the Tongan rugby team over the years, but it is unsure when they were first used in rugby. The latest one was composed in honour of a short, successful tour of New Zealand in 1994.  The current words were first used in the 2011 Rugby World Cup. Sipi Tau a'e 'Ikale Tahi  The Tonga national rugby league team uses a different Sipi Tau. This Sipi Tau is translated as follows: 