Tracks is a dance theatre company based in Darwin, Northern Territory founded in 1994, although its beginnings lie in a community dance program in 1988. It is located at Frog hollow Centre for the Arts in Darwin, along with the Nt Writers Centre, Darwin visual Arts Assoc, AANKA and Darwin Festival. Tracks seeks to engage community members in its productions, applying community cultural development practice in their work over many years. It focuses on engaging with Indigenous Australians and their communities.   The company has completed residencies in Lajamanu (1989 and 1990) and continues to work with that community. A seniors dance group the "Grey Panthers" has also been formed.  Australian Dance Award for Outstanding Achievement in Youth or Community dance - 2008 for Struck Nominated 2000 Northern Territory Human Rights Awards for work with refugees and migrants, Sticks ‘n’ Stones project. The Sidney Myer Performing Arts Awards 2004 Group Award was awarded to Tracks Dance Theatre  and Melbourne Workers Theatre.  Short listed 2007 Australian Dance Awards Services to Dance SA and NT Australian business and the arts Giving Award for Milpirri 2008 with the Milpirri Management Committee and Rio Tinto Aboriginal Fund Winner 2009 Australian Dance Award for Outstanding Achievement in Youth or Community Dance. Struck Winner 2009 Australian Business Arts Foundation Giving Award: South Australia Northern Territory Short listed 2010 Australian Dance Award Outstanding Achievement in Youth or Community Dance. The Cook, The Queen and the Kelly Winner 2013 Australian Dance Award for Outstanding Achievement in Youth or Community Dance. Eight to Eighty - the Architecture of Age 2014 David McMicken and Tim Newth made Members (AM) in the general division of the Order of Australia. Short listed 2014 Australian Dance Award Outstanding Achievement in Youth or Community Dance. Zombies in the Banyan Tree. Tracks has toured interstate and regularly performs throughout the Northern Territory.     