CISV International (Formerly Children's International Summer Villages) was founded in 1951  by Doris Twitchell Allen and aims to educate and inspire action for a more just and peaceful world. The organisation operates international educational programmes on an annual basis to bring together participants from member countries. CISV also operates in smaller communities through its around 200 local Chapters in 69 countries.  CISV International is a UNESCO partner Non Governmental Organization (NGO), holds participatory status with the Council of Europe and is a candidate member of the European Youth Forum.  CISV was founded in 1951, after World War II, by Doris Twitchell Allen. Since then, the organisation has expanded into around 69 countries, and over 150,000 delegates have participated in more than four thousand international CISV activities that delegates have made up over the course of these years.  For Dr. Allen and the CISV organisation, children and youth were seen as the ideal starting point for peace education.  Programmes were developed which offered young people opportunities to meet their peers from other countries and to form intercultural friendships and to learn about what life is really like where they come from. Local programmes give people the chance to learn about the cultures in their own communities and explore important themes related to peace and understanding. The first village was held in 1951 in Glendale, Ohio; commissioned for its 50th anniversary, the sculpture "How Alike I Am to You” was created in 2000 by Tim Werrell and stands on the property of the Harry Whiting Brown Community Center in Glendale, Ohio. The CISV International delivers its education through its seven official programmes: The CISV International website provides more detailed information.  CISV Chapters also hold activities that aim to share the CISV experience within their local community. In addition to this CISV International delivers its education through: The International Office of CISV is located in Newcastle upon Tyne, England.  The Secretary General of the organisation is based there, along with a small team of officers and administrative staff. CISV International is an umbrella organisation, with over 70 members or National Associations (NAs). Each NA oversees and supports its local branches or Chapters. CISV Flag CISV Song 70 countries Board of Trustees in session AIM 2010 CISV Austria 1958 CISV Austria 1958 Junior Branch 