Lord Somers Camp, or "Big Camp" is an annual week-long camp for boys and girls held in Somers, Victoria, Australia. Founded in Anglesea, Victoria in 1929 by Lord Somers the camp has been running continuously since 1929, excluding 1941-1946  when the site was occupied by the RAAF. The camp takes place over an 8-day (7 nights) period in early January each year. The camp was set up in 1929 by the then Governor of Victoria, Lord Somers. Somers aimed to duplicate the success of the hugely popular Duke of York Camps which were held in the United Kingdom. The first and second camps were held at Anglesea, Victoria with the assistance of the Anglesea Scouts. The camp moved then relocated to purpose built site in Somers in 1931. Only two of the original buildings still stand today, including the Executive Hut (staff quarters) and the Mess Hut (dining hall). In order to provide a meeting and social outlet for the camp's participants, a clubhouse located at Albert Park Lake in Melbourne was built in 1932. Called "Power House", the activities expanded into sporting clubs, including rowing, rugby, athletics, hockey and Australian rules football.  Whilst the clubs were originally set up solely for the use of Lord Somers Camp members, gradually the clubs forged their own identity and separated into their own legal entities due to public liability insurances issues in the 1980s. Today, they operate completely independently. The camps are operated and staffed completely by volunteers who even have to pay for privilege and a give up a week of their holidays. The exact program has been adjusted inline with community expectations and socials changes over the years. In 1986, a female equivalent of the Camp, Lady Somers Camp commenced   and has arguably been more successful. It typically follows the boys camp. Other programs followed, including Diversity (for the intellectuality and physically challenged), VSK (Very Special Kids) and more recently Mirabel. Again, all managed and operated by LSC&PH volunteers The township of East Balnarring was renamed Somers, Victoria after the camp. 