Harm van den Dorpel (born 1981 in Zaandam, The Netherlands) is a Berlin-based conceptual artist. His work has been exhibited internationally in Germany, the United States, Italy, United Kingdom and the Netherlands. His broad practice includes the creation of sculpture, collage, computer animation, computer generated graphics   and interaction design. He is regarded a key figure in Post-Internet art.  In his work he investigates how algorithms can analyse digital archives  and guide the artist in aesthetic decision taking, leading to a symbiosis of man-machine art creation. Using computer programming he describes traditional notions in art, such as for example the free use of intuition and expression.  Conclusions from this research are then fed back in the production of new work. His ultimate goal is to reveal the reasoning structure of his own consciousness, and his implicit associations and assumptions. In this process he borrows ideas from psychoanalysis, the writing of Jacques Derrida, and Artificial Intelligence (which he studied).  He’s had institutional exhibitions at Museum Kurhaus Kleve, the New Museum  in New York, The Ullens Center for Contemporary Art in Beijing,  China, the Museum of Modern Art, Warsaw, and the Netherlands Media Art Institute, Amsterdam. In 2015 MAK Vienna acquired Harm van den Dorpel's Event Listeners and thereby became the first museum to purchase a work of art using bitcoins.  Harm van den Dorpel is represented by gallery Neumeister Bar-Am  in Berlin, and American Medium  in New York. From 2006 - 2010 he has been a creative programming teacher and interaction design teacher at private training centres and at the Gerrit Rietveld Art Academie in Amsterdam.  Death Imitates Language at Neumeister Bar-Am, Berlin IOU at Narrative Projects, London  Just In Time at American Medium, New York  Ambiguity points to the mystery of all revealing at Neumeister Bar-Am, Berlin  Loomer at Young Projects, Los Angeles  Emergent Conclusions – room.thecomposingrooms.com  Release Early, Release Often, Delegate Everything You Can, be Open to the Point of Promiscuity at Abrons Art Center, New York  About at Wilkinson Gallery, London   The Mews Project Space, London  