Niall de Buitléar (born 1983)  is an Irish artist working in sculpture, painting, and drawing. He is a graduate of the Dublin Institute of Technology.  De Buitléar was awarded a studio membership at Temple Bar Gallery and Studios from 2011–14.  De Buitléar was the winner of the fourth annual Wexford Arts Centre Emerging Visual Artist Award in 2009 and the Irish Artists’ Residential Studio Award 2009 – 2010 at the Red Stables in St Anne’s Park, Dublin.  In 2010 De Buitléar exhibited sculptures and drawings at the RHA, Dublin for the group exhibition Futures 10. Aidan Dunne, writing in the Irish Times, described the work in this show as "elegant, geometric, architectonic forms with simple procedural rules producing big complex pieces".  'Out of Order' was a solo exhibition of drawings and paper sculptures by the artist held at The Lab in Dublin in the summer of the 2011.  De Buitléar's solo exhibition 'Beneath That Darkness There Was Another' was held at Pallas Projects, Dublin in March and April 2015. The exhibition featured painting, sculpture and laser-engraved panels and was  the first time the artist exhibited a collection of paintings.  In August 2015 De Buitléar participated in the group exhibition Approaching the Landscape at RUA RED, Tallaght. Writing about the exhibition in the Irish Times Aidan Dunne the work as "small paintings, built from intricate concentric patterns, [that] are geometric but also suggestive of organic processes. They equate to the world outside: complex and orderly but also contingent and unpredictable. Their handmade precision makes them visually fascinating."  A solo exhibition of his work titled "Push and Pull" was held at the Royal Hibernian Academy in January 2018. Writing about this exhibition in The Irish Times, art critic Aidan Dunne wrote "De Buitléar’s paintings and sculptures start with a basic geometric motif, the circle. This circular unit reverberates through varieties of echoing, concentric patterns. On the one hand the patterning is absolutely strict, retaining its geometric basis. On the other, the works are made by hand, so that tiny fluctuations of touch, the fallibility of the human hand, is part of the overall character of the works. In fact, it’s essential to their character." Dunne drew comparisons with the work of painters Frank Stella, Bridget Reilly and Charles Tyrrell as well as the composers Philip Glass and Steve Reich.   