Olaf Wieghorst (April 30, 1899 in Viborg, Denmark – April 27, 1988 in California, United States) was a painter of the American West in the vein of Frederic Remington and Charles Russell and is known for his Indian, cowboy and horse paintings. Wieghorst was a stunt rider (horse) for a Danish circus (Tivoli Theater in Copenhagen) before migrating to the United States at the age of 19. He also worked on a farm where he often rode horses. Wieghorst emigrated to the United States from Denmark in 1918 and lived the rest of his life there. He spent his working career on mounted patrol with the U.S. Cavalry, was part of a campaign that chased Pancho Villa back across the border and the New York City Police Department Mounted Division, with occasional interludes as a wrangler on ranches in the western states. Wherever he went, he sketched and painted the Western culture he loved, often selling his work as calendar and magazine illustrations (such as Zane Grey's Western Magazine and Hoofs and Horns, an honor he shared with other cowboy artists such as Dan Muller). In 1924, Olaf Wieghorst married a Brooklyn girl named Mabel Walters and they had a son. In 1945, Wieghorst eventually settled in El Cajon, California, San Diego County, California and spent the rest of his life there working on his art. He was a self training artist and learnt to work with oil painting and water colour painting himself. And over time he became a proficient painter as a result Grand Central Art Galleries of the Biltmore Hotel chose to represent his paintings. He also pictured horses and studied their nature, the most famous of his models were Gene Autry’s Champion, Tom Morgan’s stallion and Roy Rogers’ Trigger.    He appeared in two John Wayne movies in the 60's, McLintock! and El Dorado. Some of his art work was used in the open titles sequence in the film El Dorado. In 1985 two of his works, The Navajo Madonna and The Navajo Man were sold for over $1 million. He died on April 28, 1988 in La Mesa, CA.   