Tiona Nekkia McClodden (July 2, 1981, Blytheville, AR) is an interdisciplinary research-based conceptual artist, filmmaker and curator based in Philadelphia, PA.    McClodden was born in Blytheville, Arkansas in 1981. She went to Clark Atlanta University, majoring in film and psychology then continued her education in film at Spelman College.   McClodden's work explores concepts of gender, sexuality and race, centering a black, queer lineage.   She produces her work through her film and media company Harriet's Gun, which she has said is a reference to Harriet Tubman.   She has created bodies of work in dedication to underrepresented African American writers and musicians like Langston Hughes and Florence B. Price or Essex Hemphill, Brad Johnson and Julius Eastman, who made work in the 1980s during the AIDS crisis in the US.   Her work was shown at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia as part of the Speech/Acts exhibit in 2017.  McClodden has been the recipient of several notable awards. She was the fifth recipient of the Keith Haring Fellowship in Art and Activism at the Center for Curatorial Studies and the Human Rights Project at Bard College.  In 2018 she was a Magnum Foundation Fund grantee.  In 2017 McCloddon won the Louis Comfort Tiffany Foundation Award.  She was a 2016 Pew Fellow and received a grant from Pew in 2018.  Inspired by a poem by Johnson published in Other Countries: Black Gay Voices, McClodden created a ten scene performance piece on VHS tape.  A Recollection. + Predicated within Julius Eastman: That Which is Fundamental was curated by McClodden at The Kitchen in New York City. It centered three years of research around Eastman (in collaboration with Julius Eastman Estate), an internationally lauded minimalist composer who died homeless just shy of fifty years old.    This exhibition included an installation of artwork by Carolyn Lazard, Sondra Perry, Chloe Bass, LaMont Hamilton and Texas Isaiah and musical performances of Eastman's work.     McClodden's piece, CLUB, took place in 2018 at the Performance Space New York, where Kieth Haring first exhibited. It explored liminality of nightclubs, where visitors might leave their everyday persona outside and interact with different social boundaries.  McClodden, Tiona Nekkia. "Texas Isaiah" Art Forum. Summer 2018. Official Website 