CyberPatriot is the National Youth Cyber Education Program created to help direct students toward careers in cybersecurity or other science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines. The program, created by the Air Force Association (AFA), features the National Youth Cyber Defense Competition for high school and middle school students. Now in its eleventh season, CyberPatriot XI is open to all high schools, middle schools, and accredited home school programs around the country. JROTC units of all Services, Civil Air Patrol squadrons, and Naval Sea Cadet Corps divisions may also participate in the competition.  By the fall of 2014 the program hopes to expand with two additional program segments:  CyberCamps and an Elementary School Cyber Education Initiative. The Northrop Grumman Foundation is the presenting sponsor. A spin off program is run in the UK called Cyber Centurion. CyberPatriot began in 2009 as a proof of concept demonstration at AFA’s Air Warfare Symposium in Orlando, Florida. Nine high school Civil Air Patrol squadrons competed.  The second phase of the program was limited to Air Force JROTC and Civil Air Patrol teams. Online training and qualification competitions were held during fall 2009 with nearly 200 teams from 44 states competing for eight slots to the in-person National Finals Competition in February 2010, held in Orlando, Florida. The final phase of the developmental program, full national deployment, is now underway. Over 1,500 teams from all 50 states, Canada, and DoD Dependant schools overseas competed in CyberPatriot VI. CyberPatriot VII began in October 2014, with over 2,100 teams registered to compete. A new division, the Middle School Division, has been added this season. CyberPatriot IX, started in October 2016, featured over 4,300 registered teams. CyberPatriot, designed to be accessible to any high school or middle school student, provides a path from high school to college and the workforce, and benefits all CyberPatriot partners and our nation. The program increases the awareness of cybersecurity by delivering a basic cybersecurity education in a competitive format that enhances leadership, communication, and cooperation skills among its competitors. Teams have the following members: Each team is required to have a registered Coach and registered Competitors. Coach registration begins in the late spring to allow preparation over the summer. The qualification rounds of the competition are completed online at the teams’ home locations from September to early January. The competition is a tournament structure with three divisions: The early rounds of the competition are done online during weekends via the Internet from teams’ schools or other sponsoring organizations’ facilities. Prior to the round, teams download virtual image representations of operating systems with known flaws, or cybersecurity vulnerabilities. Each team is tasked to find the flaws while keeping specified computer functions (services such as email) working. Team progress is recorded by a central CyberPatriot scoring system. The scores from Qualification Rounds 1 and 2 are totaled to determine which tier a team advances to: Teams in the Platinum tier are the only teams eligible to qualify for National Finals. See additional rules below: The top scoring Semifinal teams from each division, approximately 28 teams, are invited (all-expenses paid) to the in-person National Finals Competition each spring.  For CyberPatriot IV - VII, National Finals Competitions was held at the Gaylord National Hotel and Convention Center in National Harbor, Maryland. Beginning the CyberPatriot VIII season, the National Finals Competitions moved to the Hyatt Regency in Inner Harbor, Baltimore, Maryland. The Challenges that teams may face include: Winning teams in the Open and All Service Division earn education grants to the school of their choice. First place teams earn $2,000 per competitor, second place teams earn $1,500 per competitor, and third place earns $1,000 per competitor. The scholarship money is provided by Northrop Grumman Corp. In CyberPatriot VII, for first, second, and third place, an additional $2,000, $1,500, and $1,000 were awarded to the teams, respectively, by the National Security Agency.       