Deadline24 is an annual programming competition organized by a Polish company, Future Processing,  for software developers and students from all over the world. The finals of the contest last 24 hours and are held in extreme conditions. It is always organized in the venues closely related to the industrial tradition of the Silesia Province (Poland). Competition tasks are prepared by programmers working at a Gliwice-based company, Future Processing. The marathon is free of charge. First edition of Deadline24 was organized by Tomasz Łakota and Mateusz Brzeszcz, and it took place in 2009 in Gliwice, Poland. Back then, it was the only challenge of this type in Poland. Currently, it is an international competition and every year it becomes more and more popular. In 2016, for the first stage of the competition, 1,479 players signed up. In qualifying round attended by representatives of: Poland, Germany, Czech Republic, Russia, Ukraine, Hungary, Great Britain, Spain, Slovakia, Estonia, China, Egypt, Indonesia, Nigeria, Brazil, and India. The contest consists of 2 rounds: 1. An elimination round, where entrants have to complete a five-hour challenge via the Deadline24 website.  2. The finals, which lasts 24 consecutive clock hours. The qualifying round lasts 5 hours and is conducted via the Internet. The teams receive tasks and necessary input data. The objective is to find the solution (in any way) and to transfer it to the verification server within a given time. The best 20-30 teams qualify for the final. The qualifying round is open for all the teams who have registered via Deadline24 website before the registration deadline. The final task of the contest consists of an appropriate interaction with the contest server under the terms and conditions specified in the task. Communication with the server is conducted using TCP/IP protocol. Participants work on their own equipment (the organizer provides one 230V power outlet and one LAN RJ-45 jack or a plug-in cable for each team) and are allowed to choose any working environment and programming language. They may use any materials and auxiliary devices they bring with them, except for any devices providing access to external support. The access to any external help is strictly forbidden.  The competition is organized by Future Processing, a software development company from Gliwice, Poland. It operates in the global market and specializes in producing software for industry, international trade, and services. The company, which became a Microsoft certified partner in 2007, provides outsourcing services, but also creates its own products which set new quality standards. In 2016, the company was awarded the title of the Outsourcing Service Provider of the Year by the Global Sourcing Association. It was also a finalist among a top employers competition in Silesia, Poland. In 2016, Future Processing launched the Better Future campaign which presents the possibilities of smart technologies in four main sectors: City, Healthcare, Planet, and Property. Future Processing is also the organizer of a Polish national conference – Quality Excites, dedicated to software quality, Future Dev Day – a programming conference, and a series of lectures and workshops known as DPTO (Polish: Dobre Praktyki Tworzenia Oprogramowania) which stands for Good Practices in Software Creation. 