The Diploma in Engineering or Diploma in Technical Education are programs focused on practical and skills-oriented training. It is a technical degree that only covers the essentials when ranked with an undergraduate engineering degree. It aims to provide students with industry or job related engineering knowledge, scientific skills, computing & analysis, mathematical techniques, a sound knowledge of English to communicate in the field and ability to apply problem solving techniques. Its duration is 2–3 years. Many countries in the world recognize it as equivalent to Pre-Engineering or Bridging course when considered for continuing studies in engineering related bachelors or associate degree programs. After successful completion of Diploma in Engineering course, students can either continue further Engineering studies in undergraduate level or get employment as technicians, technologists, supervisors, superintendents, foremen, machinist, workshop technicians, draughtsman, station technicians (energy, thermal, aeronautical), automobile technicians, maintenance & service technicians, equipment mechanics and technicians, CAD/CAM programmer, agricultural overseers, instrument technicians, junior instructors, manufacturing, tool and die designers, electricians...etc. In most of the countries one can apply for studying diploma in engineering degree after completion of 10th grade (Secondary School Certificate). Diploma in Engineering degree can be obtained in many disciplines such as: In Bangladesh, Engineering Diploma is an academic certificate awarded by a technical board. It is a 4 years program offered by public and private sector polytechnic institutions. See also : Industrial training institute, one year inter science equivalent vocational training. In India a Diploma in Engineering is a 3 year  Course awarded in Engineering Studies with specific branch of Engineering . Studies of Diploma in Engineering is usually held in Polytechnic institutes recognized by respective State Boards of Technical Education/Examination (e.g. Uttar Pradesh Board of Technical Education) and/or State Departments/Directorates of Technical Educations and All India Council for Technical Education.  Diploma Holders can sit for the exam of Associate Member of the Institution of Engineers (A.M.I.E) membership, Member of Indian Institution of Industrial Engineering, Navi Mumbai which is equivalent to the Associate engineering bachelor's degree. Diploma holders can enroll for advanced diploma programmes in concentrated job sectors within their area of study. Diploma holders are also eligible for lateral entry to the third semester Engineering Courses in various Technical Universities like UPTU, VTU, etc., i.e. direct entry to second year. Diploma holders are eligible for part-time entry to Bachelor of Engineering Courses in various Technical Universities like Sri Sai Group of Institutes,  Manipal Institute of Technology, Jaipur National University, Sunrise University, Jamia Millia Islamia and Delhi Technological University, NTTF Technical training center, Uttarakhand board of technical education (Dehradun)...etc. In Tamil Nadu the government is revolutionizing its technical education by upgrading its diploma courses with newer schemes (L Scheme and forward) to make it equivalent with UK's HND programs that enables students for direct entry into the fifth semester of a Bachelor of Technology program. Those who have a twelfth grade (Higher Secondary School Certificate) in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics (PCM) combination, require only to complete two years excluding first year physics, chemistry, mathematics inter science level subjects. Diploma holders can enroll for advanced diploma programmes in concentrated job sectors within their area of study.In India a Diploma in Engineering is a specific academic award usually awarded in technical  courses e.g.  Chemical Engineering , Mechanical Engineering,Civil Engineering , Electrical Engineering , etc. In Pakistan, Engineering Diploma is an academic certificate awarded by a technical board. It is a 3 years program offered by public and private sector polytechnic institutions, namely Diploma of Associate Engineering (DAE) which is equivalent to HSSC/FSc (Pre-Engineering) by IBCC. A candidate having SSC or TSC can enroll in this program. This program is offered in various engineering disciplines such as Electrical, Electronics, Computer, Telecommunication, Mechanical, Civil, Chemical etc. Diploma holders are often called Associate Engineers. They can enroll in Bachelor of Technology and Bachelor of Engineering degree programs for higher study. 