The Edison Engineering Development Program (EEDP) is one of General Electric's 8 corporate entry level programs. Focused on engineering, the program aims to "develop technical problem-solving skills through advanced courses in engineering and technical projects that are aligned with business objectives". It is named in honor of GE's founder, Thomas Edison. Typically each GE business runs its own program, and candidates are required to apply for and rotate within the program at a specific business. EEDP, the oldest of GE's rotational programs, founded in 1923, for new BS and MS grads, provides three to five assignments (6–8 months each (12 months in GE Aviation)) over two or three years. Assignments are driven by real GE business priorities, which may include working with systems, analysis, design, quality, reliability, integration, and testing. Program members develop and enhance their technical problem-solving skills through advanced engineering course work, reports, and team presentations. Another benefit of EEDP is the opportunity to earn a masters in engineering while in (or shortly upon completion of) the program.  EEDP is most popular at the more technical businesses in GE's portfolio, including GE Aviation, Healthcare, Power, Renewable Energy, Digital, Transportation. (from GE's official site) The Advanced Courses in Engineering, or ACE, is the official title for the graduate-level coursework undertaken by EEDP members. The ACE is divided into three sections: A Course, B Course, and C Course.  Grading is assessed based on homework and/or tests.  Homework may consist of problem sets, short reports or formal reports, team or individual presentations and typically requires 20–40 hours of effort per week, which must be completed outside of normal work hours. During the first year in the program, EEDP participants are required to take GE's engineering "A Course," which is designed to sharpen technical and problem-solving skills.  The content of A Course varies by business, but typically includes a collection of topics rooted in technology, math, and science, such as Statistics, Differential Equations, Digital Electronics, Analog Electronics, Software Design, Data Mining, Metallurgy, and Heat Transfer, as well as business-specific engineering, which may include engines, digital imaging, chemistry, and the physics of technologies used in that business' field. For instance, wind turbine design, wind resource assessment in GE Renewable Energy. Additionally, members participate in GE's esteemed "Activating your Leadership Journey (ALJ) (Formerly: Foundations of Leadership)" course on its Crotonville, New York campus and "Eng@GE" (Engineering @ GE) in various locations in the world.  The second year in the program, participants are required to take the "B Course," which applies technical skills to actual business proposals.  Coursework typically involves technical business fundamentals, such as program management incorporated in team projects where a certain business priority problem is solved by a team of Edisons.  Additional classes cover extensive seminars on technology and a lot of hands-on training, either in the field or at the factories. Program members may choose a major business project to complete at the conclusion of the program, and then report out to senior management on the benefits generated (cost reductions, use of advanced technologies, etc.). The third and final part of the ACE program is "C Course," which is a strictly optional course for some businesses.  The focus of C Course is a design project related to the enrollee's Masters thesis.  Few program members pursue a C Course certificate, but it is considered a top achievement throughout technical roles at GE. After completion of the ACE program, EEDP engineers will have a number of graduate credits they can transfer to one of several universities (typically universities located near the business, or other top schools available via distance learning) to help complete a master's degree.  This allows program participants to earn a Masters or other advanced degree through a number of top schools while still employed by GE and working full-time. ACE requirements vary from business to business. ACE programs at all GE businesses do not strictly adhere to the above definitions of the A, B, and C Courses. The members taking this course work in a minimum of 2 or 3 fields/teams over a period of 2 to 3 years. These rotations help in bridging the knowledge gap between teams and thus adding value to the organization. The participants undergo different levels of Management trainings such as "ALJ-Activating your Leadership Journey", eng@ge-engineering @ GE, as well as Six Sigma Green Belt Certification. 