Engineer in Training, or EIT, is a professional designation from the National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying (NCEES) used in the United States to designate a person certified by the state as having completed two requirements: Once an individual has passed the exam the state board awards that person an Engineer-in-Training (EIT) or an Engineer Intern (EI) designation. EIT and EI are equivalent variations in nomenclature that vary from state to state. Receiving an EIT designation is one step along the path toward Professional Engineer (PE) licensure. "Engineer Intern"  term could be possibly misleading term as it may imply that the engineer is still in college and is working merely in an intern position. An Engineer-in-Training does engineering work, such as design, under the supervision and direction of a Professional Engineer, who are exclusively able to perform certain tasks, such as stamp and seal designs and offer services to the public.  In Canada, an E.I.T. designation means that the person has completed the educational requirement of their P.Eng but has yet to accrue enough work experience (or has yet to apply for a P.Eng). An EIT can perform engineering work under the supervision of a professional engineer. With the exception of New Brunswick, PEO (Ontario) and OIQ (Quebec), EITs are allowed to use the title "Engineer" as long as they also include the EIT designation in either their name or their title.   In the United Kingdom and the United States of America, having an EIT designation shows an understanding of fundamental engineering principles, as EITs have passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) exam. Canadian engineering has no equivalent to the FE exam for an EIT level. Each state's statutes delineate the requirements for the experience and education needed to become a PE once EIT or EI certification has been earned. The requirements vary depending on the State and the licensing board, but for most engineers the process typically includes the following steps : In California, passing two additional exams is required to gain PE licensure. A seismic exam and a surveying exam, are in addition to the FE and PE exams for civil engineers. 