An engineer's degree is an advanced academic degree in engineering that is conferred in Europe, some countries of Latin America, and a few institutions in the United States. In the United States, the engineer's degree is at a more advanced level than a standard U.S. master's degree. It may include a graduate thesis, and at the level of the doctorates such as the PhD.   In the United States, the engineer's degree normally requires a further year of study beyond a master's degree, or two years from a bachelor's degree, and often includes a requirement for a research thesis.    At the Naval Postgraduate School the thesis is required to be "more extensive and complete in problem scope and solution than a master's thesis", although "not necessarily meeting the test of original research and contribution to fundamental knowledge that is applied to Ph.D. dissertations".  In contrast, at UCLA, the engineer degree is explicitly set at the level of the preliminary PhD examination, i.e. not including the research or thesis components.   The availability of degrees and the specific requirements differ considerably between institutions and between specialties within an institution. In the past, it was not uncommon for a would-be engineer to earn an engineer's degree as their first and only college degree. But since World War II this has fallen out of favor, and it becomes continually more difficult to find a school that offers this option.  A degree with some form of the word engineer or engineering in the title is not necessarily an engineer's degree. Particularly, a "Master of Engineering" (M.Eng.) or "Bachelor of Engineering" (B.Eng.) degree is not an Engineer's degree, nor is any other bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree. Rather, the engineer's degree is in a category of its own. For example, a student with a B.S. and M.S. in electrical engineering might next earn the degree Electrical Engineer. The person would then have a B.S. in E.E., a M.S. in E.E., and an E.E. degree. The former two are degrees in engineering, and only the latter degree is actually an engineer's degree. Through the Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board (CEAB), Engineers Canada accredits Canadian undergraduate engineering programs that meet the standards of the profession. Graduates of those programs are deemed by the profession to have the required academic qualifications to pursue further training towards becoming a licensed professional engineer in Canada.  The P.Eng license is the ultimate qualification for the practicing professional engineering in Canada. In Canada, A CEAB-accredited engineer degree is the minimum academic requirement for registration as a P.Eng (professional engineer) anywhere in Canada, and the standard against which all other engineering academic qualifications are measured.  A graduate of a non-CEAB-accredited program must demonstrate that his or her education is at least equivalent to that of a graduate of a CEAB-accredited program.  In Latin America a degree or title of "Ingeniero" is awarded after completing a 5 years of college, that may be translated as "Engineer", however, its international academic equivalence depends on each country's educational system, and can be compared to a 6-year post-master's degree. Its award may imply obtaining a state licence to legally practice in the field, or a professional certification outside academic environments. In Mexico, the educational system follows closely that of the United States. University education is structured in three cycles, as Licenciatura (bachelor's degree), Maestría (master's degree), and Doctorado (doctorate). The Ingeniero (Engineer) degree is awarded depending on the nature of the studies pursued. In order to be called an Engineer, one must have passed certain courses related to engineering and awarded a professional credential (cédula profesional) that certifies him or her as an engineer. The graduate has different abilities and capabilities related to the nature of the title Engineer. In this case, having a professional credential (cédula profesional) in engineering allows you to partake in various engineering-only activities, and certifies the ability of the engineer to exercise their profession.  For engineering, completing all taught courses of a Licenciatura does not automatically award the graduate the title and licence of Ingeniero, for this, it depends on the name of the career and having the prefix Ingeniería attached to the name of the degree. It is the case that many people finish all courses in an engineering program, they obtain the diploma and title of Engineer, and the professional credential, after getting their professional credential (cédula profesional). Degrees in engineering require 4 to 5 years to complete. After this, the graduate may enroll in a postgraduate program, such as a master's degree, or in exceptional cases, directly into a doctoral degree. In Chile, the educational system does not strictly follows that of the United States. University education is structured in four cycles, as Licenciatura (bachelor's degree), Título Profesional (Professional Title), Magíster (master's degree) and Doctorado (doctorate or Ph.D). In this case, the engineer state is a general denomination for a person who has a professional title of engineering (Título Profesional en Ingeniería). The title is obtained after 6 years of study, in this way including a bachelor's degree in science, which is obtained after four years of study. As in other countries, students only need to obtain the bachelor's degree to enter a master's degree or doctoral program, which commonly last 2 and 3 years respectively. Since a professional title considers six years of study, after obtaining this title the graduate can enroll directly into a doctoral degree. In this manner, the international academic equivalence of a Professional Title in Chile corresponds to a 6-year post-master's degree. In most countries of continental Europe, universities specializing in technical fields have traditionally awarded their students an engineer's degree lasting 5 years. This degree was typically the first university-awarded degree after finishing secondary education, and completing it granted qualifications to further pursue a doctorate. Following German custom in higher education, the engineer's degree is called Diplom. In addition to Germany itself, this system was common in states like Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Finland, Greece, Hungary, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, R. Macedonia, Ukraine and Vietnam. In German, the traditional engineer's degree is called Diplom-Ingenieur (Dipl.-Ing., in Austria also DI) . This degree is generally equivalent to a Master's degree, which is not to be confused with the old Magister degree. Most programs that used to lead to a Dipl.-Ing. degree lead to master's degrees today, as the Diplom-Ingenieur as an academical title is phased out because of the Bologna process. However, some universities continue to hand out so-called equivalence certificates that certify the equivalence of a Dipl.-Ing. with the newly introduced M.Sc. Degrees. The German "Universities of Applied Sciences" (Fachhochschule) awarded the traditional engineering degree Diplom-Ingenieur (FH) (Dipl.-Ing. (FH)). This degree also required to write a Diplom thesis. This is also being modified by the Bologna process, as bachelor's and master's degrees from a University of Applied Sciences are equal to the degrees from a traditional university.  Universities of Applied Sciences are phased out and they are changed to universities with own faculties and research institutes. These universities are strongly focused on fields like computer science, engineering or business schools. Subjects like Law or Human Medicine etc. which requires a Staatsexamen (state exam) can only be studied at traditional universities. Since 2009, most Universities in Germany offer bachelor's degree programmes (B.Sc., B.Eng. M.Sc., M.Eng, M.C.A. and others) and Master programmes that lead to the academic degree Master of Science, Master of Engineering, Master of Business Administration and others. In Austria there also exists the Ingenieur (respectively Ing.) . This is not an academic degree as it is given to graduates of a so-called HTL (Höhere Technische Lehranstalt) which is a High School with a very technical background. Graduates of these schools are allowed to start their studies at universities. The title Ingenieur (Ing.) could only be obtained after proof of at least 3 years of practice, which requires higher technical knowledge in the field of education. With a revision of the Austrian engineer’s law (Ingenieurgesetz 2017  ), which became applicable in May 2017, the requirements of the conferment of the degree were tightened. Next, to the existing requirements for the graduation on a technical high school (HTL) and a verifiable practical experience of 3 years, the replicant has to take an oral discussion with a certified committee to prove advanced skills and knowledge in her / his field. As a result, the degree was included in the National Qualifications Framework on level 6, the same level the bachelor degree is. The engineer degree do not meet the requirements to enter a master program in Austria. In France, the engineer's degree is called Diplôme d'Ingénieur (often abbreviated as Dipl. Ing.), which is a postgraduate engineering degree (recognized as Master of Science in Engineering in the United States) delivered primarily by the French engineering Grandes Ecoles while the academic title is Ingénieur Diplômé (ID; Graduate Engineer) but is never used before the holder's name. While the title "Ingénieur" is unregulated and can be used even without an academic degree, anyone misusing the title "Ingénieur Diplomé" is liable for a €15,000 fine and one year in prison.  The engineer's degree in France is obtained after 5 to 6 years of engineering studies after the Baccalauréat (high school diploma). The degree deliverance is regulated by the Commission des titres d'ingénieur (CTI) independent organism. The CTI mandates the French engineering schools (mainly Grandes Écoles) to deliver the Diplôme d'Ingénieur. This degree has been officially considered as a European Master's Degree since the Bologna Process. After the French Baccalaureat, about top 10% of the students are accepted in "Classes Préparatoires aux Grandes Écoles" (intensive preparatory classes), where mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology and technology disciplines are taught. After two years of study in preparatory classes, students must take competitive national examinations (written and oral) in order to compete for a place in the engineering Grandes Ecoles. Otherwise, the Diplôme d'Ingénieur can be also delivered by engineering faculties affiliated to a French public university, but the curriculum must be accredited by the CTI. Admission to such programs is based on continuous assessments rather than a nationwide competitive examination. The highest engineer qualification in the UK and Ireland is the Chartered Engineer (C.Eng) which is a minimum of 8 years but usually 12-years of education, training and professional peer reviewed practice process. Chartered Engineer is a terminal qualification. The academic qualification. which is minimum for gaining chartership in engineering is the Master of Engineering (MEng) or BEng plus MSc or MA in addition to 4–6 years peer reviewed professional practice including a project report / thesis. In England, Northern Ireland and Wales this is a four-year course or a 'sandwich' five-year course (with one year spent working in industry). In Scotland, it is a five-year course. The Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) is usually a three-year course (four in Scotland), or can also include a year in industry. Many universities offer the BEng, and may then allow a transfer onto the MEng.   The City and Guilds of London Institute have established a recognized route to higher engineering qualifications with the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET), the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) and The Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE). CGLI has align the Graduate Diploma (level 6) and Postgraduate Diploma (level 7) with the registration requirements for Incorporated Engineer and Chartered Engineer status. The Graduate Diploma is set at the same level as the final year of a British BEng and its Postgraduate Diploma is set at the same level as the final year of a British MEng. UK Professional institutions have delegated authority from the engineering council to approve university degrees and also award the Chartered Engineer qualification in a specific discipline.  So for example IMechE awards C.Eng, MIMechE, ICE awards CEng, MICE, and IET awards CEng, MIET. Engineers who have been awarded a BEng(Ordinary) or BEng(Honours) and have appropriate training and experience in the work place are able to apply to become an Incorporated Engineer (IEng), if the qualification has been accepted for this classification, by the engineering council. If an engineer has studied beyond the BEng for an MSc or has an MEng, they may apply to become a Chartered Engineer (CEng), once they have completed the required amount of post graduate work-based competency training and experience. Competency and training requirements are met over a period of 4–8 years in practice for a total of 8–12 years education, training and professional responsibility. Formal structured post graduate training schemes such as the monitored professional development programme administered by IMechE enables the Engineer in training to satisfy the requirements for Chartered Engineer faster.  Chartered Engineer and Incorporated Engineer titles awarded by the Engineering Council UK, are similar but not equivalent to North American Professional Engineer (PEng / PE) and Professional Technologist (PTech) designations, but with often a far greater geographical recognition. The UK and North American system of regulating engineering professional qualifications is very different and not equivalent. In the USA and Canada engineering is a regulated profession in terms of practice and enforced by law and licensing. It is more than the regulation of engineering titles - like the UK. This means that many UK chartered Engineers who are grandfathered to the title or are non degrees holders (HNC/HND) will be unable to be recognized formally as professional engineers in Canada and the USA. There is strict interpretation of qualifications and education because there are legal implications. There is no back door entry or experiential exemption from the formal academic requirements. This is simply because of the legal legislation on practice. This licensed based engineering governance legal framework does not exist in the UK. MIET-Member of the Institution of Engineering and Technology is recognised as regulated engineering profession by virtue of the Statutory Instruments n.2007/2781-The European Communities (Recognition of Professional Qualifications) Regulation 2007-Directive European Union 2005/36/EC. http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/qualifications/regprof/index.cfm?fuseaction=profession.regProfs&profId=6361&mode=desc&cId=0&quid=3 This meaning retains the 19th century idea that "real" engineers were military personnel, while "other" engineers were civilians. The situation in Spain is very similar to France but without the grandes écoles and Germany-U.k. in relation to the Technical Engineering Degrees. Long cycle Engineer's degrees (Ingenieros) traditionally used to be (at least nominally) six-year programs but the tendency since the mid-1990s has been to reduce them to five years. The last step to get the degree is the Proyecto de Fin de Carrera (Degree Project), which involves a combination of application development and some research work. Students submit a dissertation that they have to defend. The Spanish official name for the degree is Ingeniero (Engineer), or other degree called Ingeniero Técnico (Technical Engineer), which is a three-four years degree (involving also a Final Degree Project) and is equivalent to a Bachelor of Engineering, the Technical Engineer in Spain has full competencies and legal authority in their field. A distinctive characteristic of Spanish engineering degrees is that the average duration of studies up to graduation is about 40% above the nominal duration and that the drop-out rate is considerable due to stricter examination standards.  In Portugal, Engineer (Portuguese: engenheiro, feminine: engenheira, abrev.: eng.) is a professional degree reserved for the effective members of the Portuguese Institution of the Engineers (OE, Ordem dos Engenheiros) & Portuguese Institution of Technical Engineers (OET, Ordem dos Engenheiros Técnicos). There is not an academic degree of engenheiro, despite the title being used informally to refer to anyone who has a degree in engineering, even not member of the OE or OET. Until the Bologna Process, having a licenciado (5 years) degree in engineering was a previous condition to be able to be admitted to the OE. Presently, admission to the OE requires a post-Bologna licenciado (3 years) degree or a mestre (5 years) master in engineering. OE members holders of a post-Bologna licenciado degree are now classified as E1 grade engineers, while holders of a pre-Bologna licenciado or a mestre are classified as E2 grade engineers. In Italy until 2001 there were two degrees: a three-year diploma in ingegneria (BEng level, title abbrev. "dipl. ing.") and a five-year laurea in ingegneria (MEng level, title abbrev. "ing."). Since 2001 reform, the bachelor's level is called laurea (abbrev. "L") and master's degree level is called laurea specialistica or laurea magistrale (abbrev. "LS"). Accordingly, today after three years of engineering studies, the degree called laurea in ingegneria (BEng level) and the title of dottore in Ingegneria (abbrev. "dott.") can be obtained. After two additional years of engineering studies, the degree called laurea magistrale in ingegneria (MEng level) and the title of dottore magistrale in Ingegneria (abbrev. "dott.") can be obtained. After a "state exam" you become "Ingegnere" (abbrv. Ing)  In Greece, the title of "Engineer" is awarded by two parallel and complementary parts of public higher education. The title "Diplomate (Graduated) Engineer" is awarded after completion of the five-year engineering study course (300 ECTS, ISCED 7) at a University or a Technical University. The Diploma is equivalent to an Integrated Master's Degree. (Institutions have been issuing certificates of equivalence; officially recognized by the Greek legislation since August 2017. .  The title of "Certified Engineer" is awarded after completion of the four-year course of engineering studies, equivalent to Honours bachelor's degree (240 ECTS, ISCED 6), at a Technological Educational Institute - T.E.I. The newly founded University of Western Attica, in 2018, (after merging the former TEI of Athens and Piraeus) is the only University to award degrees, and not diplomas, equivalent to bachelor's degree (240 ECTS, ISCED 6)   . In Belgium, there are three types of engineering degrees : Names are traditionally prefixed with the ir. and/ or Ing. titles, although this practice is not as widespread as in The Netherlands. Use of these titles are regulated and protected by law. Belgium is particularly noteworthy as having a system under which demands made on students of engineering are particularly severe.  In the Netherlands, somebody holding an engineer's degree is an ingenieur. There are two types of engineers with different abbreviations: Names are traditionally prefixed with the ir. or ing. titles. Use of these titles are regulated and protected by Dutch law.  Under the Bologna agreement the titles are increasingly interchanged with the English-language degrees (B.Sc, BBE, M.Sc, etc.). Completion of Dutch engineering qualifications have historically demanded a lot of effort. On average the 5-year course takes 7 years to finish.   In Finnish, the engineer's degree is called diplomi-insinööri and abbreviated dipl.ins., DI or M.Sc.(Tech.). It is possible to obtain after 5 years of studying, or even faster, but the average is around six years. Under the Bologna process, this is split into two parts, the first being one where the students can get the intermediate tekniikan kandidaatti (B.Sc.(Tech.)) degree. The degree of insinööri (AMK) is a bachelor's degree from a Finnish University of Applied Sciences (ammattikorkeakoulu), similar to a German Fachhochschule, but it is not interchangeable with the academic tekniikan kandidaatti. Due to the Bologna process, a new master's degree called insinööri (ylempi AMK) or "engineer (higher amk)" has been introduced. It carries a requirement of two years of work experience after the degree of insinööri (AMK) and then some studies. In the western Slavic-speaking countries, the engineer's degree is called inżynier (Polish), inžinier (Slovak) or inženýr (Czech), and the abbreviation is inż. in Poland, and Ing. in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, which may be written before the person's name. In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, the degree of Ing. is given for complete university studies in technical (like engineering), economical or agricultural fields. In one of these cases it can be equivalent to a Master of Science in Engineering. In Poland, the degree of inżynier is available after 3.5 or 4 years of studies (like the licencjat in non-engineering science) after a final thesis is completed. A magister inżynier (abbreviated mgr inż.) refers to a Master of Science in Engineering, after completing 5 years of study and a written thesis. Originally there were "inżynier" studies that lasted for 4 years, and after that degree one could obtain the "magister" title in 2 years of studies - the total of 6 years resulted in two degrees, "magister" and "inżynier". In the early 1960s a new track of studies was developed to speed up education and the "magister inżynier" 5-year track was created. Whichever way one obtained the education the "magister inżynier" (mgr inż. before the name) was the equivalent degree with "inżynier" designating the professional level and "magister" designating the academic level. After the Bologna process the first level is "inżynier," obtainable after nominally 3 years of studies (although some are longer) with the same professional privileges as before, and "masters" after 1 or 2 years gives the same academic and professional designation as before. But the ultimate shortening of the period of studies resulted in some professional groups (e.g. architects) demanding that "magister inżynier" be made a basis for professional rights. In Belarus and Ukraine, the degree is спеціаліст інженер (specialist inzhener), a first degree after five years of study. In Croatia, the old system included the engineer's degrees diplomirani inženjer (abbr. dipl.ing.) which was awarded by university faculties, and a lower ranked engineer's degree inženjer (abbr. ing.) which was awarded by polytechnics, in a similar vein to the situation in the Netherlands. The old dipl.ing. degree could later be upgraded to a magistar (abbr. mr., Magister degree) and then a doktor (abbr. dr., Doctorate). The situation was the same in other countries previously part of Yugoslavia. In Serbian, the abbreviation is dipl.inž.  Serbian titles of magistar (abbr. mr, Magister degree) and doktor (abbr. dr, Doctorate) in abbreviated versions are used without full stop as a punctuation mark at the end. Romania followed the French system. One needs a baccalaureate diploma to be accepted at the university. The engineering degree was called Diploma de inginer, and the graduate was called a Inginer diplomat. These five years of study are equivalent to a Bologna Master(M.Sc/M.Eng/MCA). The five-year course concludes with a comprehensive set of specialising exams (examen de diploma). Marks 9 and 10 are considered exceptional. Some universities had called Diploma de Sub-inginer which was a 3-year course equivalent with a college degree. Following the Bologna process, the graduates obtain the Inginer licentiat degree, after following a four-year program. In this case the Inginer Master degree is obtained after an additional one- or two-year graduate program. Following the introduction of the Bologna process, universities divide higher-education studies in three cycles, corresponding to a three to four-year bachelor's degree, a one to two-year master's degree, and a doctoral degree. Accordingly, engineering studies are now divided in two parts: first, the bachelor's degree (baccalaureus, three to four years), and the second optional part (one to two years), after which either the traditional engineer's degree or a master's degree (e.g. MEng or MSc) is awarded. These can often, however, still be combined into a single 'integrated' degree programme in many countries, normally lasting 5 or 6 years (although only 4 years in England, Wales and Northern Ireland).  But in the UK when one considers the whole formation of a fully qualified Chartered Engineer or Incorporated Engineer it is a minimum of 8 years. Countries have varied in the implementation of the Bologna process, meaning the combination of first (bachelor's) and second (master's) cycles, even when taken as a single degree, can last from four to six years, although many countries have set five years as the minimum.   Most traditional universities continue to have a primary academic degree program, for example, a five-year Civilingenjör in Sweden, that is distinct from the 3+2 scheme that awards the bachelor's and master's degrees but a student who has done both at a Swedish technical university will in most cases also fulfill the requirements for the civilingenjör degree. In France, engineering is taught in écoles d’ingénieurs, which are part of the French grandes écoles system. Since the Bologna process, the Diplôme d’Ingénieur is officially considered to be at the level of a European master's degree. As of year 2012 in Russia, following degrees correspond to the "engineer's degree" in the sense of this article: Anything but "bachelor" is considered "second-level" higher education and gives access to post-graduate education for "candidate of sciences" degree, "bachelor" is considered "first-level" higher education degree and gives access to study for master's (magister) degree. Post-graduate scientific degrees in engineering areas include кандидат технических наук - "candidate of technical sciences" and доктор технических наук - "doctor of technical sciences". Sometimes in English translations "...of technical sciences" is exchanged for "...of engineering". In Pakistan, engineering degrees at undergraduate level are accredited by Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC). Engineering qualifications include the following: Engineering degrees at undergraduate level are referred to as: BS/BSc Engineering (Bachelor of Science in Engineering) or BE (Bachelor of Engineering) - 4 years' duration. Likewise, a postgraduate degree in engineering is referred to as: MS/MSc Engineering (Master of Science in Engineering) or ME (Master of Engineering) - 1.5 to 2 years' duration. A Doctorate in engineering is referred to as: PhD Engineering - 3 to 5 years' duration. Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) regulates the engineering profession in Pakistan and is a full signatory of Washington Accord. . In Turkey typical length of study for bachelor's degree at any engineering program is 4 years. Owner of a valided degree which given by faculty titled with engineering at Turkish universities, can be called Mühendis, meaning "Engineers". The "Mühendis" title is limited by law to people with a valid engineering degree, and the use of the title by others. (even persons with much more work experience) is illegal. (Law No: 3458 Law about Engineers and Architects 28.06.1938 Publish no:3945)   If a person get master's degree at same title with previous engineering degree can called as "Yüksek Mühendis" (meaning Higher Engineer) In Bangladesh, the engineering degree is referred to as B.Sc. Engineering (Bachelor of Science in Engineering) at the undergraduate level. Likewise, a master's degree is referred to as Master of Engineering (M.Eng) and Master of Science in Engineering (M.Sc.Engg). At the undergraduate level, the duration of the course is 4 years whereas a master's degree has a duration usually is 1.5 years. Graduated Engineers who are members of Institution of Engineers, Bangladesh are legally and formally allowed to use 'Engr.' before their names (e.g. Engr. John Smith). The engineering courses in India are regulated and set up under the aegis of the University Grants Commission of India (UGC) and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). In India, engineering qualifications include the following: In Vietnam, The degree is Bằng kỹ sư (specialist kỹ sư), a first degree after 5 years of study. The Ministry of Education of Vietnam has also issued separate regulation for the naming of degrees not in accordance with international regulation. And the Engineer's degree is named "The Degree of Engineer" in the degree(e.g The Degree of Engineer in Information Technology). The degree of engineer is ranked at the same academic level as a bachelor's degree or master's degree, and is often known literally as an "engineer diploma" (abbreviated Dipl.-Ing. or DI). 