The EUR-ACE (European Accredited Engineer) Label is a certificate awarded to courses of study in Engineering that are accredited by authorized quality assurance and accreditation agencies in the European Higher Education Area.  The European Network for Accreditation of Engineering Education (ENAEE) grants this authorization to agencies that accredit degree programs in Engineering in accordance with the European Framework Standards and ENAEE's Standards for Accreditation Agencies. The EUR-ACE label may be awarded to First Cycle (Bachelor) and Second Cycle (Master) accredited degrees in Engineering. The European Standing Observatory for the Engineering Profession and Education (ESOEPE) was established in September 2000. Its aim was to improve systems of accreditation of engineering degree programs in Europe. In 2004 ESOEPE submitted a proposal to the European Commission. This proposal envisaged the establishment of a quality label (the EUR-ACE Label) which could be awarded to engineering degree programs which had reached certain educational standards, as defined by their learning outcomes. The proposal was accepted by the EU Commission and funding provided for the project. ESOEPE was dissolved; ENAEE was established and implemented the EUR-ACE Project. The EUR-ACE Project concluded on 31/03/2006 with the presentation of the results in a public workshop in which the EUR-ACE label was listed among the six EC-sponsored “European quality labels in higher education”. .  The approach to using learning outcomes in the ENAEE European Framework Standards has been corroborated in a number of publications and projects since the establishment of ENAEE.     .  As of 19 November 2014, authorized agencies sign a Mutual Recognition Agreement whereby they  accept each other's accreditation decisions in respect of Bachelor and Master engineering degree programs which they accredit. As of 21 November 2017 ENAEE had authorised 15 agencies to award the EUR-ACE label, which has been awarded to some 2600 engineering degree programmes in 35 countries both within and outside of Europe.  The agencies authorised to award the EUR-ACE label are as follows: 