 The European Society for Engineering Education is the largest organisation for engineering education in Europe .  Commonly known as SEFI, an acronym for its French name, Société Européenne pour la Formation des Ingénieurs, it is also known in German as the Europäische Gesellschaft für Ingenieur-Ausbildung. SEFI was founded in Brussels in 1973   and has more than 300 members in 40 countries.  It promotes information exchange about current developments in the field of engineering education, between teachers, researchers and students in the various European countries. Additionally, it develops the cooperation between higher engineering education institutions and promotes cooperation with industry, acting as a link between its members and other scientific and international bodies, in collaboration with other international organisations like its European sister organisation IGIP, the American Society for Engineering Education, and the Board of European Students of Technology. SEFI is primarily a network of universities however, it offers four types of membership: individual, institutional (list), associate (list), and industrial (list) Institutional - Educational institutions and other teaching establishments involved in the education and training of engineers. (list) Industrial - Enterprises, companies and administrations employing engineers or interested in the education and training of engineers. (list) Associate - Professional organizations involved in engineering education or improvement of engineering profession, or institutions not fulfilling the criteria of the institutional membership (list) Individual - Persons involved in the engineering education and the improvement of the engineering profession, and individuals interested in joining our Working groups or EEDC SEFI is governed by a Board of Directors composed of 21 elected members and members’ representatives, two Vice-Presidents and is presently chaired by President Prof. Mike Murphy (Director - Digital Campus and Learning Transformation at Dublin Institute of Technology). SEFI Working Groups connect the educators, students and industrial stakeholders with interests in similar aspects of the engineering education and they are open to SEFI members. These groups organize meetings, workshops, write on position papers and EU projects. Current working groups include: EEDC is a permanent platform of European engineering deans which brings together their collective strengths for the advancement of engineering education and research. The EEDC provides a forum for exchange of information about experiences, challenges and best practices in engineering education institution leadership. This forum helps the engineering deans find opportunities for collaboration with industry and with other stakeholders in education, research and innovation. It also to encourages engineering deans to play a leading role in developing European and national policies for the benefit of society. Workshops and are regularly organized by the working groups and committees on specific themes of engineering education and in the context of SEFI’s priorities. Participation in the working groups is reserved to the members of SEFI. The SEFI Annual Conferences represent a unique opportunity for the members and all those involved in Engineering Education to meet colleagues, exchange views and opinions and to establish new contacts. The themes of the Conferences reflect the interests of SEFI members.  The last conferences were Annual Conference 2017 Organised by the ISEP (Porto), Azores Islands “Education Excellence for Sustainable Development” and Annual Conference 2016 “Engineering Education on Top of the World: Industry-University Cooperation”  Future Conferences are Annual Conference 2018 - organised by Technical University of Denmark on the topic of '“Creativity, Innovation and Entrepreneurship for Engineering Education Excellence” and Annual Conference 2019 - organised by the Budapest University of Technology and Economics. The general objective of the Conventions is to bring together Deans from whole over Europe to meet and to discuss in depth common topics, share experiences, identify solutions for problems and build up a network with peers in different European countries. SEFI launched the conventions in 2005, under the Presidency of Prof. Borri, University of Florence. Since 2011, ECEDs are organised by SEFI, in cooperation with CESAER and other partners. The ECED 2018 will take be organised by the Norwegian University of Science and Technology in Trondheim on 27-29 May 2018.  The European Journal of Engineering Education published by Taylor and Francis is the official scientific journal of SEFI. SEFI also publishes a monthly electronic Newsletter   and a weekly Press review as a benefit to SEFI membership.  Among regular publications are also SEFI Annual Reports and the Proceedings of SEFI Annual Conferences, indexed in Scopus. Other publications consist of Ad Hoc Documents presenting the outcomes of seminars organised by the Working Groups/Committees/Projects as well as reference documents.  EBCC Model – Education, Business and Community Cooperation Model for a Creative European Engineering Education STELA – Successful transition for secondary to higher education using learning analytics PREFER – Professional Roles and Employability of Future EngineeRs SEFI cooperates with other major European and international associations (ASEE, GEDC, IFEES, WFEO, IGIP, BEST, LACCEI, EDEN, JSEE, ...)   and international bodies (European Commission, UNESCO, Council of Europe, OECD) . SEFI also participated in the creation of numerous international organisations such as ENAEE,  IFEES,  EuroPace, IACEE, IIDEA, or EEDC. 