Global Engineering Education is a field of study that focuses on the impact of globalization on the engineering industry. Over the past decade or so educators and researchers have made an effort to transform engineering education in light of global trends in the profession.  In 1985, the National Research Council issued a study that spotlighted the need for universities to graduate engineers with professional skills.  This message was reinforced through a 1994 joint report published by the Engineering Deans Council and ASEE  that stated, “Today, engineering colleges … must educate their students to work as part of teams, communicate well, and understand the economic, social, environmental and international context of their professional activities.” Global competency is essential for engineers from any country who now compete in an international market for engineering know-how.  No longer is cultural sensitivity needed only for product design destined for diverse markets. Increasingly, successful entry into the engineering profession requires significant intercultural skills in order to join efficient and productive collaborations with diverse engineering colleagues. Those colleagues may be encountered “virtually” at a distance, in person at an international site, or next door in the office of a multinational corporation. Outsourcing is increasing, not only for products but also for processes, including highly technical engineering work. Projects are distributed across sites and effective collaboration requires professionals who can work productively with colleagues who are very different from themselves.  IEEE Education Society  belongs to the IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers) and its major objective is to strive a global leader in engineering education. The organization of education engineering worldwide conferences as they are the EDUCON and the FIE - Frontiers in Education Conference with an open view of all the publications included there as well the integration of engineering educator leaders along all the world in the Administration Committee allows a world integration of different views and perspectives. Newly publication IEEE-RITA (Revista Iberoamericana de Tecnologías del Aprendizaje - Revista Iberoamericana de Tecnologías de Aprendizagem - Latin-American Learning Technologies Journal) incorporates a new vision of technology and engineering education in Spanish and Portuguese languages.  These are some organizations around the world that focus on global engineering education 