This is a list of standardized tests that students may need to take for admissions to various Universities and Colleges. Tests of language proficiency are excluded here. Only tests not included within a certain secondary schooling curriculum are listed. Thus, those tests initially focused on secondary–school–leaving, e.g., GCE A–Levels in the UK, or French Baccalaureate, are not listed here, although they function as the de facto admission tests in those countries (see list of secondary school leaving certificates). Admission processes differs in institutes. For secondary school students applying for degree–level programmes provided by the University Grants Committee (UGC)–funded institutes, they can only apply through the Joint University Programmes Admissions System (JUPAS), which uses Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination (HKALE) and Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE) as benchmark agency until academic year 2011/12, and Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) since 2011/12. JUPAS is not used in most non–UGC/non–degree level programmes, even these institutes still uses the examination results that JUPAS uses as benchmark agency. From 2016 all students who would like to apply for a university in Hungary have to prove their language skills. They are required to pass a nationally accredited language exam at B2 CEFR level. Admission procedures and entry tests vary widely across states and universities/institutes. Usually, admission to a university in a state is based upon the performance of the candidates in the statewide Higher Secondary examinations. These are usually given after completion of the twelfth standard/grade, for example the HSC examinations of Maharashtra. Some states also have special entrance examinations for entry into engineering and medical programs, for example the Common Entrance Test in Karnataka, or the Common Entrance Test in Delhi. Admission into federally established institutes like the Central Universities, the IITs, and the NITs is usually based on a combination of performance in nationwide exams such as the JEE–MAINS and the state–level Higher Secondary examinations. Admission into federally established institutes like the NISER and the CBS is based on performance in the nationwide exam – the NEST. Admission to the National Law Universities is based on a national level entry examination conducted annually by the CLAT. West Bengal Bihar BCECE Board is the only institute of its kind in the Country that care about proxy students. At the examination centre candidates have to proceed through three thorough steps to avoid proxy. Madhya Pradesh Board is the only institute of its kind in the Country that organizes competitive tests all over India for entrance to various professional courses every year on a very large scale. Chhattisgarh Rajasthan Gujarat Andhra Pradesh Assam Delhi Although from 2010, the CEE has been cancelled and instead both of the above listed institutes will conduct counselling and admissions via the score in AIEEE exam. Karnataka Kerala Maharashtra Odisha Uttar Pradesh Tamil Nadu Single Entrance Examination for Medical Entrance The Medical Council of India has determined that there will be only one common entrance test each for over 30,000 MBBS seats and over 11,000 MD seats in all government and medical colleges in the country. Earlier (till this year), students wanting to take up courses in medicine had to appear in at least five to six MBBS and MD entrance tests for various colleges and worry about problems like clash of exam dates as well as travel to distant places for counselling for allotment of seats. A new notification has come that from 2017 there will be a single entrance exam for medical colleges in India NEET. State–Level Conducted Jointly by Some Universities By Universities Each University in Mexico has its own admission procedures, . Some of them might use the EXANI–I from Centro Nacional de Evaluación para la Educación Superior "CENEVAL" (National Center for Higher Education Assessment). Many also utilize the Prueba de Aptitud Académica offered by the College Board Puerto Rico y America Latina.  However, due to the autonomous nature of most universities in Mexico, many universities utilize admissions tests that they develop themselves. Common Management Admission Test (CMAT) a standardized test taken by colleges to take admissions for BBA and BBM. It is conducted by the National Testing Service. It is conducted by the University of Health Sciences Lahore. It is conducted by the University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore. It is conducted by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan. Universities and other institutions of higher education formerly ran their own entrance exams. Since the introduction of the "new matura" in 2005, and in particular the marking of that exam by independent examiners rather than by teachers at students' own schools, the matura now serves as the admission test for Polish students. See Polish matura. In Sri Lanka, A Level is offered by governmental and nongovernmental schools. The qualifications are awarded upon successful completion of examinations called Local A Levels while most of the private schools award them upon London A Levels. Local GCE Advanced Level qualification is offered by the Department of Examinations. Passing A Levels is the major requirement for applying local universities. Most applicants to universities in the UK take national examinations such as A-levels or Scottish Highers. Separate admissions tests are used by a small number of universities for specific subjects (particularly Law, Mathematics and Medicine, and courses at Oxford and Cambridge), many of these administered by Cambridge University's Admissions Testing Service.  However, no admission test is required for PhD studies. Each University in Mexico has its own admission procedures. Usually the exam by itself and an English Aptitude Test as requirements for acceptance. 