Dr Heiko Pult (born 1968, in Heidelberg, Germany) is a leading expert for Dry Eye, Contact Lenses, Tear Film and Vision.  He is CEO at Horst Riede GmbH in Weinheim and also owns his own research group named Dr Heiko Pult - Optometry and Vision Research, Weinheim, Germany. He is lecturer and an independent investigator of several research groups, companies and schools and author of numerous papers, articles and books.   ResearcherID: I-3596-2015 Dr Heiko Pult was initially trained as dispensing optician in the 1980s.  He graduated in 1994 as an Optometrist from the College of Optometry in Munich, Germany (Fachakademie für Augenoptik) as Optometrist. German optometry education differs to the Anglo-American system, and so he felt it important to extend clinical skills by taking the Master of Science in Optometry at the Pennsylvania College of Optometry (USA), nowadays known as Salus University.  Together with the first 40 colleagues from Austria, Switzerland and Germany, he graduated in 1998.  After graduation, this group founded the Academic Society of Optometry - of which Dr Heiko Pult was Founding President – to promote continuing education and making Optometry in their countries. Inspired by different research projects and teaching experiences in contact lenses and tear film, he commenced on a PhD at the School of Optometry and Vision Sciences, Cardiff University, UK, from which he graduated in 2008.  Subsequently, he continued to research as a Visiting Research Fellow at the School of Optometry and Vision Sciences, Cardiff University and as a member of the Contact Lens and Anterior Eye Research (CLAER) Unit, Cardiff, where he is involved in different projects and in the supervision of PhD students.  Meanwhile, Dr Heiko Pult is leading expert in his field being acknowledged by different awards and nomination for different work-groups    Dr. Heiko Pult is founder of Dr. Heiko Pult - Optometry and Vision Research, a consultancy group specialized in clinical research, mainly focused on the anterior segment of the eye including tear film, Dry Eye, Contact Lenses, Vision and Best Visual Acuity Certification.  This research group is dedicated to the delivery of high quality services to industry clients, including set-up of clinical research projects, conducting high quality studies, reviewing of current literature and publishing at scientific conferences or in peer-reviewed journals or magazines. Furthermore, they offer lectures, training and workshops to clinicians, to improve their clinical knowledge and skills. Co-instantaneous, he is CEO of the clinical optometry offices of Horst Riede GmbH in Weinheim, Germany since 1998. His areas of research include Cornea, Contact lenses, Blinks, Lids, Tear film, and Vision. He is a founding member of European Academy of Optometry and Optics (EAOO).  He is a fellow of the American Academy of Optometry (FAAO), British Contact Lens Association (FBCLA), European Academy of Optometry and Optics (EAOO).  