'Capacity theory is the theoretical approach that pulled researchers from Filter theories with Kahneman's published 1973 study, Attention and Effort (https://www.princeton.edu/~kahneman/docs/attention_and_effort/Attention_hi_quality.pdf - bottom of page 7 of the book, page 14 of the pdf) positing attention was limited in overall capacity, that a person's ability to perform simultaneous tasks depends on how much "capacity" the jobs require.  Further researchers - Johnson and Heinz (1978) and Navon & Gopher (1979) - went further with Kahneman's study.  Shalom Fisch used Kahneman's capacity theory, just as others did for their research, to published a paper on children's understanding of educational content on television.  It is a communication theory based on model which is used to explain and predict how children learn from educational television programing. It is formed by combining cognitive psychology and limited capacity of working memory. Working memory is explained as having limited resources available for processing external information and when demands exceed capabilities, then the material will not be attended to. The model attempts to explain how cognitive resources are allocated when individuals, particularly children, comprehend both the educational and the narrative content of an educational program Capacity theory suggests that when educational content is tangential to the narrative content the two information sources compete with one another for limited resources in working memory. However, when the distance between educational content and narrative content is small, the process complement one another rather than compete for resources, therefore an individual is likely comprehend more. The capacity model consists of three basic components. Capacity model implies that television viewers will construct their understanding of the narrative content by accessing prior knowledge and draw inferences on the new material based on previous exposure. Theory and empirical research has supported the notion that people are using working memory to process information needed to follow the story line or plot.       Due to the audio/visual nature of television, individual program factors will influence how much demand is used. For example, a fast paced action sequence will require more working memory to follow the action than perhaps a slow dialogue between two characters. This is best understood by breaking it down to two types of characteristics, viewer characteristics and program characteristics. Developmental research in text comprehension has found that young children can use schemata to process stories only when they are structured simply and clearly state causal linkages  The processing of educational content has not received as much attention as processing of narrative content. Many of the guiding principles in this section were developed out of speculation and then verified through current studies. As with the narrative content, there are viewer and program characteristics that effect comprehension. Distance is the final component of this model. The idea of distance separates this model from other cognitive processing models such as Limited Capacity. Distance referrers to the degree to which the educational content is integrated into the narrative. This concept has been dubbed "content on the plotline" by the Children's Television Workshop.   This is best described as the role the content has in the story of events. Distance is not binary, but is best described in length as small or large. Understanding the effect distance has on processing will explain how certain content competes for attention. Large distances will require more resources due to the increase in competition, however resources are limited. The process used to encode, store, and retrieve narrative content is the same as educational content. When the narrative and educational content are intertwined, then it is said to be a small distance, thus reducing the amount of competition for limited resources. The parallel process responsible for comprehending narrative and educational content complement one another, thus increasing information retention. - This model predicts that educational content will be better attended to when the distance from the narrative is small and has been shown in previous studies  There are several factors that will influence the processing of narrative and educational content. This theory is governed by several broad principles detailing the allocation of resources among the two content types. This principle suggests that priority is given to comprehension of the narrative content over the educational content assuming all things are equal. This primarily occurs when the distance between the educational content and narrative content is large. Working memory will be devoted to narrative before educational content. This is largely due to the fact that people typically select television content for its entertainment value before its educational value. Secondly, narrative content is featured as the primary or “surface” contents, whereas educational content is secondary or “deep” content. Each individual will have various levels of resource ability. As with any type of content the individual is exposed to, there will always be a competition for resources. Several factors can increase or decrease the demands required for processing, such as pacing, graphics, audio, and other production features. When high demands are required for processing the narrative content of educational programming, then less resources will be available for educational content. This demand to process both sources can be reduced if the educational content and narrative content are closely related. Individuals will select media to achieve certain goals or objectives. As a result, an individual may choose to watch an educational program and consciously attempt to allocate more resources to the educational content rather than the narrative content. Studies have consistently shown that viewer’s reason for watching can affect at which level the narrative is recalled and understood.   Further research using this model has revealed that the same has been shown to occur with educational content. It should be understood that this model does not assume that the attention paid to the educational content will cause the viewer to abandon resources to the narrative. </ref>Kellogg, R. T., Turner, C. E., Whiteford, A. P., & Mertens, A. (2016). The role of working memory in planning and generating written sentences. Journal of Writing Research, 7, 397-416. </ref> 