Ethical issues of business communication is the process by which individuals exchange information between other individuals or groups of people. Throughout the process, effective communicators try as clearly and accurately to convey their thoughts, intentions and, objectives to their receiver. Communication is successful only when both the sender and the receiver understand the same information. In today's business environments, effective communication skills are necessary due to the highly informational and technological era.  Regardless of context, communication involves choice, reflects values, and has consequences. For better communication, understanding the obvious and the subtle issues relating to communication is necessary. Any company that aims to be socially and ethically responsible must make a priority of ethical communication both inside the company and in its interactions with the public. In theory, many consumers prefer to do business with companies they believe are ethical which gives those ethical businesses an advantage in the market. Some of the vital characteristics of ethical communication are discussed below. While communicating with the audience, expressing the desired message to them in a significant manner is of primary importance. For instance, the employees in a company can be asked to increase their efficiency in a demanding manner whereas managers and executives will feel offended if the same tone is used on them. There are different ways to explain the exact things to them in a much smoother manner.  Maintaining the same wavelength with the audience is very important for a communicator to ensure the audiences feel at home. Experienced communicators immediately build a relationship based on trust with the audience as soon as they start speaking. Great orators such as Winston Churchill and Mahatma Gandhi always were able to maintain a relationship with their audience because they were masters at striking the same wavelength of the audience.  In the modern era, information is vital for all decisions. Hence, it is essential for any organization to be cautious when communicating with tvitalic. The related information should be absolute, and all crucial information must be conveyed appropriately. Purposely withholding crucial information might result in the public conceiving a bad image.  In order to ensure that this concept is successfully practiced and understood in an organization, a well-organized value system must be established throughout the organization by the top management. If an organization functions on the base of value systems common to both the top management and the employees, mutual respect between them will be present. A sound and healthy value system can make way for ethical communication.  Any information that is to be passed on must be true and accurate. Communicating without checking the truth of the information can be highly dangerous for the organization. Identification of the source and testing the information is necessary before communicating it. The work of an organizational communication professional consists in developing communication plans that seek to restore trust, not only in the organization but the leaders and in all the people who work for it, in verbally promoting ethical behaviors and generating spaces of communication that help support institutional values. In this way, both managers and employees will be "on the same page," employees will feel heard and respected and will treat customers in the same way. Also, this will generate more loyalty on the part of the client and, therefore, more business. In addition, a business that communicates internally with ethics will most likely project that image in the business community, will seek to maintain good relations with the government and its most successful businesses.  Without the distractions and negative effects that can have the legal implications of running a business " ethically debatable," the organization will be able to concentrate its efforts on its employees, its products, and its clients.        