Interpersonal (Interaction) adaptation theory (IAT) is often referred to as a theory of theories. Several theories have been developed to provide frameworks as explanations of social interactions. After reviewing and examining various communication theories and previous empirical evidence pertaining to interpersonal communication, a need to address ways in which individuals adapt to one another in interactions became apparent. The importance of observing both sides of a dyadic interaction lead to the development of the interpersonal adaptation theory. The theory states, individuals enter interactions with expectations, requirements, and desires, which combined establish an interaction position. Once the interaction begins, the difference between interaction position and the other party’s actual behavior determines whether the individual will adapt and continue the communication positively or not.  In 1995, Judee K. Burgoon, Lesa Stern, and Leesa Dillman published a book titled, Interpersonal Adaptation: Dyadic Interaction Patterns in which they described their findings on a "new" theory which drew from the results of previous theories.    Burgoon and her team examined fifteen previous models and considered the most important conclusions from the previous empirical research. They reviewed theories based in biological, arousal and affect, approach and avoidance, compensation and reciprocity, communication and cognitive, and social norms models. The conclusion after consideration of a multitude of theories and models stated, "while most theories predict a mix of patterns rather than committing to a single dominant pattern, they conflict over which patterns are likely under a given set of conditions."  The theories and the models from which they are derived are include but are not limited to: These previous theories combined with empirical evidence resulting from Burgoon's and her colleagues' own studies, birthed the interpersonal adaptation theory.   As previously stated, individuals enter interactions with a combination of expectations, requirements, and desires. The individual's expectations refers to how they anticipate the other party will respond in the given interaction. The individual's requirements are based on their biological basic needs. Lastly, the individual's desires are driven by their personalized likes and dislikes.   For example, when a wife of an airman comes to her husband after he has hurt her emotionally, because he has not been spending enough time with her before he deploys, she may expect him to behave defensively, need him to not get mad thus spending even less time with her, and want him to understand her feelings. The wife's requirements, expectations, and desires are a combination of biological needs (unconsciously presumed or performed) and socially learned behaviors. Expectations are typically based on previously experienced social interactions or social norms. Requirements, such as the need for safety, may be more prominently based on a biological need for survival.  In the above example, according to IAT, if the husband responds in a manner which meets his wife's requirements and desires, she will reciprocate and posture to mirror his behavior in the interaction. The theory explains, the reason reciprocity occurs, is because a positive and stable interaction is most preferred.  If in the given example, the husband meets his wife's expectations and behaves unfavorably toward her, her response behavior will diverge, to deescalate the situation. The use of compensation is the most common behavioral response to occur in this interaction. In divergence, the wife may assume a role of the "fire extinguisher" and find herself frequently putting out fires or deescalating negative interactions in the relationship.  Another example of interpersonal adaptation theory may be observed in an international business exchange. Consider the following example, in the United States business meeting culture is conducted in a direct, forward, and opinionated way. American business people engaged in meetings with an agenda and openly voice their ideas and opinions. In contrast, Japanese business culture is formal, polite and conducted at an elevated level of etiquette. In events in which the two cultures engage in business together, the Japanese businessman may expect the American businessman to be direct and opinionated but prefer politeness. If instead the American displays tact and decorum, the interaction will be more positive than had the expectation of the Japanese businessman been met. In this cross-cultural exchange, the interaction will likely adapt in convergence reciprocity.  The review of past theories, empirical evidence, and considerations of their own investigations, lead Burgoon (1995) and her colleagues  to propose nine principles meant to guide the new interaction adaption model: Based on the foundation set by the proposed nine guiding principles and the recognized importance of observing both sides of an interaction, the dyadic model of the interaction adaptation theory was created. The interaction adaptation model is derived from five key concepts. The first three of the five concepts, which govern behavior are requirements, expectations, and desires. Individuals engaging in an interaction begin with a combination of the three. R, E, & D are interrelated and not independent. The fourth concept, interaction position, is a product of an individual's requirements, desires, and expectations.  Burgoon and her colleagues presented the first four concepts in mathematical formula format: Understanding R, E, D and IP The fifth concept is actual behavior which is used as a comparison point against the interaction position. Understanding IP and A As an alternative explanation of the relationship between the interaction position and actual behavior, a preferred stable interaction is described as one in which IP and A are equal. IAT predicts if at any point, either interactant wants the interaction to continue to be stable and IP does not equal A, one of the interactants much change their IP. This change minimizes the discrepancy gap between IP and A. By changing their IP, the interactant hopes their partner will acknowledge the adjustment by matching the behavior, thus changing A. Burgoon et al., describes this as a "Follow the Leader" entrainment principle. This is a strategic adaptation which was introduced by Ickes et al., in 1982.  In summation, interpersonal adaptation theory explains the dyadic interaction as follows, prior to an individual entering an interaction with another individual, their interaction is predisposed with certain expectations, desires, and requirements, or an interaction position. Once the communication begins, the difference between interaction position and the other party’s actual behavior determines whether the individual will adapt and continue the communication positively or not. 