Non-verbal leakage is a form of body language. This happens when a person verbalizes one thing but their body language does another. The most common forms of non-verbal leakage are hand-to-face gestures.  One of the most important concepts in the study of body language is that of non-verbal leakage. This occurs when we say one thing but our body language gestures give a different impression.  The most obvious of these are hand-to-face gestures. The best way to understand these is to think how you behaved when you were a small child. What did you do then if you saw something frightening? You put your hands over your eyes, because in a toddler’s mind, if you can’t see it, it’s not there.   If you aren’t aware of non-verbal leakage, your body language will scream out to your audience that something is wrong. They won’t necessarily know exactly what that is, but they will subconsciously pick up the incongruity between your verbal and non-verbal messages, and that you are uncomfortable in some way about what you are saying. Therefore you need to know the telltale signs of leakage so you can avoid making them and rehearse your delivery showing open, confident body language instead. So, what do people do when they see, hear or have to say something they are uncomfortable with? The same thing occurs, but the hand wipes the mouth, scratches the face or strokes the chin. This is especially common when politicians are listening to other people speak, as they are champing at the bit to reply but have to literally hold the words back. This gesture can be mistaken for interest and deep thought, but when this occurs the hand tends to be lower and holds or strokes the chin without touching the mouth. It is the fingers covering the mouth that makes all the difference. Touching of the nose during conversation can also imply lying. This gesture is also common when someone has been asked a difficult question and they are thinking about how to reply. It may be accompanied by statements like, "That's a good question". Of course, it could always be that the person has an itchy nose, but when someone scratches an itch it tends to be with a vigorous motion using the fingernail. The hand to nose gesture is slower and uses the knuckle or fingertip to scratch, or pinches the bridge of the nose. In one study, liars gave more false smiles and embarrassed smiles.   <http://www.speaklikeapro.co.uk/Non_verbal_Leakage.htm> 