Mentadent is a brand name for a line of dental products manufactured by Unilever for its home and international markets excluding in the United States and Canada where the company sold its rights to the brand to Church & Dwight Company in 2003.   In 2016, Church & Dwight announced it would discontinue the Mentadent brand effective Spring 2017.  As it only the rights for US and Canadian sales, this did not affect Unilever which still markets and sells Mentadent branded products in other markets.   Unilever first introduced the brand around 1982. Mentadent SR, formerly Gibbs SR, is one of three toothpaste products still marketed by Unilever worldwide.   The product was originally named after its active ingredient, sodium ricinoleate.  Gibbs SR was the first product to be promoted on UK television. The introduction of commercial television advertising was due to the Television Act of 1954 which created the commercial broadcaster ITV. The advertisement was first shown on Associated-Rediffusion on 22 September, 1955 at 8.12pm BST, with a voiceover by Alex Macintosh.    The advertisement was written and produced by Brian Palmer.  Unilever make 3 varieties of toothpaste under the Mentadent brand  In 2003, Church & Dwight Company acquired the United States and Canadian rights to the Mentadent brand from Unilever and then operated it as a subsidiary brand of Arm & Hammer until it discontinued sales of the brand in 2016.   Mentadent is most notable for its unique toothpaste dispenser: a dual chamber pump.  This design is intended to keep two ingredients separated until they are dispensed.  Upon brushing, the ingredients will react with each other in the user's mouth. Both the toothpaste (formula) and the design of the pump were invented and then patented by Hans Schaeffer - who later sold the patent.  In the majority of its toothpaste lines, the two separate ingredients are baking soda and peroxide.  Upon brushing, baking soda and peroxide combine to release oxygen bubbles.  It is claimed that these bubbles will clean, whiten, and freshen the mouth.  