Alibi is a language game spoken by children in Australia. It is not a true language, instead an obfuscation of English. It is a system of manipulating the syllables of spoken words to render them incomprehensible to the untrained ear. The language can be easily mentally encoded and decoded by a skilled speaker at the rate of normal speech, while those who either don't know the key or aren't practiced in rapid speech are left hearing nothing but gibberish. The word 'Alibi' is most likely in itself a reference to the rules of the language, although not entirely correct. In this scenario the vowel/word 'I' would have been chosen, had the normal rules applied except for replacing the first 'I' with an 'A' to make the word easier to pronounce or sound better. but some children may say alibi is actually a correct language. Language games are primarily used by children, to disguise their speech from others. Alibi is spoken most prominently in Australia, and may be used in other English speaking countries, such as New Zealand, The United States and The United Kingdom. (In the United Kingdom it is also known as 'Uvaguv' and uses 'v' and 'g in place of 'l' and 'b'.) However the rules are simple enough so they may be applied to many other languages. Alibi strays from its parent language only in pronunciation and spelling of actual words, it retains all the same grammatical rules and protocols. The language is encoded by breaking each word into syllables and manipulating each one by elongating them. This is done by multiplying the vowel sound of each syllable three times and placing the letters 'l' and 'b' in between the first and second, and the second and third repetition respectively. For example: The word 'hello' is broken into two syllables; 'hel' and 'lo', each vowel sound is repeated three times; 'heeel' and 'looo', the letters 'l' and 'b' are placed in between the first and second vowel and the second and third vowel respectively; 'helebel' and 'lolobo'. Thus the word 'hello' becomes 'helebel-lolobo'. there is also an alphabet but won't work  if you are creating a word because alibi ( language game) also depends on syllables. 