Vesre (reversing the order of syllables within a word) is one of the features of Rioplatense Spanish slang. Natives of Argentina and Uruguay use vesre sparingly in colloquial speaking, and never in formal circumstances. Tango lyrics make widespread use of lunfardo and vesre to highlight the intended underworld atmosphere, or for comic relief. Vesre is mostly from Buenos Aires, and other cities in Argentina have their own customs. Rosario has its "Rosarigasino" method for obfuscating words, and Córdoba has an entirely different set of colloquial conventions. Yet, most Argentines and Uruguayans have been exposed to vesre through tango lyrics or the media. Even though vesre has spread to other countries, and can be heard in Peru, Chile and Ecuador, Spanish speakers outside the Río de la Plata area are usually less inclined to use it. Popular speech has created some instances; for example, natives of Barranquilla, Colombia often call their city Curramba, in a stylized form of vesre. NOTE: When the syllables of the noun are switched, the original gender - masculine or feminine - is kept; e.g., "un café -> un feca" Occasionally, vesre is a stepping-stone towards further obfuscation, achieved by evolving into a longer word. For example: The original and vesre versions of a word are not always synonyms; sometimes the reversal adds some extra nuance to the meaning. For instance, the word hotel bears the same meaning as in English (i.e. a normal tourist hotel), whereas telo implies that the establishment is actually a love hotel. Listen to examples[permanent dead link] These reversed words are only spoken; rarely found in writing. In English - Pig Latin; (Not exactly with the same morphological construction but similar in purpose and tone)  Colloquial French has a form of intentional metathesis known as verlan. Greek has Podaná with the same morphological construction. Tagálog, a language of the Philippines, also has a similar construct known as binaliktad, lit. "inverted." Serbian has a form of slang called Šatrovački followed in the 1990s with a more ambiguous slang called utrovački. 