The GLAAD Media Award for Outstanding Comic Book is an annual award that honors comics writers for excellence in the depiction of LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender) characters and themes. It is one of several categories of the GLAAD Media Awards, which are presented by GLAAD—a U.S. non-governmental media monitoring organization founded in 1985, formerly called the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation—at ceremonies in New York, Los Angeles, and San Francisco between March and June.  The award was introduced in 1992 as a non-competitive category at the 3rd GLAAD Media Awards. The first honoree was William Messner-Loebs, for his work on the second volume of The Flash (a comic book series published by DC Comics). No award was given from 1993 through 1995, but the authors of one work have been recognized every year since 1996. "Outstanding Comic Book" became a competitive category in 1997.  Comic books are selected by GLAAD evaluated on four criteria: "Fair, Accurate, and Inclusive Representations" of the LGBT community, "Boldness and Originality" of the project, significant "Impact" on mainstream culture, and "Overall Quality" of the project.  "Outstanding Comic Book" is one of only four categories in which GLAAD may select up to ten nominees rather than five.[note 1] While comic books are submitted for consideration by media outlets after GLAAD has issued a Call for Entries, GLAAD can still nominate a title even if it was not submitted. Winners are determined by a plurality vote by GLAAD staff and board, Shareholders Circle members, as well as volunteers and allies.  Since its inception, the award has been given to the authors of 21 comic books, comic strips, and graphic novels. Green Lantern, Young Avengers, and Strangers in Paradise are the only titles to have won the award twice, and Green Lantern is the only work to have won in two consecutive years (2002 and 2003). Judd Winick is the writer with the most wins, having been nominated four times and winning three, including two wins for Green Lantern. With seven nominations and two wins, Terry Moore, creator of Strangers in Paradise, has been nominated more often than any other writer. With four nominations, The Authority is the comic that has been nominated the most often without a win. At the 29th GLAAD Media Awards in 2018, Roxane Gay, Ta-Nehisi Coates, Yona Harvey, and Rembert Browne won the award for their work on the comic book series Black Panther: World of Wakanda.   