  Abimbola Gbemi Alao also known as Abi Alao, was born in Ibadan, Nigeria. She is a performance storyteller, author, children's book translator and researcher. She currently lives in England. Abimbola studied at the University of Ibadan, Nigeria, where she gained a BA (Hon) Classics in 1988 and an MA Classics in 1991. She later studied PGCE and MA in Creative Writing at the University of Plymouth. Abimbola is the author of Trickster Tales for Telling (2016), How to Enhance Your Storytelling With Music (2016),The Legendary Weaver: New Edition, a young-adult fiction book (2003 and 2011), and The Goshen Principle: A Shelter in the Time of Storm (2010). She has also written numerous poems, short stories and plays. In 2008, her short play, 'Legal Stuff', won the BBC and Royal Court Theatre '24 Degrees' Writing Competition. In 2011-2012, she wrote a collection of fables for KidsOut World Stories; this project won the 2013 Talk Talk Digital Heroes award for the East of England.      She is a children's book translator and her work includes translation of the classics: 'Hansel and Gretel', 'The Little Red Hen and the Grain of Wheat' and several other books, published by Mantra Lingua publishers. Abimbola was a tutor at the Institute of Education, University of Plymouth, from 2003 to 2007 and was appointed as a lecturer in Creative Writing at the University of St Mark & St John (MARJON), Plymouth, in 2007. A recipient of Plymouth's 2017 Mayflower Scholarship, she is currently researching the influence of physical and cognitive non-pharmacological intervention on disease progression in people living with dementia. Abimbola is the lead provider of 'StoryWeavers for Dementia', a Special Study Unit (SSU) in Medical Humanities, at the Peninsula School of Medicine and Dentistry, Plymouth. The program, developed by Abimbola, explores non-pharmacological approach to dementia care, and offered to people who live with various forms of dementia. In 2015, Abimbola collaborated with the Alzheimer's Society to run a 12-week project with service users in memory cafes. This culminated in an anthology titled, 'Narrative Adventures from Plymouth Memory Cafes'.   In January 2014, Stoke Damerel College in Plymouth participated in StoryWeavers for Dementia; the school won the Prime Minister's Dementia Friendly Award: Schools Category in May 2014.  Abimbola was a regular contributor to the BBC Radio Devon 'Pause for thought', between 2004 and 2009. She also contributes to 'Saturday Thought', a weekly column in The Herald. Abimbola performs Storytelling,  Musicals  and Poetry on stage.  Her audience includes children, young adults and adults. 