Alan Roger Currie (born March 3, 1963) is an American dating coach, self-help author, motivational speaker, and YouTube personality.    He has written advice books on dating and interpersonal relationships, verbal communication skills, identifying various manipulative "mind games" employed between the genders, seduction, erotic dominance & submission (BDSM), and engaging in erotically explicit "dirty talk" with women. Currie was born on March 3, 1963, in Gary, Indiana,   the son of Dr. Clarence R. Currie, one of the first two African-American graduates of the Indiana University School of Optometry, and Mildred R. Currie, an art teacher in the Gary Community School Corporation.  He started writing his own original comic books when he was six years old, which he sold for $0.05 to $0.15 to his classmates. He attended William A. Wirt High School where he served as president of the student body during his senior year, and was also elected president of the entire high school population of Gary, Indiana.   Currie attended Indiana University (Bloomington) where he earned Dean's List Scholar honors and a B.A. in Economics.    He was a member of the predominantly African-American fraternity Kappa Alpha Psi.  In the mid-1980s, Currie began to land roles in local, regional, and national television commercials.   In 1989, he won the Miller Lite Comedy Search contest for up-and-coming comedians held in Chicago.  He started his brief career as a comedian as the opening act for Robin Harris during the 1989 Circle City Classic in Indianapolis, Indiana. He has made brief appearances on The Morning Show with Mike and Juliet,  The Oprah Winfrey Show,  The Phil Donahue Show,  and The Steve Harvey Television Talk Show.  In the mid-to-late 1990s, Currie shifted from acting and stand-up comedy to writing and screenwriting.   In May 1994, after completing one year in the Kelley School of Business MBA Program,   Currie moved to Los Angeles, California, to pursue a career as a screenwriter and filmmaker.   He was hired into the NBC page program in Burbank, California   and began working for NBC Studios.  He later worked for Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation in their Guest Relations and Special Events department.  Currie developed his concept of "The Four Modes of Verbal Communication" in October 1990 and published his first pamphlet in 1998, entitled Mode One: Let Them Know What You're Really Thinking.  The 26-page pamphlet outlined general characteristics of each of his "Four Modes" of interpersonal communication styles with women: Currie converted his initial pamphlet into an eBook in 1999  and began selling it via the Internet. He advocates for "being honest" and has argued that "cutting to the chase is best as it doesn't waste anyone's time."  His approach has been described as "less gimmicky" compared to the methods of pickup artists because of his "straight up unapologetic honesty".  Comedian Ian Coburn described his writing as "refreshing and truly helpful". Currie has stated that, "If you are attracted to a woman, the best way to capture her attention is to tell her what your intentions are; She may initially gasp in shock, but she is more likely to go out with you."  Currie was a speaker at the first Direct Dating Summit for Men in London, England in 2010. The weekend conference has since been held in various cities all over the world, and is geared toward helping single heterosexual men looking for advice on how to improve their interpersonal communication skills with women. Currie has spoken at several of these conferences.    Currie appeared in the July 2008 edition of Essence magazine.   He has written for Examiner.com. He was hired to teach an adult education course, "Dating for 21st Century Singles", through Indiana University Northwest in Gary, Indiana.   Currie was named "2017 Dating Coach of the Year" and "2017 Black Male YouTube Personality of the Year" by a website titled The NegroManosphere.com  From June 2007 to June 2016, Currie hosted an Internet radio show on the BlogTalkRadio Internet Radio Network titled Upfront & Straightforward with Alan Roger Currie. The show primarily centered on interviews and discussions with dating and life coaches, relationship experts, sexologists, seduction gurus, and marriage counselors.  Currie continues to host an adults-only podcast, using his popular nickname "The King of Verbal Seduction", entitled The Erotic Conversationalist.  The program centers on interviews and discussions with women from diverse backgrounds regarding their thoughts and opinions on issues related to women's sensuality and female sexual desire and arousal.  Currie has resisted having his name associated with the seduction community, which includes pickup artists and speakers such as Neil Strauss, Mystery, Ross Jeffries and Roosh V. He stated: I am not a Pick Up Artist, never have been, and I will never refer to myself as such... I describe a 'pick up artist' as a man who employs psychological gimmicks, pleasant lies, and manipulative 'head games' in order to persuade naive and unsuspecting women into having sex with him.  Currie has criticized attraction and seduction techniques which emphasize or utilize misleading or manipulative tactics, saying, "Manipulation can provide benefits in the short-run, but very rarely if ever in the long-run. At some point, your real, true self will come to the surface." He has said that attempts to manipulate make people more vulnerable to themselves being manipulated.  Currie has released several self-published books, mostly centered on dating and interpersonal communication between men and women. 