Andy Andrews (born May 22, 1959) is an American author of self-help/advice books and a corporate speaker, known for his 2002 bestselling book The Traveler's Gift.  He has written over 20 books and sold more than 3.5 million copies around the world. His books have been translated into over 20 languages. Andrews regularly speaks for corporations, organizations, athletic teams, and the U.S. military. Three of his books, The Noticer,  The Traveler’s Gift, and "How Do You Kill 11 Million People?" appeared on The New York Times Best Seller List.  Andrews has appeared on The Fox News Channel, Good Morning America, MSNBC, TBN, GBTV  and CNBC.  Books by Andy Andrews are published by Thomas Nelson located in Nashville, TN.  Andrews was born in Birmingham, Alabama and   raised in Dothan, Alabama. His father was a minister of music and his mother played piano, organ, and directed the church's children’s choir programs. When Andrews was 19, he lost his mother (41) to cancer and his father (44) in an automobile accident within the span of a few months.  After the death of his parents, Andrews spent over a year homeless on the coast of Alabama, sleeping under the Gulf State Park Pier or an occasional garage.  During this time that he came up with the "seven decisions"  that eventually shaped the manuscript of his 2002 novel The Traveler’s Gift. In 2009, Andrews released his second novel, The Noticer. He released his first children’s book, The Boy Who Changed the World, in 2010. An adult version of the children’s story, titled The Butterfly Effect, was also released as a gift book. Andrews is an alumnus of Auburn University. A novel titled The Final Summit published by Thomas Nelson in Nashville, TN was released in April 2011. It features the same character of The Traveler’s Gift, David Ponder. He is also known for his major work "The Noticer" which has been a worldwide bestseller . This book was published in 2009 by Thomas Nelson Andy's newest book, How Do You Kill 11 Million People? - Why the Truth Matters More Than You Think, published by Thomas Nelson in Nashville, TN has been released nationwide and been featured by national media including Fox News Channel.  