Anjula Mutanda born of mixed Indian/Ugandan heritage; and mixed religious heritage;  is a British broadcaster, social scientist, counselling and relationship psychologist, life coach and celebrity therapist.  She studied and trained at Durham University  (alumni of Durham university), and also holds senior accredited practitioner status (MBACP)) registered with the BACP. Mutanda was a judge at the Royal Society for Science 2006. She is Fellow of the National Counselling Society as of January 2018. She has appeared on and presented many prime time popular television programmes giving psychological analysis, such as the Bafta award-winning first series of Big Brother, as well.as popular day time shows: Daybreak, BBC Breakfast, Loose Women, The Alan Titchmarsh Show and The Wright Stuff. She was the resident psychologist on This Morning for five years. Mutanda wrote and presented a programme on Radio 4 called "Diversity Works". This was an in-depth examination on mixed race marriages, and how people overcome barriers in order to make them work successfully. This made pick of the week. Mutanda was the phobia expert on ITV's Feel the Fear , where she supported the shows two presenters:https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feel_the_Fear Holly Willoughby and Steve Wilson, to overcome their fears. This 12-part series was a hit with its target audience of 7-to-12-year-olds. She also featured on the programme Generation X:Cess.  She continues to be invited to regularly appear on day time shows and is also a regular expert on Tonight; ITV's flagship current affairs documentary series. She has also contributed to BBC1's The One Show. She has appeared as specialist expert on DNA stories with Lorraine Kelly for Sky Real Lives. She has worked with Martine McCutcheon on The Truth about Beauty for UKTV style. She has written numerous articles for magazines, and newspapers on a wide range of topics. She has been invited to be agony aunt for several magazines during her career so far including: Mizz, Reveal, More and Top Sante magazines. She regularly contributes to Closer, Heat, Glamour and Psychologies magazines. Her first self-help book, Celebrity Life Laundry, was published in  2007. Her psychological expertise is also regularly sought by a wide range of  corporate brands where she has the role of specialist consultant, spokesperson and advisor. Many of the series that Mutanda has fronted or contributed to have been aired around the globe and seen by a huge international audience. Mutanda hosted Family Contract, a six-part prime-time series for BBC1. In this show Mutanda helped families live more harmoniously. Mutanda presented a prime-time eight-part series for channel 5 in 2008 called How to Have Sex After Marriage. In this show Mutanda led a team of experts to help couples re-ignite the passion in their relationships. She counselled the couples, and set them challenges to help them improve their self-esteem, body confidence and communication. Mutanda co-hosted Body Language Secrets, a prime-time eight-part series on Sky 1, in 2010. Mutanda presented My Naked Secret 2011, a series about people living with physical abnormalities that were heavily impacting on their emotional lives, relationships and working lives. This 12-part series is part observational documentary and part emotional transformation. Mutanda accepted the invitation to be an Ambassador for BME cancer voice—cancer does not discriminate 2012—and spoke to an invited audience at the House of Commons. Mutanda's second self-help book How to do relationships was published in July 2013. Publisher Randomhouse group. Extracts from the book were featured in The Times, Mirror,  and the Irish Independent.  She wrote a piece for The Guardian newspaper on how a cancer diagnosis can affect relationships. Mutanda was appointed as an Ambassador for the charity RELATE in September 2013 Mutanda was appointed as an Ambassador for The National Counselling Society. She is the Media and Cultural Diversity Ambassador. (February 2018). https://www.nationalcounsellingsociety.org/about-us/ambassadors/  Mutanda's 10-part series Man-Up aired in 2014 in the UK and worldwide. Mutanda was specialist psychology expert on 50 Ways to Kill your Lover, an eight-part series where she gave her forensic relationship analysis on complex cases. This series aired in the UK and US in 2014 on CI and ID channels. It was the number #1 rated show on the ID channel. Mutanda reprised her role as resident psychologist on season 2 which aired in the US in June 2015. Mutanda continued as resident psychologist for season 3 in 2016. Mutanda appeared on Woman's Hour with Jeni Murray in June 2014. Mutanda contributed as expert psychologist on the series Autopsy the last hours" for the last 6 seasons which has aired on  channel 5 UK, channel 7 Australia and in the US - giving her analysis on celebrity case studies.  .  https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autopsy:_The_Last_Hours_of... She makes regular appearances on This Morning-itv. 2016. Mutanda is resident psychologist and commentator on Celebrity Botched up Bodies 2016. Series 1&2. Mutanda appeared on radio 4 and 5 live simulcast discussing friendships.  August 2014. Mutanda in her capacity as Relate Ambassador, attended the launch of "The Relationship alliance" manifesto at The House of Commons October 2014. Mutanda appeared on The Davina Hour with Davina McCall- W channel September 18th 2017 discussing the meaning of Friendship. Contributing editor/ expert at GraziaUK magazine.( 2017-2018). Mutanda is a regular face on This Morning itv1 Mutanda was invited to be Guest speaker at Women of the world (WOW) festival 10th March 2018. Topic- Dead bedroom. South Bank. Royal festival hall.Women of the World Festival Mutanda was Chair at Relate charity's 80th anniversary, with guest speaker Alain De Bottom I(Philosopher). May 2018.Alain de Botton https://www.itv.com/hub/prince-harrys-story-four-royal-weddings/2a5621a0001 via @itvhub . Appeared as Psychotherapy expert on documentary about Prince Harry May 2018. http://www.channel5.com/show/fights-camera-action/ Mutanda is the resident behavioural expert on Fights Camera Action on 5Spike. 2018 https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2018/sep/18/the-bodyguard-should-be-a-woman-what-tv-dramas-get-wrong Mutanda comments on the role of therapy in fictional dramas. September 2018 