Blake LeVine is a therapist, author, life coach and documentary filmmaker. As a child, he was featured on Entertainment Tonight, Maury Povich, The Jon Stewart Show, CNN, The New York Post, Premiere Magazine, The Los Angeles Times and numerous radio programs about his experiences collecting autographs from celebrities including Princess Diana, Mother Teresa, Brad Pitt, Frank Sinatra and over 1,000 notables.  His book Okay Dad You Can Take the Picture: A Young Man's Quest for Autographs of the Famous was published when he was 15 years old. As a teenager he attended High School at Professional Children's School in New York City with child actors including Macaulay Culkin, Christina Ricci, Jordana Brewster, Eddie Kaye Thomas, and Eden Riegel. As a teenager, he hosted a Public-access television cable TV show interview notable people at charity events, premieres, and parties around New York City. His show aired on Manhattan Neighborhood Network, the Public-access television cable TV channel in Manhattan. Blake has directed a feature-length documentary titled Rap Therapy that is being sold at the American Film Market in November 2010, about helping foster children at the Salvation Army through the use of hip hop art, song, and dance. Rap Therapy has had both DMX and Chuck D in discussions to be a part of a television show about helping children in the inner city through this technique. Blake has submitted his video to be a part of a new Oprah Winfrey and Mark Burnett program looking for the next host of the new OWN Network. In the documentary titled Rap Therapy: The Music Will Save Your Soul, Blake LeVine works with foster children at The Salvation Army in New York using this technique. The kids in the film open up about coming out, having parents die of drug overdoses, dealing with bullying, gang violence, sexual abuse, parents in jail, and the struggle of being in several foster homes. Within the film are also interviews with 50 Cent, Diddy, Reverend Run and several celebrities.     Blake was engaged to his wife on The Dr. Phil television program in 2005. His work as a psychotherapist is the subject of his second book Like Mother, Like Son: A Mom's Guide to Raising Healthy Children.  Blake's third book, Beating Bipolar, was released by Hay House in November 2012. The book shares lessons for families and individuals dealing with bipolar disorder. He has spoken about bipolar at organizations including The Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance, National Alliance on Mental Illness, many schools and corporations. Demi Lovato praised Blake's working helping those with mental illness.  Blake provides coaching and support for clients with bipolar on his site BlakeLeVineCoaching.com 