  Domonique Bertolucci (born 1970 in Perth, Australia) is an Australian happiness expert, life coach, and author of several books. She is the founder and principal of the Domonique Bertolucci Company, which delivers personal development programs. She previously worked as a model and independent consultant before founding her own firm.   She has written several books that focus on happiness and life-coaching, giving readers the tools to live better lives, including her novels, Your Best Life in 2006 and The Happiness Code in 2012. Bertolucci has become a prominent life strategist and happiness coach, with more than ten million people having “seen, read, or heard” her lessons.   Bertolucci was born in Perth, Western Australia. She is of Italian ancestry. At an early age she began modelling and at 22 moved to London to pursue this as a career. However, dissatisfied with this, she soon changed careers and became a project manager and independent consultant for a range of investment banks. For ten years she consulted several firms on optimising systems and processes, as well as team-building and success techniques. During her time in a corporate setting she developed a number of techniques for team success and workplace achievement.   However she has stated that she lacked a sense of fulfilment and desired a lifestyle and career change. Her desire was to hold a meaningful and enjoyable position, as well as lead a passionate and fulfilling home life. She did not foresee her career in financiall troubleshooting offering her the chance at true happiness and therefore quit her job to found her own firm, Success Strategies, rebranded in 2006 as Domonique Bertolucci Company. When asked about her motivations, Bertolucci said "I have always been a positive, motivated person, but there was a time when I didn't feel like I was living my best life. Things were certainly going well and my life looked good on paper: a former model, a well-paid corporate job, a nice house, car and boyfriend. But I felt like I was living someone else’s life; my success felt two-dimensional.”   She has recounted that she eventually hit a “quarter-life crisis” where, although everything in her life seemed sufficient, she expected more and felt unfulfilled. She soon realised there was a different path to happiness that she had to take. Using the expertise she had gained while developing teams, she created a method to success which she began to teach. She worked as a life coach and a success coach, which she defines as similar to a 'life coach' but generally dealing with both life and business challenges for entrepreneurial and senior executive clients.   Returning to Australia in 2003 to found her own firm, Success Strategies, she began working with corporate and entrepreneurial clients, teaching them optimal techniques in leadership, personal motivation, and achieving success. Her firm offers several courses and workshops in personal development programs for both the general public and companies who recognise the economic impact of efficient and content employees..” In 2006, she re-branded her firm as the Domonique Bertolucci Company (DBC).    She is a speaker for professional settings. Bertolucci has developed a criterion of goal-setting for her clients and readers that involves ranking values and prioritising those most important, called the Personal Happiness Prescription.   Bertolucci believes that personal happiness is a choice, and maintaining it is a result of the decisions a person has made. She outlines several simple steps to living a happier life that require a change of perspective. Building upon this, she develops a system for long term happiness and balance that would avoid any sense of burnout. This “burnout” she states affects many high-level executives and business-people whose lives are imbalanced due to too much focus on one criterion.    She comments that most people push themselves towards a goal that is not ultimately consistent with their life values. They put much more time and energy into goals and possessions that will not fundamentally increase their happiness. Trying too hard at any one thing, whether it be career or relationship oriented, will have detrimental effects that reduce overall life satisfaction. She coaches even small steps towards this goal, minor increments perhaps, are enough to begin simplification, leaving a person “relaxed and happy, instead of stressed and overwhelmed.”     She has been featured in interviews for publications on lifestyle and business topics, including Sunrise (Ch7), the Today Show (Ch9), Cosmopolitan, The Sydney Morning Herald, “The Sunday Telegraph (UK).  Bertolucci was also interviewed by Weight Watchers where she explained that her goal-setting methods can also be used to lose weight.   She is an author of several books on achieving happiness and success through several techniques and psychological changes.  Bertolucci encourages her readers to see happiness as a state of being, not one of doing or having.   Bertolucci outlines that taking risks is often an important step in attaining happiness. While small steps can further a goal, it is important to identify what will truly bring about happiness, which can often involve some amount of personal risk. She believes there are two types of fear: a negative kind that limits people from achievement and a positive kind that gives motivation. Bertolucci has commented that it is necessary to overcome the negative effects of fear to properly channel this energy. Furthermore, she stresses the importance of reasonable goal setting, which both makes happiness more attainable while reducing the negative effects of fear and anxiety.    She has also written extensively on methods for improved personal relations, whether it be with friends, romantic partners, or business contacts. Attitude and genuine interest will naturally attract others' attention and increase rapport. She believes there are several varied friend types that a person should have to achieve a well-rounded world view and thus richer happiness. She has said "you need different types of friends in the same way that you need food from different food groups. Different types of friends serve different purposes and nourish and enrich our lives in different ways."     Bertolucci splits her time living in Sydney and London with her husband. They have two children together. She is an ambitious home cook and enjoys reading in her spare time.   