 Jairek Robbins (born May 26, 1984) is an American performance coach and motivational speaker.   He is the son of American life coach, self-help author, and motivational speaker Tony Robbins.  Robbins was born in Santa Monica, California, to Tony Robbins and Liz Acosta.   He graduated from the University of San Diego with a Bachelor of Arts degree in psychology.  While studying at USD, he took a semester abroad through the Semester at Sea program, and visited for a week at a time in Japan, China, India, Vietnam, Thailand, Tanzania, South Africa, Brazil and Venezuela. Robbins said in an interview given to Forbes that this was inspiration for much of his work, volunteer efforts and focus on finding a way to make a positive difference in the world through philanthropy and volunteerism.  Robbins started his career in 2002 with the Anthony Robbins Foundation and worked there for two years. While attending the University of San Diego he spent 3 months living in a rural farming village as a volunteer teaching organic farming in Uganda through the organization Students Partnership Worldwide (now Restless Development).  He was a board member for the non-profit organization "Just Like My Child" which also does education and health projects in Uganda.  He later became a Results Coach at Robbins Research International. From 2006 to 2008 he served as a representative of RRI. He founded Jairek Robbins Companies in 2010 and later started Rapid Results Retreat in 2011.  Robbins is also a host to a weekly YouTube segment entitled JRCtv and a regular contributor to the Huffington Post blog.  He delivered a TEDx talk in 2013, titled "A Simple Formula To Inspire the World To Live Their Dreams" in New York City.  In 2014, Robbins wrote a book entitled, Live It!: Achieve Success By Living With Purpose.   In 2008, at the age of 23, Robbins received a Congressional Award Gold Medal, which is a non-competitive award for young Americans who have engaged in activities such as voluntary public service.  Robbins married Amanda Andrzejewski in 2014.  