Jerry Gladstone (born March 11, 1960) is an author, personal life coach and marketing executive.  During his 25-year career, Gladstone specialized in the production and distribution of entertainment fine art for major movie studios and celebrities.  Gladstone is the founder of The Common Thread Success Academy, The Common Thread Group and author of the International Best Selling Book, The Common Thread of Overcoming Adversity and Living Your Dreams. He is a life and success coach Certified by  The International Coach Federation (ICF). The Common Thread book features interviews done by Jerry with many well-known celebrities and focuses on their insights about overcoming adversity. The book, published by New York publisher Morgan James Publishing, has met with rave reviews and had received endorsements from many high-profile celebrities.   Jerry L. Gladstone was born March 11, 1960 in Brooklyn, New York and raised in Massapequa Park, New York.  He is an author, personal life coach and marketing executive.  During his 25-year career, Gladstone specialized in the production and distribution of entertainment fine art for major movie studios and celebrities.  Gladstone is the founder of The Common Thread Group, The Common Thread Success Academy and author of the International Best Selling Book The Common Thread of Overcoming Adversity and Living Your Dreams. The Common Thread book feature's interviews done by Jerry with many well-known celebrities and focuses on their insights about overcoming adversity. Jerry Gladstone was born in Brooklyn, New York, and raised with his two older sisters Marla and Bonnie in Massapequa Park, Long Island, New York, by his parents Martin and Estelle.  Gladstone excelled in sports, earning a black belt in karate.  He has also competed in many marathons and triathlons.  Gladstone attended the University of Rhode Island on a scholarship for football.  He graduated URI with a Bachelor of Science. He began his first venture with an initial capital investment of $2,000. Under Gladstone’s leadership, the company was awarded licensing agreements for both the publication of art and distribution. Licenses have included Fox Studios, Warner Bros., DreamWorks SKG, Apple Corp. as well as Jim Davis’ Garfield and others. Gladstone also entered into an agreement with Mel Fisher, the American treasure hunter. The agreement allowed Gladstone to offer for sale to the public Fisher's personal collection of treasure recovered from the Atocha, a treasure ship which sank in 1621.  The Atocha discovery included rare gold doubloons, silver bars, jewelry and emeralds. Through the years, Gladstone and his management team have secured licenses including Elvis Presley Enterprises, Frank Sinatra Enterprises, entertainment and pop culture artist Joe Petruccio, The Paradise Collection of Dan Mackin and legendary musician Brian Wilson, Jefferson Airplane's Marty Balin, the classic rock and The Beatles portfolio of The Hulton Archive, the Led Zeppelin Collection from James Fortune, The Grateful Dead and Bob Marley Archives of Peter Simon, classic rock and The Beatles from The Mirror Pix Archives and the new Michael Ochs Collections' classic rock and jazz. Gladstone has been the subject of numerous articles in business and trade newspapers and magazines.  Both USA Today   and CNBC   have featured Jerry as an industry authority in the field of collecting entertainment fine art.  His positive attitude and success has also resulted in his being highlighted in the book, “Attitude is Everything,” by motivational speaker and author Jeffrey Keller.  Some of the entertainment fine art offered by Gladstone and his companies were "The Scottsdale Collection," art and memorabilia signed by Muhammad Ali during a witnessed in-person signing, as well as artwork signed by Tiger Woods and Michael Jordan through Upper Deck Authenticated. Through a license agreement with MGM studios he also offered personalized artwork from Sylvester Stallone celebrating the 30th anniversary of Rocky. Al Pacino was also secured for an in-person signing by Gladstone for Joe Petruccio artwork featuring images from The Godfather and Scarface. In 1998, Getty Images, successfully purchased the business owned by Gladstone. Two years later, Getty decided to take a different business path, and Gladstone reacquired the company in October 2001. In 2002, Gladstone relocated the corporate headquarters from New York City to Boca Raton, Florida.  In 2010, Gladstone started a new business venture in Delray Beach, Florida, also specializing in the licensing, production and distribution of entertainment fine art with a focus on licensed limited edition art and photography from both the music and entertainment industries. The company includes retail galleries located in Florida in Delray Beach and Key West. Under license, Gladstone produces Mixed Martial Arts fine art photography created from sports and celebrity artist Eric Williams.  UFC fighters that have done signings with Gladstone include Anderson "The Spider" Silva, Georges St-Pierre, Wanderlei Silva, Forrest Griffin, Chuck "The Iceman" Liddell and Randy "The Natural" Couture. Glastone hosted the first Mixed Martial Arts Expo in South Florida in 2013 with UFC legend Randy Couture as the featured guest. Jerry Gladstone is married with 3 children. 