Manfred F.R. Kets de Vries is a Dutch management scholar and psychoanalyst, Professor of leadership development and organizational change at INSEAD, and consultant.  His work focuses on  leadership and the dynamics of individual and organizational change.  Specifically, Kets de Vries explores the interface between management theory, psychoanalysis, psychotherapy, executive coaching and evolutionary psychology. In 2013, Kets de Vries gave a TED Talk on the subject of leadership dysfunction.  The American Psychological Association awarded him the Harry and Miriam Levinson Award in 2001 for his contributions to the field of consultation and in 2009, Kets de Vries was rated amongst the Top 50 Thinkers in Management.  Kets de Vries received a master's degree in Economics in 1966) from the University of Amsterdam; an International Teachers Program certificate in 1967, his M.B.A. in 1968, and his D.B.A. in 1970 from Harvard Business School. He also received training from the Canadian Psychoanalytic Society, where he has been a member since 1982. Kets de Vries has held professorships at McGill University, the École des Hautes Études Commerciales, Montreal, and Harvard Business School, and has lectured at management institutions around the world. He is a founding member of the International Society for the Psychoanalytic Study of Organizations, of which he became, in 2009, a Lifetime Distinguished Member,  a member of the International Psychoanalytic Association and a corresponding member of the Paris Psychoanalytical Society. Kets de Vries has won numerous awards for his work in the leadership field. In 2005, he was the first non-American to receive the International Leadership Award for "his contributions to the classroom and the board room".  In 2008, he was given the Lifetime Achievement Award (the Leadership Legacy Project) of the International Leadership Association, being viewed as one of the world’s six founding professionals in the development of leadership as a field and discipline.  In 2010 the Dutch Psychoanalytic Institute in the Netherlands presented him with the Freud Memorial Award, in acknowledgement of his work on the interface between psychoanalysis and organizations. In October 2011, Kets de Vries was awarded the Doctor Honoris Causa title from IEDC Bled School of Management for his "outstanding contribution to creation and integration of knowledge and leadership development for a better world".  In October 2012, Kets de Vries received an Honorary Doctorate from the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration (RANEPA) at IBS-Moscow.  In 2016, Kets de Vries was the first beneficiary of the INSEAD Dominique Héau Award for “Inspiring Educational Excellence.”   In 2016, he was awarded the German Life Achievement Award der Weiterbildungsbranche, a prize offered by the German further education sector.  Kets de Vries is the founder of INSEAD's Global Leadership Centre, program director of INSEAD's top management seminar, "The Challenge of Leadership: Creating Reflective Leaders" and the scientific director of the "Consulting and Coaching for Change; Executive Master's Program". He is also the founder of the Kets de Vries Institute, a consulting firm. He is a distinguished visiting professor at ESMT European School of Management and Technology in Berlin.  