  Rakin Misbah Adetola Fetuga (born 21 January 1971) is an English rapper and music producer of Nigerian descent. Fetuga was born in Ladbroke Grove, London, England. His parents, both Nigerian, came to the United Kingdom in the 1960s to further their education. His Muslim father was an accountant, whilst his mother was a Christian working for the London Transport. When Fetuga was a teenager his parents separated, and in his mother's care he was brought up as a Christian. Through his early life, he has been Catholic, Jehovah's Witness and Methodist.  In 1985, Fetuga and his childhood friends formed Cash Crew,  he left Holland Park School before his A-levels  when they were signed to Virgin Records and BMG France.  He was a DJ, producer, breakdancer and graffiti artist as well as a rapper,  known at the time as Rakin da Authordox aka Trim. Fetuga converted to Islam along with the others members.  and in 1992, the group recorded the first ever Islamic rap song "The Provider".  In 1995, Fetuga left the group. Fetuga then studied Islam under the guidance of Shaykh Ahmed Ba'biker Abu Bakr As-Sudani who encouraged him to use rap for da'wah (inviting others to Islam)   and to continue using his musical talents to make Islamic music.  In 1996, he formed the group Mecca2Medina.  In 1999, he graduated with a BSc in Sociology from the University of Roehampton  and then started voluntary work before being recruited to train as a mentor.  As well as recording and performing, Fetuga has also presented programmes such as the Global Peace and Unity Event Nasheed Contest for Islam Channel in 2008.  He has co-hosted and managed the urban stages at the Islam Expo in Olympia and the Global Peace and Unity Event in ExCeL Exhibition Centre.  In September 2010, Fetuga released a solo album The Road Less Travelled credited to the stage name "Rakin Niass", featuring other hip hop artists, including Poetic Pilgrimage.  Fetuga is the CEO of Crescent Moon Media record label.  He runs workshops to support youth, teaches Religious studies at Mill Hill County High School. He also teaches Islamic studies on weekends,  and is also life coach.  Fetuga is a muqaddam (student) of the Tijaniyyah Sufi order. He now lives in Kilburn, London with his wife, Adwoa-Amina Elsie Ofori, and four children.          