Stacia Pierce is an author, success coach and entrepreneur. She is the host of the annual International Women's Success Conference in Orlando, FL. In 2010 she was a finalist in the OWN: The Oprah Winfrey Network My OWN Show contest. Stacia Pierce was born Stacia Scott to Alfred L. Scott, a realtor, in Grand Rapids, MI and Phyllis Scott on June 8, 1967. She attended Ottawa Hills High School and lived in Grand Rapids,MI. Stacia married James Pierce on March 16, 1991 and they have two children. Stacia's daughter, Ariana Pierce, is the creator of The Billion Heir Club, a blog featuring interviews with various celebrities and posts on life as a college student at Michigan State University. Stacia started styleshoppe.com and Super Star Nail Lacquer in 2008. In 1997, Pierce founded and hosted the first Women's Success Conference.   In 2004, Lansing Mayor Tony Benavides awarded James and Stacia Pierce with the Key to the City of Lansing, for outstanding leadership and community value.  In 2007, Lansing Mayor Virg Bernero officially named May 24 as Dr. Stacia Pierce Day in recognition of her commitment to the growth of women in the City of Lansing. The Women's Success Conference is now hosted in Orlando, Florida. Pierce's commitment to empowering women earned a nod from the White House in 2005, as she was invited to an exclusive luncheon with former First Lady Laura Bush, President George W. Bush and Secretary of State Colin Powell during inaugural events.  Pierce holds a purported Ph.D. in Religious Studies and a Doctorate of Ministry from Friends International Christian University, an unaccredited mail order and online university.  She has authored more than 21 books, including her 25 Ways series. Pierce is also a featured columnist for Inspired Living Magazine and has written feature articles in Gospel Today, First Lady, The Lily House, Keeping God First and Capital Area Women's Lifestyle. Founded in October 2008, Pierce started the Alfred L. Scott Read to Succeed Foundation in honor of her late father. In June 2010, Pierce entered the My OWN Show Contest, presented by OWN: The Oprah Winfrey Network. She placed third out of over 9,000 entries with 7,604,501 votes, joining 8 online finalists and 35 live-audition finalists from whom 10 contestants will be chosen for the reality show titled My OWN Show, which will air on the network in January 2011.   