 Tamra Mercieca (born 29 September 1980) is an Australian author, therapist, and founder of Getting Naked Pty Ltd.  Mercieca was born in Kyneton, Victoria, where she attended Kyneton Secondary College, before going on to complete a Graduate Diploma of Arts in Commercial Radio in Melbourne. She spent ten years working in radio as a newsreader and journalist at 5RM Berri, Hot FM Townsville, 104.7 Canberra, Triple M Melbourne, SBS Radio, and Gold FM Melbourne.  It was in 2002, Mercieca won the Australian Commercial Radio Award for Best News Presenter in a provincial market.  During this time, Mercieca also had walk on roles in various television shows such as Neighbours, Last Man Standing and 'The Secret Life Of Us.  Writing from a young age, it wasn’t until her own battle with depression, that she was inspired to pen her first book, The Upside Of Down: A personal journey and toolkit for overcoming depression,  self-published in Australia in 2009. The book was endorsed by Lifeline Australia – the organisation asking her to become an advocate.  It was Mercieca’s recovery and discoveries that led her to become trained in various skills, acquiring a Life and Business certificate in Coaching, before going on to learn the art of Neuro-Linguistic Programming, Time-Line Therapy, Hypnosis and Wholebrain Intelligence   (she is also accredited with the relevant boards in America). It was these skills that guided her develop a program to help other become both depression and pill free. Combining all of these techniques (along with extensive study into a range of other psychological healing modalities) and developing some of her own, she labelled her new therapy, Naked Therapy,  going on to launch her own company Getting Naked Pty Ltd,  where she runs tele courses, workshops and does one-on-one sessions, all designed to strip back the layers on what’s stopping a person having complete self-love and self-belief. It was while using herself, once again as a guinea pig, to find her Prince, that she learnt: ‘The most important relationship is the relationship you have with yourself.’ This formed the basis for her second book, Getting Naked – The Dating Game   (2011), where she navigates her way through the dating landscape of flirtatious flings and romantic rendezvous, sharing her intimate tales of finding love. It was this journey that saw her labelled The Relationship Queen or The Queen of Hearts. Her ability to help people fall in love with their own unique selves, winning her spots on national television shows such as Channel 7’s The Morning Show and Sunrise and Channel 10’s The Circle.  She is a regular guest on radio stations around Australia and her articles can be read in leading publications such as The Sunday Herald Sun’s Body and Soul section, Women’s Health and Fitness magazine, Good Health magazine   and her own sex column in Nature and Health magazine.  Mercieca also applies her healing therapy to sexual issues, being invite to be Sexpo Australia’s Relationship Expert   (2013-2015). She has presented keynote talks at the Celebrating Sexuality Sex Camp in Victoria, the Sacred Sex and Consciousness Conference in Byron Bay as well as the Seven Sisters Festival in Victoria. More recently Mercieca was invited to take to the TED stage and share her journey into self-love. Mercieca’s passion lies in helping people feel comfortable and confident in their own skin, and it was this ambition that saw her compete and win a pin up competition in Queensland where she was titled ‘Miss Garterbelts and Gasoline 2011’   With a love of all things vintage, Mercieca enjoys playing drums with her band and sipping tea in the Dandenongs as she crafts her latest manuscript. 