Tara Magalski is an American actress,   television personality, and holistic health coach.     She is the founder of Divine Lifestyles, IPA International and Healing is Hot TV. Magalski attended AIU (American International University) in London and graduated with a degree in communications. After graduating college, Magalski became a casting assistant and production coordinator for various shows on ABC & CBS. She worked for King World Productions berfore going back to school and received a master's degree in acting at The Maggie Flanigan Studio affiliated with Rutgers University. She has appeared in various commercials, films, & TV guest appearances. Tara Magalski is a certified holistic health coach (HHC) specializing in emotional eating & “spiritual” food,  lifestyle entrepreneur, motivational speaker, author, TV host, and philanthropist. Whether struggling with a lack of energy, anxiety, major life change, or weight loss, her mission is to support others with tools to feed their spirit, mind, and body.  Magalski founded Divine Lifestyles, a weekly podcast and Healing is Hot (Healthy on-Going Transformation) TV to create a platform to share her experiences with others who seek to live a happy, healthier, and purpose driven life. She has been featured on FOX 5 LIVE, as a health expert, Fabulous Female Network, Harboring Hearts,  Heels & Helmets,  and Freedom Fast Lane. She is a graduate of the Institute of Integrative Nutrition, the world’s largest nutrition school, which is affiliated with Columbia University and The State University of New York.  She is also a board-certified and accredited member of the American Association of Drugless Practitioners. Tara Magalski is involved in multiple charities and sits on a variety of boards that primarily focus on the advancement of women. She has also most recently joined the team as a program developer for Girls Health Ed, which seeks to educate girls 8-17 about nutrition, body image, physical fitness, personal care and reproductive health.  Magalski has appeared in The Unknown (2008), Shut Up and Sing (2006),  The Wedding Weekend (2006),    Hardrock (2007),    The Stick Up Kids (2008),  The Lonely Cure,  and The Murder Plans (2011).  