 Tânia Tomé (born Tania Teresa Tomé on November 11, 1981, in Maputo, Mozambique) is a  public speaker,entrepreneur, author, life coach,economist,tv personality, singer, poet and lyricist.   Tânia Tomé is public figure in Mozambique who advocates for positive social change, entrepreneurship and leadership ecosystem. She has won several international awards, including the award of excellence awarded to her by Mozambican President. She also was the recipient for the Portugal Academic Award by former Portuguese President Mário Soares.She established the Ecokaya company and currently heads the organization's board of directors.Tânia has met and interacted with more six living Presidents worldwide and many leaders worldwide. She had the opportunity to be an executive and leadership coach giving sessions to multinational and big companies. Also, Tânia had an opportunity to be the first young godmother of the biggest private University in Mozambique. In addition, she did start in her own inspirational coaching session with a concept that she developed called Succenergy to empower people, entrepreneurs and leaders that led to her TED talk.  She also volunteered to work for the NGO Education for Development as President, a community program with the personal support of President Barack Obama Pepfar Funds. She is the vice-president of the Non-Governmental-Organisation Green, a project created to promote the role of entrepreneurship, SDG projects and young Inuit women in business. She is a bank and massage professional with more than 12 years experience and holds a Economic Degree and Pos-graduation in Management and Auditory Listening Catholic University of Portugal.   Among 1000 young leaders from around the world, Tânia Tomé was named the 2016 Young African Leader, a title conferred on her by President Obama Iniative the Washington and Mandela Fellowship. Also in August 2015, she was awarded the title of Outstanding Business Leader by the US Government during the International Entrepreneurship Summit, which was attended by Kenyan President Kenyatta and US President Barack Obama.   