Water access and gender are intricately linked in many parts of the world today and also historically. Discrimination in access to water occurs along many lines, including gender. Women and girls are more likely to be expected to collect and provide water for their families in less developed countries. Men and women are affected differently by water crisis situations. The study of how water access and gender are related is part of Feminist political ecology (FPE). Dealing with inequalities of water access falls under international human rights law. Around the world there are patterns of discrimination in relation to water access.  Around 1.1 billion people in the world do not have access to adequate water supplies.  In many places of the world, getting and providing water is considered "women's work," so gender and water access are intricately linked.  Also, because collecting water is often unpaid labor, women are more likely to be assigned to water collection.   Water gathering and supply to family units remains primarily a woman’s task in less developed countries where water gathering is considered a main chore.  This water work is also largely unpaid household work based on patriarchal gender norms and often related to domestic work, such as laundry, cooking and childcare.   Areas that rely on women to primarily collect water include countries in Africa, South Asia and in the Middle East.  Many women in less developed countries must walk long distances to collect water.  Girls who must spend hours a day collecting water from natural sources often miss school.  Many walk miles to get to the water source and must wait in line for their turn to collect water.  Some women in Africa may spend eight hours a day both collecting and then treating the water.  In areas of Nairobi, women carry 44 pound containers of water back to their homes, taking anywhere between an hour and several hours to wait and collect the water.  Some of these women are unable to open their businesses because of the wait for collecting water.  Women and girls who collect water may also face sexual assault along the way.  In places like Nepal, not only are women and girls affected by water collection by it being their "job," but there are also restrictions for collecting water based on caste.  India also has a great deal of social stratification that not only affect water gathering, but also effect policies relating to government-managed water services.  When women are represented in the government, local women are more likely to participate in public meetings relating to water delivery.  In rural Bangladesh, women living in poverty are less likely to have a political voice regarding water access.  When inequalities to water access aren't properly addressed, governments end up providing a low level of service to their people.  In addition, Water crises affect men and women differently in some areas, such as in rural Bangladesh.   Beginning in the 19th century, water management, access, and technology was considered a masculine domain.  Gender norms can negatively affect how men and women access water through such behavior expectations along gender lines--for example, when water collection is a woman’s chore, men who collect water may face discrimination for performing perceived women’s work.  Men rarely collect water in rural Bangladesh due to local ideas of masculinity.  On the other hand, the same norms often result in women being pressured to collect and use water in an efficient and timely manner, without the advantages of modern technology.  A study conducted in the Volta Region of Ghana found that men collected water only when their wives were not available.  Boys and girls are able to more fully participate in school when there is improved access to water.  Feminist political ecology (FPE) seeks to question and inform understanding regarding how gender, and other social labels and classifiers, influence how people relate to and interact with the natural environment, including how people have access to water.   Gender becomes integrated into these environmentally-focused and development-oriented policies, projects, and programs through gender mainstreaming, which further encourages the convergence of women’s issues and gender equality with natural resource protection and development projects.  Addressing inequalities in access to water is also considered a human rights issue in legal terms and in international human rights laws.   Equality in water access also means that governments and non-governmental organizations need to focus on the most disadvantaged and poorest members of the community.  The United Nations adopted a resolution in 2010 on the "Human Right to Water and Sanitation."  