 This article contains a list of the oldest existing universities in continuous operation in the world. Inclusion in this list is determined by the date at which the educational institute met the traditional definition of a university[Note 1]  although it may have existed as a different kind of institute before that time.  This definition limits the term "university" to institutions with distinctive structural and legal features that developed in Europe, and which make the university form different from other institutions of higher learning in the pre-modern world. Thus, for the list below, the university must have been founded before 1500 in Europe or be the oldest university derived from the medieval European model in a country or region. It must also be still in operation, with institutional continuity retained throughout its history, and so some early universities, most notably the University of Paris, which was abolished by the Revolution in 1793,  are excluded. Some institutions re-emerge, but with new foundations, such as the modern University of Paris, which came into existence in 1896 after the Louis Liard law disbanded Napoleon's University of France system. The word university is derived from the Latin: universitas magistrorum et scholarium, which approximately means "community of teachers and scholars". The term was coined by the Italian University of Bologna,  which, with a traditional founding date of 1088, is considered to be the first university.   The origin of many medieval universities can be traced back to the Christian cathedral schools or monastic schools, which appeared as early as the 6th century and were run for hundreds of years as such before their formal establishment as universities in the high medieval period.  Other institutions of higher learning, such as those of ancient Greece, ancient Persia, ancient Rome, Byzantium, ancient China, ancient India and the Islamic world, are not included in this list owing to their cultural, historical, structural and juristic dissimilarities from the medieval European university from which the modern university evolved.[Note 2][Note 3]  The university as an institution was historically rooted in medieval society, which it in turn influenced and shaped:  The university is a European institution; indeed, it is the European institution par excellence. There are various reasons for this assertion. As a community of teachers and taught, accorded certain rights, such as administrative autonomy and the determination and realisation of curricula (courses of study) and of the objectives of research as well as the award of publicly recognised degrees, it is a creation of medieval Europe, which was the Europe of papal Christianity [...]. From the early modern period onwards, the university gradually spread from the medieval Latin West across the globe, eventually replacing all other higher-learning institutions and becoming the preeminent institution for higher education everywhere. This process occurred in the following chronological order:  The majority of European countries had universities by 1500. After 1500, universities began to spread to other countries all over the world. Note that many universities were established at institutes of learning such as schools and colleges that may have been founded significantly earlier but were not classed as universities upon their foundation; this is normally described in the notes for that institution. (Nairobi) While Europe had 143 universities in 1789, the Napoleonic wars took a heavy toll, reducing the number to 83 by 1815. The universities of France were abolished  and over half of the universities in both Germany and Spain were destroyed. By the mid 19th century, Europe had recovered to 98 universities.  Listed by R端egg as a college of the University of London rather than as a university.  Legally a college of the University of London but generally recognised as a university. Established by deed of settlement as an unincorporated joint stock company under the name of London University in 1826.  Unsuccessful in attempts to gain recognition as a university, but accepted charter of incorporation "not as a University but as a College" in 1836, and was affiliated to the University of London.   Gained its own degree awarding powers in 2005.  Listed by R端egg as a college of the University of London rather than as a university.  Legally a college of the University of London but generally recognised as a university. Established by royal charter as a college in 1829.  Gained its own degree awarding powers in 2006.  Listed by R端egg in A History of the University in Europe as meeting standard criteria for recognition as a university from 1832  Established under the authority of the University of Durham Act 1832.  Recognised as a university in the Municipal Corporations Act 1835 and the Established Church Act 1836.   Incorporated and confirmed by Royal Charter in 1837 and degrees granted equal privileges with those of Oxford and Cambridge by the Attorneys and Solicitors Act 1837.   Listed by R端egg as meeting standard criteria for recognition as a university from 1836  Established by Royal Charter as degree awarding examining body for King's College London and University College London  (see below), the London medical schools, and other institutions.  Degrees granted equal privileges with those of Oxford and Cambridge by the Attorneys and Solicitors Act 1837.  Founded 1845, as a university college, gained university status in 1908.  In the United States, the colonial colleges awarded degrees from their foundation, but none were formally named as universities prior to the American Revolution, leading to various claims to be the first university in the United States. The earliest Canadian institutions were founded as colleges, without degree awarding powers, and gained degree granting authority and university status later. (Ontario) 