The Cave Creek disaster occurred on 28 April 1995 when a scenic viewing platform in Paparoa National Park, New Zealand, collapsed, resulting in the deaths of 14 people. The victims, 13 of whom were university students, fell 40 metres (130 ft) onto rocks below.  The tragedy resulted in wide criticism of the government and its policies towards funding and management of the conservation estate. Denis Marshall, New Zealand's Minister of Conservation, eventually resigned, after the Commission of Inquiry's report came out.  It also resulted in major changes to procedures used by the New Zealand Department of Conservation after it was revealed that serious systemic failures had led to the building of the unstable platform. Eventual changes in New Zealand Law, following a change of government, allowed for government departments to be held criminally liable for inadequate building practices, in the same way as non-government organisations. Cave Creek is a small stream in Paparoa National Park.  The viewing platform was erected by the Department of Conservation (DOC) in April 1994, and looked out over a 40-metre chasm with a view of where the creek emerges from a cave system below. The builders of the platform did not have appropriate qualifications for the job. Ten major problems or oversights occurred during the platform's construction, including the wrong size of bolts being used. The platform was highly unsafe, especially with large numbers of people on it. On the day of the incident, a group of students from Tai Poutini Polytechnic in Greymouth visited the park.  En route through the bush, a small group consisting of the polytechnic tutor, a Department of Conservation (DOC) officer and three students split off while the larger group of 17 students and another DOC officer continued towards the platform. The larger group reached the platform first, and walked to the edge together at about 11:25 a.m. As several students jumped up and down, joking about the platform's stability, the platform toppled forward into the chasm. The DOC officer and 13 of the students were killed. Four students survived the collapse with serious injuries. The second group reached the location shortly after the collapse.  Having realised what happened, the remaining DOC officer and one of the students ran back to the start of the track for help, but on arriving they found that the keys were not in the group's vehicles.  At this point, the DOC officer returned to the scene of the accident while the student ran along the road with a note containing information about the location of the accident.  By 12:15 p.m., he had managed to phone the police at Greymouth. The remoteness of the site made it difficult for medical services to assist the survivors. The first person to reach the scene was a Greymouth police constable, who arrived on foot two hours after the accident. Ambulances from Greymouth and Westport and helicopters from Christchurch arrived only later. A Commission of Inquiry into the accident, headed by District Judge Graeme Noble, highlighted a number of serious concerns with the Department of Conservation's construction of the platform.  Specific concerns that were raised included: Besides the specific flaws in the actual platform and methods of its construction, the Commission said the "root causes" of the collapse were systemic problems in the Department as a whole, noting that the Department was seriously under-funded and under-resourced.  The Commission found that the Department had not been given sufficient resources to meet its requirements without "cutting corners", and was frequently forced to accept poor quality standards due to its lack of funding.   The report of the Commission concluded that given the department's state, "a tragedy such as Cave Creek was almost bound to happen". Ten years after the accident, survivor Stacy Mitchell said that he and some other students were shaking the platform hard when it collapsed, which he had not reported at the time through fear of being blamed.  Evidence at the inquiry indicated that the platform should have been designed and built to tolerate use that could reasonably be expected. Soon after the accident, the Department of Conservation inspected more than 520 structures, and 65 were closed for repairs.  The review led to the removal of a large number of structures on public land, and many safety notices appeared on the remainder around New Zealand.  Indeed, some felt the response was excessive; for instance, bridges and platforms were labelled with signs such as "1 person maximum", acting as an eerie reminder of the disaster which prompted the safety review. Although DOC took responsibility for the accident, there were no prosecutions due to a loophole in New Zealand law that prevented government departments from being held liable in such a situation.  $2.6 million was still paid to the victims' families, however.  Since the accident, New Zealand law has been adjusted to ensure that the Building Act covers government departments, and to allow government departments to be held liable for such negligence in future. Prime Minister Jim Bolger initially attacked the report produced by the Commission of Inquiry, arguing that the platform failed "essentially because it lacked about $20 worth of bolts to hold it together". The Minister of Conservation, Denis Marshall, was criticised in the media for his management of the Department. Many people blamed Marshall, although there was also wide criticism of the whole government's policies on management of the conservation estate. Marshall eventually resigned in May 1996, just over a year after the accident occurred. A new Minister, Nick Smith, was appointed, and a full review of the Department was conducted by the State Services Commission. A memorial plaque was unveiled in April 1996.  In 1998 the track re-opened to the public, new stairs replaced the old ones, but the viewing platform was not rebuilt. The platform space has a fence around it and warning signs. In 1996 New Zealand composer John Dylan wrote an orchestral piece, "Cave Creek 95 - An Elegy" in recognition of the event. Coordinates: 42°06.5′S 171°24.5′E﻿ / ﻿42.1083°S 171.4083°E﻿ / -42.1083; 171.4083 