In Europe, biosystems engineering is a field of engineering which integrates engineering science and design with applied biological and environmental sciences. It represents an evolution of engineering disciplines applied to all living organisms not including biomedical applications. Therefore, biosystems engineering is 'the branch of engineering that applies engineering sciences to solve problems involving biological systems' (according to Erabee Network). In the US, biosystems engineering (see also biological systems engineering) is a field of engineering which integrates engineering science and design with applied biological, environmental and agricultural sciences.  It represents an evolution of the agricultural engineering discipline applied to all living organisms (but generally not including biomedical applications, which is the realm of biomedical engineering). In many institutions in the US, biosystems engineering is synonymous with biological engineering.  In some institutions, biosystems engineering is considered a broader term which includes agricultural engineering and biological engineering also agricultural and biosystems engineering. Typical programmatic areas include: production of bioenergy; development of biosensors; environmental and ecological engineering; controlled-environment agriculture; food processing and food safety; agricultural engineering (machinery, irrigation, storage), water quality, water quantity, and water recycle (including measurements of pathogens, chemicals, and other contaminants). ABET,  the US-based accreditation board for engineering considers B.S. level academic programs to reside under the requirements for biological engineering.  Professional societies which support biosystems engineering include:  ASABE,  American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers and IBE,  Institute of Biological Engineering. Below is a listing of known academic programs that offer bachelor's degrees (B.S. or B.S.E.) in what ABET terms "Agricultural Engineering", "Biosystems Engineering", "Biological Engineering", or similarly named programs.  ABET accredits college and university programs in the disciplines of applied science, computing, engineering, and engineering technology. North America Central and South America Europe Asia Africa CIGR - International Commission of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering 