Kwasi Konadu is an author, scholar, educator, writer, editor, and historian. He is an Associate Professor of History at The City University of New York, New York.  He is the author of many books.  He is an Advanced Research Collaborative (ARC fellow), and professor of Ethnic Studies at Borough of Manhattan Community College (BMCC). Kwasi's expertise is in African and African Diaspora Studies; Ghana/Akan History, Cultural History, Nationalism, and Indigenous Knowledge.  Books by Kwasi Konadu 2019 - Our Own Way in This Part of the World: Biography of an African Community, Culture, and Nation  2018 - Akan Pioneers: African Histories, Diasporic Experiences 2016 - The Ghana Reader: History, Culture, Politics (The World Readers)Feb 3, 2016 by Kwasi Konadu and Clifford C. Campbell In this book Kwasi and Campbell cover 500 years of Ghana's history. The book provides many perspectives about Ghana; historical, political, and cultural. The book discusses the Asante Kingdom (the Gold Coast), and its relationship to European commerce and the transatlantic slave trade. The reader has selections from farmers, traders, clergy, intellectuals, politicians, musicians, and foreign travelers. His source material comes from historical documents, poems, treaties, articles, and fiction. It conveys Ghana's intersecting histories, its contribution to the African Diaspora, its development as a nation, democracy and its significance in the twenty-first century.   Duke University Press 2015 - Akan Peoples: In Africa and the Diaspora - A Historical Reader  This book is a collection of essays about the Akan people of West Africa. They are an ethnic group that exist in West Africa and the Africa Diaspora. The collection of essays are about their, history, culture, in Africa, and their presence among the African Diaspora.  Markus Wiener Publishers   2014 - Transatlantic Africa: 1440-1888  In this book Kwasi gives an African-centric interpretation of the Atlantic slave trade. The source material he uses comes from oral histories and traditions, and written documents.  He examines African societies and their viewpoint. Oxford University Press 2013 - The Akan People: A Documentary History   Markus Wiener Publishers 2010 - The Akan Diaspora in the Americas    Oxford University Press Kwasi documents and demonstrates contributions of the Akan cultural group from West Africa. He examines their experiences in Guyana, Jamaica, Antigua, Barbados, and in North America.   2009 - View From The East: Black Cultural Nationalism and Education in New York City, Second Edition  Syracuse University Press The East was a cultural and educational center for people of African descent. It was founded by African American educators and progressive activists during the Black Power Movement. The organization was based in Brooklyn, but its influence was throughout New York City, the United States, the Caribbean, Africa, and Asia. This edition expands research using additional archival information from the first edition.   2007 - Indigenous Medicine and Knowledge in African Society A study of indigenous medical knowledge systems in Africa and the African Diaspora.   Routledge 2004 - Truth Crushed to the Earth Will Rise Again! (first edition). The East Organization and the Principles and Practice of Nationalist Development (second edition)  