Social nudity is the nude appearance of the human body in relatively public settings not restricted by gender. This occurs both in public spaces and on commercial property, such as at a naturist resort. It is sometimes controversial for addressing and exploring a myriad of sometimes taboo subjects, stereotypes, and mores. Although many issues are discussed, it does not necessarily mean that they occur frequently. Some isolated indigenous nudity still exists in the tropics, though this way of life is highly endangered, as is male nude swimming in public, which used to be very commonplace in Western civilization. Modern European-style naturism began around the turn of the 20th century in British India and Northern Germany, and it was later adopted in America as well. The terms naturism, nudism and social nudity are generally defined as the practice of going nude, especially in a mixed social setting. The terms naturism and nudism generally also mean that the activities are done in non-sexualized, family-friendly contexts.  The usage and definition of these terms varies both geographically and historically. In his book, Cinema Au Naturel, author Mark Storey states: "two related terms that we will continually run across are nudist and naturist. Although the meanings of the two terms are virtually identical, they often have different connotations for those who prefer one to the other. In America, people who believe that it is physically, socially, emotionally, and perhaps spiritually healthy to go about fully nude individually and in groups of mixed gender, wherever the weather permits and others are not offended, generally refer to themselves as "nudists". In Europe, such people more often than not, refer to themselves as "naturists".  The term nudist is more widely familiar in North America, however naturism is also widely used. A naturist is sometimes defined as an individual who prefers a more natural setting for their nude or clothing-optional activities—such as a beach, a lake, the woods, or the mountains.  Within the naturist and nudist movements, many people prefer to adopt only one label or the other. Others do not bother or like adopting labels. In the traditional view, the nudist in the U.S. is a person who seeks out organized social settings for the practice of the nudist philosophy. This often takes the form of membership in a landed or non-landed nudist club, with a well-defined system of conduct and social structure. It is believed to be a predictable environment, which offers the participants the safety that comes with facilities for secluded, lawful nudity (without the threat of legal action or observation by outsiders seeking to view them for prurient purposes). However, others avoid "organized" naturism and nudism, and are content with clothing-optional public beaches, home naturism, etc.  Some political contention exists between the traditional nudist and the naturist within the national organizations that represent clothing optional recreation for lobbying purposes. Traditional nudists seek to maintain the status quo, while the naturists push for designation of more clothing optional beaches and other outdoor facilities. It has been said that naturists tend to be more supportive of public nudity than do nudists, who generally focus more on landed and non-landed clubs. In America, there appears to be more support for mass-nudity, such as the photography/art of Spencer Tunick, while in Europe, there are extended naked walks by individuals and small groups of like-minded people.  Some nudist resorts and clubs have the "undress code" of full nudity at all times (with exceptions, such as cold weather, a woman experiencing menstruation, or certain days or hours for new visitors).  Most have that policy only for the swimming pool, sauna, Jacuzzi, hot tub bath, etc., with a clothing optional policy elsewhere. Full nudity requirements at free public naturist beaches are not common except in France and Brazil.  Those advocating full nudity maintain it provides a better sense of equality when everyone is without clothing. First-timers to a resort may be uncomfortable with other clothed people around and feel "naked." Since naturism is not a spectator sport, anyone not already nude would be disallowed entry (except the periphery for undressing). As the French social psychologist Marc-Alain Descamps wrote (translated): The reciprocal visual sight of complete nudity defuses the exhibitionist—voyeur relationship.  Others welcome everyone whether dressed or nude (subject to other miscellaneous rules and requirements)  Many countries or provinces/states within a country have laws which adversely affect naturists. These laws are often intended to address "indecent exposure", but are so broadly written that they criminalize ordinary, non-sexual nudity. Muslim-majority countries may prohibit exposing areas of the body that are not considered indecent in Western culture, although exact details vary substantially. In Islam, the area of the body not meant to be exposed in public is called the awrah.   Examples include prohibitions on males wearing shorts, and females exposing their head. Precisely which body parts must be covered varies between different schools of Islamic thought.  Some laws specifically target naturism. In the U.S. State of Arkansas, nudism is illegal beyond the immediate family unit, even on private property. It is also a crime to "promote" or "advocate" nudism.  In democratic countries where street photography or filming cannot be restricted in public areas due to freedom of speech legal protections, photographers are free to take photos of nude swimmers in public nude beaches. However, some beaches may have an organization that limits photography. Private nude resorts might prohibit cameras altogether, while others may require permission be granted by anyone being photographed, in addition to management in some cases.  Most nudists and naturist clubs consider it essential for reasons of hygiene to sit on a towel whenever sitting on a chair, bench, or any other place where others might sit (unless under water) and they consider it poor etiquette to do otherwise. Some clubs encourage members or guests to bring their own chairs. Likewise, sitting on someone else's towel is considered a breach of etiquette. Similar rules may also apply to clothing-optional bike rides. Often in situations involving shared use of pools or tubs people are asked to shower first to minimize contamination and prolong the amount of time the water can be used before further maintenance is needed. This practice is also common in non-nudist pools. One of the greatest challenges of organized naturism is increasing the participation of several demographic categories, especially in families, females, young adults, inner-city dwellers, and people of non-European ethnic backgrounds.  Statistics show that more men than women participate in social nudity activities.  To address this, some nudist organizations do not allow unaccompanied men, while encouraging unaccompanied women. Some venues ban all single people, and accept only families and male/female couples. Others have quotas for single males.  For the past few decades many naturist and nudist clubs have fewer young members, though previously this was not the case.  Reasons for this decline include parents being concerned about the possibility of false accusations or suspicions of child abuse by those who are unfamiliar with non-sexual nudity. In the United States, Child Protective Services (CPS) may investigate even if no laws have been allegedly broken. Although such incidents are rare among its members, the American Association for Nude Recreation (AANR) has an attorney on hand to assist. Many private nudist venues require that one or both parents, including absent parents, be consulted regarding the documentation of their minor children. This may also include situations with partial custody, stepchildren, etc.  Organized social nudity usually attracts more people of European ethnic backgrounds. This may be due to it becoming a social movement in Europe, before spreading to other parts of the world. Other reasons include the fact that most resorts are located far from the cities, and have done little to promote themselves to those of non-European ethnic backgrounds.  If someone is from an ethnicity whose recent ancestors had no problem with public nudity (parts of Africa, Asia, pre-European Americas, Australia, and the Pacific Islands), it might be thought of as being "primitive" by modern standards, and lacking in social status. (i.e. "Only the poorest of the poor would go about without clothing.") This contrasts with the more Western attitude that nudity and sexuality are somehow related, but nonetheless causes them to shy away from social nudity.  Many people casually enjoy social nudity without adhering to any term and without associating with any traditional naturist, nudist or FKK organization or any other groups or movements.  That is common, for example on nude beaches and other forms of public nudity, such as seen at cultural events like Burning Man or clothing-optional bike rides. Several activists, such as Vincent Bethell, claim that associations to promote naturism or nudism are unnecessary, leading only to "nudity in tolerated ghettos". Activist Daniel Johnson believes that labels and affiliations overly complicate a relatively simple phenomenon, alienate others from a fear of over-commitment or undesirable stereotypes, and thus get in the way of integrating nudity into everyday life.  Naturists and nudists counter that associating with established terms and philosophies such as nudism and naturism makes it easier to understand a common set of principles and values. Non-naturists may get very concerned by issues that naturists do not perceive as problems. While most nudists and naturists condemn any sort of overt sexual activity, the issue of non-sexual spontaneous erections is highly debatable. Unfortunately, this topic is routinely ignored by anthropologists who study traditional cultures, and it is not widely known what rules of etiquette exist among peoples who have lived nude since antiquity.  For example, one person might argue erections are not a problem, and forcing males to cover up goes against their beliefs of the human body not being shameful. (This assumes the subject is not breaching etiquette by trying to attract attention, including wandering around.) However, another person may argue that erections—even if non-sexual—are impolite, and certain groups are likely to be offended (e.g. some females who have experienced past sexual abuse). Complicating the matter, many would-be adult newcomers mistakenly think this is inevitable. "What if I get an erection?" is the number one question among males who are considering joining social nudity.  Resorts disallowing erections commonly suggest covering the waist with a towel, lying on one's stomach, or going into the swimming pool (if within the pool fence).  Some latitude might be given to younger males according to their age and circumstances because: Some feel overly restrictive rules or embarrassment may be keeping young males away from social nudity, while similar-aged females would be uncomfortable participating unilaterally. (See also 'Age' under the 'Diversity' section above.) Non-sexual erections tend to be more problematic with nudists and naturists in the United States than in continental Europe. The world's largest naturist resort at Cap d'Agde in France is well known among the nudist community to be nonchalant about erections.  Males of some indigenous tribes of the Amazon Basin live nude except for a light string worn around the waistline. This is used to conceal the foreskin of the penis from females, which is considered taboo in communal settings. Since the penis is normally held upright just below the navel, erections are much less noticeable.  Staring at others is generally discouraged by most nudist and naturist groups, and could result in eviction if someone complains that it made them uncomfortable. In the early days of naturism in the U.S. (1930s-1950s), the rules at many resorts stipulated that when conversing, you must only look at each other face to face.  On the other hand, staring has been acceptable at the largely abandoned female beauty contests. Smith and King pose the following points in their 2009 peer reviewed paper Naturism and Sexuality: Broadening our approach to sexual well-being   