The legal working age is the minimum age required by law for a person to work, in each country or jurisdiction. Some types of labor are commonly prohibited even for those above the working age, if they have not reached yet the age of majority. Activities that are dangerous, harmful to the health or that may affect the morals of minors fall into this category. Occupation Standards:  Hours-Time Standards  None: (21 years of age to serve alcoholic beverages for the consumption on premises (19 if licensee is RVP certified); 18 years of age to work in that part of an establishment where alcoholic beverages are sold or served for consumption on premises; 14/15 year olds may not work in an establishment where alcoholic beverages are sold, served, or dispensed for consumption on premises.) Working hours: Working hours: See federal law See federal law (some additional restrictions by state law) Working hours: Additional Working Restrictions: Working hours: Additional working restrictions Working hours Work hour restriction: Work hour restriction: Work hour restriction: Work hour restriction: Work hour restriction: None (18 years of age to sell alcoholic beverages and to work as a barkeeper) Work hour restrictions: Work hour restrictions: None(19 years of age to handle sales of alcohol or to serve it in a restaurants) Work hour restrictions: None(18 years of age to sell tobacco products; 19 years of age can "ring-up" the sale of alcoholic beverages in the course of their employment at a drug or grocery store if there is at least one other employee on the licensed premise who is twenty-one years of age or older) Work hour restrictions: None(16 years of age to sell liquor, wine, or beer in original unopened containers for off-premises consumption (grocery stores, convenience stores, liquor stores, etc.); 18 years of age to sell and dispense liquor, wine, or beer for on-premises consumption (restaurants, bars, clubs, etc.); 21 years of age to deliver liquor, wine, or beer in original unopened containers to a home or other designated location for personal use (licensees and permittees authorized to sell liquor, wine, or beer for off-premises consumption)) Work hour restrictions: None(18 years of age to work as a server in a restaurant serving alcohol, and to sell 3.2 ABV beer; 21 years of age Unrestricted) Work hour restrictions: None (see federal law) Minors under the age of 18 are prohibited from working in/as: Occupations in or about Plants or Establishments Manufacturing or Storing Explosives or Articles Containing Explosive Components; Motor-vehicle Driver and outside helper on a motor vehicle; Coal Mine Occupations; Logging or Sawmill Operations; Operation of Power-Driven Woodworking machines;  Exposure to Radioactive Substances;  Power-driven hoisting apparatus, including forklifts; Operation of Power-Driven Metal Forming, punching, and shearing machines; Mining, other than coal mining; Operation of Power-driven bakery machines including vertical dough or batter mixers; Manufacturing bricks, tile, and kindred products; Wrecking, demolition, and shipbreaking operations; Roofing operations and all work on or about a roof; In, about or in connection with any establishment where alcoholic liquors are distilled, rectified, compounded, brewed, manufactured, bottled, sold for consumption or dispensed unless permitted by the rules and regulations of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board (except they may be employed in places where the sale of alcoholic beverages by the package is merely incidental to the main business actually conducted); Pool or Billiard Room. Work hour restrictions: None (18 years of age to work as a server in a restaurant that sells alcohol or as a bartender. Age is not a factor in working for any business for which selling alcohol is not their primary purpose as long as that business holds an off-premises license, meaning alcohol cannot be consumed on the property.) Work hour restrictions: None (17 years of age to work as a server in a restaurant that serves alcohol or as a bartender and handle, transport, and sell beer, wine, and spirits. The presence of a supervisor over the age of 21 is required) Work hour restrictions: None (18 years of age to work as a server in a restaurant that sells alcohol and to sell wine and beer in retail stores) Work hour restrictions: Work hour restrictions: Minors may not work: (A licensee shall not allow any person who is less than 18 years of age to sell or serve alcoholic liquor.) Special requirements: Work hour restrictions: Work hour restrictions: (18: To serve alcoholic beverages in Restaurants; 21: To work as a bartender or to handle alcohol in a liquor store.) Work hour restrictions: Work hour restrictions: None (18 years of age to work as a server in a restaurant that sells alcohol and to sell alcohol in retail stores) Work hour restrictions: None (19 years of age to work as a server in a restaurant that sells alcohol and to sell alcohol in retail stores) Work hour restrictions: None (See federal law) (The minimum age to serve or sell alcohol in a grocery store or convenience mart is 16 as long as the minor is supevised by someone over the age of 21; The minimum age to work as a bartender or in a restaurant that sells alcohol is 21.) Work hour restrictions: None (17 years of age to work as a server in a restaurant that sells alcohol and to sell alcohol in retail stores) Work hour restrictions: (18 years of age to work as a bartender, serve alcohol in a restaurant, and work in a liquor store if supervised by someone over 21.) Work hour restrictions: Work hour restrictions: (21 to work as a bartender or to sell alcohol in a liquor store; 19 to serve alcohol in a restaurant if supervised by someone 21 or older) Work hour restrictions: (21 years of age to work as a bartender; 19 years of age to work as a server in a restaurant that sells alcohol; 18 is the minimum age to work in a liquor store or transport alcohol) Work hour restrictions: None (18 to work as a bartender, to transport alcohol, or to work as a server in a restaurant that sells alcohol) (18 to perform any work that involves selling or handling alcohol) Work hour restrictions: Work hour restrictions: (18: To serve, sell or handle alcohol) Work hour restrictions: Work hour restrictions:  (Federal laws create requirements that are more stringent in many cases!)  Work hour restrictions:  (Federal laws create requirements that are more stringent in many cases!) None - see federal laws. Work hour restrictions: 18: Unrestricted.  14: (Light work only. Must have parental permission. Restricted working hours and shortened working week, must not interfere with school education)  16: (Light work only. Full school education required. Restricted working hours) 18: Unrestricted 13: (Light work only. Must have parent permission. Restricted working hours and shortened working week.) 16: (Light work only. Restricted working hours) 18: (Unrestricted)  Age 15: (Must have parental permission) Age 16: Minimum age to serve someone in restaurants, café or hotels. Minimum age to work in a circus or cinema. Age 18: Unrestricted (and the minimum age to work in: Bars, Discos, Dancinghalls and Nightclubs)  16: (For full-time work and national working age to be able to claim legal minimum wage)18: (To work at a licensed premises that primarily sells alcoholic beverages such as pubs, bars and night clubs)  