The Society for the Study of Social Problems  (SSSP), founded in 1951 by Elizabeth Briant Lee and Alfred McClung Lee, is a non-profit interdisciplinary community of scholars, practitioners, advocates, and students interested in the application of critical, scientific, and humanistic perspectives to the study of vital social problems. The purpose of SSSP is to promote and protect sociological research and teaching on significant problems of social life. This includes:  The SSSP promotes research and dialogue through presentations at annual meetings, listservs, and newsletters throughout the year; publications in Social Problems; awards to community groups; supports graduate students, young scholars, and activists with professional support, leadership opportunities, and scholarships; passes and acts upon public resolutions; and fosters the generation of new ideas. Although most of the Society's members are sociologists and from the United States, the Society also enjoys the significant participation of multidisciplinary and international scholars, practitioners, students, and advocates as well. Membership is open to individuals and university and college departments who support the SSSP's mission and goals. The SSSP has twenty-two divisions, each with its own newsletter, that provide members with common interests the opportunity to interact more intimately with one another. Division activity shapes the annual meeting of the Society by organizing paper sessions and panels. Divisions provide an opportunity for young scholars to present their work to a critical audience of scholar advocates interested in good research and social action to move toward solutions for social problems. Members interested in emerging areas of social problems can form new divisions.  The SSSP grants awards, fellowships, and scholarships in recognition of meritorious work by outstanding scholars, practitioners, advocates, and students who demonstrate active pursuit in the application of critical, scientific, and humanistic perspectives to the study of vital social problems. One of these awards is the prestigious C. Wright Mills Award, awarded to the previous year’s most outstanding book in the tradition of the individual for whom the award is named.  The Society publishes Social Problems, one of the leading referred and most widely read social science journals in the United States, and several other miscellaneous publications.  The following is a list of Presidents of the Society from 1952 to 2019.  