Grain Facility Occupation Exposure is the quantifiable expression of workplace health and safety hazards a grain handling facility employee is vulnerable to in performing his/her assigned duties.  Exposure represents the probability that a given hazard will have some level of effect of a receptor of interest.  This page utilizes data and information regarding grain facility occupational exposure in the United States. The agricultural industry is consistently ranked as one of the most dangerous industries, with a fatality rate (24.9 deaths per 100,000) nearly seven times higher than the fatality rate for all private industry workers (3.5 deaths per 100,000).   From 2003 to 2011, fatalities resulting from work-related injuries in agriculture totaled 5,816.   On average, 243 agricultural workers suffer a serious “lost-work-time” injury, with five percent of these incidents resulting in permanent impairment.   In 2012, the agricultural facilities reported 475 Scott Webster fatalities, thus making the sector with the industry with the highest fatal injury rate of any industry sector for the second year in a row, at 21.2 fatal injuries per 100,000 full-time workers.  While there are many different areas within the agriculture industry, this page will specifically limit its scope to grain handling/storage facilities (such as grain elevators and grain storage bins).  In grain handling facilities, workers are exposed to a wide variety of occupational health and safety issues with the potential to significantly affect well-being of workers. Hazard Definition Grain entrapment, occurs when victims are partially submerged in grain and are unable to remove themselves; grain engulfment occurs when victims are completely submerged in grain and unable to remove themselves.  Grain engulfment seems to mainly occur at grain storage facilities such as silos or grain elevators, but can also transpire anywhere large quantities of grain are located, including freestanding outdoor piles.  Grain entrapment incidents can occur very rapidly, taking only a few moments to completely submerge a worker, minutes to suffocate, and hours to locate and recover.   Rescuing someone who has become engulfed in grain may be possible if the victim’s airway remains unobstructed and he or she is able to continue breathing. In 2010, 57 worker were engulfed in grain, resulting in 26 fatalities.   In 2012, 19 workers were engulfed in grain, resulting in 8 fatalities.  Engulfment Conditions/Scenarios/Causal Pathway Out-of-Condition Grain Research has identified a link between out-of-condition grain and incidents of grain engulfment.   Out-of-condition grain refers to stored grain that has become wet,clumped or has spoiled.  Out-of-condition grain can increase occupational exposure to grain engulfment because of a tendency of low quality grain to stick/clump together.  When grain becomes excessively crusted together and/or cakes to walls of storage bins, workers enter grain bins to loosen grain to facilitate its removal.   Below is a high-level overview of the causal pathway leading to grain entrapment: Workers in the grain can become entrapped three ways:  Entering Bin to Dislodge Clumped Grain Entering Bin During Grain Removal Other factors that have been found to have a statistically significant relationship with grain engulfment incidents include grain type being stored/handled, geographic location of engulfment, type of facility, and victim demographics.  Greater than half of recorded incidents of entrapment/engulfment occur in corn; other grains in which individuals have been entrapped include soybeans, oat, wheat, flax, and canola.  As corn is largely produced and stored in the Corn Belt states (Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota and Ohio), most incidents of engulfment occur in these states.   In another study, 60 cases of reported grain entrapment were analyzed and it was found that 43% of the cases involved corn while another 22% involved soybeans.  As it was mentioned in the ‘’’exposed systems and populations’’ more than 70% of entrapments have occurred on small or family farms that are typically exempt from OSHA grain-handling regulations.   Engulfment victims have been exclusively male; 75% have been farmers, farm workers, or members of farm families. The average age of victims is around 40 years, however a disproportionate share of victims are under 18 years.  Hazard Definition Nearly any finely-divided organic substance becomes an explosive material when its dispersed as air suspension; hence, a very fine flour found in grain handling facilities can potentially become dangerously explosive in air suspension. Exposure Conditions/Scenarios/Causal Pathway Elements needed for a fire (the familiar "Fire Triangle"):  Additional elements needed for a combustible dust explosion: Hazard Definition In 2011, the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) reported a non-fatal, fall-related injury rate of 48.2 per 100,000 workers in the agricultural industry (a rate higher than reported for the transportation, mining, or manufacturing industries).   Additionally, the BLS reported 167 worker fatalities in the agriculture industry between 2007 and 2011.  Falls from height can occur throughout a grain handling facility. Data has illustrated that relatively short falls, from 12 to 20 feet, can be fatal.  Examples of surfaces that could present a falling hazard to grain handling employees might include floors, machinery, structures, roofs, skylights, unguarded holes, wall and floor openings, ladders, unguarded catwalks, platforms and manlifts.  Additionally, workers are also exposed to potentially fatal falls as they move from the vertical exterior ladders on grain bins to the bin roof or through a bin entrance.  Between 1985 and 1989, falls from heights were the second leading cause of grain-handling worker fatalities.  Falls from machinery and structures were the second largest single cause of grain- and silage-handling fatalities between 1985 and 1989; falls from structures accounted for 79 percent of these fatalities.  Data has illustrated that relatively short falls, from 12 to 20 feet, can be fatal.  Hazard Definition Mechanical equipment within grain storage structures, such as augers and conveyors, present serious entanglement and amputation hazards. Workers can easily get their limbs caught in improperly guarded moving parts of such mechanical equipment.    Exposure Conditions Scenarios/Causal Pathways While many pieces of equipment may possess safety features such as guards, covers, and shields that are designed to protect individuals from potential amputations or other related injury, workers increase injury exposure when attempting to disable protective features.  Hazard Definition Grain storage structures can develop potentially hazardous atmospheres due to gases produced from spoiling grains and/or fumigation.  Fumigants in grain storage bins are commonly used for insect control.  Exposure to fumigants can cause central nervous system damage, heart and vascular disease, and lung edema as well as cancer.   In addition to the direct health risks associated with fumigant exposure, exposure to these gases can also result in worker incapacitation and subsequently suffering injury from falling or suffocation from engulfment.  Grain facility workers involved with handling fumigants and/or fumigated grain are exposed to these potentially hazardous contaminants.   Fermenting or molding grain produce nitric oxide (NO), and also compounds known to be respiratory irritants such as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and nitrogen tetroxide (N2O4).  While low NO2 concentrations can cause coughing, labored breathing, and/or nausea, high concentrations can cause fluid to fill the lungs, which can result in death. Exposure Conditions/Scenarios/Causal Pathways Hazardous gas concentrations are generally highest within the first 48 hours after silage has been added to the container, but may still be present for roughly four weeks.  The hazardous gases produced from fermenting silage (NO2 and NO4) are heavier than air and typically can be reduced in silos by means of opening the containers chute doors.  Even when airing out the bin, potentially fatal concentrations of these gases may still exist in collections in confined spaces the air space between the bottom of the silo chute door and the top of the silage.  Workers can be exposed to hazardous gases, and could even inhale fatal doses of the contaminants if they fall, or bend over to work or pick up a tool, or even if the gas is stirred up by a draft or the workers' activity. Young Workers Of all recorded cases of grain engulfment, more than 60% of these cases occur at facilities that are not subject to OSHA regulations, mainly at family on-farm grain storage units.  Of all recorded cases of grain engulfment at OSHA-exempt facilities, 70% of those cases involve children.   The Department of Labor proposed, in 2011, sweeping regulations that would prohibit underage workers from entering grain silos and other hazardous activities.   Another study found that roughly one in five grain entrapments involve a child   Agricultural organizations have worked to protect their workers by improving entrapment and other confined space rescue techniques, as well as by advocating increased awareness among farmers of engulfment prevention methods. Primary among these is a federal regulation that forbids opening an auger or other opening at the bottom of a grain storage facility while someone is known to be "walking down the grain" within. Workers entering a grain bin should be equipped with a body harness which is tethered to a lifeline manned by at least two other individuals outside of the bin.  Workers should never enter a bin of flowing grain.  Exercise caution and be aware of grain quality before entering a bin.  Lock out/tag out any and all power equipment (such as augers) before entering the bin.  Good housekeeping practices, specifically the elimination of potentially combustible dust accumulation, can help mitigate the probability of an explosion to occur. OSHA recommends grain handling facilities identify potential explosion contributors through conducting a thorough hazard assessment of: To prevent dust explosions and fires, employers must (among other things): Develop and implement a written housekeeping program with instructions to reduce dust accumulations on ledges, floors, equipment and other exposed surfaces. Identify "priority" housekeeping areas in grain elevators. The "priority" housekeeping areas include floor areas within 35 feet of inside bucket elevators, floors of enclosed areas containing grinding equipment and floors of enclosed areas containing grain dryers located inside the facility. Dust accumulations in these priority housekeeping areas shall not exceed 1/8th inch. Employers should make every effort to minimize dust accumulations on exposed surfaces since dust is the fuel for a fire or explosion, and it is recognized that a 1/8 inch dust accumulation is more than enough to fuel such occurrences. Inside bucket elevators can undergo primary explosions. OSHA's grain handling standard requires that belts for these bucket elevators purchased after March 30, 1988 are conductive and have a surface electrical resistance not exceeding 300 megohms. Bucket elevators must have an opening to the head pulley section and boot section to allow for inspection, maintenance, and cleaning. Bearings must be mounted externally to the leg casing or the employer must provide vibration, temperature, or other monitoring of the conditions of the bearings if the bearings are mounted inside or partially inside the leg casing. These bucket elevators must be equipped with a motion detection device which will shut-down the elevator when the belt speed is reduced by no more than 20% of the normal operating speed. Implement a preventative maintenance program with regularly scheduled inspections for mechanical and safety control equipment, which may include heat producing equipment such as motors, bearings, belts etc. Preventive maintenance is critical to controlling ignition sources. The use of vibration detection methods, heat sensitive tape or other heat detection methods can help in the implementation of the program. Minimize ignition sources through controlling hot work (electric or gas welding, cutting, brazing or similar flame producing operations). Install wiring and electrical equipment suitable for hazardous locations. Design and properly locate dust collection systems to minimize explosion hazards. All filter collectors installed after March 1988 shall be located outside the facility or located in an area inside the facility protected by an explosion suppression system or located in an area that is separated from other areas by construction having at least a one-hour fire resistance rating and which is located next to an exterior wall vented to the outside. Install an effective means of removing ferrous material from grain streams so that such material does not enter equipment such as hammer mills, grinders and pulverizers. Reducing Exposure Worker exposure to falls can largely be mitigated through implementing and adhering to basic safety practices. A few basic safety practices to reduce worker exposure to falls might include:  Reducing Potential Effect (given that a worker is exposed to falls) Equipment is also available to prevent serious injuries in case a fall does occur:  Lockout-tagout (LO/TO) practices can effectively mitigate worker exposure potential amputaions from grain handling equipment through confirming that machinery cannot be inadvertently energized while workers perform maintenance on equipment.  OSHA has developed a specialized program that focuses organizational resources on addressing amputation hazards.  OSHA’s Amputations National Emphasis Program  specifically targets compliance with LO/TO and machine guarding standards. The most simple mitigation strategy would be for workers to abstain from entering the storage bin, especially within three to four weeks following the addition of new silage.  In the event that a worker is required to enter the silo, the unit should be ventilated (with a silage blower or ventilation fans) for a minimum of 30 minutes prior to entry, with ventilation fans running for the duration that the worker is in the bin.  Additional ventilation time is necessary when the silo diameter is greater than 24 feet or if the silage surface is greater than 15 feet from the top of the silo. When workers enter storage bins, employers must (among other things): Turn off and lock out all powered equipment associated with the bin, including augers used to help move the grain, so that the grain is not being emptied or moving out or into the bin. Standing on moving grain is deadly; the grain can act like "quicksand" and bury a worker in seconds. Moving grain out of a bin while a worker is in the bin creates a suction that can pull the workers into the grain in seconds. Prohibit walking down grain and similar practices where an employee walks on grain to make it flow. Provide all employees a body harness with a lifeline, or a boatswains chair, and ensure that it is secured prior to the employee entering the bin. Provide an observer stationed outside the bin or silo being entered by an employee. Ensure the observer is equipped to provide assistance and that their only task is to continuously track the employee in the bin. Prohibit workers from entry into bins or silos underneath a bridging condition, or where a build-up of grain products on the sides could fall and bury them. Train all workers for the specific hazardous work operations they are to perform when entering and working inside of grain bins. Test the air within a bin or silo prior to entry for the presence of combustible and toxic gases, and to determine if there is sufficient oxygen. If detected by testing, vent hazardous atmospheres to ensure that combustible and toxic gas levels are reduced to non hazardous levels, and that sufficient oxygen levels are maintained. Ensure a permit is issued for each instance a worker enters a bin or silo, certifying that the precautions listed above have been implemented. 