The introduction and rapid expansion of solar technology has brought with it a number of occupational hazards for workers responsible for panel installation. These hazards need to be addressed to ensure that workers are protected while we reap the benefits of this technology. Guidelines for safe solar panel installation exist,  however the injuries related to panel installation are poorly quantified. There is concern for long term health effects acquired from prolonged ultraviolet radiation and from lifting heavy panels. The lack of data regarding these concerns makes increasing awareness for worker safety more challenging. Below is a discussion of occupational concerns including hazardous exposures to workers, accompanying health effects, the limitations of photovoltaic (PV) panels, challenges associated with this growing industry, as well as current and future directions for policy. With regard to PV occupational safety, there are differing exposures depending on the stage of involvement in solar energy production.  This can be broken down into four stages, including (1) Raw Material Mining and Processing; (2) Construction and Assembling; (3) Installation/Operation; and (4) End of Life Cycle and Recycling.   Exposures and their impacts on worker health intricately depend on the PV life-cycle stage, as well as depth and duration of system involvement by the individual.  There is a wide variety of tasks required by the PV industry.  These include scientists and engineers for material development, workers who pilot manufacturing facilities, miners and millers, factory manufacturers, power electronics, planners, developers, installation crews who work with electrical grids, transportation jobs, and recycling industry.  The potential hazards are well documented for the first stage, solar PV cell production, and these are mainly chemical in nature. Although not exhaustive, a few of the hazardous materials of notable concern include crystalline silicon, amorphous silicon thin film, cadmium telluride thin film, copper indium selenide, copper indium gallium selenide, and gallium arsenide.     The primary routes for occupational exposure include chemical burns, explosions, and inhalation of gaseous fumes, as a great deal of the materials used in manufacturing are highly toxic and flammable.  Other routes can include hand-to-mouth contact or accidental ingestion.  Most solar cells start as quartz, which is later refined into elemental silicon, thus extraction mines pose a risk to occupational health, including lung disease silicosis amongst miners.  With respect to crystalline silicon solar cell industrial development, workers may be exposed to hydrofluoric acid, or other acids and alkalis used for cleaning purposes, dopant gases and vapors (POCl3, B2H6) due to improper ventilation, or the flammable nature of silane and byproducts from silicon nitride deposition and fabrication of x-Si layers.   Other fire-hazard risks arise from the use of extremely flammable SiH4 gas. Exposure to cadmium compounds can be carcinogenic, as Cd is considered a lung carcinogen and is regulated by OSHA.  For a complete list of chemical and material exposures due to photovoltaic production, please reference the Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition (SVTC).  Installation and operation presents a less-studied risk for occupational workers in the PV industry.  Due to the nature of installing solar technology, falls from heights are a significant risk for concern.  Health effects associated with falls from roofs include, but are not limited to: skeletomuscular injuries, brain or spine injuries, concussions, lacerations, bruising, swelling, long-term disability, and/or mortality.   These can be exacerbated when roofing is old or damaged, or when panels are located close to edges, skylights, and vegetation.   “Lack of fall protection, proximity to overhead power lines, and unguarded skylights” can also be contributing factors.   One suggestion to prevent falls includes locating PV panels on the ground whenever possible, or incorporating PV technology into roof membranes, roof shingles, wall panels, or windows.  Aside from falls, there is a risk for electrocution from solar PV installation or nearby power lines  as well as ergonomic risks from heavy loads or a lack of lifting equipment such as ladder hoists, swing hoists, or truck-mounted cranes.  Cold or heat stress and potential deleterious sun exposure can also occur.   Installation ultimately combines the exposures of three separate industries into one, including roofing, carpentry, and electrical work, all of which carry high occupational risk.  There may also be a risk for infectious disease spread amongst PV employees. Solar farm (large-scale solar power facility) construction requires soil-disruptive work, which can precipitate exposure to soil-dwelling organisms.  Such cases have been documented in San Luis Obispo County, California between 2011-2014, where 44 workers came down with coccidioidomycosis while constructing 2 solar power-generating facilities.   Coccidioidomycosis (Valley Fever) is an infection caused by Coccidioides fungus spores and causes flu-like symptoms.  However, complications can result, including meningitis, osteomyelitis, or cutaneous lesions.   These can lead to fatality if not treated. In response to these isolated cases, the California Department of Public Health issued numerous recommendations, including improved worksite dust-control measures, equipping earth-moving equipment with high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters, and respiratory protection for workers such as respirators with specialized particulate filters.  It is important to note that occupational hazards may be exacerbated in settings with fewer worker protection policies in place, disproportionately affecting vulnerable populations.  If there are lesser or nonexistent standards for acceptable workplace environmental exposures as well as PPE, these chemical hazards could be exceptionally riskier for short and long-term health consequences.  This concept of ‘exporting emissions’ should be of concern, given the propensity for solar panel production to be exported overseas.  Manufacturing has moved from Europe, Japan, and the U.S. to countries such as China, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Taiwan, with nearly half of the world’s photovoltaics made in China as of 2014.   However, some of the locations that produce the highest numbers of solar panels today may also lack proper worker protections.  End-of-life recycling is also a large source of hazardous chemical exposures for workers.   Green recycling requires increased material handling and manual separation, which can demand two to three times more individual handing of materials.  This can present a risk for strains, sprains, and punctures.   PV end-of-life materials can include lead from electronic circuits, as well as brominated flame retardants (BFRs), polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs), and polybrominated diphenylethers (PBDEs) used in circuit boards and solar panel inverters.  These are considered toxic and potential estrogen disrupters, as PBDEs bioaccumulate in fatty tissues.  The popularity of solar photovoltaic (PV) panels has grown immensely and for good reason. PV panels provide us with the abundant clean energy needed to supply electricity. However, we still fall behind in terms of capturing the free, vast amount of energy produced by nature. The first, most obvious set back comes from the unpredictability of solar energy, i.e. cloudy or rainy weather.  Solar radiation has a very broad spectrum which ranges from infrared to ultraviolet.  It is challenging to design a device capable of utilizing all solar energy. While the cost of maintenance and operating are relatively low, solar panels are fragile and easily damaged.  Further, in order to receive continuous supply of electric power the PV panels require inverters and storage batteries which increases costs.  Most importantly, in comparison to other renewable energy systems, solar panels efficiency levels are relatively low, ~14%-25%.  The UN Intergovernmental Panel on climate change estimates that the world will need the equivalent of 32,000 terawatt hours (TW h) of electrical energy by 2030.  PV panels would only meet about 1%-2% of this demand (150-300 TW h).   Although there are limitations to PV solar panels, we can continue to use them in tandem with other forms of renewable energy, such as wind. There is no doubt that the use of solar energy has numerous benefits including using sustainable energy and reducing greenhouse gases. However, due to the rapid growth of the photo-voltaic (PV) industry, occupational hazards have increased for workers in the manufacturing, installation, and maintenance of solar energy. The occupational and health aspects of the PV industry have not been thoroughly examined.   A few challenges facing workers are exposure to toxic chemicals, electrical shock, and risk of falling from dangerous heights. During the manufacturing process, workers are exposed to a variety of toxic chemicals. Some of these chemicals such as telluride, cadmium telluride, gallium, and germanium are still under study.  Other chemicals like chlorosilanes and hydrogen chloride are not only toxic but highly volatile and explosive when mixed with water.  Many solar PV technologies use extremely toxic material that have unknown health and environmental consequences including new nano-materials and processes.  There is limited data on specific air emissions and liquid or solid effluents from PV cells and processing.  This is not only problematic for occupational health but also for environmental health. A risk assessment for these chemicals would address hazard identification, risk of exposure, and an emphasis on dose-response relationships.  The use of personal protective equipment is another resource that can be utilized to reduce exposures of hazardous chemicals. The installation phase can also prove to be problematic and pose a serious risk for PV workers. According to “Photo-voltaic Industry on the Path to a Sustainable Future — Environmental and Occupational Health Issues," “The occupational injuries of PV workers have also been the subject of very few publications, although the safety aspect of solar panel installation has been highlighted”.  Fatal falls from the installation phase have been reported from California and in France.  Enforcement of standards, workforce education, and regulation are some ways to prevent falls during the installation of PV panels. The United States Department of Labor’s website https://www.osha.gov/dep/greenjobs/solar.html, lists different resources for preventing and controlling hazards; they promote safe work practices and provide workplace training requirements. Policies addressing the hazards associated with solar panel manufacturing have the potential to create substantial improvement in worker safety. Research is currently underway exploring the possibility of replacing a number of the more hazardous chemicals workers are exposed to, such as cadmium and hydrofluoric acid, with less toxic chemicals. Once research is complete, enacting a policy that requires companies to make this change could greatly decrease the health risks associated with PV manufacturing.  Regarding policies related to solar panel installation, OSHA requires employers to implement and provide safety training for workers, including information on how to assess the worksite for potential hazards, safely perform required action such as heavy lifting, and what to do should an accident occur. Examples of safety equipment include harnesses to protect from falls, covers for panels to protect from burns, and machinery to move the panels to protect from injuries due to heavy lifting.  While companies are required to provide this training and equipment, it is ultimately the responsibility of the worker to carry out measures to protect themselves from injury. The inherent dangers that come with solar panel installation, work that combines the three dangerous professions of roofing, carpentry, and electrical work, are mitigated primarily by the workers’ adherence to correctly using protective equipment and following safety protocol at all times   This type of protection falls on the very tip of on the hierarchy of controls as the least effective measure to ensure the safety of workers.  As the number of workers in this field grows, the number of work-related deaths and injuries is likely to grow as well. Policies related specifically to this field are extremely limited; further research is needed on how to best protect workers from potential harm associated with this occupation. In recent years The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health launched the Prevention through Design (PtD) initiative. This initiative strives to improve the health and safety of workers by taking a comprehensive approach to eliminate hazards and control risks earlier in the process. This approach will create the safest work environment by further removing a hazard from the workers or reducing a hazard entirely; electrical safety and construction are already be researched through this initiative.  By using this information and recognizing the unique nature of this occupation, solar panel installation safety can be greatly improved. Lastly, in 2013, SEIA introduced the Solar Industry Environmental & Social Responsibility Commitment, a voluntary set of guidelines for the solar industry. Companies can choose to sign and agree to adhere to general best practices, including those for worker safety. Although not an official policy to protect those working with solar panel manufacturing and installation, it is a step in the right direction.  