Coordinates: 39°59′35″N 46°55′50″E﻿ / ﻿39.99306°N 46.93056°E﻿ / 39.99306; 46.93056 Ağdam (also spelled Agdam or Aghdam) is a ghost town in the southwest part of Azerbaijan and the formal capital of its Agdam District, today controlled by the Republic of Artsakh. Founded in the early 19th century, it grew considerably during the Soviet period and had 28,000 inhabitants by 1989. Armenian forces captured Agdam in July 1993 during the Nagorno-Karabakh War.  The heavy fighting forced the entire population to flee eastwards. Upon seizing the city, Nagorno-Karabakh Republic (NKR) forces destroyed much of the town to discourage Azerbaijanis from returning. More damage occurred in the following decades when locals looted the abandoned town for building materials. It is currently almost entirely ruined and uninhabited.  In November 2010 it was renamed by the NKR government to Akna (Armenian: Ակնա).   It is administratively part of the town of Askeran, which is located some 10 km away.  The city's name is of Azerbaijani origin and means "white house", where ağ means "white" and dam is "house" or "attic", thus referring to a "bright sun-lit, white house" which was given by Panah Ali Khan of the Karabakh Khanate.  Another possibility is that it was derived from ancient Turkic glossary meaning "small fortress". In the distant past, Turkic speaking tribes built small fortresses for their protection and safety.  Agdam was founded in the 18th century and granted city status in 1828.  It is 26 km (16 miles) from Stepanakert. Before the Nagorno-Karabakh War, butter, wine and brandy, machine factories and a railway station functioned there.   Agdam was the scene of fierce fighting during the Nagorno-Karabakh War. According to journalist Robert Parsons, Azerbaijani forces used Agdam as a base for attacks on Karabakh, launching BM-21 Grad missiles and bombing raids from there against civilians.  During the Battle of Aghdam, Armenian forces violated the rules of war by hostage-taking, indiscriminate fire, and the forcible displacement of civilians.  As the city fell, almost its entire population fled eastward.  The Armed Forces of Armenia still use the city as a buffer zone, meaning that Ağdam remains empty and decaying, and usually off-limits for sightseeing.   The ruined city once had a population of almost 40,000 people,  but today it is an almost entirely uninhabited ghost town.  All the houses are ruined, some by shells fired in the war, others due to looting for building materials.   According to Azeri sources one of the buildings to be stripped of materials is the Agdam Mosque, which has been converted into a barn for cattle and pigs. Its derelict condition, including a missing roof, drew criticism from Azerbaijani and Turkish communities, who wrote a letter in 2010 to Pope Benedict XVI asking him to warn Armenians (though Armenians predominantly follow a church which broke with Rome in the 6th century) about the situation.  But according to Armenians the mosques in Karabakh are mostly perceived as an Iranian cultural heritage not Azerbaijani heritage and the mosque has never been used so. It is closed nowadays. Also, according to Artsakh republic authorities the roof of the mosque was restored. Mugham music, a tradition in the Karabakh region, is an important part of Agdam's musical heritage; the city was home to Agdam Mugham School, which produced "Karabakh nightingales" ensemble.   Despite the invasion, the town is represented by a professional association football team competing in the top-flight of Azerbaijani football – Qarabağ FK, currently playing in the Azerbaijan Premier League.  The Imarat Stadium, which was Agdam's only stadium, was also destroyed by bombardments from Armenian military forces during the Nagorno-Karabakh War.    Some of the city's many prestigious residents include military commanders Allahverdi Bagirov and Asif Maharammov, footballers Ramiz Mammadov, Mushfig Huseynov and Vüqar Nadirov, mugham singers Gadir Rustamov, Mansum Ibrahimov and Sakhavat Mammadov, actor Jeyhun Mirzayev, scientist Zakir Mammadov and singer Roya. Vüqar Nadirov is one of Qarabağ FK's most capped players. Ruins of mosque Ruins of Bread Museum Interior of Agdam Mosque Agdam in 2010 Agdam in 2010 Agdam in 2010 Agdam in 2010 Agdam in 2010 Agdam in 2010 Agdam in 2010 Agdam in 2010 