 Auxesis is the annual techno cultural management festival of Dibrugarh University, Assam which is organised by the constituent institute Dibrugarh University Institute of Engineering and Technology. It is generally a four-day event held mostly in late September or in early October. The festival was first held in September 2011 and since then, it is conducted every year. The main tagline of this festival is: Imagine, Innovate and Create. However, the theme is changed every year with the new phase of organizing committee. With more than 60 events this festival, in its 5th edition (October 2015), witnessed a footfall of over 20,000 people across the country. Auxesis, in Greek, means growth or increase. Six years ago, some young minds came up with a brilliant idea to inspire innovative minds in order to create exemplary technical ambience within the entire Upper Assam. With a motto of recognizing clandestine talents in the students from various parts of the country, Auxesis has reached the zenith of success through a widely acclaimed and famed series of competitions, workshops, shows, presentations and pro-nights. Since its inception, the festival has seen an exponential rise in terms of public reach as well as footfalls. With Auxesis 2013 attracting contestants from all over India, it was termed as the fastest growing tech-fest of the region. And in 2015, the fifth version of Auxesis (Auxesis 2015), the festival was listed in Three Must-Attend Campus Fest in Assam by the Vibes Northeast. Because of its variety and richness, this event enjoys a great audience which just keeps on increasing year after year. Various categories of events are organised under the banner of Auxesis which are: Each categories includes number of exciting events. You can visit their Official website for more information. Some of the top sponsors of this festival includes Oil India, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, Idea Cellular, Quick Heal, Indian Oil Corporation, Incredible Infosoft Solutions, Numaligarh Refinery Limited, Godrej Group, Adidas, Tata Group, Mahindra & Mahindra, Baskin-Robbins and many more. Some associate media partners includes DY 365, The Assam Tribune, Mega Entertainment, Dainik Janambhumi, Fun Cinemas, BIG FM 92.7 etc.  