  Integration is the annual techno-cultural fest of Indian Statistical Institute, usually held during last three weekends of January each year. It is one of the biggest campus events in Kolkata, and attracts participation from all over the world. Integration is a relatively new addition to the set of Kolkata fests, and yet, it has already carved out a niche for itself. Integration is already one of the biggest fests in the city and is entirely organised by the students and research scholars of Indian Statistical Institute (ISI). The fest is held in three parts, namely, the Tech Chapter, the Sports Chapter and the Cultural Chapter.   The Tech Chapter is generally held on the second weekend of January. In this part of Integration, they hold numerous competitive events like Code-IT, Scavanger Hunt, Junkyard Wars, MystIQ, Math-Geek, Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, Dota 2. The Tech Quiz, which is organised during this part of Integration, is one of the biggest of its kind in West Bengal. Apart from these, there are workshops and seminars on various technical fields, conducted by eminent personalities from the academia. A new addition to the Tech chapter is MTRP, a student organised mathematics examination for students of classes 9 and 11. The Cultural Fest is held within one week after the Tech Chapter. This part of Integration witnesses the active involvement of stalwarts from various fields, like Mr. Sourav Ganguly,   Sri Pranab Mukherjee,    Mr. Anupam Kher, Mr. Arun Shourie,   Mr. Harsha Bhogle and others.  The competitive events include debate (Contrapunto), Extempore, singing competitions, photography, movie making, dance competitions, band competition and many other events. Prahelika, the biggest campus quiz in Eastern India, is held during this part of Integration.  The Sports Chapter was introduced in January 2013. It consists of numerous indoor and outdoor sporting events such as football, cricket, chess, bridge, volleyball, etc. The chess tournament is held in association with West Bengal Chess Association. The tech-part of the integration is generally for the first two days. Following are the major events under the tech-chapter of Integration  : Integration has a series of online events that starts some days before the actual fest. Myst-IQ is a complete set of puzzles and quiz relying mostly on logic and common sense. Market Mania is a virtual portfolio management game where participants follow the Indian share market in real time, with huge prize money at stake. Code-IT the biggest online coding competition organised by any research institute of India. The participants are asked to come up with the most efficient and innovative algorithm to a coding problem. Interactive session discussion burning issues of the day. This event in the past has seen celebrities like  Pranab Mukherjee, Sourav Ganguly, Arun Shourie, Anupam Kher, Rita Bhimani, Chandi Lahiri, Srijato,Apurba Dutta and other eminent personalities.  Celebrated performers from within the country and abroad set the stage on fire. Fossils, Underground Authority, LRB, Colors,  Cassini's Division and Chandrabindoo are some of the esteemed names that have graced Integration. Here is the detailed list of bands who have enlightened us with their performances. Every year, Integration is graced by the presence of eminent personalities from India and abroad. Events of Integration has played host to some of the most eminent names from the world and abroad. Shri Pranab Mukherjee, Sourav Ganguly, Rita Bhimani,  Arun Shouri, Anupam Kher, Harsha Bhogle, Sandip Ray, Joy Bhattacharya, Chandi Lahiri, Chandril Bhattacharya, Srijato, Apurba Dutta is but a poorly partial list of celebrities who have been guests at Integration. Over the past years, Integration has formed alliances with many noted names of the industry, like Ola Cabs, IBM, HDFC, Eclerx, Havells, LIC, Roland Corporation, Roche, ITC Limited, Tata Consultancy Services, National Insurance Company Limited, United Bank of India, UCO Bank, Punjab National Bank, Coca-Cola and Allahabad Bank. Integration enjoys national and international media coverage.  The Daily Telegraph, The Times of India, The Indian Express, The Statesman, The Hindustan Times, Aaj Tak, ABP News, ABP Ananda, Channel 10, 24 Ghanta, Anandabazar Patrika  etc. are some of the leading media houses covering Integration. However they seldom partner on terms of exclusivity with the print media. 2% of the amount collected from sponsorship is usually donated to a social cause. An initiative to make the hostel campus plastic-free was initiated in 2010. 