  The World Science Festival is an annual science festival produced by the World Science Foundation, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization headquartered in New York City.   There is also an Asia-Pacific event, held in Brisbane, Australia. The foundation's mission is to cultivate a general public informed by science, inspired by its wonder, convinced of its value, and prepared to engage with its implications for the future. The festival was founded and created by Brian Greene, professor of mathematics and physics at Columbia University and author of several science books (including The Elegant Universe, and The Hidden Reality); and Tracy Day, a four-time National News Emmy Award-winning journalist, who has produced live and documentary programming for the nation's preeminent television news divisions. Greene now serves as chairman of the World Science Foundation, and Day is chief executive of the World Science Festival.  The festival's events are rooted in science, but also conform to the production standards of professional television and live theatrical events. The founding benefactors were the Simons Foundation, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, and the John Templeton Foundation.  The founding benefactors were the Simons Foundation, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, and the John Templeton Foundation.  The inaugural festival took place from May 28 to June 1, 2008, at 22 venues throughout New York City. Hailed a "new cultural institution" by The New York Times, the festival included 46 events, a street fair and, on its first day, the one-day World Science Summit at Columbia University. Of the 150+ participants, speakers and performers 11 Nobel Prize winners. Venues included the American Museum of Natural History, Abyssinian Baptist Church, and New York University's Skirball Center for the Performing Arts. Total audience numbered more than 120,000.  Over the past ten festivals, the festival has drawn more over two million visitors, with millions more viewing programs online. Programs include discussions, debates, theatrical works, interactive explorations, musical performances, intimate salons, and major outdoor experiences in parks, museums, galleries and performing arts venues across New York City. A full program list can be found on the festival's official website created in 2004 Since 2016, an additional event has been held each year in Brisbane, Australia.  It is organised by Queensland Museum Network, which has the exclusive licence in the Asia Pacific region from 2016 to 2021.  Past participants have included: The following Nobel Laureates have participated: The full list of participants can be found on the festival's official website. 