Junction is a 48 hour international hackathon organized annually in Helsinki, Finland. The event brings together developers, designers, and entrepreneurs from around the world and helps them build solutions to real world challenges from local and multinational companies.  Junction is a part of Major League Hacking and is also the largest hacking event in Europe.  Junction was first launched in 2015. The event was held on November 6-8th in Kattilahalli, Suvilahti, Helsinki and gathered more than 550 participants and resulted in 145 different projects. Notable partners included Uber, Finnair, Supercell, Reaktor, and others.   The winner Junction 2015 was Slush Smackdown, from the Supercell Unlimited track. It also won the whole Slush Hacks -hackathon competition main prize, worth 20 000 EUR.  Junction 2016 was held on November 25-27th at Wanha Satama, in Katajanokka, Helsinki, Finland. About 1300 participants from over 77 nationalities attended the hackathon. Partners included Supercell, Zalando, the European Space Agency, General Electric, Sitra ,  Tieto , UPM   and others.  Teams had 48 hours to develop their ideas and pitch their ideas to other attendants and judges. The main prize for the winning idea of the 2016 event was 20 000 EUR, and many companies offered their own bounties for solving challenges in a specific way or using pre-specified technology.  Teams were provided a number of different API’s and other emerging technologies to develop their concepts including Oculus Rifts, HTC Vives, Apple Watches, 3D-printers, Microsoft Hololens, and Estimote Beacons among others. The winner team was suju.online, who created a tool for event organizers and public transportation decision makers that allows them to design dynamic routing for the self-driving bus. The team originated from the local Aalto University and the hack was part of the Future of Mobility-track.  Junction is a volunteer-based, non-profit organization composed mainly of students from different Finnish universities.  It is owned by the non-profit foundation Startup Säätiö, but gathers all of it's funding from the partnership contracts between it's partner companies. 