  Nusantara is a Javanese term which literally means "archipelago" from Old Javanese.  In Indonesia it means the Indonesian archipelago,   while in Malaysia the term has been similarly adopted to mean the Malay archipelago.   The word Nusantara was taken from an oath by Gajah Mada in 1336, as written in the Old Javanese Pararaton and Nagarakretagama.   Gajah Mada was a powerful military leader and prime minister of Majapahit who was credited with bringing the empire to its peak of glory. Gajah Mada delivered an oath called Sumpah Palapa, in which he vowed not to eat any food containing spices until he had conquered all of Nusantara under the glory of Majapahit. Today, Indonesian historians believed that the concept of Nusantara was not an idea coined by Gajah Mada for the first time in 1336. It was coined earlier in 1275 as Cakravala Mandala Dvipantara by Kertanegara of Singhasari.  Dvipantara is a Sanskrit word for the "islands inbetween", the synonym to Nusantara as both dvipa and nusa mean "island". The term is used to describe the Southeast Asian Archipelago. Kertanegara envisioned the union of Southeast Asian maritime kingdoms and polities under Singhasari as a bulwark against the rise of the expansionist Mongol Yuan dynasty in mainland China. Nusantara is a Javanese word which appears in the Pararaton manuscript. In Javanese, Nusantara means "outer islands", from  nūsa, meaning 'island' and antara, "within".  Based on the Majapahit concept of state, the monarch had the power over three areas: In 1920, Ernest Francois Eugene Douwes Dekker (1879–1950), who was also known as Setiabudi, introduced a new name for this proposed independent country (successor state of colonial Dutch East Indies) — which unlike its currently used name of "Indonesia" — did not contain any words etymologically inherited from the name of India or the Indies.  The new proposed name was the locally developed name Nusantara. This is the first instance of the term Nusantara appearing after it had been written into Pararaton manuscript. The definition of Nusantara introduced by Setiabudi is different to the 14th century definition of the term. During the Majapahit era, Nusantara described vassal areas to be conquered. Setiabudi didn't want this aggressive connotation, so he defined Nusantara as all the Indonesian regions from Sabang  as far as Merauke. Today in Indonesian, Nusantara is synonymous with Indonesian archipelago or the national territory of Indonesia,  in this sense the term Nusantara excludes Malaysia, Singapore, Brunei and the Philippines. In 1967, it has transformed into the concept of Wawasan Nusantara or "archipelagic outlook", which regarded the archipelagic realm of Indonesia, the islands and seas surrounding them, as a single unity of several aspects, including political unity, socio-cultural, economic, security and defense unity.  While in Malaysian the term is synonymous and often interchangeable with Malay archipelago or Malay realm (Malay: Alam Melayu) which includes those countries. In the 21st century, Nusantara can be referred to as the correct term to represent the Malayo-Polynesian region which consists of all Austronesian nations.  The Nusantara Society in Moscow conducts studies on the Nusantara region's history, culture, languages and politics. 