Guardian Alarm, a division of Guardian Security Services, is one of the largest independently owned security companies in North America. Guardian Alarm installs, monitors and services commercial and residential security systems, including fire and burglar alarms, CCTV and access control, and remote interactive video/audio monitoring.   Guardian Alarm has two security subsidiaries, Guardian Medical Monitoring and Guardian Guard Services. Guardian Alarm is headquartered in Southfield, MI and is one of the largest security company in North America and generates over $80 million in revenue from over 80,000 customers.  Guardian Alarm has over 2,000 employees in offices in six different U.S. cities. In the 1920s Guardian Alarm founder Milton Pierce designed and installed his first burglar alarm in his father’s Detroit tailor shop and then went on to work for a local Alarm company.  Milton quickly went into business for himself when, in 1930, he purchased Guardian Alarm, then a fledgling company with only 60 customers. Milton’s two sons, Douglas and Richard, who each went on to start their own alarm companies, Automatic Alarm and Certified Alarm respectively, merged both of their companies with Guardian Alarm in 1975.  Guardian has continued to expand their customer base largely through purchasing smaller alarm and security companies. After an acquisition of an alarm company that also had a security guard division, Guardian Alarm launched Guardian Guard Services in 1970.  Guardian Guard provides both union and non-union security guards for facilities and special events, including Super Bowl XL at Ford Field in Detroit, MI. In 1980 Guardian Alarm expanded into the cash handling business with the formation of Guardian Armored Security, which grew into Michigan’s largest armored car company with nearly 200 employees and annual revenue of almost $10 million.  Guardian Alarm sold Guardian Armored Security to Loomis in 2007.  The sale included Guardian Armored’s three Michigan locations, including Flint, Grand Rapids and Highland Park. Guardian Medical Monitoring was formed in 1999 after CEO Douglas Pierce was asked by a friend to create a device for senior citizens who live alone that would allow them to summon emergency help.  A medical alarm was developed and patented, along with several other related accessories and products.  Guardian Medical Monitoring is Guardian’s fastest growing division and was achieved primarily through partnerships with local hospitals, home healthcare providers and government health agencies. 