Khosrow Bagheri Noaparast (in Persian: خسرو باقری نوع پرست) is an Iranian philosopher, educational theorist and the president of Philosophy of Education Society of Iran (PESI).   Bagheri was born in 1957 in Tehran. He took his Ph. D degree from the University of New South Wales, Australia, in 1994. He is Professor of Philosophy of Education at the University of Tehran. He has made contributions to a wide range of topics in philosophy of education, Religion and personal construct psychology; topics from different viewpoints, such as constructive realism, neo-Pragmatism, action theory, deconstruction, Hermeneutics, and Islamic philosophy of education. In 2011 he was awarded First order Medal of Research (The Distinguished Researcher) by the University of Tehran.  In his book Islamic Education he places human agency as the main educational thesis of Islam. This is while before him scholars such as Mutahari believed in human nature as the center of Islamic education. He opposes nature as a central key to Islamic education claiming that human beings are not a piece of non-living object to be fabricated into a human being. Instead human is a dynamic creature who should choose being religious. in this regard he has introduced abstinence by presence. While most scholars have insisted that religion is about preventing sinful situations Bagheri insists that real education leads to presence in a sinful situation and yet remaining intact.  He argues that in George Kelly's personal construct psychology a combination of correspondence theory of truth and a coherence theory of truth is necessary. offering criteria for a reconciliation of correspondence and coherence theories he argues that constructivism should be based on a reality and the effort is to search for an optimal point where reality and constructs reach each other.     Most Classic Islamic Philosophers believed in a naive realism or intuition based theories for achieving knowledge from the external world.  Either of these perspectives or a combination of them has led some to conclude that a science based on religion can lead to infallible knowledge. However, Bagheri argues that a religious science is only possible through interference of religious elements in the presupposition of a theory and hence will remain a science tout court, and its religious presuppositions will not guarantee an infallible knowledge.    A non-comprehensive list of Bagheri's published works include: Bagheri has translated the following books into Persian:  