The Gifted Education Programme (GEP) is a highly selective academic programme in Singapore, initially designed to identify the top 0.25% (later expanded to 0.5%, then 1%) of students from each academic year with outstanding intelligence. The tests are base on verbal, mathematical and spatial abilities (as determined by two rounds of tests). Those students will then be transferred from normal classes to the GEP classes, if those students are in a school without those classes, they will be transferred to another school with those classes. Those classes will bring the students to higher levels (such as higher mother tongue, complex mathematics, intensive science and a wider expand of English knowledge/facts). The programme has now been expanded to 1% of the students from each academic year.  The Gifted Education Programme was first implemented in Singapore in 1984 amid some public concern. It was initiated by the Ministry of Education (MOE) in line with its policy under the New Education System to allow each student to learn at his/her own pace. The MOE has a commitment to ensure that the potential of each pupil is recognised, nurtured and developed. It was recognised that there are pupils who are intellectually gifted and that there should be extra help to reach their potential. Beginning with two primary schools and two secondary schools it has now expanded to nine primary schools (as in October 2004) and was at its peak before the introduction of the Integrated Programme (IP). As of 2018, nine primary schools offer GEP.  In 2004, five secondary schools started implementing Integrated Programmes with their affiliated Junior Colleges, but they are officially no longer under the GEP. However, they still have their own programmes within their respective Integrated Programme to cater to these gifted students, who still retain their "gifted" status. Despite all the changes, there have not been any major changes to the programme, and this is basically just a change of name. While the secondary schools that had implemented the Integrated Programme remained generally unaffected by the move,  Victoria School, which continued to offer the GEP, saw a drastic decrease in enrolment. The Gifted Education Programme came to a close in secondary schools in 2008, now in its place, School-based Gifted Education (SBGE). All of the secondary schools that offer the SBGE are IP schools. There are generally two classes per cohort/year/level for SBGE students, but sometimes there may only be one class per cohort, depending on the size.  Beginning in 2006, the MOE started to phase out the secondary GEP due to the impact of the IP. However, GEP pupils who do not wish to take up the Integrated Programme after 2008 can enroll in schools with school-based special programmes at Secondary one.  Examples of such schools are Anglo-Chinese School (Independent), Catholic High School, Methodist Girls' School and St. Joseph's Institution. At Primary Three (P3), students may choose to take the first round of admission tests, the Screening Test. Students identified based on Screening Test results will be invited to participate in the second round, the Selection Test. Based on Selection Test results, the top 1% of the cohort will be identified and invited to join the Gifted Education Programme, usually by November of that year, after which they can choose whether or not they wish to join the Gifted Education Programme. English and Mathematics papers are included as part of the Screening Test, while a third paper, General Ability, will be included in the Selection Test. Before 2003, there was a third round of testing to allow entry for pupils who missed the chance in P3, after the PSLE. This last round of testing was offered to students who achieved 3 or more A*s for the PSLE. Students who got in at this round were referred to as being Supplementary Intake students. However, this practice was discontinued as of 2003. The IP schools and the new specialist Mathematics and Science School, once it was formed, open up opportunities for more pupils who are not already part of the primary school GEP. So, there are ample opportunities to join these schools and there is no need for a supplementary exercise to select students for the GEP at secondary schools. Read Speech here The pupils will have to study in this programme from Primary 4 to 6, and after that, the pupils can choose to continue studying in the programme only, in the Integrated Programme, or in the mainstream (not the GEP). They may also have a variety of top Secondary School to choose from, they will be able admitted to that school even with the lowest of scores (unless they fail their English or Mathematics). Once the school is chosen, they will go straight to Express unless they choose the other route (Mainstream) "Research Project Studies (RPS)" is introduced in Primary 4, which is a program to teach skills needed in research. "Individualized Study Options (ISO)", which is compulsory for pupils in Primary 5, wherein pupils do research on a specific topic. The students were asked to choose their own projects in Primary Five under Teacher Mentors. The student-teacher ratio is normally from 4:1 to 5:1. Formerly, the Study Options given were: Pupils in the GEP have to take Social Studies as a graded subject. Based on the mainstream textbook syllabus, students will have to study in-depth content. Lessons in the GEP are conducted with no textbooks or workbooks, with the exception of Chinese and Higher Chinese; lessons are more discussion-, worksheet- and project-oriented. Pupils in GEP learn poetry and literature (A Single Shard in Primary 4, "The Giver"  in Primary 5,  and Friedrich in Primary 6) as part of the Concept Unit under the English Language subject. "A Wrinkle in Time" was used as the literature book for Primary 5 students until 2014 when it was replaced with "The Giver". The main purpose is to show students how a dystopia world lives. For English, students have to do different process writings based on the genres they have studied including mystery and fairytales. In Primary 6, a graded Mathematics Alternative Assessment (Math AA) is given. The pupils will have to choose from six or seven projects that GEP branch officers in the Ministry of Education (MOE) create. These projects are individual and include research, a product to be made and reflections. These have to be properly presented, otherwise the projects would lose marks. They will also be required to do a biography unit, of which one is oral and the latter is a written assignment. In an article in The Straits Times on 3 November 2007, the MOE announced its new scheme to "encourage" greater integration between GEP and mainstream students, to combat elitism and encourage socialisation . GEP students in the nine primary GEP centres would spend up to 50% of their lesson time with the top 2% to 5% of the cohort, or the top mainstream students. They would do activities such as studying with them, etc. Also, non-core subjects such as art and music are conducted with the mainstream cohort. The announcement of the integration provoked much buzz on the blogosphere.   4.http://news.asiaone.com/News/Latest+News/Singapore/Story/A1Story20120729-362053.html  