Glenforest Secondary School (GFSS) is a public secondary school located in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada. Established in 1969, Glenforest Secondary School is a member of the Peel District School Board.  The school mascot is the mythological creature the gryphon, lovingly nicknamed Griffy. The Glenforest Gryphons are the official sports team of the school. Glenforest Gryphons excel in a variety of sports, including badminton, table tennis, swimming, and cricket. Many Gryphons compete in provincial competitions in their respective sport. Glenforest is recognized for its IB program. It has been an International Baccalaureate World School since November 2004. It offers the IB program from grades 9-12 with a vast range of subjects included. The IB program is sub-divided into two stages: MYP (Middle Years Programme) and IB. MYP is the initialization and preparation for the students entering the official IB program in grade 11.  The International Baccalaureate Organization (IBO) aims to develop inquiring, knowledgeable and caring young people who help to create a better and more peaceful world through intercultural understanding and respect.  Glenforest offers numerous clubs and activities to its students. The major ones are: The curriculum covers a wide variety of cultures, and academic programs. Currently, the school offers the International Baccalaureate Program, in both its MYP (Middle Years Program) and DP (Diploma Program) varieties, and a regional enhanced program. Currently, Academic and Applied level students account for the majority of the school demographic, whereas IB students account for roughly a fifth of the school, and enhanced occupies roughly two classes of students per academic year. The school is also widely known for being very multicultural. The Gryphons are the official sports team.  The school has teams active in many sports and recreational activities.  There are many other sports available to the students as well. The school participated in the non-profit fundraiser known as The Inside Ride to help raise money for cancer research. This included riding indoor bicycles for a total of an hour inside the school gym. Students formed teams to raise money and each team dressed up in their respective themes to relayed the bike ride throughout the hour. The school recently underwent a gym renovation in 2014, after a flooding wrecked the original gym floor dating back to 1969. The school specializes in such sports as badminton, volleyball, flag football, cricket, soccer, rugby, table tennis, track and field and more. Glenforest Secondary is well known for its swimming pool. The pool is available for the residents of Mississauga for recreational purposes as it has been owned and operated by the city for 25 years. It is a 25-meter-long, 6 lane, rectangular shaped pool located inside the school. Some activities facilitated are Scuba diving and swimming.  Additionally, the Glenforest Swim Team conducts frequent swimming practices in the pool on weekdays. 