The Indiana Academy for Science, Mathematics, and Humanities (The Indiana Academy) is a two-year residential high school located on the campus of Ball State University in Muncie, Indiana, although it operates separately. It is a member of the National Consortium for Specialized Secondary Schools of Mathematics, Science and Technology. The school's student body consists of approximately 300 students selected from gifted and talented applicants from across Indiana. The school also hosts several international students from countries such as China, South Korea, and more each year. Academy students take advanced, college-level courses and each student works towards the Indiana Honors Diploma, which is the only diploma awarded by the school. Established by the Indiana General Assembly in 1988,  it is the only tax-supported statewide high school in Indiana. For accepted students, the school did not charge tuition or meal costs until 2006. The Academy started to charge room and board fees in Fall of 2006. However, it still costs the state about $21,000 a year to support one Academy student. Until recently, all students at the Academy were juniors and seniors. However, recently, some non-residential students are sophomores. Currently, the academy houses only one sophomore, but this is uncommon. See also: Burris Laboratory School - Athletics The Academy's athletes perform their sports through the teams of Burris Laboratory School. The school has no independent sports teams. Students live in Wagoner Hall on the southern end of the Ball State campus. The school administration is in a separate building known as the Academy House.  Some administrative offices may be found in the basement of Elliot Hall, the neighboring dorm. Most classes are held next door at Burris Laboratory School and are scheduled in a manner similar to college courses.  Students also have the opportunity to take classes at Ball State for a fee. These credits are dedicated toward graduation requirements, and can be counted as college credit as well. Academy students are also required to do community service and school service in order to graduate. Each student is given a laptop (currently Lenovos) to use while they attend the Academy.  This started with the class of 2004.  Students are given these laptops to ensure they have constant access to the Internet and applications such as Microsoft Word and Excel. Students are eligible to participate in certain IHSAA varsity athletics in conjunction with Burris Laboratory School, including:  tennis, cross country, soccer, basketball, golf (boys), track, baseball (boys), volleyball (girls), cheerleading (coed), and starting in the 2014-2015 school year, swimming.  Because it is a part of the University Schools organization and open only to gifted and talented students, the Academy performs research and studies on students.  Dr. Tracy Cross, former Executive Director of the Academy and writer of several important studies into gifted and talented students, was among leading researchers involved with the Academy. 