The Logan School for Creative Learning is a private school in Denver, Colorado that serves gifted students grades K-8. The Logan School for Creative Learning is a progressive school with a dynamic curriculum that teaches the way children learn by giving them hands-on experiences fueled by their own curiosities. Logan students, aged 4.5–14 years old, are co-architects with their teachers in building meaningful units of study that not only address the traditional academics but also emphasize research, reasoning and recording. The Logan School for Creative Learning (previously the Denver School for Gifted and Creative) was founded by Patti McKinnell in 1981 and began with seven children in a church basement on South Federal Boulevard in Denver.  In1999,  The Logan school moved to the former Lowry Air Force Base, where today it is one of several independent schools on a 1,866-acre (7.55 km2) former military site that has been redeveloped as a mixed-use urban community.  The mission of The Logan School for Creative Learning is to provide an experience-based educational opportunity for gifted children of all backgrounds that allows each child to develop individually to his or her full potential."   Markus Hunt is the current Head of School. His past positions include Assistant Head at Cathedral School for Boys in San Francisco and Dean/Latin Teacher at The Trinity School in Manhattan. Logan's curriculum is designed for gifted students ages four and a half to fourteen. Each student has an individualized curriculum based on their abilities, learning style and personal interests.   At the beginning of each school year, students each choose a unit to study (some older students choose more than one), with students encouraged to pick a unit subject that interests them, as they will spend a large portion of their time at school studying their units. The curriculum of units is designed to help teach reading, writing, math, science and other subjects, by helping students build connections between these subjects and their interests. Field trips are an important part of the program, often with an environmental emphasis.  The Logan School has 13 core classrooms, including students of varying ages, usually within 2 years of each other. Children typically spend 2 years with one teacher.   The Logan School is accredited through ACIS Association of Colorado Independent Schools and is a full member of NAIS National Association of Independent Schools Some Logan students received an award from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) for their work.  The Logan Cafeteria also houses many awards for their chess team, and band. Logan offers a variety of after school fitness and athletics. During the day, students may attend fitness classes, depending on which day it is and their current grade level. Logan also has a school basketball team, The Logan Lightning, where students can flourish their skills with classmates and intuitive coaches. Some words from the students are "We work hard, and coach always knows the right thing for us. I have so much fun during the basketball season. We play many games, against a variety of schools, and compete hard every time." Recently, Logan has added more sports teams including a girls volleyball team, a co-ed cross country team, a girls and boys soccer team and a co-ed ultimate frisbee team. The admission process includes a parent tour and information session, application, student questionnaire, teacher recommendation and the completion of either a Wechsler or Differential Ability Scales test. Once all the paperwork is submitted, a parent interview and classroom observation may be scheduled.  A panel reviews each application for compatibility, after which families are notified if they will be offered a position, or if their child will be added to a wait list. 