Talent Identification Program (commonly referred to as "Duke TIP") is a gifted education program based at Duke University. Founded in 1980 as one of the first pre-collegiate studies programs offered by an American university,  the program aims to identify gifted middle and high school students and provide advanced educational opportunities.  The TIP program was founded in 1980 by a grant from the Duke Endowment in 1980.  At the time, the goal of the program was to identify and provide educational opportunities to help the children reach their full educational potential. the program initially focused on seventh graders, and has since expanded to grades four through twelve, allowing the program full reach of middle and high school students. Since its inception, the program has benefited over 2.8 million students, with over 100,000 students applying to the program each year.  Since the program's inception in 1980, Duke University has added additional locations where gifted students can attend. Within Duke University, students can apply to attend at the main university campus in Durham, North Carolina or at the Duke Marine Laboratory in Beaufort, North Carolina. Of all the locations that are affiliated with the program, those at the campuses of Duke University are the most selective.  Since the program's inception, Duke has expanded the presence of the "Duke TIP" program to partnerships at other universities such as Rice University , Wake Forest University , Georgia Tech , Davidson College , Trinity University,  The University of Georgia , New College of Florida  , Austin College , University of Kansas , Rollins College , and Appalachian State University . Although the Duke TIP program partners with other universities and has a wide presence, the most selective and flagship programs occur on-site at Duke University, where students learn on both Duke's East Campus for the humanities, and Duke's West Campus for the sciences.  The various TIP programs include:  As the various programs under Duke TIP target different age ranges, the requirements for each program differ. In most cases, regardless of the student's age, the requirements are scoring above the 95th percentile on an accepted grade-level national standardized achievement test such as the SAT or ACT and scoring above a 125  on a standard IQ test taken within the past two years.    