The Woodlands School is a public elementary and secondary school in Mississauga, Ontario, under the Peel District School Board. It has a diverse student population, predominatly Asian.  The school has an English as a Second Language (ESL) program to assist new immigrants, and a Peer Assisted Learning (PALS) program. The school is also a Regional Enhanced Learning Centre for the secondary gifted program. The Woodlands School was opened in the year 1969. While the first phase of its present building was under construction, The Woodlands operated within Springfield Public School building. In September, 1970, the school's students and staff moved to the new building, and The Woodlands became a combined elementary and secondary school. Today, The Woodlands School has more than 1200 students, unique in the Peel District School Board. The facility received a major renovation throughout 2016.  This renovation implemented a new open concept design to the front of the school, and also removed the old library building attached to the school, replacing it with a new elementary classroom wing.  An elevator was later built near the front of the school. Students in grades 7 through 8 are enrolled in a full-year schedule of two terms per year, with the subjects taught rotated on a five-day cycle. Report cards for each term are sent home with each student in January and June, and elementary classes continue throughout the secondary exam periods. As with the Peel District School Board, subjects are taught at the Enhanced, Academic, Applied and Locally Developed levels. Woodlands also offers a gifted education program, students who are identified as gifted through the CCAT (Canadian Cognitive Abilities Test) tests (or various others) are given the option of attending Woodlands, and are bussed from all over the city. The Enhanced subjects for students have the same content as an Academic course being taught, but are given options in school work to try and encourage enhanced students to be creative, and take leadership roles. Students from the Applewood Acres satellite program have access to The Woodlands School. The strong student performance, by individuals and teams, consistently places The Woodlands among the top academic schools in the Peel District School Board and Ontario.  Recently, the School ranked 97th nationally in 2008 Euclid Contest (2nd in the Mississauga region.), and   4th nationally in the 2008 Fermat Contest.  The school also does exceptionally well in DECA competitions. Woodlands has one of the best music programs in Canada, placing in national & international festivals many times.   In addition, the school has high Ontario Secondary School Literacy Test passing rate with 97%.  The Woodlands Rams compete within the Region of Peel Secondary School Athletic Association (ROPSSAA). ROPSSAA is made up of over sixty schools from across the Peel Board of Education and the Dufferin Peel Catholic School Board. Below are some of the leagues and championships that ROPSSAA organizes: Coordinates: 43°33′45″N 79°38′53″W﻿ / ﻿43.562497°N 79.64817°W﻿ / 43.562497; -79.64817 