K. Johanna (Joana) Altmann  (born 1971) is a German Spanish innovator, business executive, female entrepreneur, influencer, journalist and photographer. In 2010, working at BMW, she founded the digital social media and Lifestyle magazine  NAANII GLOBAL Luxury Family Lifestyle –Magazin ‘en Vogue’-   which developed into a popular global digital network and Media company with a global reach in 180 countries and publications in the four languages English, Spanish, French and German.  She is currently owner and CEO of the Spanish German Tech and Media company Naanii Global. Now based in Madrid, Spain and Hamburg, Germany, Altmann has held senior management positions in France, Spain and London, UK .  Following an international university degree in Business Administration and International Marketing and Management, she started her international career and inventions in France, Lille as a Fashion Designer  and Export Manager, moved on to Germany, Frankfurt Lufthansa to work in the department of strategic alliances.  In 1999, in Spain, Madrid,  she founded and managed the exclusive strategic global partnership between Real Estate Consultancy CBRE Group and the German BMW Group while she was its Global Key Account Manager, Corporate Advisory Services London / Madrid,  for the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia (1999-2002.) And she went on to manage and organize the Design and Architectural bidding process - won by Spanish architect es:Rafael de La-Hoz Castanys -  and construction initiative of German car manufacturer BMW Ibérica in 2002/2003 to develop and construct successfully four Real Estate developments with an allover budget of 41 million € (new BMW headquarters, new BMW logistic plant, new BMW used car centre, new BMW dealership Las Tablas) in the Madrid area,  while she was its Special Project Leader Spain  (2002–2004). Taking over further major projects within BMW, she was than the Senior Manager and Special project Leader of the VIP Pool and Events. In 2010, as a Social Entrepreneur, she felt a need to arise awareness about the importance and opportunity of children being part of the globally increasing luxury business segment and not being discriminated, as probably loud dirty, noisy and few attractive for businesses and events operating in the luxury sector. She invented and started Lean startup  (start-up company) the NAANII GLOBAL  ‘Luxury Family lifestyle ‘, created corresponding Social media communication channels, designed ‘Los Naaniis’ and founded company NAANII GLOBAL. Naanii Globals global network and followers increased from 2010 to 2013 up to 65 countries and 4 million users. She expanded the business from Spain to Germany, Berlin  2013 and established the NAANII GLOBAL digital Quality family lifestyle Magazin ‘en vogue’, and increased the global digital network and readership to 180 countries and 15 million users 2015 – creating exclusive content and strategic alliances in areas such as Arts,   Polo,     Luxury Hotels, F1, Golf,   Real Estate, Sailing,   Luxury travel tips and Hideaways (Beach. Mountain, Snow, Urban), Luxury Kids Club Hotels,  Education and Charity. Her K. Johanna Altmann - Naanii Global Klout Score increased 2016 to a score of up to 73-75. Klout is the standard for influence and impact globally. (Klout 70+: Top 1%)  .  In 2017 she managed to grow the company, increasing business lines, revenue streams and sales and established the 'NAANII GLOBAL International Management Consultancy'. In January 2018 she opened the NAANII GLOBAL online Boutique (Designs, Experiences & Lifestyle 'en Vogue') www.naaniiglobal.shop offering with this new Online Shop flexible and safe payment systems for its global customers - through  international partnerships reached with Payment providers such as Alibaba Group 'Alipay', Mastercard/Visa, etc.  In February, 22. 2018, her company NAANII GLOBAL s.l.n.e. (Digital Magazin + International Consultancy + Online Boutique) was ranked by spanish business analists D&B, Einforma 12/20 'riesgo comercial medio/bajo'; Opinión de Crédito: 6.000.000€; Trayectoria empresarial muy positiva: 78/100; Endeudamiento mínimo; Situación financiera de la compañía es buena','La evolución de resultados ha sido positiva', etc. The mother of a teenage girl, K. Joana Altmann, married to a French Lawyer, art collector and artist, now lives with her family between Madrid Spain and Hamburg/Berlin, Germany . 