Reid's Three Topoi provide a basic framework for understanding pro-war rhetoric and propaganda. (1) Territorial appeals, (2) ethnocentric appeals, and (3) appeals to optimism characterize pro-war rhetoric.  Reid also defines a fourth appeal, war aims. However, because this fourth aim supports the other topoi, it is often not identified as a separate category.  Due to these appeals, “American presidents have been able to impart a positive value to [the nation’s wars] as well as justify the nation’s involvement."  By understanding the persuasiveness of these appeals, Reid believes one can better understand wartime behavior.  Ronald F. Reid, a Professor of Communication Studies at the University of Massachusetts Amherst at Amherst, retired  in 1991 after 32 years of teaching.  Reid received a bachelor’s from Pepperdine, a master’s from University of New Mexico, and a Ph.D. from Purdue.  Territorial appeals “taps into the ‘lower’ instincts we share with the animal kingdom."   As most animal species “mark off units of physical space” as “theirs” and will fight to retain that space, “many countries, led by the U.S., have developed a global sense of territoriality.”   As a result, nations “regard physical space as property” and are prepared to defend that property.  The object of the territorial appeal is gain support for war by convincing the audience that the country is in danger.  Countries are more willing to support war when they feel their land is threatened.   Just as “a defending animal’s willingness to fight correlates with the extent to which its territory is invaded,” a human's willingness to fight correlates with the extent to which his country is threatened.  Territorial appeals are often used to portray “expansionism as defensive by depicting it as a response to an existing outside threat or honorable effort to recover territory” that was unfairly taken.   Thus, through territorial appeal, “even unjustified American imperialism…can be characterized as defensive.”    Encroachment appeals are reminiscent of the domino theory.  By “narrating recent ‘encroachments’ along the frontier,” the orator proposes these seemingly isolated attacks are part of a bigger takeover conspiracy.  There are some ideas/virtues countries assume as property.  “A populace may be motivated to embark upon a course of war because of the threat posed to its national ideals by a competing ideology."  Therefore, an orator can demonstrate a metaphysical territorial appeal by showing a threat to these ideals.  The Ethnocentric Appeal states that if the individuals in a culture belong and identify to it, they are likely to think their culture is superior to other cultures.  Ordinary ethnocentricity tends to lead those of a culture to ignore "outsiders."  The Ethnocentric Appeal concentrates on creating an ‘Us vs. Them’ mentality.  According to ethnocentricity, individuals often see their culture as superior to others. Therefore, when an orator is able to “establish a ‘realistic’ image of the enemy’s savagery,” he “eliminate[s] peace as a viable alternative to war."  For example, during the American Revolution, the government told the people "God's plan of history called for progress, and the Revolution was an integral part of that plan."   This sets up the notion that "they" were "evil" and we are "good" because God is on our side.  Pro-war rhetoric must "arouse ethnocentrism to a high level of emotional intensity."  To achieve this: An Appeal to Optimism creates the illusion war is not bad and that it has its positives.  This can be achieved in four ways: War Aims support former appeals and provide an ending goal for the war.   Missions “rhetorically create the sense of an objective response."  Nations want to bring about more peace and security.  For example, the war aims for security protect from future territorial threats of enemies. Permanent peace will ensure security.  If “the aim is total overthrow of the enemy,” the language is ambiguous, unclear, and utopian.  For example, “We seek to create a massive change."  If the “aims reflects a desire for security,” the language expresses clear anticipated results.  Presidents will “define an issue [and] the possible resolutions to that issue."  