In the field of rhetoric, transfer refers to the ability of individuals to use knowledge learned in one setting and applying it in a different setting (Leonard and Nowacek, 2016; Canagarajah, 2011). Transfer in Rhetoric and Writing then, would be the ability of writers to extrapolate knowledge and compositional strategies from one genre onto the next, consciously or unconsciously. In her book, Agents of Integration: Understanding Transfer as a Rhetorical Act, Nowacek goes on to say that “As individuals move from context to context, they receive cues, both implicit and explicit, that suggest knowledge associated with a prior context may prove useful in the next context” (2011); she explains that consciously or unconsciously, students will find a way of using antecedent knowledge when dealing with new genres and composition practices or when they find themselves in new writing contexts. Even though Nowacek had English as L1 students as subjects in her study, she claimed that “students do in fact, transfer writing-related knowledge from one context to another but […] this instances of transfer are not often recognized […] or valued (Nowacek, 2011). Moreover, McCarthy also investigated how students make efforts to as to use antecedent knowledge and draw on previous experience so as to approach new genres and writing situations (Walvoord and McCarthy, 1990). This use of antecedent knowledge allows individuals to transfer genre conventions from one onto the next, keeping what they believe is shared and getting rid of those conventions that cannot be transferred. Although this ideal situation in the classroom where students can assume what can and cannot be transferred from one genre to the next is what some instructors anspire to, issues arise when the antecent knowledge that students are drawing from was constructed while working on genres in a different language, within a different culture and with, most likely, completely different rhetorical conventions and expectations. Contrastive Rhetoric research has been based on the supposition that "rhetorical aspects of each language are unique to each language and culture" (Casanave, 2007). Despite this, several scholars have assumed that the difficulties that L2 writers may encounter are due to the ‘negative transfer’ from their L1 onto their L2 (Kaplan, 1966, Kaplan 1988). Even though Kaplan investigated this issue back in the 80s it has been investigated during the 90s by scholars such as Kubota (1998). However, research in transfer has focused more lately on strategies to help students navigate different genres and transferring knowledge from their L1 to their L2 during the 2000s (Simpson, 2000; Kang, 2005) without taking into consideration the transfer of rhetorical skills between L1 and L2 as negative but instead, as a necessity to succeed in different rhetorical contexts. This transfer of knowledge in genre studies then, implies malleability of knowledge. Transferring writing strategies from one genre to the next will imply that knowledge is not lost but modified as to fit the conventions of the new genre. This means that “Transfer not only entails reusing past writing knowledge in new situations; it also entails reshaping writing knowledge” (DePalma and Ringer, 2011; DePalma, 2015). DePalma argues that we should understand this rhetorical reshaping as “composers’ repurposing, recontextualizing, or coordinating of semiotic resources acrsoss tasks, media, and contexts in order to fulfill their rhetorical objectives.” (Benson et al., 2014; Depalma, 2015). Although studies of transfer in L2 writing have mostly focused on the reuse of knowledge, DePalma theorizes about adaptive transfer, a framework that “acknowledges both the reuse and the reshaping of prior writing knowledge to fit new contexts” DePalma defines adaptive transfer as “the conscious or intutitive process of applying or reshaping learned writing knowledge in order to help students negotiate new and potentially unfamiliar writing situations” (DePalma, 2011). There are certain theoretical frameworks currently used in Composition classes all over the United States that also consider the concept of Transfer to explain how individuals take information as input in order to produce output in the form of written text (activity). These theories are used as means to inform their compositional practices. One of these theories is Cultural Historical Activity Theory; CHAT considers all writing to be culturally and historically situated and is devoted to analyze the relationships between the human mind and the activities that individuals develop (Kaptelinin & Nardi, 2006). More specifically, CHAT helps understand how writers may make use of certain writing strategies and transfer genre conventions from one genre onto the next. Igira and Gregory talk about  CHAT in their book Handbook of Research on Contemporary Theoretical Models in Information Systems as follows: "Cultural historical activity theory […] traces its roots from the Soviet Union in the 1920s as part of the socio-historical school of Russian psychology. Its basic foundations were laid by the insights of Russian psychologists Vygotsky, Leont’ev and Luria into the dynamics of thought and consciousness […]. Their arguments arose in response to the need to transcend prevailing understandings of psychology, child development and learning studies that were then dominated by behaviorism (Skinner) on one hand, and psychological theories that they regarded as individually oriented rather than socioculturally oriented on the other hand, including Piaget’s developmental theory and psychoanalysis (Engeström, 1987). In doing so, they sought to go beyond the individual to the social. Engeström (2001), […] describes the theoretical tradition of CHAT as passing through three generations or phases: the first phase focused on mediated action, the second phase focused on the individual in collective activity, and the third phase which currently focuses on multiple, interacting activity systems and boundary-crossings between them." (Igira and Gregory, 2009). Currently, CHAT stands in its third phase, which as was mentioned previously, focuses in the boundary-crossings between activity systems and the possible interactions that this could produce. This interactions between activity systems are important in the writing classroom, not only because they help instructors understand the connections that students may make between genres, but also because they help them and students see the permeability of genres and the role that antecedent knowledge plays in their deconstruction. CHAT has te ability to deconstruct the processes of knowledge selection that our students go through when approaching new genres in unknown contexts. The concept has been broadly studied in the field of Linguistics, and most specifically in the subfield of Applied Linguistics. Some related concepts to the transfer of linguistic and writing skills from L1 to L2 are Codemeshing, Codeswitching and Translingualism. Codemeshing is an important feature of translingual transfer (Canagarajah, 2011) and it acts as evidence of learning transfer. Codemeshing specifically, makes reference to the practice of combining vernacular and other world Englishes on formal settings or everyday situations so as to embrace one’s identity. Furthermore, the use of Codemeshing assures the message that is being created will have the ability to reach a broader audience and to a deeper level, that is, the act of bringing different adaptations of the language to the conversation functions as an inclusive tool for the audience to engage with the text and the author. On the other hand, Codeswitching makes reference to the act of switching between two or more languages or varieties of the same language; this can be done purposely in order to reach an audience better; however, Codeswitching has also been claimed to be done in order to fit within the linguistic community the individual finds him or herself inmersed in (Young, Barrett, & Lovejoy, 2013). Lastly, the concept of Translanguaging (Garcia, 2009) makes reference to a natural process through which multilingual students integrate communicative elements from the different languages they navigate in order to fulfill their communicative purposes and needs. 