The conservation and restoration of glass objects is an activity dedicated to the preservation and protection of objects of historical and personal value made from glass. When applied to cultural heritage this activity is generally undertaken by a conservator-restorer. Glass was discovered in the third millennium B.C.E. and is still a relatively new material. The art of glassworking did not occur until long after metalwork or pottery.  The act of conservation and restoration strives to prevent and slow the deterioration of the object as well as protecting the object for future use. Water is the primary cause of deterioration in glass materials.   Weathering Weathering is a broad definition for any form of deterioration which appears on the surface of the glass and is caused by exposure to adverse conditions.   Below are the seven typical forms of weathering. Dulling is the simplest form of weathering. It occurs when glass loses its clarity and transparency and becomes translucent.  Strain cracking describes the presence of minuscule cracks running through the glass in all directions, giving it a sugary appearance and causing the glass to disintegrate. Frosting Iridescence is caused by continuous flaking of a glass surface causing a multi-colored sheen to appear on the surface of formerly transparent glass.  Milky Enamel-like Devitrification Devitrification is the process of converting glass into a crystalline substance by heating it to a temperature just below its melting point then cooled. By doing this, the randomly situated molecules in the glass, when cooled, will attempt to settle in a less random and more crystalline form.  This technique is used to create an opaque appearance in the glass. Due to the high level of stress this technique places on the glass, it may cause the glass to deteriorate.   For more information on devitrification as an artistic technique, see the main article above. The term "devitrification" is used by archaeologists and art historians to refer to a glass object which has lost it vitreous nature, giving the glass a weathered appearance.   This is first caused by the loss of alkali then followed by the loss of other materials of the glass, and finally the creation of a silica gel, indicating the change in the glass's chemical composition. Crizzling Atmospheric deterioration, commonly referred to as crizzling, weeping or glass disease is primarily caused by a chemical imbalance in specific types of glass, though it can occur in almost any glass.   This form of deterioration is a basic defect in glass caused by incorrect proportions of ingredients, particularly an excess of alkali in the glass composite.  Crizzling occurs in 5 main stages.  Stage One Stage Two Stage Three Stage Four Stage Five Brittleness Storage and handling In France, conservators specialized in earthenware and glassware are trained at the Institut National du Patrimoine (The National Institute of Cultural Heritage). Their mission is to intervene when heritage resources are threatened or deteriorated for several reasons. The conservator prevents works of art from disappearing or loses its purpose whilst analyzing the complex stage of its material history and the cause of alteration. Museum Practices 