The conservation and restoration of clocks refers to the care given to a clock to either prevent or resolve issues faced during its life cycle. The variety of materials from which a clock may be constructed and the complexity of clockwork warrant such care to be taken by a clock owner so that a clock can continue to function. Proper handling, suitable storage and display environments, and regular maintenance can together prevent issues from arising and impacting a clock’s sustainability. Such controls can extend the life of a clock. Certain precautionary measures taken by a clock handler can deny opportunities for damage to occur: Proper storage and display mechanisms can work to ensure a clock’s safety. The use of a solid, sturdy surface when storing or displaying a clock can prevent it from falling on a hard surface. A wall clock for example requires a secure attachment "[...] to a wall if accidents are to be avoided and clocks are to run properly.”   Motion sensitive lighting and use of non-direct light sources can limit the amount of light and heat withstood by a clock, both of which are sources of clock damage. A clean clock environment can eliminate opportunities for dangerous contaminants to come into contact with a clock. An HVAC system can add an extra level of security by removing such contaminants from the air. The humidity and temperature of the environment in which a clock is being displayed or stored can adversely affect the clock’s condition. Damage may be avoided by maintaining certain levels of humidity and temperature within the clock environment, dependent on the materials from which the clock is constructed. Regular maintenance of a clock can ensure its long-term preservation. Visual inspection can determine whether a clock should be cleaned and/or lubricated, whether any signs of infestation and/or damage exist, and whether a clock should be wound and/or set to the correct time.  Damage can occur via a variety of mechanisms, either rooted in human error or naturally caused. Damage can impact all components and materials from which a clock may be constructed. Due to its porous nature, wood is significantly impacted through contact with water. When humidity is high, the excess water in the air is absorbed, resulting in wood expansion, while little to no water in the air when humidity is low can cause wood shrinkage.  Such changes in character from the wood’s original state can lead to damage. Types of low humidity-related wood damage include “[...] structural cracks, lifting veneer and inlays, gaps in joints and the embrittlement of adhesives."   Similar to wood, interaction with water can also prove detrimental to metal. When contaminants come into contact with metal, they either combine with any present moisture or attract moisture to the metal. This “[...] combination with moisture can produce corrosion.”   Finish damage can occur as a result of the use of cleaning products and/or polishes on a clock’s surface. Rather than perform their intended duty to assist in the preservation of a clock, some products “can actually darken or become opaque with age, resulting in a dark, dull and often irreparable finish.”   Any words or images painted on a clock surface can become faded or even removed when these delicate pieces are touched and exposed to moisture from hands. Clockwork damage can be inflicted via over-winding, interaction with contaminants, ill-advised lubrication, and clock movement when a pendulum is not secured prior to the clock being moved. A free swinging pendulum can itself be damaged and can inflict damage onto other interior components during such clock movement. Interventive actions can be taken by trained conservators when clock issues arise, with treatment varying depending on the type of clock and situation. A conservator who specializes in clock care will have the qualifications and training to properly treat a clock with the wherewithal to “[...] not totally compromise the historical worth of the object [...].”   Conservators rely on a system of examination, documentation, and research prior to treatment so that proper treatment is received, as “Sometimes the only way one can understand the detailed history, quirks, and specific eccentricities common to a particular timepiece is by studying it to glean as much information from it as possible [...].”   Aside from pinpointing clock issues and providing care to a clock in need, conservators are also able to impart knowledge about procedures like clock winding to ill-informed clock owners so that future clock damage due to human error may be avoided. Horological conservators at West Dean College were responsible for the treatment of an 18th-century pagoda clock sent from the historic house Anglesey Abbey by the National Trust. In starting the project, examination of the clock revealed that "The automata and clock elements seem to be running, but struggling, and the music sounds as though it needs a few extra hands to help play its tune."   The clock was then disassembled, and care was taken to document information about each of the over 600 components both textually and photographically, including measurements and where each component fits within the clock. "After examination, each component was cleaned and dried, wrapped in acid-free tissue, and stored with the catalogue number."   