The conservation and restoration of iron and steel objects is an activity dedicated to the preservation and protection of objects of historical and personal value made from iron or steel. When applied to cultural heritage this activity is generally undertaken by a conservator-restorer. Historically, objects made from iron or steel were created for religious, artistic, technical, military and domestic uses. The act of conservation and restoration strives to prevent and slow the deterioration of the object as well as protecting the object for future use. The prevention and removal of surface dirt and corrosion products are the primary concerns of conservator-restorers when dealing with iron or steel objects, including nickel-iron meteorites. Systematic and well-managed documentation is today an essential prerequisite for quality executed conservation and restoration treatments, including  documentation of the state of objects before, during and after treatment. Identification of  materials and procedures used to produce objects and the results of any scientific research  must be part of documentation, too. Last but not least, an integral part of the documentation must be a recommendation for further care of object. In preparing the strategy  of the metals conservation project   interdisciplinary approach to the same is essential.It implies the participation of as many experts as is possible, as a minimum, we can take curator (archaeologist, historian, art historian), scientists specialized for corrosion of metallic objects of cultural heritage and the conservator - restorer. Painted objects must be cleaned with polar/non polar solvents or solvent mixtures. Screws, rivets, gluing, soldering, welding may be used to conserve the structure. Only mechanical cleaning can be used(scalpel,micromotor and steel brushes and abrasive discs,microsandblasting unit,ultrasonic chisel). Gluing only can be  used,reversible types are the Best. Glass fibre  reinforcments can be  used too. The items should be stored in rooms that are protected from polluted air, dust, ultraviolet radiation, and excessive relative humidity - ideal values are temperature of 16-20 °C and up to 40%(35-55% according to recent Canadian Conservation Institute recommendations) relative humidity, noting that if metal is combined with organic materials, relative humidity should not be below 45%. Archaeological objects must be stored in rooms (or plastic boxes)with very low relative humidity, or in the case of particularly valuable items in the chambers with nitrogen or argon. Iron objects with active corrosion up to 12-15% RH. Shelves in the storerooms must be of stainless steel or chlorine and acetate free plastic or powder coated steel. Wood and wood based products(Particle board, plywood) must be avoided. Also do not use rubber, felt or wool .When you are handling metal objects,always wear clean cotton gloves . Lighting levels must be kept below 300 lux (up to 150 lux in case of lacquered or painted objects,up to 50 lux in case of objects with light sensitive materials)   Article: U. Peltz und O. Zorn (Hrsg.): KulturGUTerhalten. Standards in der Restaurierungs- wissenschaft und Denkmalpflege.  Mainz 2009, p. 91-95 