Save America's Treasures is a United States federal government initiative to preserve and protect historic buildings, arts, and published works.  It is a public-private partnership between the U.S. National Park Service and the National Trust for Historic Preservation.  The National Endowment for the Arts, Heritage Preservation, and the National Park Foundation also are allied. Save America's Treasures (SAT) was established by Executive Order 13072 in February 1998 by President Bill Clinton, in conjunction with the White House Millennium Council's activities.  Instrumental in its founding was then First Lady of the United States Hillary Rodham Clinton.   Its Honorary Chair is traditionally the First Lady as designated by the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities   On December 9, 2009, First Lady Michelle Obama said “Save America’s Treasures invests in our nation’s irreplaceable legacy of buildings, documents, collections and artistic works. These awards empower communities all over the country to rescue and restore this priceless heritage, and ensure that future generations continue to learn from the voices, ideas, events and people represented by these projects.”  Despite this initial endorsement, both the Save America's Treasures and the Preserve America grant programs were later eliminated by the Obama Administration.  On January 30, 2010, President Barack Obama in his "Tough Choices" FY 2011 Budget proposed eliminating the Save America's Treasures and Preserve America grant programs, stating that "both programs lack rigorous performance metrics and evaluation efforts so the benefits are unclear."  The National Trust for Historic Preservation eliminated its Save America's Treasures office in 2011 during a reorganization. From 1999 - 2010, over $318 million were awarded and matched by over $400 million from other sources, resulting in the preservation of over 1200 significant historic structures and repositories of cultural heritage.  As of 2012, the program had been responsible for the creation of about 16,000 jobs.  This corresponds to a cost of about $13,000 to create each job.  According to the American Architectural Foundation, although no new grants have been awarded since 2010, there are 175 ongoing SAT projects.  