The Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations (ADHO), is a digital humanities umbrella organization formed in 2005 to coordinate the activities of several regional DH organizations, referred to as constituent organizations.  ADHO's constituent organizations are the European Association for Digital Humanities  (EADH), the Association for Computers and the Humanities  (ACH), the Canadian Society for Digital Humanities  (CSDH/SCHN), centerNet,  the Australasian Association for Digital Humanities  (aaDH), the Japanese Association for Digital Humanities  (JADH) and Humanistica,  the french-speaking association for Digital Humanities. The effort to establish the alliance began in Tübingen, Germany, at the ALLC/ACH conference in 2002: a steering committee was appointed at the ALLC/ACH meeting in 2004, in Gothenburg, Sweden, and the executive committees of the ACH and Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing  (ALLC) approved the governance and conference protocols at the 2005 meeting in Victoria, Canada.  The Association for Computers and the Humanities was also included.  In 2007, the Alliance Steering Committee voted to enfranchise The Society for Digital Humanities / Société pour l'étude des médias interactifs (SDH/SEMI) of Canada. In 2012,  centerNet, a network of digital humanities centers, became a "constituent organization" affiliated with ADHO,  followed by the Japanese Association for Digital Humanities in 2013 and the French-speaking Association for Digital Humanities, Humanistica, in 2016.  ADHO gained legal status as the Stichting ADHO Foundation (Netherlands) in 2013.  The Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations is an umbrella organisation whose goals are to promote and support digital research and teaching across arts and humanities disciplines, drawing together humanists engaged in digital and computer-assisted research, teaching, creation, dissemination, and beyond, in all areas reflected by its diverse membership.  ADHO supports initiatives for publication, presentation, collaboration, and training; recognises and supports excellence in these endeavours; and acts as a community-based consultative and advisory force. Members in ADHO societies are those at the forefront of areas such as textual analysis, electronic publication, document encoding, textual studies and theory, new media studies and multimedia, digital libraries, applied augmented reality, interactive gaming, and beyond. Members include researchers and lecturers in humanities computing and in academic departments such as English, History, French, Modern Languages, Philosophy, Theatre, Music, Computer Science, and Visual Arts and resource specialists working in libraries, archival centers, and with humanities computing groups. The Alliance oversees a joint annual conference, which began as the ACH/ALLC (or ALLC/ACH) conference, and is now known as the Digital Humanities  conference.  The Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations sponsors special interest groups to facilitate the sharing of ideas about new and innovative problems. Current SIGs include: Discontinued Journals: Roberto Busa Prize honors leaders in the field of humanities computing and is givenn honor of Italian Father Roberto Busa who won the first award in 1998 at Debrecen, Hungary.  Subsequent winners included:   Antonio Zampoli Prize is awarded every three years to an important project or for a major accomplishment. Paul Fortier Prize is given to the best young scholar paper at the annual Digital Humanities conference. Lisa Lena Opas-Hanninen Young Scholar Prize recognizes a young scholar for their scholarship or contribution using digital technology at a humanities conference. 