CLARIN is a European research network working in the field of archiving and processing of language-related resources in the humanities and social sciences.  CLARIN is an acronym for Common Language Resources and Technology Infrastructure. CLARIN is a community of scholars of various disciplines and a network of institutions. The scholars use CLARIN as a forum for joined developments and exchange of resources. They also exchange information on standards and procedures for long time archiving of research data. The institutions of CLARIN offer services in the same field.  On the European level, CLARIN is an independent body operating under European law as a European Research Infrastructure Community (ERIC). CLARIN ERIC represents the CLARIN community in the public and coordinates individual efforts in the field. CLARIN is listed in the Registry of Research Data Repositories re3data.org.  For published literature on CLARIN, see (and please cite!) the following publications: CLARIN's objective is to provide a research infrastructure for researchers of the humanities and social sciences working with language related material. The network should allow the persistent storage and access to the data in an archive, to disseminate the material and to reuse it in other research contexts. By exchanging material, effects of synergy are achieved by not duplicating work and participating at each other's development. Additionally new research questions can follow and the material can be used for quality assurance in the research process.  By offering depositing services, tutorials and support for archiving, special search engines for language resources and web based analysis systems the infrastructure becomes usable for the research community. CLARIN Vision All digital language resources and tools from all over Europe and beyond are accessible through a single sign-on online environment for the support of researchers in the humanities and social sciences. CLARIN Mission Create and maintain an infrastructure to support the sharing, use and sustainability of language data and tools for research in the humanities and social sciences. CLARIN Value proposition CLARIN makes digital language resources available to scholars, researchers, students, and citizen-scientists from all disciplines, especially in the humanities and social sciences, through single sign-on access. CLARIN offers long-term solutions and technology services for deploying, connecting, analysing and sustaining digital language data and tools. CLARIN supports scholars who want to engage in cutting edge data-driven research, contributing to a truly multilingual European Research Area. For details please see: CLARIN Value proposition, 2017.  CLARIN offers a wide range of services to the research community, for example: In addition to such technical services, tutorials are prepared, standards and processes developed and implemented. Researchers receive support in the archiving process, for example by reference material.  The majority of operations, services and centres of the CLARIN infrastructure is provided and funded by CLARIN ERICmembers (and observers). Members and observers can be countries or intergovernmental organizations. They set up a national consortium, typically consisting of universities, research institutions, libraries and public archives, of which at least one has the status of CLARIN centre (see overview of CLARIN centres). The contribution expected from members and observers is to create and provide access to digital language data collections, and digital tools and expertise for researchers to work with them. Below is the list of current CLARIN ERIC members, observers and third parties: Members: The Dutch Language Union (DLU) is an intergovernmental organization and member of CLARIN as well. Observers: Third party: The CLARIN consortium is organized as a European Research Infrastructure Consortium (ERIC) under European law, which is a special type of organization created for research infrastructures. It is hence part of the activities in the European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures (ESFRI) context. On the European level CLARIN is governed by the following structures: The seat of CLARIN ERIC is at the University of Utrecht with the office of the Executive Director. The staff of the office and all other institutions works distributed, the participants can be from all EU countries, and the staff may work from their home institutions. Every member has a national CLARIN partner organization, often organized as national project networks. Every member supports at least one CLARIN centre, providing a repository for the humanities and social sciences scholar working with language oriented research data. Often these centres offer additional technical services and some webservices beyond the national community. Scholars of the CLARIN community meet every year for the CLARIN Annual Meeting. For this every member may send delegates, experts from CLARIN centres. These meetings are also used for the committees to report on their progress and inform about new developments. 