  The Haryana Board of School Education (HBSE), Established in 1969, is the authority which conducts the Public Examinations at Middle, Matric (Secondary or High School) and Senior Secondary School (Academic & Vocational) levels annually in the state of Haryana through the affiliated schools. In 1969, the Haryana Board of School Education was established at Chandigarh. The Board started working with a staff of 100 officials allocated from Punjab University, Chandigarh. In 1970, HBSE conducted its first examination of Matric-level. In 1976, HBSE started conducting Middle school leaving examination (8th class). In 1981, HBSE was shifted to Bhiwani. In year 1987, Board started conducting 10+2 examination and later in 1990 also started conducting vocational examination. In 1987, HBSE adopted 10+2 pattern of education and conducted XII class examination under the new scheme. In 1990, HBSE started conducting 10+2 Vocational Education examination. In 1994, HBSE established Haryana Open School to increase its reach. In 2006, HBSE adopted the semester system from session 2006-2007. It is the first Educational Board in India to do so and  also the first Board to introduce relative grading, CCE (Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation) in all board classes i.e. Middle, Matric (Secondary or High Schhool) and Senior Secondary School (Higher Secondary).  HBSE is ISO 9001: 2008 organisation owned by the Department of School Education, Haryana of Government of Haryana. All the government schools of Department of School Education, Haryana of Government of Haryana are affiliated with HBSE. HBSE also grants affiliation to all those private institutions who are permanently/temporary recognised by the Department of School Education, Haryana upon the payment of prescribed fees to the Board. The board conducts examinations twice in a year for Class 8th, 10th and 12th. The first semester exams conduct in September while second semester exam conduct in the month of March. The Results declare within 1–2 months after the exams. The board also annually conducts the Haryana D.Ed (Diploma in Education) entrance exam for students of Senior Secondary to admission into the  D.Ed Course of two years. Apart from tests above, HBSE also conducts the Haryana Teachers Eligibility Test (HTET) time to time. The integral part of the HBSE, Haryana Open School (HOS)  conducts on demand examination, annual and supplementary examinations at secondary and senior secondary levels. The main aim of HOS to provide education to all those who are beyond the reach of formal education due to any social, financial and other reasons. 