A Knowledge Transferring Assessment combines the knowledge assessment directly with the knowledge transfer. In this sense it is a specific form of an Online Assessment/E-assessment/Computer-based assessment implementing a "Pull Learning Approach".  In contrast to an Online Assessment which may finalize a formal training in order to assess the gained knowledge (as part of a "Push Learning Approach"  ), a Knowledge Transferring Assessment replaces the formal training by providing the required or desired knowledge fully integrated in the assessment by means of a specific design. The below principals are mandatory for a Knowledge Transferring Assessment and thus differ from the form of usual Online Assessments  performed e.g. at the end of a formal training. The efficiency of a Knowledge Transferring Assessment results from the combination of knowledge transfer together with the knowledge assessment and thereby with the minimization of the required training effort. Specifically individuals with a certain level of know-how and knowledge benefit from the approach. The independency of location, time, mobility, resource availability, etc. are e-Learning benefits and advantages in general and Online assessments specifically. The efficacy depends on: The below are considerable properties of an Online Assessment. However, they are depending on the used authoring tool. Which of the properties and features is given a certain value should be part of the tool selection process. Many of the below properties increase the value of the tool and thus finally also the value of the provided Knowledge Transferring Assessment. There are lots of tools available to design an Online Assessment and they differ in their design and implementation features.  The below properties are useful examples and may support the tool selection process. Besides "Where Organizations Go Wrong With e-Learning",  for this approach specifically, the random order of the assessment questions potentially conflicts with a didactical concept. Either all didactical aspects have to be covered by the knowledge material or one dedicated question pool is exempted from the random questions ordering. 