  The Territory-wide System Assessment (Abbreviation: TSA; Chinese: 全港性系統評估) is an assessment introduced by the Education Commission in the report of "Reform Proposal for the Education System in Hong Kong" in September 2000.   The Territory-wide System Assessment is held in June every year since 2004 for students of Primary 3, Primary 6 (implemented in alternate year starting from 2011) and Secondary 3. The Territory-wide System Assessment is designed for facilitating learning and teaching after evaluating the average learning standard of the students in the subject of Chinese language, English language and Mathematics at the end of key stage 1-3.  The Territory-wide System Assessment (TSA) is a territory-level assessment launched and administered by the Education Bureau (Chinese:教育局) since 2004. The aims of the Territory-wide System Assessment is to objectively assess the basic learning competencies and learning progress of the students at different stages of learning. The capabilities of students are analysed through the Territory-wide System Assessment in order to improve the effectiveness in learning and teaching. Educational policies can be reviewed with the help of the data collected through the Territory-wide System Assessment. The Territory-wide System Assessment is conducted in the form of pencil and paper (except Chinese and English oral assessment) and the examined subjects are Chinese Language, English Language and Mathematics.  The Territory-wide System Assessment is compulsory for all Primary 3, Primary 6 and Secondary 3 students from government-subsidised schools. The assessment results of the students with intellectual disabilities, e.g. suffering from dyslexia or mental retardation can be excluded after getting medical approval. The assessment of Chinese language is divided into 5 sub-papers each with a focus on a specific skill of reading, writing, listening, oral and multimedia information respectively. Meanwhile, candidates from primary three, six and secondary three will be chosen randomly to apply the test of multimedia information in every school. Assessment Time: 40 minutes Number of questions: 2 Question Form: short essay (mainly narrative, descriptive essay) and practical writing (letter, invitation card, memo, notice, diary, journal, etc) Word Limitation: No Assessment Time: 75 minutes Number of Questions: 2 Question Form:Specified writing and practical writing (mainly announcement, notice, speech and reports, etc) Word Limitations: No Assessment Time: 25 minutes Number of Questions: two short stories and one to two practical writings (depends on the questions’ nature) Type of passages: narrative, exposition and practical writing (letter, invitation card, etc) Question Form: Multiple choice questions, fill in the blanks, sentence ordering, short questions, etc Assessment Time: 30 minutes Type of passages: Vernacular Chinese (Narration, Description, Exposition, Argumentation, and lyrical literature. etc), Classical Chinese, practical passage Question Form: Multiple choice questions Assessment Time: 15 minutes Participants: 30 students Type of Video: two to three parts (depends on the videos’ nature) Video Format: video will only be played once Question Form: Multiple choice questions Assessment Time: 15 minutes Participants: all secondary three students Video Format: video will only be played once Question Form: Multiple choice questions Assessment Time: approximately four to eight minutes Participants: twelve to twenty-four students Form of Assessment: Assessment Time: approximately seven to eleven minutes Participants: twelve to twenty-four students Form of Assessment: The assessment of English language in primary school is divided into 3 sub-papers each with a focus on a specific skill of reading and  writing, listening and speaking respectively. The assessment of English language in secondary school is divided into 4 sub-papers each focus on a specific skill of reading, writing, listening and speaking respectively. Candidates from every school will be chosen randomly to attend the speaking assessment. The question form of Reading part is Multiple choice question. The Writing part requires to write an essay based on a topic or write a story based on the pictures given. Assessment time: 25 minutes Word limit for Writing part: Write about 30 words Assessment time: 50 minutes Word limit for Writing part: Write about 80 words Assessment time for Reading part: 30 minutes Assessment time for Writing part: 40 minutes Word limit for Writing part: Write about 150 words. The question form of primary school assessment is Multiple choice question while the question forms of secondary school assessment are Multiple choice question and filling the blanks. Each recording will be played twice. Assessment time: 20 minutes Assessment time: 30 minutes Assessment time: 25 minutes Preparation time: 2 minutes Assessment time: 3 minutes The assessment is divided into two parts. Part 1 is reading alone and part 2 is answering one question asked by teacher. Preparation time: 2 minutes Assessment time: 3 minutes The assessment is divided into two parts. Part 1 is reading alone and part 2 is answering one question asked by teacher. Preparation time: 3 minutes Assessment time: 2 minutes Candidates are required to give an individual presentation The assessment of Mathematics is provided in both Chinese and English according to different needs of students. Every student from all schools have to apply this assessment. 2009 See also:   2009 flu pandemic in Hong Kong 2014 2015 