Atout France, the France Tourism Development Agency (formerly Maison de la France, the French National Tourist Office), is the French organisation responsible for promoting France as a tourism destination. Set up in 1987 and operating under the supervision of the Minister of State responsible for Trade, Artisan Trades, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Tourism and Services, the mission of Maison de la France was to promote France as a tourist destination, principally in other countries. As of May 1, 2009, ODIT France and Maison de la France merged and became a single structure: Atout France. It fully integrates the tasks of the original structures. Atout France has operations on all 5 continents, with 32 offices in 27 countries. The offices of Atout France employ 250 people and are responsible for promoting France as a tourist destination in the various markets, grouped into major geographical areas of operation, on the basis of annual action plans. They are involved in all areas of tourism promotion (information to the public, press relations, commercial promotion, etc.). Atout France gives priority to investing in the major outbound tourism markets, which are the countries of the European Union, North America and Japan. The International Advisory Board was set up by Maison de la France at the beginning of 2003, with the collaboration of Air France and under the sponsorship of the Ministry of Tourism. This authority brings together 250 tourism professionals from all over the world recognised for their contribution to the development of France as a destination. The board members both play an advisory role with Maison de la France and act as ambassadors of the tourist image of France in their particular market, along with the offices of the EIG. The campaign strategy is bringing in new measures, such as the creation of the Qualité France logo or affinity marketing, and is setting up tools for evaluating markets and campaigns. The Europe approach to long-haul markets takes the form of joint promotional campaigns within the European Commission on Tourism and/or through bilateral agreements with national tourist boards.  