A destination organization, often referred to as a destination marketing or management organization, convention and visitors bureau or tourism board, is responsible for promoting a community as an attractive travel destination and enhancing its public image as a dynamic place to live and work. Through the impact of travel, they strengthen the economic position and provide opportunity for people in their community. Such organizations are essential to the economic and social-well being of the communities they represent, driving direct economic impact through the visitor economy and fueling development across the entire economic spectrum by creating familiarity, attracting decision makers, sustaining air service and improving the quality of life in a place. Destination promotion is in fact is a public good for the benefit and well-being of all; an essential investment no community can afford to abate without causing detriment to the community’s future economic and social well-being. The Association of Australian Convention Bureaux (AACB) consists of 17 city and regional bureaux,  dedicated to marketing their specific region as business events destinations to intrastate, interstate, and international markets. The bureaux also promote Australia as a whole. The Barbados Tourism Authority (BTA)  is a not-for-profit agency of the Barbados government's Ministry of Tourism.  The authority maintains 11 global offices focused on promotion and event marketing to tourists about Barbados. The offices are located in the nations of: Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Prague Convention Bureau is the official convention bureau of Prague, the capital city of the Czech Republic. It is a non-profit organization working alongside the Czech Tourist Authorities. It promotes Prague for organizing a conference, meeting, seminar, exhibition or incentive events. The Georgia Travel is a commercial company which is responsible before the Georgian board of the tourism for the tourist arrivals to the country. It promotes both the summer vacation in Georgia and the winter ski resorts. It cooperates with some digital marketing companies, such as Promodo  The German Convention Bureau (GCB) represents the interests of the German tourism industry. The GCB markets Germany as a destination for conventions, meetings, events and incentives, both on a national and international level and is the place to contact for anybody planning an event in Germany. The Destination Management Organization in Indonesia is a program of Central Government. Korea Tourism Organization (KTO) is a statutory organization of the Republic of Korea (South Korea), under the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and is commissioned to promote tourism in South Korea. The Convention Bureau Italia (CBI) is a network that includes all main Italian local CBs and tourist boards and many private companies, such as congress centres, hotels, PCOs, DMCs, and service providers. CBI promotes Italy as a MICE destination, coordinates and represents the Italian offer as well as spreads the culture of the MICE industry through proper training. Convention Bureau Italia is the benchmark for everyone wanting to organize an event in Italy. The VR Convention Bureau (VR CB) is a non-profit organization that markets tourism in North East Italy, as a meetings and conventions destination. Jordan Tourism Board (JTB) is an independent public–private sector partnership committed to utilizing marketing strategies to brand, position and promote Jordan as the destination of choice in international markets. Launched in March 1998, JTB has consistently worked to heighten tourism in Jordan through an integrated program of international promotional activities including trade fairs, trade workshops, trade and consumer road shows, familiarization trips, press trips, brochure & multimedia production, and media relations. The organization's main office is located in Amman, Jordan and is supported by a number of satellite locations in the Middle East, the Americas, Europe, Australia, and Asia. Lviv Convention Bureau is the official convention bureau of Lviv (Ukraine). Lviv Convention Bureau is a governmental organization (subdivision of Lviv City Council). It promotes Lviv as MICE (meetings, incentives conferences, events) destination in Eastern Europe. In the United States, convention and visitor bureaus (CVBs), financed through bed taxes or their members, perform destination marketing. Every U.S. state and almost every larger city and county has its own CVB.  Although many government and chamber of commerce bodies also market destinations to visitors and meeting planners, most U.S. convention and visitors bureaus (CVBs) are independent non-profit organizations.  Typically, a convention and visitors bureau provides information about a destination's lodging, dining, attractions, events, museums, arts and culture, history and recreation. Some even provide bus services, insider tips, top ten attraction and activity lists, blogs, photos, forums, free things to do, season-specific activity suggestions and more. The organization works with tourists and meeting planners to provide valuable information on their local area. Their goal is to help make a visitor's trip or a conference attendees' meeting a much more enjoyable and rewarding experience. In many locations, they work closely with a convention center that will offer large spaces for larger meetings, trade shows, and conventions than can be accommodated in a single hotel. Usually, these organizations also have a local office where one can find maps, brochures, travel professionals, local insight, visitors guides, souvenirs and more.  A convention and visitor bureau's marketing initiatives are typically achieved through the following: trade association marketplaces, web pages, advertising, distribution of promotional and collateral material, direct sales, hosting familiarization tours for journalists and travel industry personnel, and sponsoring other hospitality functions. The target decision maker of these marketing initiatives is not typically a resident in the community. Most often, if visitors are going to spend the night in a hotel, they reside at least 100 miles away. Thus, the marketing activity usually takes place or is directed outside the convention and visitors bureau's community. Convention and visitors bureaus in larger destinations often will market nationally and globally, while smaller cities may focus just on their state, region, or specific niche tourism markets.  Discover Puerto Rico is a newly established private, not for-profit Destination Marketing Organization (DMO) whose mission is to make Puerto Rico visible to the world as a premier travel destination. The DMO will bring prosperity to the people of Puerto Rico by collaboratively positioning the Island’s diversity and uniqueness for leisure, business and events. It is responsible for all global marketing, sales and promotion of the destination and works closely with key local governmental and non-governmental stakeholders throughout Puerto Rico’s visitor economy and community at large to empower economic growth. The Thailand Convention and Exhibition Bureau (TCEB) is a state organization established in 2002 to promote MICE events held in Thailand.   