The Federal Agency for Tourism (Rosturizm) is a federal executive body of the Russian Federation, created by Presidential Decree No. 1453 of November 18, 2004.  The Federal Agency for Tourism is responsible for rendering state services, managing state property and performing law-enforcement functions in the field of tourism.  It is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation.  Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation manages the activities of the Federal Agency for Tourism. Activities of the Federal Agency for Tourism guided by The constitution of the Russian Federation, Federal laws, Decrees of the President and the Government of the Russian Federation, International treaties, and Normative legal acts of the Ministry of Culture. Federal Agency for Tourism carries out its activities in cooperation with other federal executive bodies, executive authorities of the subjects of the Russian Federation, local self-governing bodies, public associations and other organizations. The Federal Agency for Tourism is a legal entity, has a seal with the image of the State Coat of Arms of the Russian Federation and its name, other seals, stamp, and letterhead, as well as bank and other accounts opened. It get funds for its operation and project implementation from the federal budget. The agencies head office is in Moscow.   The Council for Foreign Tourism under the Cabinet of Ministers of the USSR established In April 1991 at the same time the State Committee for Foreign Tourism abolished.   The Ministry of Physical Education and Tourism formed in January 1992 it had a separate department for tourism. Its responsibility was to manage and develop the domestic and foreign tourism sector.  The Ministry of Culture and Tourism of the Russian Federation created on 27 March 1992. On the basis, the Ministry of Culture of the RSFSR abolished.  A Provisional Interdepartmental Commission on Foreign and Domestic Tourism of the Russian Federation formed on 20 April 1992.  New state policies were adopted to develop tourism sector such as; Domestic and Foreign tourism integrated into a single framework, a network of small hotels created, etc.  The Committee for Tourism of the Russian Federation (Roskomuturizm) established in September 1992. Its responsibility was to develop a strategy for the development of tourism in Russia, implementation of state policy of tourism, organization, development, and implementation of federal targeted and interstate programs. Training, retraining, and upgrading human resources in the tourism sector, establishing new bodies of tourism management in the territories, regions, autonomous entities and city of Moscow and St. Peters burg was also in its responsibility. The Roskomuturizm transformed into the Russian Federation Committee on Youth, Physical Education, and Tourism on 25 April 1994.  The responsibility of the Committee was developing a state strategy, Inter-regional and Inter-sectoral coordination in the field of Physical Education and tourism, preservation/development of tourist centers and administrating national tourism sector.  In August 1994, it unified with the Russian Federation Committee on Physical Education and reformed to the State Committee of the Russian Federation for Physical Education and Tourism (CFT of Russia).   June 1999 the State Committee of the Russian Federation for Physical Education and Tourism converted into the Ministry of Physical Education, Sports and Tourism.    The tourism department in the new ministry headed by a deputy minister; at that time by Vladimir Igorevich Strzhalkovsky.  On 17 May 2000 the Ministry of the Russian Federation for Physical Education, Sports and Tourism converted as the State Committee of the Russian Federation on Physical Education, Sport, and Tourism. At the same time, Ministry of Economic Development and Trade also formed with a Department of Tourism.  The State Committee of the Russian Federation for Physical Education, Sports, and Tourism transformed into the State Committee of the Russian Federation for Physical Education and Sports on 29 April 2002.   The Federal Agency for Physical Education, Sports, and Tourism (Rossport) established on March 12, 2004, initially it administered by the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Russian Federation.   On 18 November 2004, the Federal Agency for Physical Education, Sports, and Tourism, divided into two agencies. One was The Federal Agency for Tourism of the Russian Federation; under the direct jurisdiction of the Government of the Russian Federation  And the other was Federal Agency for Physical Education and Sports; under the administration of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Russian Federation.  The Ministry of Sport, Tourism, and Youth Policy established in 2008 and The Federal Agency for Tourism of the Russian Federation with the Federal Agency for Physical Education and Sports of the Russian Federation transferred under its authority.  On 21 May 2012, the Ministry of Sport, Tourism and Youth Policy renamed as The Russian Ministry of Sports.  On 22 May 2012, the Federal Agency for Tourism of the Russian Federation was transferred, under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of culture.  Realizing the state strategy of tourism with the priority oriented planning and activities. Formation and maintenance of a single federal register of tour operators.  Developing and implementing strategic plans on issues related to tourism industry within the jurisdiction of the Russian Federation. Information support of tourism, including assistance in the creation and functioning of tourist information centers, navigation and orientation systems in the field of tourism. It provides Information to travel agents, tour operators, and tourists about safety threats in a country or place to visit.  It promotes the tourism product of the Russian Federation in the domestic and world tourism markets.  Manage the procurement of goods, works, and services for the agency or any other agencies related to it as per the demand. It is the Owner of the federal properties in the tourism sector and can practices ownership rights on such properties. Act as the Federal public authority to federal institutions and federal unitary enterprises subordinate to the agency. Conduct economic analysis of the activities of subordinate state unitary enterprises. Auditing financial and economic activities of the organizations subordinate to the Agency. Inaugurate Scientific, technical and innovative programs and projects in the field of tourism.  It cooperates with the authorities of foreign states and international organizations.  It represents on behalf of the Government of the Russian Federation and the Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation in international organizations in the tourism field. The agency opens representative offices outside the Russian Federation to promote tourism.  Provide related supports, ensures timely and complete consideration of oral and written appeals of citizens, adoption of decisions on them and responding to applicants. Ensure protection of information constituting a state secret. Organizes and provides training for the human resources of the agency and organizations under its authority. Arrange additional professional education of Agency employees. It carries out work on acquisition, storage, accounting and use of archival documents produced in the course of the Agency's activities. The agency organizes congresses, conferences, seminars, exhibitions and other events.    Take measures to support small and medium-sized businesses, aiming development, including the implementation of relevant departmental target programs.  Register new tour operators in the single federal register of tour operators and issues certificates of registration.  Performs functions to manage state property and provide public services in the tourism sector. Every year the Rosturizm attend exhibitions in Madrid, Berlin, London, Paris, etc.to represent the Russian Federation to attract both professional participants of the tourist market and potential tourists.  It has the following rights to exercise power: Request and receive information necessary for making decisions on matters within the competence of the Agency. Give explanations to legal entities and individuals on issues within the competence of the Agency. It has the awarding right of departmental decorations of the Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation. The agency has the right to have a heraldic sign - emblem, flag, and pennant, established by the Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation in consultation with the Heraldic Council. It has the right to exercise administrative power in the tourism sector. It has the right to receive federal budget funds. It can appoint scientific and other organizations, scientists and specialists to study issues related to the scope of the Agency's activities. To establish coordinating, advisory and expert bodies (councils, commissions, groups, colleges), including interdepartmental ones. Establish mass media for the publication of official announcements, placement of other materials on the issues within the competence of the Agency.   The Federal Agency for Tourism headed by a head appointed and dismissed by the Government of the Russian Federation on the proposal of the Minister of Culture of the Russian Federation. The head of the Federal Agency for Tourism is personally responsible for the fulfillment of the powers conferred on the Agency and the implementation of state policy in the established sphere.  The head of the Federal Agency for Tourism has deputies. The government of the Russian Federation on the proposal of the Minister of Culture of the Russian Federation appoints and dismisses the deputy heads.  From 15 January 2015, the head of the agency is Mr. Oleg Petrovich Safonov. The Government of the Russian Federation determines how many deputy heads will appoint. Currently, it has four deputy heads. They are Konyushkov Alexey Alekseevich, Koeneyev Sergey Evgenievich, Korolov Nikolay Vadimovich and Skoryy Roman Petrovich.  Structural subdivision of the agency is the five Directorates. They are Directorate of State Tourist Projects and Safety in Tourism, Legal Directorate, Directorate of International Cooperation, Directorate of Domestic Tourism and State Target Programs, Administrative Directorate. This directorate has many departments.  Head of the Agency distributes duties between his deputies. Represent the Minister of Culture of the Russian Federation, nationally and internationally. He drafts regulations on the Agency. Propose the maximum number of employees and remuneration fund for Agency's head office. Propose candidacies for the posts of deputy heads of the Agency. Drafting annual plan and forecast indicators of the Agency's activities, preparing reports on their implementation. The right to award departmental decoration of the Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation to agency employees subordinate organizations, as well as other persons carrying out activities in the sphere of the agency. Approve the structural divisions of the Agency. Appoints and dismisses Agency employees.Take executive decisions related to federal civil service in the Agency. He approves the structure and staffing of the head office of the agency within the limits of the labor remuneration fund and the number of employees. Provide cost estimates for the maintenance of the Agency for the corresponding period of Federal Budget. Submit proposal to the Ministry of Finance on the drafting of the federal budget for the relevant year. General responsibility of the Deputy heads is to help the head of the Agency to accomplish agency goals. All of them have different roles assigned by the head of the agency. 