Fáilte Ireland is the National Tourism Development Authority of Ireland.  This authority was established under the National Tourism Development Authority Act of 2003 and replaces and builds upon the functions of Bord Fáilte, its predecessor organization.  Fáilte Ireland's current CEO is Redmond O'Donoghue. The legal name of the body is the National Tourism Development Authority, according to the National Tourism Development Authority Act 2003 which established it.   The 2003 act also empowers the body to use the trading name of Fáilte Ireland.  The word fáilte is Irish for "welcome".  In official Irish-language texts the form Fáilte Éireann has been used.   After the foundation of the Irish Free State in 1922, hoteliers and others created local tourism boards in various regions, which combined in 1924 into the Irish Tourism Association (ITA), a private organisation "promoting tourism to the benefit of the nation".  (An earlier, unionist-led, ITA existed from 1895 to 1921.) ITA lobbying led to the Irish Tourist Board being established by the Tourist Traffic Act 1939.  This was renamed An Bord Fáilte by the Tourist Traffic Act 1952, which created a separate body, Fógra Fáilte, to handle publicity.  The Tourist Traffic Act 1955 remerged the two as Bord Fáilte Éireann (BFÉ or "Bord Fáilte").   An Tóstal, a summer cultural festival held from 1953 to 1959, took up the bulk of the authority's work in this period.  In 1963 the Council of Education, Recruitment and Training  (CERT) was created to take over training of workers in the hospitality industry.  In 1964, eight regional tourist organisations (RTOs) were established which were intended to supersede the ITA; an extraordinary general meeting called in 1964 to dissolve the ITA voted not to do so, but it nevertheless soon became defunct.  The RTOs reduced in number to six in the 1980s, and were renamed regional tourist associations (RTAs) in 1996.  In 1989 the Dublin RTO lost a High Court action to prevent BFÉ dissolving it; it was reconstituted as Dublin Tourism more closely controlled by BFÉ.  In 2003 CERT and BFÉ merged to form Fáilte Ireland,  to better co-ordinate with  Tourism Ireland, the all-island body established under the Good Friday Agreement. The advent of travel websites reduced the usefulness of the RTAs and a 2005 PricewaterhouseCoopers report recommended substantial reorganisation;  as a consequence all were dissolved in 2006, except Dublin Tourism, which was made a subsidiary of Fáilte Ireland.   Dublin Tourism's separate status ended in 2012 in line with a 2011 report by Grant Thornton.   Fáilte Ireland played a leading role in The Gathering Ireland 2013, a year-long programme of events encouraging members of the Irish diaspora to visit their region of origin. The goal of Fáilte Ireland is to provide strategic and practical support in developing and sustaining Ireland as a high-quality and competitive tourist destination.  Fáilte Ireland works in partnership with tourism interests to support the industry in its efforts to be more profitable and to help individual tourist enterprises enhance their performance. Its activities fall into four areas: Fáilte Ireland has identified and markets several tourism regions, including:  Media related to Fáilte Ireland at Wikimedia Commons 