  The London Tourist Board was established in 1963 and became the official regional tourist board for London under the Development of Tourism Act in 1969.  It was responsible for the marketing and promotion of the capital, providing tourist information services, and recommending improvements to the infrastructure and facilities for the growth of tourism.  In 2003, it was renamed VisitLondon.  In 2011, it was put into administration by the Greater London Authority, and the tourism responsibility was transferred to a new company, London & Partners.  Tourism in London is now one of London's three most important industries (with finance and retailing).  When the London Tourist Board was founded in 1963 a mere 1.6 million overseas visitors came to London, in the year 2010 this had grown to 10 million, plus 16 million from overseas.  The London Tourist Board set up by industry representatives including Sir Charles Forte, later Lord Forte, famous hotelier, with support from the London County Council, played a major role in promoting London, in providing information for visitors, establishing standards and in shaping the tourism product we see today.  Throughout its 40-year history London Tourist Board receive up to 70 per cent of its funding from public sources (Greater London Council, English Tourist Board, London Boroughs and Greater London Authority).  This article explores the history and achievements of the London Tourist Board and the London Visitor and Convention Bureau, leading to the establishment of Visit London in 2003. Visit London took over the marketing of London, while the London Development Agency was responsible for planning, research and development. In 2011, Visit London was put into administration by the Greater London Authority (its main funder) and replaced with a new organisation, London & Partners.  The London Tourist Board (LTB) was founded on 16 May 1963 by representatives of the tourist industry led by Sir Charles Forte, later Lord Forte. Its first objectives were: An important aim, apart from seasonal spread, has always been to achieve a better geographical spread of tourists through London and latterly, throughout the UK.  LTB played a major role in developing London's appeal to visitors through tourist information – in person and on the phone – providing accommodation booking services, training of tourist guides, developing the product through events, promotions such as London in Bloom, and providing information for conference and exhibition organisers.  Here are some of the highlights: LTB worked in partnership with the Greater London Council, the London boroughs and others, initiating a series of marketing campaigns aimed at tourists from the UK and overseas.  Here are some of them: From 1977 LTB began to take a lead role for the industry in planning matters and working more closely with London boroughs. This was the period when District Plans were being prepared and it was important to ensure that the requirements of the tourist industry were featured. This included making constructive objections to both the Plans from Westminster and Kensington and Chelsea. Prior to this a document 'Tourism in London—a Plan for Management' was published in 1974 by the LTB working with Greater London Council, English Tourist Board and the London Boroughs Association. The key elements were: Some of the other activities were as follows: Mini guides — Richmond (1975) and Hounslow (1977) were the first. Hillingdon Tourist Information Centre (TIC) opened in 1977 – there were 19 TICs across London by May 1989. LTB support included staff training, reference kits and TIC managers meetings. Richmond set up a tourism association following a presentation and urging by LTB. Developing ideas and activity with borough such as Islington, Greenwich, Croydon – meetings, site promotion, environmental improvement. London did not rest on its laurels, a series of major marketing campaigns followed in the 1980s helped by such events as the wedding of Prince Charles and Diana Spencer in July 1981.  LTB's press and information staff set up a London information point at the Royal Wedding official press centre. While most of LTB's public relations activities were aimed at promoting the Capital, it also had to deal with a number of crises during the 1970s and 1980s which had an impact not just on residents but on visitors to London.  Some of the many Provisional Irish Republican Army bombings affected tourist sites directly, here are just a few of the many incidents which killed and maimed Londoners and visitors. List of terrorist incidents in London Other incidents which affected tourism negatively included the high-jacking of the cruise ship Achille Lauro in the Mediterranean in October 1985 and the US bombing of Libya in April 1986.  LTB led a London PR group to co-ordinate media responses as many Americans cancelled trips to Europe. The abolition of the Greater London Council in 1986 had been preceded by the withdrawal of funding from LTB by GLC (in 1983), as LTB was squeezed between the Margaret Thatcher Government and the left-wing GLC led by Ken Livingstone.  LTB relaunched itself as the London Visitor and Convention Bureau, relying extensively on commercial members' support, ETB contributions until public funding from the London Boroughs became available. In 1988, the London Tourist Board and Convention Bureau celebrated its Silver Jubilee; five prominent artists were invited to create original paintings celebrating London.  These were featured at an exhibition in Covent Garden and used for many years on posters promoting the capital.  The artists included Fred Cuming RA. From its early days LTB has championed the cause of the visitor in getting fair treatment from service providers – bureau de change, restaurants, street photographers, general price display etc. Some examples of where LTB was involved: From early on LTB has been involved in a range of research activities.  LTB took over the annual London Visitor survey from BTA in 1986 and produced an annual compendium of statistics for the industry and planners. The last London Visitor Survey coordinated by London & Partners was conducted in 2006 using a face-to-face methodology. Since 2012, an ongoing London Visitor Survey is being conducted by LJ Research using an online methodology.  Latest publicly available information from the London Visitor Survey (incl a series of profile questions such as nationality, age, purpose of visit and type and location of accommodation used ) are available on LTB's website.  The abolition of the GLC in 1986 was a significant event for London and for LTB. LTB took the prime role for developing and implementing strategic activity across a range of topics. The first Tourism Strategy for London was produced in 1987. This led to a whole range of activity. The headlines are as follows:  In 2003, LTB became Visit London, a private company funded partly by partnership subscriptions and commercial activity. Its main funding (up to 70 per cent) came from the Mayor of London's London Development Agency.  Visit London built on LTB's success in the marketing and promotion of London.  Visit London's key activities included:  On 1 April 2011, Mayor of London Boris Johnson launched London & Partners, a new promotional agency for the capital.  London & Partners brings together the work of Visit London, Study London and Think London in attracting visitors, students and foreign direct investment to the capital. Visit London Ltd was wound up.  