Saudi Commission for Tourism and National Heritage (SCTH) (Arabic: الهيئة العامة للسياحة والتراث الوطني ) is a governmental body concerned with tourism and national heritage of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.  It is focused on encouraging and supporting domestic tourism through sponsoring and conducting tourism events across the country and overcoming obstacles to growth of tourism. SCTH foundation has passed through several stages before reaching to its current structure by becoming the only public administration authorized and responsible for tourism and national heritage in the Kingdom. These stages are as follows: From the outset, the main objective of the establishment of SCTH has been to pay attention to all aspects of the tourism sector in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia with respect to its organization, development, and promotion. SCTH is also assigned to work for strengthening of the role of tourism and overcoming barriers impeding its growth, given the Kingdom's huge tourism potential. Its efforts include preservation, development and maintenance of antiquities and activation of tourism’s contribution to cultural and economic development. In an effort to translate government’s reform and economic restructuring to reality, SCTH has carried out the following tasks: Since March 2001, SCTH, simultaneously with its restructuring process, has planned for integrated national economic project, aiming at developing tourism in the Kingdom during the next twenty years. This comes in the light of its vision on the importance of strategic planning for goals and raise economic efficiency and management. This comprehensive planning project in its third stage has paid off in the preparation of General Strategy of National Tourism Development, the fifth executive plan (intensive care phase), and 13 provincial strategies for tourism development. STCH launched the "Saudi Archaeological Masterpieces through the Ages" exhibition in July 2018 which they displayed 400 rare artifacts of Saudi Arabia's cultural heritage in the United States and in China. The idea was put forward by former President of France Jacques Chirac at the “Masterpieces of Islamic Art” exhibition at the National Museum of Saudi Arabia, Riyadh during his visit to Saudi Arabia in 2006 and was taken into consideration by King Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz Al-Saud. The exhibition was inaugurated in 2010 during the reign of King Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz Al-Saud at Louvre Museum, Paris, France.  After its success in Paris, the exhibition was further carried out by STCH in several other European, American and European countries.  SCTH has 17 Provincial Branches: MAS is the Arabic acronym for Tourism Information and Research Center, It is an important department of the SCTH responsible for collecting tourism data and conducting researches and related studies. According to the Article 4, paragraph 3, of the SCTH statute, a Tourism Information and Research Centre shall be established to develop and promote tourism, and to issue tourism publications in coordination with the concerned parties. Accordingly, in 2002 the Centre was established . 