Tourism and Events Queensland (TEQ) is the Queensland Government's lead marketing, experience development and major events agency, representing the state's tourism and events industries. TEQ operates on a national and international level, looking at new and innovative ways to make the most out of emerging opportunities which benefit the Queensland’s tourism industry and economy. The agency commenced life as the Queensland Tourist and Travel Corporation in 1978.  It was set up by the government of Sir Joh Bjelke-Petersen on the recommendation of a government inquiry, headed by businessman Frank Moore (later Sir Frank). Moore was the first chair of the corporation 1978-90.  Tourism and Events Queensland is located at 30 Makerston Street, in the Brisbane central business district. The Department of Tourism, Major Events, Small Business and the Commonwealth Games (DTESB) was created on 3 April 2012, following the state election.    DTESB, which also includes the Office of Small Business, leads whole-of-government tourism initiatives and recognises the essential role of partnerships with industry and government in tourism industry development.    The portfolio partners include: The Tourism Group of Tourism and Events Queensland, The Events Group of Tourism and Events Queensland and Gold Coast 2018 Commonwealth Games Corporation. Tourism and Events Queensland collects statistics related to tourism in Queensland.  Focus areas include source markets, destination markets and aviation.  The department has developed a Queensland tourism and travel advice website called Queensland Holidays. The agency periodically releases reports based on studies on niche markets, for example, ecotourism, backpacking and Bed and breakfast markets.  The agency was responsible for the successful promotion campaign for Hamilton Island that was dubbed the 'Best job in the world'.  The 2009 Unreal Deals campaign was the agency's most successful domestic retail campaign ever.  Other campaigns have targeted the Gold Coast, Sunshine Coast, tropical North Queensland and the Whitsundays.  