Film has been the most influential medium in the presentation of the history of slavery to the general public.   The American film industry has had a complex relationship with slavery, and until recent decades often avoided the topic. Films such as Birth of a Nation (1915)  and Gone with the Wind (1939) became controversial because they gave a favorable depiction. In 1940, The Santa Fe Trail gave a strong condemnation of abolitionist John Brown's attacks on slavery.  The American civil rights movement in the 1950s made defiant slaves into heroes.  Most Hollywood films used American settings, although  Spartacus (1960) dealt with an actual slave revolt in the Roman Empire known as the Third Servile War.  It failed, and all the rebels were executed, but their spirit lived on according to the film.   The Last Supper (La última cena in Spanish) was a 1976 film directed by Cuban Tomás Gutiérrez Alea about the teaching of Christianity to slaves in Cuba and emphasizes the role of ritual and revolt.  Burn! takes place on the imaginary Portuguese island of Queimada (where the locals speak Spanish) and merges historical events that took place in Brazil, Cuba, Santo Domingo, Jamaica, and elsewhere.  The following dramatic and documentary films featuring slavery are listed alphabetically. (For movies portraying penal labour see the list linked from here.) (For a collection intended to link to each Wikipedia page concerning a movie about slavery, see Category:Films about slavery.) <note name = "while ... black">  OK, i am  disqualifyying myself from doing more about this than drawing attn to it and offering a possible draft for the change. I won't complain if someone thinks i'm a "white phony liberal", but i note my objection to the language i found in one of the entries, along the lines of " marrying a white woman while possibly black". IMO, the phrase "driving [or whatever] while black" is a well established term regarding oppression, and adapting it in the context of describing the film in question is too ambiguous between mockery of the rerm, and an unfamiliar extension of its use in labelling oppression, to be acceptable in an article. Discuss, please, and reword unless i'm mistaken.</ref> 