The 2017 Turin stampede occurred on 3 June 2017 when panic emerged after a robbery attempt during a screening of the UEFA Champions League Final in Turin, Italy between Torinese club Juventus and Real Madrid. One woman died,   and at least 1,526 people were injured.  The incident occurred at approximately 10:30 p.m. local time, about 10 minutes before the end of the match, when panic erupted among those at Piazza San Carlo, leading to a stampede. During the panic, a railing of stairs leading to an underground parking garage gave way, causing additional injuries. Although the panic was initially thought to be caused by firecrackers, it was later determined to likely be caused by a robbery attempt with pepper spray,  and someone shouting that a bomb had gone off may have fueled the panic.  A subsequent bang for still unknown causes and the resulting panic has caused fears of a bombing or shooting, which was denied by the authorities.  After the stampede and a subsequent evacuation, the square was left strewn with sneakers which were ripped off people's feet as they ran.  On 13 April 2018, eight people were arrested on charges of triggering mass panic to commit a robbery using pepper spray. One of them confessed the crime. The suspects were identified by telephone interceptions, in one of which a gold necklace stolen in the event was mentioned.  At least 1,527 people were injured, including seven who were seriously injured.  On 15 June, less than two weeks after the stampede, a 38-year-old woman, Erika Pioletti, died in hospital of her sustained injuries while another woman, Marisa Amato, became tetraplegic.   Some older Juventus fans said the stampede had evoked painful memories of the Heysel Stadium disaster in 1985, when 39 fans, mostly Juventus supporters from Italy, were crushed against a collapsing wall in Brussels, Belgium, before the start of a match between Juventus and Liverpool.  In November 2017 the Prosecutor Office of Turin started a formal investigation involving around twenty suspects, included the mayor Chiara Appendino and the police chief Angelo Sanna.  