A climate-friendly school is a school that uses education for sustainable development (ESD) to promote a culture of sustainability in which students, staff and families hold shared values and beliefs about the importance of taking action for a more sustainable society. Taking care of the environment and contributing to reducing climate change is an integral part of this. Climate action means different things to different schools. Some schools see climate action as key to “doing their part” to take care of the planet. For other schools, it is about addressing issues directly affecting them. For example, several schools in disaster-prone Japan see climate action as a practical way of helping students and their families stay safe and prepare for the future.  In a whole-school approach, students’ classroom learning about climate change is reinforced by the formal and informal messages promoted by the school’s values and actions. In other words, students and other members of the school community live what they learn, and learn what they live. The whole-school approach to climate change means that an educational institution includes action for reducing climate change in every aspect of school life. This includes school governance, teaching content and methodology, campus and facilities management as well as cooperation with partners and the broader communities. The active involvement of all internal and external school stakeholders, namely students, teachers, principals, school staff at all levels and the wider school community such as families and community members in reflecting and acting on climate change is key to a whole-school approach.  As an experimental school, the 1st Experimental Lyceum of Athens-Gennadeio is encouraged to introduce innovative programmes. In 2013, the school introduced complex systems into biology and chemistry courses for 157 senior secondary students. In the complex systems unit, students worked in groups to investigate climate change, virus transmission, and ecosystem dynamics with the help of computer simulations. Through their investigations, students discovered the properties of complex systems, such as positive and negative feedback loops. They also had opportunities to apply their learning. For example, a group of students measured the energy sustainability of the school building, to find its weaknesses and construct an action plan to improve it.  Al-Kawthar Secondary School works to raise awareness of climate change within their school. So far, 2,421 students, 310 teachers, and 110 families have been involved in projects including tree-planting, making handicrafts from recycled materials, visiting national forests, recycling, and conserving water. The school also hosted film nights and workshops where students, families and teachers suggested ways to save the planet. Following the ISO-26000 guidelines for socially responsible institutions, the school has committed to a continuous process of improvement. At the beginning of the school year, the environmental committee develops an action plan based on what was learned and achieved the previous year. The committee keeps a record of their activities, so the school can identify high-impact activities and activities that could be scaled up. Teachers and students deepen their learning by sharing their experiences with other schools in Lebanon and around the world.  In Côte d'Ivoire, one of the most widespread uses of forest resources is in traditional medicine which is of vital importance with regard to primary health care and contributes to preserving traditional knowledge and cultural heritage. Realizing that the biodiversity of their forests is under threat, the ASPnet schools, together with university researchers and medical practitioners, united their forces to come to the rescue of the forest resources in Côte d'Ivoire. The schools promote botanical gardens where parents as well as traditional medicine practitioners teach students how to conserve and manage forest resources in a more sustainable way. Through the study visits in the botanical garden, students acquire traditional knowledge of medicinal plant cultivation which will enable them to identify, protect, preserve and promote the medicinal plants which have tremendous ecological and cultural importance in Côte d'Ivoire. In collaboration with the experts and researchers, the ASPnet schools are now considering creating a genebank as well as replanting endangered species.  Colégio Israelita Brasileiro A. Liessen's environment team has invited janitors, teachers, students, engineers and others to participate in experiential, non-formal learning activities. They created a green roof, built solar ovens and bamboo bicycle racks, planted spice, flower, and meditation gardens, and converted used cooking oil into biodiesel. These activities have created bonds between different members of the school community, awakened a sense of belonging and pride in the school, and built an environment where ideas and information are shared freely. The environment team has also offered trainings for school community members in order to secure buy-in for the projects. For example, training on waste sorting and cooking oil collection was offered to employees. Also, a gardening workshop was organized for student volunteers, so they could assist maintenance staff in caring for the expanding school gardens.  Thanks to a partnership with a local non-profit organization, Endrupskolen School offers students inspiring and hands-on learning experiences. Eight times throughout the school year, students visit gardens, farms and kitchens run by the non-profit organization “Haver til Maver.” During each visit, classes meet experts such as farmers, cooks, biologists or gardeners who guide students in exploring plants, trees, vegetables, smells and tastes. According to Endrupskolen teachers, these visits have given students the skills and commitment needed to build better food futures for themselves, their families and society as a whole. In addition, learning outside the traditional classroom has helped students develop better relationships with their peers and a better sense of self-esteem.  The Nagoya International School is committed to developing a school culture of sustainability, as expressed in their school mission statement. The institution aims to “nurture in its students the capacity to objectively define what is truly needed in the global society, to take action on their own, and to become active agents for sustainable development.”  Tokyo Global Engineering Corporation is an education-services organization that provides capstone education programs free of charge to engineering students and other stakeholders. These programs are intended to complement—but not to replace—coursework required by academic degree programs of study. The programs are educational opportunities, and students are not paid money for their participation. All correspondence among members is completed via e-mail, and all meetings are held via Skype, with English as the language of instruction and publication. Students and other stakeholders are never asked to travel or leave their geographic locations, and are encouraged to publish organizational documents in their personal, primary languages, when English is a secondary language.  This article incorporates text from a free content work.  Licensed under CC-BY-SA IGO 3.0 License statement: Getting Climate Ready: A Guide for Schools on Climate Action, 5, 7-8, 10, 15, 18-19, Gibb, Natalie, UNESCO. UNESCO. To learn how to add open license text to Wikipedia articles, please see Wikipedia:Adding open license text to Wikipedia. For information on reusing text from Wikipedia, please see the terms of use. 