  Jain rituals play an everyday part in Jainism.  Rituals take place daily or more often. Rituals include obligations followed by Jains and various forms of idol worships. Jains rituals can be separated broadly in two parts: Karya (Obligations which are followed) and Kriya (Worships which are performed).  In Jainism, six essential duties (avashyakas) are prescribed for śrāvakas (householders).   The six duties are:  These duties became fundamental ritual activities of a Jain householder. Such as spreading the grain for the birds in the morning, and filtering or boiling the water for the next few hours' use became ritual acts of charity and non-violence.  Samayika was used as a word for all spiritual activity including icon worship during medieval times.  Samayika is the practice of equanimity, translating to meditation.  It is a ritual act undertaken early in the morning and perhaps also at noon and night. It lasts for forty-eight minutes (Two Ghadis) and usually involves not only quiet recollection but also usually the repetition of routine prayers. The ritual is chanting and also praying about the good things.  Pratikramana is performed in the morning for the repentance of violence committed during the night, and in the evening for the violence during the day and additionally on certain days of the year. During this, the Jain expresses remorse for the harm caused, or wrongdoing, or the duties left undone.   There are eleven annual obligations for a year and some obligations for once in a life which should be completed by Jain lay person individually or in a group. They are prescribed by Shravak Pragyapti.  They are following:  They are the following:  Devapuja means worship of tirthankaras. It is usually done in front of images of any liberated soul (Siddha) such as Tirthankara, or Arihant. In Jainism, the Tirthankaras represent the true goal of all human beings.  Their qualities are worshipped by the Jains. Sthanakavasi oppose idol worship. They believe in meditation and silent prayers.  Jain idols are seen as a personification of ideal state which one should attain.  During medieval period, worship of some Yaksha and Yakshini, heavenly beings who are not liberated souls, started. They are believed to help a person by removing obstacles in life.  Elaborate forms of ritual usually done in the temple. Jains wear clean three clothes for many rituals and enter temple with words related to respect for Tirthankara. He bows down to Tirthankara at main shrine and will circumambulate him three times.  Jain form of worship is also called Jain Puja. The worship is done in two ways:  Jains worship the God, the scripture and the saint.  Dravya puja (worship with articles) includes Ashtaprakari Puja(means eight worships) which is done by paying homage with eight articles in prescribed way. It is also called archana:   The following articles are used, in the Jaina Puja: The combination of all the eight articles is called arghya. Of these, rice and coconut bits and almonds are to be washed and then all the articles are to be placed in a plate side by side, excepting water which is to be kept in a small pot separately. There should be provided a bowl for the pouring of water, another for the burning of incense, and a receptacle for lighting camphor.  After that some Jains also use Chamara (Whisk), Darpana (Mirror) and a Pankho (Hand fan) also for worship.  Bhava puja(means Psychic worship) is done by ritual called Chaitya Vandana. It includes number of prayers and rituals done in prescribed manner and positions.  Aarti and Mangal Deevo is a lamp ritual waving it in rotational manner in front of icons same as Hindu traditions. Lamps represent knowledge. It is performed everynight at all Jain temples.  Many other forms of worships are mainly performed on special occasions.  Some forms of worships have close relationship with these five auspicious life events of Tirthankara called Panch Kalyanaka.  Others are:  Both the Digambara and Svetambara celebrates eight-day observance (ashtahnika) thrice every year.  It takes place every four months, from the eighth of bright half of the months of Ashadha (June-July), Karttika (October-November), and Phalguna (February-March) through the full moon and is in direct imitation of the eight day celebrations of Nandishvara Dvipa by the god.  