Bloomberg Distinguished Professorships (BDPs) were established as part of a $350 million investment by Michael Bloomberg, JHU Class of 1964, to Johns Hopkins University in 2013.  Fifty faculty members, ten from Johns Hopkins University and forty recruited from institutions worldwide, will be chosen for these endowed professorships based on their research, teaching, service, and leadership records.    The program is directed and managed by Johns Hopkins University Vice Provost for Research, Dr. Denis Wirtz.  The BDPs will create interdisciplinary connections and collaborations across Johns Hopkins University, train and mentor undergraduate and graduate students, and strengthen the university's leadership in research fields of international interest.    Each of the BDPs will be appointed in at least two divisions or disciplines.   As of May 2018, thirty three  of the fifty Bloomberg Distinguished Professorships have been announced.    The first cohort of scholars in 2014 included two Nobel Laureates, Peter Agre and Carol W. Greider, and poverty researcher, Kathryn Edin.  Sociologist Stephen Morgan, neuroscientist Patricia Janak, and organization theorist Kathleen Sutcliffe, were announced as the second group of BDPs in June 2014.  In March 2015, it was announced that biomedical informatics expert Christopher G. Chute of the Mayo Clinic and infectious disease specialist Arturo Casadevall of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine would be joining Johns Hopkins University as BDPs.    Two internally selected professors were also named BDPs: big data scientist Alex Szalay and computational biologist Steven Salzberg.  In July 2015, four new Bloomberg Distinguished Professors were named across five divisions of Johns Hopkins University: global food ethicist and nutritionist Jessica Fanzo, biophysicist Taekjip Ha, cell dynamics investigator Rong Li, and computer vision specialist Alan Yuille.  In October 2015, Paul Ferraro, an environmental economist was announced as a BDP  and in November, it was announced that noted statistician Nilanjan Chatterjee would be joining Johns Hopkins as a BDP from the National Cancer Institute.  Experimental astrophysicist and cosmologist Charles L. Bennett and epigeneticist Andrew Feinberg were named BDPs in December 2015.  In February 2016, it was announced that diabetes and obesity expert Rexford Ahima of the University of Pennsylvania was joining Johns Hopkins as a BDP  and in April 2016 Mauro Maggioni of Duke University announced that he was joining Johns Hopkins as a BDP.   In May 2016, it was announced that computational biologist Michael Schatz of the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory was named the 21st Bloomberg Professor at Johns Hopkins.  Nobel Laureate in Physics Adam Riess, expert on chromatin biology and biochemistry Carl Wu, and neuroscientist Ulrich Mueller were announced as BDPs in summer 2016.    In December 2016, heath equity expert was named the 25th BDP, marking the halfway point of the program.  