Dialogic pedagogy is a theory and practice of teaching in which dialogue is central. Teachers and students are in an equitable relationship and listen to multiple points of view. Although modern interest in dialogic pedagogy seems to emerge only in the 1960s, it was a very old and probably widespread educational practice. Perhaps one of the best known examples of dialogic pedagogy in the Ancient times is the Socratic method described by his student Plato.  However, dialogic practices and dialogic pedagogy existed in Ancient Greece, before, during, and after Socrates' time, possibly in other forms than those depicted by Plato.  There has been a long tradition of dialogic pedagogy, called Chavruta/Chavrusa/Havruta, in Jewish Yeshivas, involving dialogic studies of Talmudic texts, that goes back to the eras of the Tannaim (Rabbis of the Mishnaic period, 10-220 CE).  Economist Amartya Sen argues that dialogic pedagogy has been well situated within the Indian religious and civic traditions and spread across Asia with the rise of Buddhism.  In more recent times, Mikhail Bakhtin introduced the idea of dialogism, as opposed to "monologism", to literature.  Paulo Freire's work, Pedagogy of the Oppressed introduced these ideas to educational theory.  There are a number of formats of instruction, that have been recognized as "dialogic" (as opposed to "monologic"). There are a number of types of dialogic pedagogy, that is, where the form and the content is recognized as "dialogic". Instrumental dialogic pedagogy uses dialogue for achieving non-dialogic purposes, usually making students arrive at certain preset learning outcomes. For example, Nicolas Burbules defines dialogue in teaching instrumentally as facilitating new understanding, "Dialogue is an activity directed toward discovery and new understanding, which stands to improve the knowledge, insight, or sensitivity of its participants".   The teacher presets the endpoint of the lesson, for example, "At the end of the lesson, the students will be able to understand/master the following knowledge and skills." However, the teacher's method of leading students to the endpoint can be individualised both in instruction techniques and in time taken. Different students are "closer" or further" from the endpoint and require different strategies to get them there. Thus, for Socrates to manipulate Meno to the preset endpoint - what is virtue is not known and problematic - is not the same to manipulate Anytus to the same endpoint. It takes different and individualized instructional strategies.  Socrates,  Paulo Freire   and Vivian Paley  all strongly critique the idea of preset endpoints however in practice they often set endpoints.   Instrumental dialogic pedagogy remains influential and important for scholars and practitioners of dialogic pedagogy field.  Some appreciate its focus on asking good questions, attendance to subjectivity, use of provocations and contradictions, and the way it disrupts familiar and unreflected relations. However, others are concerned about the teacher's manipulation of the student's consciousness and its intellectualism.  In contrast to instrumental approaches to dialogic pedagogy, non-instrumental approaches to dialogic pedagogy view dialogue not as a pathway or strategy for achieving meaning or knowledge but as the medium in which they live.    Following Bakhtin, meaning is understood as living in the relationship between a genuine question seeking for information and a sincere answer aiming at addressing this question.  Non-instrumental dialogic pedagogy focuses on "eternal damn final questions".  It is interested in the mundane only because it can give it the material and opportunity to move to the sublime. This is seen, for example, in the work of Christopher Phillips.   The non-instrumental "epistemological dialogue", a term introduced by Alexander Sidorkin,  is a purified dialogue to abstract a single main theme, a development of a main concept, and unfold the logic. According to Sidorkin,  ontological dialogic pedagogy priorities human ontology in pedagogical dialogue: Sociolinguist Per Linell  and educational philosopher Alexander Sidorkin  evidence a non-instrumental ecological approach to dialogic pedagogy that focuses on the dialogicity   of the mundane everyday social interaction, its non-constrained nature, in which participants can have freedom to move in and out of the interaction, and the absence or minimum of pedagogical violence. Using the metaphor of "free-range kids", Lenore Skenazy  defines the participants in this ecological dialogue as free-range dialogic participants. 