A learning cell is an effective way for a pair of students to learn together. Its is an Active learning style. A learning cell is a process of learning where two students alternate asking an answering questions on commonly read materials. Learning cell is a learning resource that is open, generative,evolvable,connected, cohesive, intelligent. The Learning Cell was developed by Marcel Goldschmid of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne in 1971. Learning Cells were proposed to address certain demands of ubiquitous learning for learning resources to be generative, evolving, intelligent and adaptive.  The meaning of Cell Firstly, an assignment is chosen which needs to be prepared by the students, the students will read the assignment and write down the questions that they have about the reading. At the next meeting, the teacher will randomly put the students in pairs. The process begins by designating one student from each pair to begin by asking one of their questions to the other. Once the two students discuss the question, the teacher is going around the class from pair to pair giving feedback and answering questions. This process consists of two elements or parts, two students, so it is also called Dyad. The features of learning cell are:  The different ways of using this technique are by reading/listening/watching, doing/acting, connecting,    re-organizing, comparing, reflection, communicating, teaching, creating.  In Learning Cell.... Learning cell is learning resource that is open, generative, evolvable, connected, cohesive, intelligent, adaptive, and social. It is developed from the learning object model and designed for u-learning. The basic idea is to introduce time dimension and interpersonal cognition network into learning resources to make the learning resolvable. During the process, information and the revision history are recorded, an interpersonal network is created, and a connection between the human and knowledge is established to form a knowledge network.  The whole idea of learning cell is to give the student a chance to study a single topic in depth for a period. Ideally there should be between two and five members in each cell. It takes in collective intelligence and helps the learner to solve real world problems. Learning cell is a significant element in future learning space where learning takes place anytime or anywhere. That is why it is said that learning cell supports Ubiquitous learning provided it should be contextual awareness and adaptive. Learning can be anything about everything. Learning Cell will be the cornerstone in ubiquitous learning. Since Learning Cell is generative, open, connective, evolving, intelligent, cohesive, and self-tracing learners can benefit from shared knowledge in the learner’s community. 