Semen collection refers to the process of obtaining semen from male humans or other animals with the use of various methods, for the purposes of artificial insemination, or medical study (usually in fertility clinics). Semen can be collected via masturbation  (e. g., from stallions  and canids ), prostate massage, artificial vagina, penile vibratory stimulation (vibroejaculation) and electroejaculation.  Semen can be collected from endangered species for cryopreservation of genetic resources.  Methods of semen collection from humans include: The best specimen is produced when a short period of 3–5 days of abstinence is observed. More prolonged period does not yield better results.  Semen collection from Stallions to using it in Artificial Insemination, most common method use in collection semen is artificial vagina, after collect semen, it test and dilute then storage according to the way use, liquid or frozen. There are many kinds of extenders use in dilution semen, mostly contains energy and antibiotics in liquid extenders and protection from freezing (glycerol) in frozen semen. many studies to improve extenders,  increase time for liquid semen storage and reduce or remove bacteria from semen  In order to collect semen from a male dog, an artificial vagina is prepared,   which is a conical thin latex sleeve ending in a sterile collection tube. The inside of the latex sleeve is lightly lubricated.   The male is allowed to sniff a female in estrus.  Experienced studs cooperate readily in the process.  New studs often require encouragement in the form of manual stimulation,   also known as "manual ejaculation".    Generally the male will mount the female[not in citation given], and the collector quickly directs the dog's penis into the latex sleeve.   The male ejaculates and the semen is collected in the tube. The semen is then drawn up into a long thin pipette.   Prior to ejaculation, the penis is massaged inside its sheath. It is then extruded from its sheath, and the collector massages the dog's erect penis near the base of the bulbus glandis using the thumb and index finger. The dog begins pelvic thrusting movements at the onset of ejaculation.  Semen can be collected from a male gray wolf by grasping the wolf's penis with one hand and applying pressure to the wolf's back with the other hand.  Semen can also be collected from wolves via manual stimulation  or electroejaculation.      