Robert H. Richards IV is a convicted child rapist and great-grandson of chemical magnate Irénée du Pont and heir to the du Pont family fortune.   Richards, 48, is the son of Robert H. Richards III and Mariana, daughter of Mariana DuPont Stillman.  He lives in Delaware, and owns three homes, located in Greenville and North Shores.  He married Tracy Richards, but they later divorced.  In 2009, he entered a guilty plea and was convicted of raping his 3-year-old daughter,       after the girl reported the abuse to her grandmother.  Instead of serving out his eight-year prison sentence, the sentencing order signed by Delaware Superior Court Judge Jan R. Jurden said that the "defendant will not fare well" in prison and thus the eight-year sentence was suspended.     Delaware Public Defender Brendan J. O'Neill expressed surprise that Jurden would use such a rationale to avoid sending Richards to prison.   In 2010, allegations were made that Richards had also molested his son beginning in December 2005 and continuing for two years.    Police and prosecutors investigated but did not find sufficient evidence to pursue charges.  Delaware Attorney General Beau Biden later defended the sentencing of Richards to probation.   Although Richards was ordered by Jurden to go through in-patient treatment at a Massachusetts facility, he has failed to do so.   In 2014, Richards' former wife, Tracy Richards, filed a lawsuit seeking damages for the abuse of his daughter.       The lawsuit also claims that the polygraph tests Richards took in April 2010 during his probation supported allegations that he had molested his son.       These reports were provided to Jurden.  In April 2014, Superior Court Judge Richard F. Stokes denied Richards' request to seal the court files, stating that the proceedings were open to the public and this was a First Amendment issue.  By the end of June 2014, it was reported that a sealed confidential settlement had been reached on the lawsuit.  The case has caused questions to be raised if the wealthy receive unfair preference in the legal system,   and compared to Ethan Couch, whose "affluenza" defense famously earned him probation.  