SeaChoice is a program of Sustainable Seafood Canada that uses the Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood Watch recommendations to raise consumer awareness about the importance of buying seafood from sustainable sources. It is best known for publishing consumer guides for responsible seafood purchasing. SeaChoice evaluates fisheries based on habitat/ecosystem impacts, stock status, inherent vulnerability, bycatch, and management regimes.  Sustainable Seafood Canada is a Canadian coalition of environmental organizations working together to raise awareness and deliver solutions for sustainable fisheries. The organization consists of the Canadian Parks and Wilderness Society, the David Suzuki Foundation, the Ecology Action Centre, Living Oceans Society and British Columbia's chapter of the Sierra Club of Canada.  SeaChoice collaborates with the Monterey Bay Aquarium's Seafood Watch program. The group gives Canada-centric lists of recommendations for the best seafood choices, fish which have "some concerns" and fish to avoid. The "avoid" category is reserved for seafood which is overfished and/or fished or farmed in ways that harm other marine life or the environment. Health alerts for fish with high levels of contaminants (e.g. mercury, dioxins, PCBs) are also noted, although they may appear in any category. The SeaChoice website includes both regional and country-wide guides for Canada. The organization also produces a guide for sushi.  Pocket guides are also available from the organization.   Recommended seafood from SeaChoice includes Alaska pollock, longline Pacific cod, land-based rainbow trout, troll or pole-caught albacore tuna, United States spiny lobster, farmed Arctic char, Pacific herring and sardines. In March 2010, SeaChoice announced an agreement with Federated Co-operatives, an organization representing over 250 co-operatives. The agreement includes a sustainability plan for seafood sales and procurement.  SeaChoice has also partnered with Canada Safeway, and Buy Low/Nestors Market.  Bento Nouveau, Canada's largest sushi company, partnered with SeaChoice in June 2010.  A partnership with Overwaitea Food Group, a supermarket chain in Western Canada, ended in August 2015.  