The following is an academic genealogy of theoretical physicists and is constructed by following the pedigree of thesis advisors. If an advisor did not exist, or if the field of physics is unrelated, an academic genealogical link can be constructed by using the university from which the theoretical physicist graduated. An academic genealogy tree lists the physicists' PhD[a] (or in some cases BA/MA)[b] date and school, if known. Nobel Prize winners are indicated by †. If physicists are advised by mathematicians, their genealogy can be readily traced using the Mathematics Genealogy Project. For the meaning of "s.v.", see here. The Max Planck, the Albert Einstein, the Lev Landau, and the Eugene Wigner academic genealogies ultimately lead to the Renaissance humanist Niccolò Leoniceno. The Arnold Sommerfeld genealogy leads to Felix Klein and then to Otto Mencke via Gauss and Gottfried Leibniz. The Leibniz heritage, however, is due to the premature death of Klein's advisor, Julius Plücker, which forced a second supervisor for the final examination, namely Rudolf Lipschitz. The Enrico Fermi and the Friedrich Hasenöhrl academic genealogies lead to Jurij Vega. The Max Born academic genealogy leads to Carl Friedrich Gauss and then on to Otto Mencke and ultimately to Friedrich Leibniz, Gottfried Leibniz's father. The Léon Van Hove lineage stems from the Gottfried Leibniz one as well. Another advisor line in continental Europe descends from Gottfried Leibniz via—among others—Poisson, Lagrange, the Bernoullis, and Euler. The Gottfried Leibniz lineage ultimately proceeds from the Heinrich von Langenstein one (the Heinrich von Langenstein lineage also includes Nicolaus Copernicus, Tycho Brahe, and Johannes Kepler). The lineage of the two main American branches (the Henry Augustus Rowland branch and the Arthur Gordon Webster branch—see s.v.) proceeds via Hermann von Helmholtz from Gerard van Swieten—and his mentor Herman Boerhaave—and ultimately from Jacques Dubois and Jacques Lefèvre d'Étaples. The Ralph H. Fowler lineage also stems from the same line. Isaac Barrow was influenced by the work of Vincenzo Viviani, an assistant of Galileo Galilei. 