The Library Corporation (TLC) creates and distributes automation and cataloging software to public, school, academic, and special library systems worldwide.  Based in Inwood, W.Va., with additional offices in Denver, Singapore, and Ontario, the company is owned and operated by the same family that established it in 1974.  In 1985, it became the first organization in the world to successfully use CD-ROM technology for data storage when it released its BiblioFile Cataloging software. The CD-ROM drive used to read those first commercially produced discs, as well as the original BiblioFile Cataloging CD-ROMs, are now in the Smithsonian Institution.  TLC, a GSA-certified company, earned a 2009 Best in Tech Award from Scholastic Administrator magazine.  Also in 2009, its senior product developer, Matt Moran, was selected by Library Journal magazine as one of the library industry's top 51 "Movers and Shakers."  The company offers three integrated library systems: Library•Solution for public, academic, and special libraries; Library•Solution for Schools for public and private school libraries; and CARL•X, the next-generation version of the legacy CARL•Solution automation system. Each system automates the standard operations of a library, including the check-in/check-out process, cataloging, inventory, authority control, reports, and management of floating collections.  Facilities that utilize a TLC ILS include Los Angeles Public Library in California, Dallas Independent School District in Texas, Ministry of Home Affairs in Singapore, Anchorage School District in Alaska, Chicago Public Schools in Illinois, and National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution Library in Washington, D.C. TLC adds Web-based, touchscreen-optimized functionality to its ILS products with a series of software patches referred to as the LS2 suite of OPACs: LS2 PAC, LS2 Kids, and LS2 Staff. The company also created standalone cataloging and acquisitions products that work with any ILS.  Additionally, TLC is the exclusive distributor of SocialFlow to the library marketplace. SocialFlow is a social media optimization tool that uses algorithms and key metrics to determine the best time to publish content for the widest possible audience. Libraries that have implemented TLC's automation products have been featured in media reports including: 