Thomas Ernest Woods Jr. (born August 1, 1972) is an American historian, political commentator, author, and podcaster.   Woods is a New York Times Best-Selling author and has published twelve books.  He has written extensively on subjects including the history of the United States, Catholicism, contemporary politics, and economics. Although not an economist himself, Woods is a proponent of the Austrian School of economics.  He hosts two podcasts, The Tom Woods Show and Contra Krugman.   Woods holds an A.B. from Harvard University, and M.Phil. and Ph.D. from Columbia University, all in history.  He is a senior fellow of the Ludwig von Mises Institute in Auburn, Alabama and a member of the editorial board for the Institute's Libertarian Papers.  Woods was an ISI Richard M. Weaver Fellow in 1995 and 1996.  He received the 2004 O.P. Alford III Prize for Libertarian Scholarship and an Olive W. Garvey Fellowship from the Independent Institute in 2003. He has additionally been awarded two Humane Studies Fellowships and a Claude R. Lambe Fellowship from the Institute for Humane Studies at George Mason University.  His 2005 book, The Church and the Market: A Catholic Defense of the Free Economy, won the $50,000 first prize in the 2006 Templeton Enterprise Awards.  Woods was a founding member  of the League of the South and an early contributor to the League's journal, The Southern Patriot.    His association has generated criticism,   but Woods asserts his involvement with the group was limited and the group itself has changed since his early involvement.   Woods is the author of twelve books. His book The Politically Incorrect Guide to American History was on The New York Times Best Seller list for paperbacks in 2005.  The book has been criticized by journalist Cathy Young as being inaccurate,  as well as by Ronald Radosh  and Max Boot.  His 2009 book Meltdown also made the bestseller list in 2009.   His writing has been published in numerous popular and scholarly periodicals, including the American Historical Review, the Christian Science Monitor, Investor's Business Daily, Modern Age, American Studies, Journal of Markets & Morality, New Oxford Review, The Freeman, Independent Review, Journal des Économistes et des Études Humaines, AD2000, Crisis, Human Rights Review, Catholic Historical Review, the Catholic Social Science Review and The American Conservative.  Woods is a Rothbardian Anarcho-Capitalist  Woods was received into the Roman Catholic Church from Lutheranism.  He wrote How the Catholic Church Built Western Civilization. For eleven years, he was associate editor of The Latin Mass Magazine, which advocates traditional Catholicism. As a traditionalist Catholic,  Woods is also recognized for his books attacking the post-Vatican II church.   Woods advocates what he calls the Old Latin Mass  and cultural conservatism.   Woods is a former neoconservative and has been critical of neoconservative support for an aggressive and interventionist foreign policy; in place of this he has advocated non-intervention.  Woods makes a sharp distinction between paleoconservative thinkers, with whom he sympathizes,   and neoconservative thinkers. In articles, lectures and interviews Woods traces the intellectual and political distinction between the older conservative, or paleoconservative, school of thought and the neoconservative school of thought. These views have provoked a strong response from some conservatives. On the release of Woods' Politically Incorrect Guide to American History, the book was scathingly reviewed by Max Boot  of The Weekly Standard. Boot accused Woods of being overly sympathetic with Southerners such as John C. Calhoun while exaggerating the militarism of FDR, Truman, and Clinton.  James Haley's Weekly Standard review of the book, in contrast, stated that it "provides a compelling rebuttal to the liberal sentiment encrusted upon current history texts..." the book is "ultimately about truth" and "[t]his is a book everyone interested in American history should have in his library."    Woods concluded his reply to Boot's review by saying "[s]ince in my judgment Max Boot embodies everything that is wrong with modern conservatism, his opposition is about the best endorsement I could have asked for."   Since September 2013, Woods has delivered a daily podcast, The Tom Woods Show, originally hosted on investment broker Peter Schiff's website. On the podcasts, which are now archived on Woods' own website, Woods conducts interviews on economic topics, foreign policy, and history.  In September 2015, Woods began Contra Krugman, a weekly podcast, with economist Robert P. Murphy that critiques The New York Times columns of economist Paul Krugman. The podcast seeks to teach economics "by uncovering and dissecting the errors of Krugman."  