In sociology, feminization is the shift in gender roles and sex roles in a society, group, or organization towards a focus upon the feminine. It can also mean the incorporation of women into a group or a profession that was once dominated by men.   Defining the term "feminization" can be complicated due to its meaning being unstable, as it can be portrayed as either a social process or as a critique of a process. Feminization has two basic meanings. The first concerns a person who was not initially feminine but becomes feminine later in their life through the perceptions of both the individual and those around them. According to gender theorist Judith Butler, a person's gender is not solely an act of will or self-description, as it is also shaped by the people who describe, categorize, and treat the person according to their own perceptions of their gender. The second meaning of the term feminization describes when a person who originally had feminine qualities begins to incorporate more feminine attributes into their personality in some way, shape, or form. The term has often been used to describe females, however over time it shifted to where the term can be used to describe the process of someone or something becoming more feminine by adopting feminine qualities.  Women are more likely than men to live below the poverty line, a phenomenon known as the feminization of poverty. The 2015 poverty rates for men and women in the U.S. were 10% and 15% respectively. Women are less likely to pursue advanced degrees  and tend to have low paying jobs. It has been argued that even with the same level of education and occupational role, women earn much less than men,  although other sources have disputed the idea of a wage gap in American society.  Feminization of the labor force in present day associations is inescapable in that females make up half of the labor force and the revelation of them as a potential profitable asset.  Post war there has been almost a movement of women flowing into the workforce in the North America and Europe economies with women making considerable advances in balancing the workforce when comparing women and men's job status and pay rates.   Feminists of the modern day living wage movement began in Baltimore, Maryland in the early 1990's right in the very heart and depths of the struggling urban poor.   Around this same time, Baltimore churches became involved in providing the poor with needed social services.   Even though national prosperity and rising stock markets seemed to be showing growth, more and more full-time workers were relying on soup kitchens, low-income housing assistance, and thrift store purchases for clothing.   Their jobs did not pay enough to keep families above the poverty line.   Whole communities became known as the "working poverty."     