Polyculturalism is an ideological approach to the consequences of intercultural engagements within a geographical area which emphasises similarities between, and the enduring interconnectedness of, groups which self-identify as distinct, thus blurring the boundaries which may be perceived by members of those groups.  It differs from multiculturalism which instead emphasises the separateness of the identities of self-identifying cultural groups with an aim of preserving and celebrating their differences in spite of interactions between them. Supporters of polyculturalism oppose multiculturalism, arguing that the latter's emphasis on difference and separateness is divisive   and harmful to social cohesion.  The concept of polyculturalism was first proposed by Robin Kelley and Vijay Prashad.  Research has shown that belief in polyculturalism is linked to cultural intelligence (CQ) in Australia and China.  Research shows that polyculturists are less likely to demonstrate sexist attitudes.  Research has shown that polyculturalism has a positive relationship with cross-cultural attitudes in both the Philippines and the United States of America.   Like advocates of multiculturalism, proponents of polyculturalism encourage individuals to learn about different cultures, especially those they may come into contact with in their own areas.  However whereas multiculturalism advocates for toleration  between members of distictly different cultures groups, polyculturalism is less rigid and acknowledges that individual shape their own identities and may choose to change  so as to express their culture in a different way to their own ancestors, either by adding elements of other cultures to it or by eliminating aspects of it.  Polyculturalism rejects the concept of race as a social construct with no scientific basis,  however it recognises the concept of ethnicity , considering ethno-nationalism a barrier which must be transcended in the pursuit of a dynamic community culture. Critics of multiculturalism argue that it entrenches identity politics  while polyculturalism aims to forge a common new identity  Polyculturalism acknowledges that cultures are dynamic, interactive and impure while multiculturalism treats them as static, isolated and complete.  The following table presents an overview of some ideologies. Polyculturalism was the subject of the 2001 book Everybody Was Kung Fu Fighting: Afro-Asian Connections and the Myth of Cultural Purity by Vijay Prashad.   