The Hispanic Outlook in Higher Education is an American biweekly magazine which focuses on Hispanic education in institutions of higher learning. It is notable for its annual Top 100 list of colleges and universities awarding degrees to Hispanic students.    For 25 years, The Hispanic Outlook in Higher Education Magazine, has been a top information news source and the sole Hispanic educational magazine for the higher education community, and those involved in running our institutions of higher learning. Published biweekly, except in June, July and August, when we are on a summer schedule as outlined in our rate card, HO covers events, news, and ongoing trends that affect our multicultural institutions of the 21st century. HO reaches a large minority audience. As of September 2008, HO started putting a selection of articles online. As of December 2011, HO started the digital format of the magazine with free Apps available on iTunes and Google Play. As of June 2013 Hispanic Outlook kept its presence as a full color digital magazine. Hispanic Outlook Magazine maintains high quality control standards and a strict privacy policy on our databases. HO is a member of NAHP, NAHJ, NCCHC, ACE and AAHHE. FILLING THAT POSITION: When you are ready to fill a faculty or administrative position, HO readers are the audience you want to reach with your job announcement. Our subscribers and readers are part of the growing majority in higher education. Additionally, all ads placed in the magazine are also placed on HO Website under "Employment & Other Opportunities" for six weeks, free of charge, giving you unlimited exposure for your ad. HO also has web only package availability, and single web postings for those immediate needs. REGULAR COLUMNS & DEPARTMENTS INCLUDE: Political Beat – Monthly political commentary from our Washington Reporter on current events. Targeting Higher Education– Ongoing articles from our board member covering prevalent issues or concerns. Uncensored – Monthly column of short comments concerning ongoing issues, be it “pro or con ” from our Washington correspondent. THEME ISSUES: During the year, HO has theme issues that place particular emphasis on specialized topics with in-depth detail. Each theme issue includes articles on topics as they relate to the Financing a College Education Issue, Women in Higher Education, Community College Issue, Graduate School Issue, Top 100 Issue, Health Professions Issue, Arts Issue, Hispanic Heritage Issue, and Law School Issue.  