  Times Higher Education (THE), formerly The Times Higher Education Supplement (THES), is a weekly magazine based in London, reporting specifically on news and issues related to higher education. It is the United Kingdom's leading publication in its field.  From its first issue, in 1971, until 2008, The Times Higher Education Supplement (THES) was published in newspaper format and was born out of, and affiliated with, The Times newspaper. On 10 January 2008, it was relaunched as a magazine. It is published by TES Global, which until October 2005 was a division of Rupert Murdoch's News International. The magazine is edited by John Gill. Phil Baty is the editor at large, and is responsible for international coverage. He is also the editor of the magazine's World University Rankings. The magazine features a fictional satirical column written by Laurie Taylor, the "Poppletonian", which reflects on life at the fictional Poppleton University.  In 2011 Times Higher Education was awarded the titles of "Weekly Business Magazine of the Year" and "Media Business Brand of the Year" by the Professional Publishers Association.  Times Higher Education became known for publishing the annual Times Higher Education–QS World University Rankings, which first appeared in November 2004. On 30 October 2009 Times Higher Education broke with QS, then its partner in compiling the Rankings, and signed an agreement with Thomson Reuters to provide the data instead. The magazine developed a new methodology in consultation with its readers and its editorial board. Thomson Reuters collects and analyses the data used to produce the rankings on behalf of Times Higher Education. The results have been published annually since autumn 2010. QS, which collected and analysed the rankings data from 2004 to 2009, no longer has any involvement with Times Higher Education's World University Rankings.   The magazine runs two sets of awards annually. The first is the "Times Higher Education Awards".  The 2011 awards took place on 24 November at the Grosvenor House Hotel on London's Park Lane and received a record number of entries across the 18 categories.  Seventeen universities were given awards in different categories, with the University of Sheffield being "University of the Year". Tessa Blackstone was given the "Lord Dearing Lifetime Achievement Award".  The University of Strathclyde was named as the University of the Year at the 2012 awards which took place on 29 November 2012 at the Grosvenor House Hotel on London's Park Lane. University of Strathclyde Principal and Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Jim McDonald received the award at the ceremony.   The "Times Higher Education Leadership and Management Awards" (Thelmas) were launched in 2009. The Thelmas were set up to recognise the impact that administrative staff have on the success of higher education institutions. 