Women's education in Saudi Arabia is, as with several other aspects of daily life, organized according to the principles of Islam, which is the official religion of the country, which puts emphasis on the importance of knowledge, study, and understanding. The religion believes that obtaining knowledge is the only way to gain true understanding of life, and as such encourage both males and females to study.    The way of practicing Wahhabi Islam has therefore led to segregation in education in Saudi Arabia, and in turn has created segregation in political, economical, and labor force environments. With the current struggle of social norms and laws, women have made great strides to obtain education in Saudi Arabia. However great these strides may be, there are consequences to the economy that by not allowing women to have access to equal education, there could be economical struggle. The first ever school for girls in Saudi Arabia, called the Dar al-Hanan School, opened in 1956, and until then, few girls had an opportunity to get an education of any kind. The first state run school was then opened in 1960/61.  Until 2002 different departments regulated education for males and females, as women's education was controlled through the Department of Religious Guidance while men's education was overseen by the Ministry of Education. The reason the Department of Religious Guidance remained control of education for women was to ensure that the women were educated in accordance with the principles of Islam as interpreted in Saudi Arabia, which traditionally espoused that women take roles that would be considered to be gender appropriate such as motherhood, housewifery, teaching, or nursing.  According to Natana Delong-Bas, the apparent oppression of women's education by contemporary Wahhabi regimes is due to the adherence to the interpretation of the Wahhabi Islam.  Mona AlMunajjed explains how within the last 40 years the government has built an educational program that is succeeding in increasing school and university enrollment for women. Improvements in reducing illiteracy rates has also been a success in building the educational infrastructure in Saudi Arabia. Over the years basic education has been offered for children, both male and female, and has been of high quality education. Over the history for women's education in Saudi Arabia, women have received basic literacy and numeracy skills, and have completed primary school on time.  Male guardians are responsible for making many decisions for women in Saudi Arabia. Women in Saudi Arabia need permission to study. The social norm of guardianship has eliminated many resources and materials that women cannot access for educational reasons. Many women have limited visiting times to public libraries, of which their male guardian would need to be present, and that is if there are visiting hours at all to these types of public libraries. Most of the time women are only allowed into libraries specific to women. This causes for a huge gap in educational materials women are allowed to view and obtain.  Not much has been written about the Wahhabi Islamic religious establishments position on women's education. What is usually written about is the determined effort to keep the traditional religious values and norms of the Saudi Arabian society. Some religious establishments battle against the modern state education system to ensure that social norms are followed. Most of these educational norms root from Wahhabi Islam.  In Saudi Arabia, officials may ask women for their male guardians' consent. This can happen even when no law or guideline requires such consent. Current practices assume women have no power to make their own decisions. This can have a huge impact on how women can receive education in Saudi Arabia. One example of how women are checked for guardian consent is in many airports, officials ask women of all ages for written proof that their guardian has allowed them to travel. Many women have to receive consent to travel, even for educational reasons. Although the government has taken some steps to limit the power of guardians, there is little support showing that  officials are backing down from guardian consent.  The struggle for women's education is an ongoing battle in Saudi Arabia. There is no schooling that allows men and women to be in the same class. Segregation of men and women’s education has been part of Saudi Arabia’s culture for much of the twentieth century. Abdul Aziz, the founder of the Saudi Kingdom wanted and showed his support for women’s education. However, Abdul Aziz supported the cause of education for women, educational resources have seemed to have been dedicated mainly to boys. Women have struggled to obtain equality at every level of education in Saudi Arabia.  At the University level, women are allowed to view lectures given by a male professor through a monitor. These women can then choose to ask questions over the telephone.  There are however higher enrollment rates allowing for gender equality among school students. Statistics show that an increase from 272,054 female enrollments in 1974-75 to 2,121,893 in 2004-05. That is a level increase of 33 percent to 48 percent *wrong percentage* in 30 years.  However classes and even entire schools are segregated, there is a movement in the right direction for enrollments. Women in Saudi Arabia continue to be marginalized almost to the point of total exclusion from the Saudi workforce. Saudi Arabia has one of the lowest rates of working women in the world.   Women account for only 4% of the total workforce and 10.7% of the labor force. In recent years there has been an issue that has intensified for the need of a larger labor force, and allowing women out of the home and into the economy. There has been integration of women in the work force, but under religious customs, and there for keeping women secluded from men.   In Saudi Arabia, there are no female judges, or prosecutors. The government enforces sex segregation in all workplaces with the exception of hospitals. If the government discovers unlawful mixing of the sexes, they are authorized to arrest the violators and bring them to the nearest police station where they can be criminally charged. The Saudi Labor Code does not include anything that requires sex segregation in the workplace. However, there is little evidence that this has in any way affected the current work environment. The issue of guardianship is introduced and employers in both the private and public sector require female staff to obtain the permission of a male guardian in order to be hired. When women reach working age, employers often do not ask for permission, however the government requires teachers to provide such permission.  Saudi Arabia is governed by sharia law. With Sharia law, it is open to many interpretations, but it does not usually encourage women to hold prominent positions. In 2005 Saudi Arabia held its first nationwide elections. Women who make up more than 50% of the population did not participate. They were not permitted to vote or run as candidates in the elections.  With the conclusion of political participation, Abdulaziz Al-Heis talks about how women will not be able to participate and find a platform to have their voice heard for equality and demands. There needs to be a push forward and renewal of institutions for religious ideas so the political economy can include both men and women.  Since 2015, women are allowed to vote and elect themselves as candidates for the country's municipal elections. In 2015, 52% of all university graduates in Saudi Arabia were female. According to the statistics, Saudi women constitute 51.8 percent of Saudi university students. There are 551,000 women studying bachelor’s degrees compared to 513,000 men. The ministry reported 24,498 Saudi women are completing their graduate studies. A total of 16,221 are completing their master’s and 1,744 are completing their PhD. The ministry also reported Saudi women studying abroad are dispersed across 57 countries. The US has the largest number with 18,221 students. There are 6,754 Saudi women students in Europe, 2,923 in Canada and 1,445 in Australia and New Zealand. The Arab world has 5,369 Saudi women studying in the region. The ministry also reported Saudi women are studying in various fields including education, social sciences, arts, business, law, engineering, natural sciences, agriculture, medicine and the service sector, and recently, P.E.   Other notable achievements included opening Saudi Arabia’s first coed university, The King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), near the coastal city of Jeddah, in 2009, and the world’s largest female-only university, the Princess Nora Bint Abdulrahman University, in the more conservative capital of Riyadh. While there is more that could be offered to better the education system - it must be said that progress has been made, with women’s participation rates actually tripling over the past few decades and women taking on new types of professions, from Olympic athletes to supermarket cashiers. Indeed, Saudi feminist Samar Fatany credits King Abdullah with extending women’s work opportunities beyond the education and medical sectors into areas such as banking, IT, architecture, and science.  All of these universities are from https://www.4icu.org/sa/ - King Saud University - King Abdulaziz University - King Faisal University - Umm Al-Qura University - King Abdullah University of Science and Technology - Imam Muhammad Ibn Saud Islamic University 	 - Institute of Public Administration - Taibah University 	 - King Khalid University - Alfaisal University 	 - Qassim University 	 - Najran University 	 - Jazan University 	 - Majmaah University 	 - Taif University 	 - Princess Nora bint Abdulrahman University WOMEN ONLY	 - University of Ha'il 	 - King Saud bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences 	 - Prince Sultan University 	 - Salman bin Abdulaziz University 	 - University of Dammam 	 - Prince Mohammad Bin Fahd University 	 - Al Jouf University 	 - University of Tabuk 	 - Shaqra University 	 - Baha University 	 - Effat University - WOMEN ONLY	 - Northern Borders University 	 - University of Business and Technology 	 - Dar Al Uloom University 	 - Al Yamamah University 	 - Fahad Bin Sultan University 	 - Dar Al-Hekma University - WOMEN ONLY	 - Ibn Sina National College for Medical Studies	 - Riyadh College of Dentistry and Pharmacy 	 - batterjee medical college 