Aztec Massacre is a 2008 television documentary produced by Thirteen/WNET New York and ITVS International and broadcast as part of PBS's Secrets of the Dead series. It presents the grisly discovery of more than 400 mutilated skeletons at the Aztec site of Zultapec, Mexico. It purports to show that the 500-year-old discovery “paints a new picture of the violent relations between the Aztecs and the Conquistadors and rewrites much of what we thought we knew about the Aztec civilization”.  The accuracy of many of the program's assertions, however, has been questioned. Aztec Massacre presents a mix of interviews, historical re-enactments and computer-generated images woven together by a narrator. It follows the travels and investigations of “outside expert” Elizabeth Baquedano and interviews archeologists, anthropologists, history and forensics experts and other scientists. Baquedano visits archives, archeological sites and the National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) in Mexico City. She talks to Enrique Martinez (site excavator), Magali Civera (an osteologist), Carmen Aguilera (a scholar and authority on the Florentine Codex), and Adrian Locke (Curator at the Royal Academy of Arts in London). The documentary centers on Martinez and his archaeological excavations at Zultepec, about 60 miles from Mexico City. A mass Aztec grave of at least 400 bodies had remained undisturbed there for around 500 years until archeologists began exploring the site. At least 40 of the bodies were discovered to be European and 10 of those were females.  The mass grave contained dismembered bodies with vertebra, pelvic and femur bones missing from the skeletons. All the bodies show evidence of ritual killing, where the chest was opened up with a knife and the bodies were mutilated. More than two-dozen skulls are pierced through the temples, suggesting they were hung as trophies. The first Spanish in Mexico were led by Hernán Cortés and the Aztecs were ruled by the powerful Moctezuma II. The documentary re-enacts how the Aztecs, although highly uncertain as to how to respond, believed Cortes was fulfilling an ancient prophecy as a returning god when he abruptly appeared in 1519. They gave him precious gifts and entertained the Spanish lavishly. Cortés initially had an all-male crew, but a second party, following him out of Cuba, had women with them, which helps date the mass grave. In 1520, this caravan of Spanish soldiers — among them women, children, slaves and local followers — was abandoned by Cortés, as he rushed back to the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan (modern-day Mexico City) to put down a native uprising. The findings at Zultepec, plus evidence in ancient documents (Aztec codices depicting ritualistic displays of human sacrifice), show that the abandoned Spanish were captured and offered to the Aztec gods, along with natives from local tribes who were helping the Spanish against their Aztec masters.  The Aztecs practiced human sacrifice and the documentary narrates how Cortés wrote about how the victim's chest was opened while they were alive and their still beating heart offered as sacrifices. Cannibalism followed. The film indicates that, because history is "written by the victors", there is an impression that the Aztecs simply let the Spanish take them over without a fight. The new evidence suggests instead that they fought hard to resist conquest. The film has been criticized for both contextual misrepresentations and factual errors. 