A political pensioner enjoys a pension awarded due to his or political career or significance. By the Political Offices Pension Act 1869, pensions were instituted for those who had held political office. For the purposes of the act, political offices were divided into three classes: For service in these offices there may be awarded pensions for life in the following scale:  The service need not be continuous, and the act makes provision for counting service in lower classes as a qualification for pension in a higher class. These pensions are limited in number to twelve, but a holder must not receive any other pension out of the public revenue, if so, he must inform the treasury and surrender it if it exceeds his political pension, or if under he must deduct the amount. He may, however, hold office while a pensioner, but the pension is not payable during the time he holds office. To obtain a political pension, the applicant must file a declaration stating the grounds upon which he claims it and that his income from other sources is not sufficient to maintain his station in life.  These pensions were not awarded on grounds of justice, contract or socio-economic merits, but as a political decision, in order to take a politically significant person and/or his dynasty (often deemed a potential political danger) out of the picture by paying him or her off, regardless of seniority.  In the history of the British Empire, the term applies to the following overseas native former ruling houses of princely states who saw their feudal territories annexed by the East India Company before it transferred power in British India to the Crown in 1858. Although politically important members could be relocated or exiled, they retained throughout India and until the end of the Raj a hereditary right to their former princely rank and titles (in several cases including a gun salute) as well as a monetary "political pension" in the form of a privy purse. Only a few years after India's independence in 1947, the nationalist government of the Indian Union 'persuaded' most of these princely heirs to relinquish their annual pensions on so-called patriotic grounds. For those who continued to receive the payments, the sums were reduced to a pittance through not compensating for inflation. Muslim pensioners : Seven Hindu thrones, at least three held by the Rajput Bhonsle family : Only one Sikh pensioner :  Similar 'golden cage' arrangements were often made later by other (not only British) governments. An extreme case was the French Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte, for whom the Italian island of Elba was turned into an operetta 'empire' until his escape, Cent Jours revolt and miserable banishment to St. Helena. 