 An American Tail is a franchise based on the 1986 animated film of the same name directed by Don Bluth and produced by Sullivan Bluth Studios/Amblin Entertainment. The franchise follows the adventures of Fievel Mousekewitz, a Russian-Jewish mouse immigrant to the United States in 1885. The franchise opened up a couple of attractions at Universal Studios Hollywood including "Fievel's Playland" and "An American Tail Show".  An American Tail is a 1986 film which follows Fievel and his family as they immigrate from Ukraine to the United States and how he subsequently gets lost and aims to reunite with them. An American Tail: Fievel Goes West is a 1991 western sequel to An American Tail. An American Tail: The Treasure of Manhattan Island is a 1998 direct-to-video sequel. An American Tail: The Mystery of the Night Monster is a 1999 direct-to-video sequel. An American Tail: The Computer Adventures of Fievel and His Friends is a 1993 Microsoft DOS point-and-click adventure game developed by Capstone Software and Manley & Associates, Inc., based on both of the first two An American Tail movies. An American Tail: Fievel Goes West is a 1994 Super NES video game based on the film of the same name. An American Tail Movie Book is a 1998 Interactive storybook for Windows and Macintosh developed by Sound Source Interactive. An American Tail: Fievel's Gold Rush is a 2002 platform game for Game Boy Advance developed by Hokus-Pokus. An American Tail is a 2007 platform game for Playstation 2 developed by Data Design Interactive based on the 1986 film of the same name, only released in Europe. "Somewhere Out There" is the theme song of An American Tail, performed by Linda Ronstadt and James Ingram. "Dreams to Dream" is the theme song of An American Tail: Fievel Goes West, performed by Linda Ronstadt. Fievel's American Tails is a 1992 spin-off TV series which continued the story of An American Tail: Fievel Goes West. An American Tail Theatre was a live stage show based on An American Tail: Fievel Goes West at various Universal Parks & Resorts theme parks that ran from 1990 to 1992.   