The Heroes of Olympus Series:  The Trials of Apollo Series:  Camp Half-Blood Chronicles is a media franchise created by author Rick Riordan, encompassing three five-part novel series, three short-story collections, two myth anthology books, a stand-alone short story, an essay collection, a guide, four graphic novels, two films, a video game, a musical, and other media.  Set in the modern world, it focuses on groups of demi-god teenagers, and features many characters from Greek and Roman mythology. The first series, Percy Jackson & the Olympians, follows the adventures of a teen named Percy Jackson at a summer camp for Greek demigods. The second series, The Heroes of Olympus, introduces several more lead characters and a second camp for Roman demigods. The third series, The Trials of Apollo, follows the now-mortal god Apollo, with appearances by many characters from the first and second series. The franchise takes place in the same fictional universe as two of Riordan's other series, The Kane Chronicles (which centers on Egyptian mythology) and Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard, (set in the world of Norse mythology). Three short stories have been published which join The Kane Chronicles and the Camp Half-Blood Chronicles; Camp Half-Blood characters have also appeared in both the Magnus and Kane books. Percy Jackson & the Olympians is a pentalogy of adventure and fiction books written by Rick Riordan. Set in the United States, the books are predominantly based on Greek mythology and deal with a demigod, Percy Jackson, and his quest to stop the rise of the Titan lord Kronos. All five books are seen from Percy's witty and sardonic point of view. The series tackles themes like coming of age, love and teenage angst. More than 20 million copies of the books have been sold in more than 10 countries.  As of August 14, 2015, the series has been on the New York Times best seller list for children's book series for 369 weeks.  The Lightning Thief is the first book in the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series. It features Percy Jackson, Annabeth Chase, and Grover Underwood during their travels to the Underworld to try to recover Zeus' stolen master bolt. It was released on July 1, 2005. The Sea of Monsters is the second book in the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series. In this book, Percy, Annabeth, and Tyson, Percy's cyclops brother, need to go to the Bermuda Triangle, also known as the Sea of Monsters, in order to find the Golden Fleece to save their camp and to rescue their satyr friend Grover from the cyclops Polyphemus. It was released April 1, 2006. The Titan's Curse is the third book in the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series. The book features Percy, Grover, Thalia Grace, Zoë Nightshade, and Bianca di Angelo traveling to San Francisco in order to rescue the goddess Artemis and Annabeth. It was released on May 11, 2007. The Battle of the Labyrinth is the penultimate book in the series. In the book, Percy, Annabeth, Grover, Tyson, Nico di Angelo, and Rachel Elizabeth Dare need to find Daedalus in the Labyrinth so he can help them keep their camp safe against the Titan army. The book was released  on May 6, 2008. The Last Olympian is the final book in the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series. In this book, all the demigods need to help defend Manhattan, especially Mount Olympus/The Empire State Building against Kronos and his army while the gods fight Typhon. The book was released on May 5, 2009. The Heroes of Olympus is a five-part series of books written by American author Rick Riordan  which ended with The Blood of Olympus in October 2014.  It chronicles the events of seven demigods and their obstacles involving the waking of the earth goddess, Gaea, and their efforts to stop her. It picks up a few months after the end of Percy Jackson & the Olympians series. Themes include love and teenage angst, as well as dealing with homosexuality. Riordan based some of his series on The Golden Fleece and The Heroes Who Lived Before Achilles by Padraic Colum.  The Lost Hero is the first book in The Heroes of Olympus series. It features three new heroes, Jason Grace a Roman demigod, Piper McLean, and Leo Valdez travelling to California in order to rescue Hera from being consumed by the giants and to defeat the king of giants, Porphyrion. It was released on October 12, 2010. The Son of Neptune is the second book in The Heroes of Olympus series. The book features Percy Jackson, Hazel Levesque, and Frank Zhang traveling to Alaska to free Thanatos, the god of death, from the giant Alcyoneus. It was released on October 4, 2011. The Mark of Athena is the third book in The Heroes of Olympus series. The book features Percy Jackson, Annabeth Chase, Jason Grace, Piper McLean, Leo Valdez, Hazel Levesque, and Frank Zhang traveling to Greece to prevent Gaea's awakening while simultaneously also trying to uncover the gigantic long-lost statue of Athena, the Athena Parthenos, in Rome. It was released on October 2, 2012. The House of Hades is the penultimate book in The Heroes of Olympus series. It features Jason Grace, Piper McLean, Leo Valdez, Hazel Levesque, Frank Zhang, and Nico di Angelo as they continue to set sail towards Greece with the rescue of Percy Jackson and Annabeth Chase, both of whom have fallen to Tartarus in the previous book's epilogue, in mind; the latter couple in turn also try to find their own way out of the hellish realm. The book was released on October 8, 2013. The Blood of Olympus is the final book in The Heroes of Olympus series. It features two parallel stories: the first has the seven demigods finally reaching Greece and working to defeat the giants at the Acropolis of Athens, while the second has Reyna Ramírez-Arellano, Nico di Angelo, and Coach Gleeson Hedge delivering the Athena Parthenos back to Camp Half-Blood with the clash of the Greek and Roman camps in the horizon. The book was released on October 7, 2014. The Trials of Apollo is a five-part series of books written by Rick Riordan. It chronicles the life of Apollo after his being made mortal by Zeus as a punishment for his actions during the Second Gigantomachy. The first book The Hidden Oracle, was published on May 3, 2016. It also features most of the characters from The Heroes of Olympus and Percy Jackson and the Olympians series. The Hidden Oracle is the first book in The Trials of Apollo series. It features Apollo as a 16 year old mortal named Lester Papadopoulos in New York City, searching for Camp Half-Blood, after being kicked out of Olympus and landing in a dumpster, as a punishment by Zeus for angering him. He must fight Emperor Nero of Triumvirate Holdings and save the Oracle of Dodona with the help of another demigod named Meg McCaffrey who is also the step-daughter of Emperor Nero. It also sees the return of Leo Valdez who was presumed to be dead and was resurrected in the last book of Heroes of Olympus, Blood of Olympus. It was released on May 3, 2016.  The Dark Prophecy is the second book in The Trials of Apollo series. It was released on May 2, 2017. Apollo goes on a journey with Leo Valdez and Calypso to find one of the ancient oracles.  The Burning Maze is the third book in The Trials of Apollo series. It was released on May 1, 2018.Lester, Meg, Grover, Piper and Jason Grace find the 3rd oracle in the burning maze and free it. They stop Caligula’s plan to make himself the sun god with Apollo’s and Helios’s essence. When this is stopped Jason, Piper, Lester and Meg head to the Julia Drusilla boats. Jason got stabbed by Caligula and died.  The Demigod Files is a collection published by Hyperion on February 10, 2009, written entirely by Riordan.  It is a companion book to the first series, Percy Jackson & the Olympians, and its main contents are four short stories: "Percy Jackson and the Stolen Chariot", "Percy Jackson and the Bronze Dragon", and "Percy Jackson and the Sword of Hades", and the first chapter of The Last Olympian (the fifth novel, published a few months later). Additional contents include interviews with some of the campers, a drawing of Annabeth's open camp trunk and a "Map of Camp Half-Blood" by Steve James, glossy color illustrations of eight characters by Antonio Caparo, and various crossword puzzles and other activities.  The narrative setting is between the fourth and fifth novels. The Demigod Diaries is a collection published by Hyperion on August 14, 2012, written by Rick and his son Haley Riordan. It is a companion to the second series, The Heroes of Olympus, nearly identical in structure to The Demigod Files. The main contents are four stories: "The Diary of Luke Castellan", "Percy Jackson and the Staff of Hermes", "Leo Valdez and the Quest for Buford" and, by Haley Riordan, "Son of Magic".  It contains puzzles, games, black-and-white drawings by Steve James, and glossy color illustrations of  characters by Antonio Caparo. "Percy Jackson and the Singer of Apollo" is a short story appearing in the Guys Read anthology Other Worlds.  It features Percy Jackson and Grover Underwood in New York City trying to recover the gold Singer of Apollo. The Camp Half-Blood/Kane Chronicles crossovers are a series of short stories that feature two characters each, one from Percy Jackson and the Olympians and one from The Kane Chronicles. They were published in a collection titled Demigods and Magicians on April 5, 2016.  "The Son of Sobek" is a 2013 crossover novel between the Percy Jackson and the Kane Chronicles series. It features Percy Jackson and Carter Kane fighting a giant crocodile in Long Island. It was originally published in the paperback edition of The Serpent's Shadow and was later published as an e-short. "The Staff of Serapis" is a continuation of "The Son of Sobek" published in 2014. It features Annabeth Chase and Sadie Kane battling the god Serapis in Rockaway Beach in Queens. It was originally published in the paperback edition of The Mark of Athena and was later published as an e-short. "The Crown of Ptolemy", published in 2015, features all four characters that were in the first two stories. They need to stop the evil magician Setne from collecting the Upper and Lower Crowns of Egypt and becoming a god. The short was originally published in the paperback edition of The House of Hades along with the short story "Percy Jackson and the Sword of Hades". It was later published as an e-short. Demigods of Olympus is an interactive e-series in which the reader  is the main character. The first three stories were published in Rick Riordan's  application, Demigods of Olympus and the fourth was original to a collection of all four on July 14, 2015. This book is a retelling of several mythological stories about the Greek Gods as narrated by Percy Jackson.  It was released on August 19, 2014.  This book is a retelling of several mythological stories about Greek heroes as narrated by Percy Jackson. It was released on August 18, 2015.  Demigods and Monsters: Your Favorite Authors on Rick Riordan's Percy Jackson and the Olympians Series is a collection  of essays "edited by Rick Riordan with Leah Wilson" and published by Borders Group in 2008; an expanded edition was published by BenBella Books in 2013. The second edition front cover promotes both an "original introduction by Rick Riordan" and "New Essays: Updated through The Last Olympian". Leah Wilson is editor-in-chief of the Smart Pop series  in which both the paperback first edition (2009) and the second edition were issued by BenBella.[a] The essays were written by people likely to be recognized by fans of the series. Percy Jackson and the Olympians: The Ultimate Guide is a guide to the world of Percy Jackson written by Mary-Jane Knight, who is not credited on the front cover. It features illustrations of characters in the series by Antonio Caparo (as trading cards in pockets) and chapters about Percy Jackson, Camp Half-Blood, and places, gods, monsters, and items from mythology. It was released by Hyperion on January 18, 2010 (156 pp; 1-4231-2171-6) and termed Book 8 in the Percy Jackson series by Amazon or the publisher.  The British edition was published by Puffin Books in March as Percy Jackson: The Ultimate Guide.  The Lightning Thief Graphic Novel is an adaptation of The Lightning Thief into a graphic novel. It was adapted by Robert Venditti, illustrated by Attila Futaki, and colored by José Villarrubia, and was published on October 12, 2010.  The Sea of Monsters Graphic Novel is the graphic novel version of The Sea of Monsters. It was adapted by Robert Venditti, illustrated by Attila Futaki, and colored by Tamás Gáspár, and was published on July 2, 2013.  The Titan's Curse Graphic Novel is the graphic novel of The Titan's Curse. It was adapted by Robert Venditti, illustrated by Attila Futaki, and colored by Greg Guilhaumond, and was published on October 8, 2013.  The Lost Hero Graphic Novel is the adaptation of The Lost Hero into a graphic novel. It was adapted by Robert Venditti, illustrated by Nate Powell, and colored by Orpheus Collar, and was published on October 7, 2014.  The Son of Neptune Graphic Novel is the adaptation of The Son of Neptune into a graphic novel. It was adapted by Robert Venditti, illustrated by Antoine Dod, and colored by Orpheus Collar, and was published on February 21, 2017.  Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Lightning Thief (also known as Percy Jackson & The Lightning Thief) is a 2010 fantasy film directed by Chris Columbus. The film is loosely based on The Lightning Thief, the first novel in the Percy Jackson & the Olympians series by Rick Riordan. It stars Logan Lerman as Percy Jackson alongside an ensemble cast that includes Brandon T. Jackson, Alexandra Daddario, Jake Abel, Rosario Dawson, Steve Coogan, Uma Thurman, Catherine Keener, Kevin McKidd, Sean Bean and Pierce Brosnan. It was released to theaters on February 12, 2010.  The film cost $95 million to make.  In its opening weekend in North America the film ranked number two, and in its first weekend the film made $38.8 million.  The film made $226,497,209 worldwide.  Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters (also known as Percy Jackson & The Sea of Monsters) is a 2013 fantasy film and the sequel to the 2010 film Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Lightning Thief. It continues the adventures of Percy Jackson (Logan Lerman) and his friends, as they look for the golden fleece, in order to save Camp Half-Blood's magical borders from monsters. The film is based on the book The Sea of Monsters, and was released on August 7, 2013. The Lightning Thief is a two-hour-long 2017 Off-Broadway musical adaptation of the first Percy Jackson novel by Theatreworks USA. The stageplay was written by Joe Tracz, with lyrics and music by Rob Rokicki, and the performance was directed by Stephen Brackett.  Percy Jackson - The Myths and Legends: Camp Half Blood 2018 Interactive theatre performance, touring UK Theatres, Schools and literacy festivals. Following permission from Rick Riorden and Puffin books the show, starring UK actor Paul Andrew Goldsmith as Hermes, was designed by Pushforward to encourage a love of reading and English literature.   The Percy Jackson video game was created by Activision for the Nintendo DS and was released February 9, 2010. The game was based mostly on the movie and featured players that were neither in the book nor the movie.  