  Chander Pahar is an Indian Bengali language franchise consisting of novels, graphic novels and a film series. The original work is a 1937 novel  named Chander Pahar, written by Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay.  It was translated to English in 2002 by Santanu Sinha Choudhuri and Pradeep Kumar Sinha, published by Orient Blackswan. The English version of the novel was titled Mountain of the Moon. Bandyopadhyay’s story was adapted into a Graphic novel and a live-action film in 2013.  A sequel to the 2013 film Amazon Obhijaan, written by the director of the first film Kamaleswar Mukherjee, is released in Christmas 2017.  This novel tells the story of an ordinary young Bengali man, Shankar Roy Chowdhury, as he adventures in Africa in the years 1909 and 1910. After graduating from college at 20-years-old, his family's financial struggles almost force him take a job in a jute mill in Shyamnagar — a prospect he absolutely loathes. Because loves the subject of geography, he wants to follow the footsteps of renowned explorers like Livingstone, Mungo Park, and Marco Polo. He wants to explore the wilderness, passionate for learning about African forests and animals. By a stroke of luck, he gets a job as a clerk at the Uganda Railway and rushes to Africa without a second thought. After a few months laying rail tracks, he encounters the first of many dangers in pre-World War I Africa: a man-eating lion. Later, he takes up a job as station-master in a desolate station amidst the Veldts, where he to narrowly escapes a deadly black mamba. While at this post, Shankar encounters, rescues and nurses Diego Alvarez, a middle-age Portuguese explorer and gold/diamond prospector. Alvarez's arrival becomes a turning point in Shankar's life. While recovering, Alvarez describes his exploits in Africa with his friend Jim Carter. He explains that, lured by the prosepect of a priceless yellow diamond from a Kaafi village chief, Alvarez and Carter searched for these yellow diamond caves, on the Mountain of the Moon (Chander Pahar) in the Richtersveld. Rumors suggested a mythical monster, the Bunyip, guards the mine. The explorers set off into the dense jungle, much against the villagers' advice, and Carter was gruesomely killed, supposedly by the Bunyip. Shankar, inspired by Alvarez's exploits, resigns from his job and accompanies Alvarez to venture again for the mines. They meet hardships, like a raging volcano. Eventually, they get lost in the forests where Alvarez is killed by the Bunyip. Demoralised, Shankar tries to return to civilization. He finds the Bunyip's cave and the diamond mines by accident. Almost getting lost,  he finds the remains of the Italian explorer, Attilio Gatti, and learns that the cave is in fact the diamond mine. Leaving, he becomes lost in the deserts of Kalahari and nearly dies of thirst. Fortunately, he is rescued by a survey team and taken to a hospital in Salisbury, Rhodesia, from where he sets sail for home. Before going back, he writes his account in a newspaper, earning him money. He names the volcano after Alvarez. He ends the book saying that he will return to the cave one day with a large team, and continue the legacy of Alvarez, Carter, and Gatti. Moon Mountain is a 2014 Graphic novel adapted from Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay's classic Chander Pahar. The graphic novel is published by Penguin Books India, has its script written by Saurav Mohapatra with illustrations by Sayan Mukherjee    Amazon Obhijaan is a 2017 Graphic novel based on the film of the same name.  The graphic novel is written by film's director Kamaleswar Mukherjee, and available in two languages - English and Bengali.  The graphic novel acts as a promotional activity for the film. It is released on 11 November 2017.  A film based on the novel, directed by Kamaleshwar Mukherjee was released on 20 December 2013 (27 December 2013 in all over India).  The film, poorly received by critics and the Bengali audience,  was produced by Shree Venkatesh Films and has been shot on locations across Africa. It was reportedly being made with a budget of nearly ₹150 million (US$2.1 million), making it one of the most expensive in the Bengali film industry. Director Kamaleshwar Mukherjee mentioned Chander Pahar as his "Dream Project". The film has reportedly incorporated CGI and visual effects at par with Hollywood and Bollywood standards. Dev plays the role of the main protagonist, Shankar.  Most of the other cast members are from South Africa. According to the crew members, it took a considerable time to decide who would play the role of Diego Alvarez, and South African actor Gérard Rudolf was selected. The first theatrical trailer of the film was released by Shree Venkatesh Films, at the Kolkata Nicco park on 14 November 2013. Shooting locations include Kruger National Park, the mountains of Drakensberg, and the deserts of Kalahari.  According to a Bengali magazine, director Kamaleshwar Mukherjee is already penning the script, taking the story forward from where it left and Dev has been quoted as saying that the next location, after the African safari, will be the dense forests of Amazon rainforest.  The film has been titled Amazon Obhijan.  The story of the film is original, written by Kamaleshwar Mukherjee with some character reprising their roles from the original Chander Pahar. Reportedly it will be made with a budget of whopping ₹20 crores.  The shooting of this film has been started from May 2016 and ended in July 2017.  A sequel to Amazon Obhijaan is instantly announced after the release of the film. Commonly referred as Shankar's Next Adventure the film announced along with 24 more films of 3 upcoming years.  