Child's Play (also called Chucky) is an American horror franchise centered on a series of seven slasher films created by Don Mancini. The films mainly focus on Chucky (voiced by Brad Dourif), a notorious serial killer known as the "Lakeshore Strangler" whose soul is transferred inside a Good Guy doll following a voodoo ritual to avoid the afterlife and possibly going to Hell. The original film, Child’s Play, was released on November 9, 1988. The film has spawned six sequels and has gone into other media, such as comic books, a video game, tie-in merchandise, and an upcoming television show. The first, second, and fourth films were box office successes with all of the films earning over $182 million worldwide. Including revenues from sales of videos, DVDs, VOD and merchandise, the franchise has generated over $250 million.  It also won a Saturn Award for Best Horror Franchise. The film series originally started out as straight horror with the first installment Child’s Play, which appears to have more psychological horror elements, while its successors are straightforward slasher films with elements of dark humor. As the films progressed, they became satirical and campy, until the series briefly became a gothic horror comedy, with 1998's Bride of Chucky and 2004's Seed of Chucky. In 2012, it was confirmed that a new film would be made under the title Curse of Chucky and be released direct-to-video. Unlike Bride and Seed, Curse of Chucky is a full-fledged horror film much like the original three installments. However, it does maintain the campy humor to a small degree. Since Bride of Chucky, titles have no longer been released under the Child's Play brand name and now use Chucky and will continue to do so with future films.  The latest installment to the series, titled Cult of Chucky, was released on October 3, 2017.  Several short films have been made featuring the Chucky character: on the DVD release of Seed of Chucky, a short film entitled Chucky's Vacation Slides, set during the events of the film, was included, and a series of short films inserting Chucky into the events of other horror films entitled Chucky Invades was released in the run-up to the release of Curse of Chucky. On television, Chucky has appeared in commercials and also on Saturday Night Live, with a separate voice actor voicing the character. Chucky appeared in a pretaped segment during an October 1998 episode of World Championship Wrestling's Monday Nitro program as a face, taunting wrestler Rick Steiner who was a heel at the time and promoting Bride of Chucky. Child’s Play is the first and only in the series to be distributed by United Artists and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (until Seed of Chucky which is distributed by Rogue) before the film was  sold by Universal Pictures. The film is directed by Tom Holland, written by Holland, John Lafia, and Don Mancini, and starring Catherine Hicks, Chris Sarandon, Alex Vincent, and Brad Dourif. The film was released on November 9, 1988. In the film, a serial killer and voodoo practitioner named Charles Lee "Chucky" Ray is mortally wounded and transfers his soul via a voodoo ritual into a child-sized "Good Guy" doll. The doll is found by a homeless peddler and sold to Karen Barclay, who gives it to her son Andy as a birthday gift. As time goes on Chucky has to get his soul out of the doll before it turns human and the transfer becomes permanent, and thus has to possess the first person he told his secret to - Andy. Desperate to leave his doll body, Chucky terrorizes the Barclays in order to restore his soul. Child’s Play 2 is the second film in the series and the first film distributed by Universal Pictures. The film directed by John Lafia, written by Mancini, Vincent and Dourif reprise their roles as Andy Barclay and the voice of Chucky. The film was released on November 9, 1990. The movie takes place two years after the events of the first film. While Andy is living in foster care, the doll's manufacturer has taken a positive corporate stance and remade it to prove there is nothing wrong with the Good Guy brand. After a freak electrical malfunction brings Chucky back to life in a new Good Guy doll, he continues to follow Andy in order to transfer his soul from his doll body before it will once again becomes his permanent form. Child's Play 3, also known as Child’s Play 3: Look Who’s Stalking!,  is third film in the series, and last film to be titled as Child's Play, before title change as Chucky. The film directed by Jack Bender, written by Mancini, and had Dourif reprise once again his role as Chucky, Alex Vincent replaced as Andy Barclay by Justin Whalin as an older version of Andy and a supporting cast of Perrey Reeves and Jeremy Sylvers. The film was released on August 20, 1991. Set eight years after the events of the second film, the Good Guy factory has re-opened after the negative publicity, and as Chucky's remains are removed, some blood from his destroyed human-doll body drips into a vat of melted plastic used to re-mould the Good Guy line. Chucky returns in a new body, going on a hunt for the now 16-year-old Andy Barclay, who has left to attend a military academy after the results of the first two films. While attempting to reach Andy, Chucky finds a new boy, Ronald Tyler, who he shares his "secret" with. With a new "Good Guy" doll body brings the possibility of possessing a new human body, Chucky attempts to restore his soul to human form through Tyler as Andy attempts to stop the killer Good Guy doll once and for all. The film picks up about a month after the events of the Child's Play 3. Unlike the first three films, this film focuses entirely on Chucky and Tiffany. Charles Lee Ray's former girlfriend and his accomplice, Tiffany, acquires Chucky's remains, stitches them together and via a voodoo ritual revives Charles Lee Ray, albeit in a much different form. Chucky kills Tiffany, transferring her soul into a bride doll, and the two maniacs force a young couple to bring them to Ray's grave, where Chucky plans to use a voodoo amulet to finally get a new body. In the end, the Tiffany doll gives birth to a new form of life (Glen/Glenda) as it flies out of a now dead Tiffany and attacks a detective. No one knows whether the detective is dead or alive as the screen cuts to black and closing credits roll. Seed of Chucky is the fifth installment, and the first film other than the original Child's Play not to be distributed by Universal Pictures. Chucky and Tiffany's child Glen finds his parents six years later and brings them back to life, but is horrified by their murders. Chucky and Tiffany force a pregnancy on actress Jennifer Tilly, which is accelerated by voodoo magic. Glen suffers a split personality disorder, having both a male and female soul in his/her body, and dismembers his father. Tiffany uses the ritual to take over Tilly's body and as Tilly bears twins, Glen's dual personality now has a body each of its own. In an epilogue set five years later, one of Chucky's severed arms is mailed to the home of his family, where it attacks the now-human Glen. Curse of Chucky is the first direct-to-video film in the series. Nine years after the events of the fifth film, Chucky is delivered to the family home of Nica and Sarah Pierce, where Chucky terrorizes and kills the family one by one. Chucky is driven by revenge, as Sarah was the one who called the police on him while he was still human, leading to his original death in the first film by detective Mike Norris. Nica survives, but is institutionalized, and blamed for the murders. Chucky is collected by Tiffany, who delivers him to Alice. Chucky successfully transfers his soul into Alice's body which will be explained in Cult of Chucky, as he does the soul ritual the camera moves to reveal Alice's grandmother emerging from the basement, with a plastic bag around her head, slowly dying. Six months later, Chucky is mailed to his next victim, who just so happens to be none other than his longtime original nemesis from the original first three films, Andy Barclay, who points a shotgun at Chucky and shoots him through the head. Four years after Curse of Chucky, Chucky returns to terrorize Nica at the mental institution where she is admitted. Chucky goes on yet another murderous rampage, killing disbelieved employees & tenants at the institution with various dramatic tricks. When a now based vigilante Andy Barclay figures out Chucky's plan, he breaks into the institution in an attempt to disarm his newly created voodoo plot. But in the end, Nica ends up being possessed by Chucky, which causes her to gain the ability to walk and leaves with Tiffany. In October 2017, Don Mancini stated that he intends in having Glen and Glenda from Seed of Chucky return in a future film, and acknowledged that most references to that character had been cut from Cult of Chucky.  In February 2018, it was announced that a Child's Play television series will be a continuation of the film's story arc. Mancini also stated that following the TV show, feature films will continue to be developed in the future.  In an interview with Bloody Disgusting Mancini discussed the potential of a Child's Play film set on a train  as well as revealing plans for a crossover film with the Nightmare on Elm Street franchise, tentatively referred to as Child’s Play on Elm Street.  I would like to do Freddy and Chucky, just because I think they would be a fun double act," he explains. "I’m more really interested in the characters. My pitch for Freddy vs. Chucky is Child’s Play on Elm Street. Chucky ends up in some kid’s house on Elm Street, and Chucky and Freddy inevitably meet in the dreamscape. Chucky sleeps. Why not? Chucky sleeps, Chucky dreams. And they have this admiration for each other. But they realize quickly that Elm Street isn’t big enough for the two of them, so in a riff on Dirty Rotten Scoundrels they have a contest: who can kill the most teenagers before the sun comes up?In September 2017 in a separate interview with Cinema Blend, Mancini confirmed his intent to make the crossover film, describing it as "cool and doable", confirming that the film would be titled Child’s Play on Elm Street and that he was currently in discussion with New Line Cinema about the film.  The foundation for a crossover film was previously laid in Bride of Chucky, in which Freddy Krueger's bladed glove had appeared in the Lockport police evidence depository at the beginning of the film.  In July 2018, Collider reported that a modern-day version of Child's Play, a reboot, is in development at MGM without the involvement of Mancini or Kirschner. Lars Klevberg will direct the film, with a script from Tyler Burton Smith (of Polaroid and Quantum Break fame, respectively). David Katzenberg and Seth Grahame-Smith will serve as producers. The plot will reportedly feature a group of kids, similar to Stranger Things, and a hi-tech version of the Good Guy Doll. Production will begin in September, later that year.  Later, in September 2018, Brian Tyree Henry, Aubrey Plaza and Gabriel Bateman as Detective Mike Norris, Karen Barclay, and Andy Barclay, respectively.   In February 2018, it was announced that a television series titled Child's Play: The TV Series, is in development with involvement from franchise creator Don Mancini, and producer David Kirschner. The show will share continuity with the original film series, and be a continuation of that story. Mancini stated that besides the TV series, feature films will still continue to be developed.  By June of the same year, it was confirmed that Brad Dourif would return for the 8-part series to voice Charles Lee "Chucky" Ray.  On the home media DVD and Blu-ray release of Seed of Chucky in 2005, a short film entitled Chucky's Vacation Slides was included in the special features. The short, set during the events of Seed of Chucky, follows Chucky, Tiffany, and Glen after having returned from a family vacation. The film implies that the events of Seed of Chucky take place over the course of 5–10 years. While browsing through their photographs of their vacation on a slide projector, Tiffany notices various corpses in the background of certain photographs, realizing that Chucky has been killing people again. Tiffany leaves, with a distraught and sickened Glen, while Chucky continues to view the photographs. After a delivery man arrives with a pizza, Chucky leads him to his garage and kills him off-screen. Brad Dourif, Jennifer Tilly and Billy Boyd all reprise their roles from the films. Leading up to the DVD release of Curse of Chucky in 2013, a series of short film videos were released. The clips showed Chucky interrupting the events of several other horror films. Brad Dourif and Edan Gross reprised their roles as Chucky and the Good Guy Doll, respectively.  Joe Renzetti composed the first Child’s Play, followed by Graeme Revell, who composed the soundtrack for Child’s Play 2 and Bride of Chucky. John D'Andrea and Cory Lerios wrote the score for Child’s Play 3, while Pino Donaggio composed Seed of Chucky. Joseph LoDuca composed the score for Curse of Chucky and Cult of Chucky. The following crimes have been associated with the Child’s Play films: In December 1992 four people who tortured and killed 16-year-old  Suzanne Capper were said to be influenced by one of the Child's Play movies. During the torturing of the girl, the perpetrators taunted her by playing her a song, (Hi, I'm Chucky (Wanna Play?) by 150 Volts, featuring samples from the movie Child's Play.  In 1993, two youths who abducted and murdered a toddler named James Bulger were said to have been influenced by the film Child’s Play 3. The supposed link between the murder and the film was denied by film censor James Ferman.  According to a relative of two boys aged 10 and 12 who brutally attacked a nine-year-old and 11-year-old boy in Edlington, South Yorkshire in April 2009, the attackers watched horror movies, including Chucky films, from the age of about six or seven.  Elena Lobacheva, a Russian serial killer arrested in 2015, was reportedly obsessed with the film Bride of Chucky, which she cited as being an inspiration for the murders that she and her gang committed throughout Moscow.  Beginning in 1992, Innovation Publishing released the first comic books based on the films, in the form of a three-issue adaptation of Child’s Play 2. It was later collected in a trade paperback. The success of the adaptation led to a monthly series of new stories starting in 1991. The series, titled Child’s Play: The Series, ended in 1992 after only five issues. This was followed by a three-issue adaptation of Child’s Play 3. In 2007, Devil's Due Publishing obtained the license to publish Child's Play comics and released a one-shot crossover with Hack/Slash titled Hack/Slash vs. Chucky which takes place after the events of the Seed of Chucky film. This was followed by a four-issue series called Chucky. A second volume began in early 2009 but ceased publication after only one issue. Slimstown Studios announced an endless runner video game titled Chucky: Slash & Dash. The game is scheduled to be released on iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch and Android devices. It is the result of an agreement with Universal Partnerships & Licensing to develop and publish the first officially licensed smartphone and tablet Child’s Play video game. The gameplay is actually inspired by the second film's climax. In the game, Chucky is stuck in a never-ending nightmare in which he’s endlessly running through the factory that produces Good Guys dolls. Players control Chucky while sprinting through the factory floor, the catwalks, the warehouse, or even outside, and need to avoid conveyor belts, forklifts, acid pools, barrels and other obstacles. Chucky can also eliminate security guards patrolling the factory using his classic knife or other more outlandish weapons like a cleaver, screwdriver, or hatchet. As they play, gamers collect batteries that can be used to purchase in-game items or power-ups, such as a double battery bonus, a fast start, or extra lives that can extend a run after dying.  The app was released on November 1, 2013. Since 1992, Chucky has starred in his own shows at Universal Studios Halloween Horror Nights, entitled, Chucky's In-Your-Face Insults and Chucky's Insult Emporium. In 2009, the climax of Child’s Play 3 received its own maze, entitled Chucky's Fun House. Curse of Chucky has also received its own scarezone in the 2013 lineup. In 2017, Chucky played host to the Titans of Terror Tram which featured iconic horror villains Leatherface, Freddy Krueger, and Jason Voorhees.   