Infinite Stratos, also written as IS <Infinite Stratos> (Japanese: IS〈インフィニット・ストラトス〉, Hepburn: IS <Infinitto Sutoratosu>) is a Japanese light novel series by Izuru Yumizuru with illustrations provided by Okiura (original MF novels) and CHOCO (new Overlap novels). As of October 2013, 7 volumes have been published by Media Factory under their MF Bunko J label. From volume 8 onwards, the novels are published by Overlap under their Overlap Bunko label. A manga adaptation by Kenji Akahoshi was serialized in the seinen manga magazine Monthly Comic Alive from May 2010 to July 2012 with five volumes published under their Alive Comics imprint. A 12-episode anime adaptation aired in Japan between January and March, 2011, and an original video animation (OVA) episode was released on December 7, 2011. The anime is licensed by Sentai Filmworks in North America, and they released the series on April 10, 2012. A second series aired from October 3, 2013 to December 19, 2013. In the near future, a Japanese scientist creates a powerful high-tech exoskeleton called "Infinite Stratos" (IS). Possessing technology and combat capabilities far surpassing that of any other arms system, the IS threatens to destabilize the world. Faced with such an overpowered weapon, the world's nations enact the "Alaska Treaty", stating that IS shall never be used for military combat purposes, and that the existing IS technology must be equally distributed to all nations, to prevent any one nation from dominating the others. However, sometime after the IS was introduced, the society undergone a drastic change. As IS can only be operated by women, there is a shift in the power balance between men and women, where women now dominate society over men. Ten years after the IS was initially introduced, the world has entered a new age of peace. However, a 15-year-old male Japanese teenager named Ichika Orimura changes everything. During an accidental run-in with a hibernating IS suit, it is revealed that he possesses the innate ability to operate an IS - the only male in the world capable of doing so. Seeing his potential, the Japanese government forcibly enrolls the bewildered young man to attend the prestigious Infinite Stratos Academy, a multicultural academy where IS pilots from all over the world are trained. Thus, he starts a busy high school life surrounded by girls training to become expert IS pilots. While they seem to be enjoying their thrilling school life, the danger of looming threats and enemies are never too far away. Infinite Stratos began as a light novel series written by Izuru Yumizuru, with illustrations provided by Okiura.  The first volume was published by Media Factory under their MF Bunko J label on May 31, 2009. As of September 25, 2013, nine volumes have been released.  Due to conflict between the publisher (Media Factory) and the author, publication of the light novels was under suspension.   Later, the author confirmed that he is simultaneously writing a new work and continuing Infinite Stratos through Kodansha.  The novels are now being published by Overlap under their Overlap Bunko imprint, with CHOCO replacing Okiura as illustrator. Reprints of the first seven volumes begun on April 25, 2013, starting with the first two volumes.  The series will end in the 13th volume.  The light novels are being translated into traditional Chinese and the first volume was published and released by Sharp Point Press  on November 9, 2010. The Chinese translations of the light novels were originally under an indefinite suspension.  Yumizuru cited that Media Factory's overseas representatives were engaging in contracts with foreign publishers without the author's permission as the reason for the suspension.  Yumizuru had also stated that he was willing to fight over this matter in court if necessary.  On February 27, 2018, J-Novel Club announced it had licensed and begun translating the series into English.  A manga adaptation by Kenji Akahoshi began serialization in the seinen manga magazine Monthly Comic Alive on May 27, 2010, its July 2010 issue, and ended in the September 2012 issue on July 27, 2012. The first bound volume was released on December 22, 2010,  and released five volumes until September 21, 2012 under their Alive Comics imprint.  Homura Yūki launched a second manga adaptation in Shogakukan's seinen manga magazine Monthly Sunday Gene-X on May 18, 2013.    The manga went on hiatus starting on June 19, 2018, with plans to return in 2019.  An Internet radio show named Radio IS, produced by Super A&G+, aired from January 1 to March 26, 2011.  The show was hosted by Yōko Hikasa, the voice actor of Houki Shinonono, and Asami Shimoda, the voice actor of Huang Lingyin. The first episode was available in the listening archives for three weeks, whereas subsequent episodes were available for two weeks.  A second radio show, called Radio IS Overtime (RADIO IS 延長戦, Rajio IS Enchōsen) began airing on April 9, 2011, and aired four biweekly episodes until May 21, 2011. An anime adaptation for Infinite Stratos was first announced on June 21, 2010,  and its official website opening on August 8, 2010.  The adaptation is directed by Yasuhito Kikuchi who also directed Macross Frontier  with 8-Bit, who also handled Macross Frontier,  animating the adaptation.  The character designer and chief animation director of the anime is Takeyasu Kurashima and the mecha designer is Takeshi Takakura.  The script was handled by Atsuhiro Tomioka, Chinatsu Hōjō, and Fumihiko Shimo.  Shimo will also be handling the series' composition.  The anime aired in Japan between January 7 to April 1, 2011 on TBS,  with subsequent runs on CBC, SUN-TV, KBS, and BS-TBS. Six DVD and Blu-ray volumes were released by Media Factory between March 30 and September 21, 2011.  An original video animation (OVA) episode, entitled IS <Infinite Stratos> Encore: A Sextet Yearning for Love (IS＜インフィニット・ストラトス＞アンコール 『恋に焦がれる六重奏』, IS <Infinitto Sutoratosu> Ankōru: Koi ni Kogareru Rokujūsō), was released in Japan on DVD and Blu-ray on December 7, 2011.  A second season of the anime series was announced in April 2013.  The anime is licensed in North America by Sentai Filmworks,  with simulcasts provided by Anime Network on its video website. Section23 Films released the series and the OVA with an English dub (produced by Seraphim Digital) on DVD and Blu-ray on April 10, 2012.  The first season of the anime is licensed in the United Kingdom by MVM Films for release on February 17, 2014 on DVD. The second season of the anime aired from October 4 to December 20, 2013.  Sentai Filmworks has also acquired the second season for streaming and home video release in 2014.  The anime's soundtrack is composed by Hikaru Nanase.  The opening theme song for the anime is "Straight Jet", performed by Minami Kuribayashi.  The ending theme song is "Super∞Stream", with the first episode version sung by Yōko Hikasa, the second and third episode version sung by Hikasa and Yukana, the fourth and fifth episode version sung by Hikasa, Yukana and Asami Shimoda, the sixth and seventh episode version sung by Hikasa, Yukana, Shimoda and Kana Hanazawa and the final version for the rest of episodes sung by Hikasa, Yukana, Shimoda, Hanazawa and Marina Inoue.  Each version of the song reflects the voice actresses' character who is running with Ichika in the episodes' ending credits. The CD single for "Straight Jet" was released on January 26, 2011, and the CD single for "Super∞Stream" was released on February 16, 2011.  Both singles are published under the Lantis label.  For the OVA, the ending theme is "Best Partner" (ベストパートナー, Besuto Pātonā) by Yōko Hikasa. For the second season, the opening theme is "True Blue Traveler" by Minami Kuribayashi and the ending theme is "BEAUTIFUL SKY" by Yōko Hikasa. A 2014 video game, titled Infinite Stratos 2: Ignition Hearts for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita, was released in Japan on February 27, 2014. Its plot focuses on memories from Ichika's school festival, and is developed by 5pb.  A TCG game from Bushiroad's FIVE qross was released on November 8, 2013. Characters from Infinite Stratos also feature in the PlayStation Vita game Kaku-San-Sei Million Arthur.  A PC mecha action game developed by 5pb. titled Infinite Stratos: Versus Colors was released in Japan on December 31, 2014.  Another video game titled Infinite Stratos 2: Love and Purge for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita was released in Japan on September 3, 2015.  A new second PC mecha action game was also announced by DMM Games titled "Infinite Stratos: Archetype Breaker" (インフィニット・ストラトス アーキタイプ・ブレイカー, Infinitto Sutoratosu: Ākitaipu Bureikā), set to released in late 2017.   The light novels have collectively sold 1.2 million copies as of February 2011.  The opening theme of the anime adaptation, "Straight Jet", reached No. 16,  and the ending theme, "Super∞Stream", reached No. 10 on the Oricon charts.  The Blu-ray disc release of its first volume sold around 22,000 copies in its first week, becoming only the sixth-ever first volume of any anime television series to reach number 1 on Oricon's Blu-ray Disc weekly overall sales chart.  Theron Martin of Anime News Network criticized the anime for its "unbelievably dense protagonist" and weak storyline, but the action sequences received praise.  