 Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon? (Japanese: ダンジョンに出会いを求めるのは間違っているだろうか, Hepburn: Danjon ni Deai o Motomeru no wa Machigatteiru Darō ka), also known as DanMachi (ダンまち) for short, and with English subtitle Familia Myth,  is a Japanese light novel series written by Fujino Ōmori and illustrated by Suzuhito Yasuda. SB Creative has published eleven volumes since January 2013 under their GA Bunko imprint. It has received two manga adaptations as well as an anime television adaptation by J.C.Staff, which aired from April 4 to June 27, 2015. An OVA was released on December 7, 2016. A second anime season and an original anime film adaptation were both announced in February 2018 . Additionally, a spin-off light novel series titled Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?: Sword Oratoria began in January 2014, and another spin-off light novel series titled Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?: Familia Chronicle (illustrated by Nilitsu) began in March 2017 . Both spinoffs have also received manga adaptations, and a television anime adaptation of Sword Oratoria aired from April 14 to June 30, 2017. The story takes place in the fictional city of Orario whose main feature place is the Dungeon (ダンジョン, Danjon) which contains an assortment of monsters from goblins to dragons. Adventurers visit the dungeon to defeat monsters and take their crystal shards, which are used to craft magic items, among other treasures; however, they can also be exchanged for the world's currency. The people of Orario join groups called Familia (ファミリア, Famiria), who serve a range of functions from dungeon crawling to crafting items. Each Familia is named after and serves a resident deity. In a fashion similar to role playing games, the adventurers are grouped into levels, increasing their levels and abilities according to their achievements.   The story follows the exploits of Bell Cranel, a 15-year-old solo adventurer under the goddess Hestia. As the only member of the Hestia Familia, he works hard every day in the dungeon to make ends meet while seeking to improve himself. He looks up to Ais Wallenstein, a famous and powerful swordswoman who once saved his life, and with whom he fell in love. He is unaware that several other girls, deities and mortals alike, also develop affections towards him; most notably Hestia herself, as he also gains allies and improves himself with each new challenge he faces. Fujino Ōmori wrote the story under the title Familia Myth as his entry for the 4th GA Bunko Award, where he won the Great Prize and received an offer for publication.  The first light novel volume was published on January 15, 2013, by SB Creative under their GA Bunko imprint.  As of October 14, 2016, eleven volumes have been published.  The series has estimated sales of over 1,500,000 copies.  Yen Press has licensed the series in North America and released the first volume under the Yen On imprint in December 2014.   The light novel ranked at No. 4 in 2014 in Takarajimasha's annual light novel guide book Kono Light Novel ga Sugoi!.  The Familia Chronicle light novels are a series of side stories that go more in-depth on characters that do not get as much attention in the main storylines of Danmachi and Sword Oratoria. A manga adaptation with art by Kunieda began serialization in Square Enix's seinen manga magazine Young Gangan from August 2, 2013.  It has been collected in seven tankōbon volumes.   Yen Press announced at their New York Comic Con 2014 panel the rights to publish the manga in North America.  A four-panel manga series titled Dungeon ni Deai o Motomeru no wa Machigatteiru Darō ka 4-koma: Kamisama no Nichijō (ダンジョンに出会いを求めるのは間違っているだろうか4コマ【神様の日常】) by Masaya Takamura began serialization in Square Enix's online manga magazine Gangan Online from August 14, 2014. An anime television series adaptation by J.C.Staff began airing the broadcast night of April 3, 2015.  The opening theme is "Hey World" by Yuka Iguchi, and the ending theme is "Right Light Rise" by Kanon Wakeshima.  Crunchyroll has streamed the series internationally.  Sentai Filmworks has licensed the anime for digital and home video release in North America with an English dub slated to be released in March 2017.   An original video animation was released on December 7, 2016.   A second season of the anime and an original film adaptation titled Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?: Arrow of the Orion (劇場版 ダンジョンに出会いを求めるのは間違っているだろうか ー オリオンの矢 ー, Danjon ni Deai o Motomeru no wa Machigatteiru Darō ka ー Orion no Ya ー) were announced on February 18, 2018, during the GA Bunko 2018 Happyō Stage at Wonder Festival.  The film will be directed by Katsushi Sakurabi written by Fujino Ōmori, with animation by J.C.Staff and music by Keiji Inai. The film is slated to screen on Japanese cinemas in 2019.  5pb. announced that they are developing a "dungeon action RPG" based on the light novels. The platforms have yet to be announced.  DanMachi: MEMORIA FREESE is a role-playing mobile game for the iOS and Android platforms, released in Japan in 2017 and worldwide in 2018.  The game sold over 3 million copies in its first month, and has about 35 million registered users and more than 1 million subscribers as of March 2018.  The game's earnings are 40% higher in the United States than in Japan.  The novels had over 9 million copies in print as of January 2018.  