Katana Maidens ~ Toji No Miko (刀使ノ巫女, lit. "Sword-wielding Shrine Maidens") is a 2017 Japanese media franchise produced by Genco, co-produced by Crunchyroll,  and animated by Studio Gokumi. The story is centered around a group of sword-wielding shrine maidens "Toji", who attend school while improving their extermination skills and serve as a unit in the police force in order to exorcise mysterious, hostile creatures known only as "aradama". The government authorizes the Toji to wear swords and serve as government officials, and the government has set up five schools throughout the country for the girls to attend. The girls live ordinary school lives, while occasionally performing their duties, wielding their swords and using various powers to fight and protect the people. In the spring, the five schools send their best Toji to compete in a tournament. As the tournament concludes in an unexpected fashion shortly into the series, a multi-layered conflict starts to unfold and develop involving different factions of Toji and aradama. A manga adaptation written by Sakae Saito began serialization in the December 2017 issue of Kadokawa Shoten's Monthly Shōnen Ace on October 26.  A mobile game developed by Square Enix has been announced and released on iOS and Android devices in 2018. The cast will reprise their roles and the game will use Yoshinori Shizuma's character designs.  The anime is co-produced between Genco and Studio Gokumi. Kodai Kakimoto directed the series, while Tatsuya Takahashi is in charge of scripts and Yoshinori Shizuma is the original character designer.  Kaede Hondo, Saori Ōnishi, Azumi Waki, Hina Kino, Risae Matsuda and Eri Suzuki performed both the first opening theme "Save Me Save You" and the first ending theme "Kokoro no Memoria" (心のメモリア).  They also performed the second opening theme "Shinkakei Colors" (進化系Colors) and the second ending theme "Mirai Epilogue" (未来エピローグ).  The series aired from January 5 to June 22, 2018. It ran for 24 episodes.    Crunchyroll streamed the series, while Funimation streamed the simuldub.  