Million Arthur (ミリオン アーサー, Mirion Āsā) is a Japanese media franchise created by Square Enix, consisting primarily of a series of video games. The first release was an online free-to-play card battle game titled Kaku-San-Sei Million Arthur (拡散性ミリオンアーサー, Kakusansei Mirion Āsā, lit. Diffusion Million Arthur), which was released for iOS and Android in 2012. A sequel game titled Kai-Ri-Sei Million Arthur (乖離性ミリオンアーサー, Kairisei Mirion Āsā) was released in Japan in November 2014. An MMORPG titled Han-Gyaku-Sei Million Arthur will be released in 2018. An anime television series adaptation of Han-Gyaku-Sei Million Arthur produced by J.C.Staff is scheduled to air in October 25, 2018. The first game, an online free-to-play card battle game titled Kaku-San-Sei Million Arthur (拡散性ミリオンアーサー, Kakusansei Mirion Āsā, lit. Diffusion Million Arthur) was released in 2012, written by Kazuma Kamachi. Square Enix closed the game's servers in 2015. Later in 2015 it was released in Europe and North America by the South Korean publisher Gamevil. A sequel game titled Kai-Ri-Sei Million Arthur (乖離性ミリオンアーサー, Kairisei Mirion Āsā) was released in Japan in November 2014.  A virtual reality game titled Kai-Ri-Sei Million Arthur VR (乖離性ミリオンアーサー VR, Kairisei Mirion Āsā VR) was released in Japan on May 25, 2017 for the PC via Steam, requiring an HTC Vive headset to play.  A PlayStation VR version was released in Japan on September 28, 2017.  The PC version was released by Vive Studios in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada and Australia on October 12, 2017.  An arcade game titled Million Arthur: Arcana Blood was released in Japan on November 21, 2017.  An MMORPG titled Han-Gyaku-Sei Million Arthur was released in China for iOS and Android in March 2018 and will be released in Japan at a later date.  An action role-playing game titled Kou-Kyou-Sei Million Arthur (交響性ミリオンアーサー, Kōkyōsei Mirion Āsā) is also in development for iOS and Android.  A live-action television adaptation premiered on October 3, 2014.  A 4-panel manga adaptation by Choboraunyopomi, titled Jaku-San-Sei Million Arthur (弱酸性ミリオンアーサー), has been serialized within the Million Arthur games and via the Niconico Seiga website since 2012.  An ONA adaptation of the Jaku-San-Sei Million Arthur manga premiered on November 20, 2015.  An anime television series adaptation of the Han-Gyaku-Sei Million Arthur MMORPG by J.C.Staff is scheduled to begin airing in October 25, 2018 on Tokyo MX and other channels.  It was announced that the series will be split-cour, with the second season airing in April 2019. The series is directed by Youhei Suzuki with scripts by Tsuyoshi Tamai and character designs by Yoshinari Saito and music by Go Shiina. The opening theme is "Highlight" by Ayaka Ōhashi, and the ending theme is "KI-te MI-te HIT PARADE!" by Himika Akaneya, Rie Takahashi, Nao Tōyama, Yū Serizawa, Suzuko Mimori, and Rina Hidaka under their character names.  Million Arthur appeared in the 2015 role-playing game Megadimension Neptunia VII as a DLC character.  Thief (Tōzoku) Arthur appears as a guest DLC character in SNK Heroines: Tag Team Frenzy. In return, Iori Yagami from The King of Fighters series appears as a guest character in Arcana Blood.  