Ronin Warriors, known in Japan as Legendary Armor Samurai Troopers (鎧伝サムライトルーパー, Yoroiden Samurai Torūpā), is a Japanese anime series and manga adaptation created by Hajime Yatate. The anime was produced and animated by Sunrise and Nagoya TV, and aired across Japan on the TV Asahi network from 30 April 1988 to 4 March 1989 and has a total of 39 episodes. The manga ran from November 17, 1988 to April 5, 1990 and consists of 2 volumes which were published by Kodansha. Ronin Warriors was produced by Graz Entertainment and distributed by Claster Television, and it was recorded by the Vancouver-based Ocean Productions cast. Ronin Warriors first aired on American television during the summer of 1995 and subsequently appeared through syndication, as well as the USA Network and later on Cartoon Network. The series was released on DVD in 2002, including the original Japanese version with English subtitles on the reverse side of the disc. On September 4, 2014, North American anime licensor Discotek Media announced their license of the original Japanese anime (Yoroiden Samurai Troopers), and plans to release the series on DVD.  Discotek has said that they have no plans to release Ronin Warriors until they clear issues with the dub. Discotek has also licensed the OVAs and will include both Japanese and English audio as well as English subtitles.  The opening and ending sequences and the eyecatches were replaced with new ones, and the Japanese title cards were removed; there were no substantial cuts to the bodies of the episodes and the episodes retained most of the original music. Three direct-to-video sequels were produced: Gaiden (Side Story), Kikoutei Densetsu (The Legend of the Solar Armor) and Message. There is also a Ronin Warriors manga as well as numerous novels and audio dramas based on the anime. While all the sequels have been released on DVD, the manga and audio dramas have not been made available in English. Talpa, the demon lord of the Netherworld, is bent on conquering the mortal world. Standing against Talpa and his four Dark Warlords are the five Ronin Warriors, each in possession of mystical armor and weapons. They are assisted by Mia Koji, a young student-teacher, and a mysterious warrior-monk known only as The Ancient. Former: 