The Lost Boys is a multimedia franchise about vampires.  The original The Lost Boys was released in 1987 and starred Jason Patric, Corey Haim, Kiefer Sutherland, Jami Gertz, Corey Feldman, Dianne Wiest, Edward Herrmann, Alex Winter, Jamison Newlander, and Barnard Hughes. A direct-to-DVD sequel, Lost Boys: The Tribe, was released in 2008. Corey Feldman returned as Edgar Frog, with a cameo by Corey Haim as Sam Emerson. Kiefer Sutherland's half-brother Angus Sutherland plays the lead vampire.  A third film entitled Lost Boys: The Thirst, with Feldman serving as an executive producer in addition to playing Edgar Frog, and Newlander returning as Alan Frog was released on DVD in 2010.  After the first films initial release there were plans to make a sequel named The Lost Girls just two years after with David returning as the villain but the plans never came to fruition.  Scripts for this and other sequels circulated, and the original film's director, Joel Schumacher, made several attempts at a sequel during the 1990s.  There were also plans for a fourth film after the release of the third film but it was cancelled after the folding of its production company.  The original film was novelized by Craig Shaw Gardner. It was released in paperback by Berkley Publishing and is 220 pages long. The CW and Rob Thomas are developing a Lost Boys TV series that will be set over 70 years, each season chronicling a decade starting with season 1 set in 1967 in San Francisco during the summer of love.  The score for the original film was composed by Thomas Newman. The theme song, "Cry Little Sister", was originally recorded by Gerard McMahon (under his pseudonym Gerard McMann) for the soundtrack.  In the film's sequel, "Cry Little Sister" was covered by a Seattle-based rock band, Aiden. Lou Gramm, lead singer of Foreigner recorded the song "Lost in the Shadows" for the soundtrack, along with a video which featured clips from the film.  The soundtrack also featured several popular songs. The score for the second film was composed by Nathan Barr. A soundtrack of songs by various artists was released by Adrenaline Records on July 22, 2008. The album includes a cover version of "Cry Little Sister" by Aiden. The music for the third film was composed by Elia Cmíral. The lead vampire David has been produced as an action figure by the National Entertainment Collectibles Association as part of their Cult Classics Movie Figures.  Michael also received a figure.   