   The Walking Dead is a media franchise created by Robert Kirkman and Tony Moore including a comic book series, two television series, six novels, video games, and various other media such as audio books and sound tracks. The Walking Dead is a monthly black-and-white comic book series chronicling the travels of Rick Grimes, his family, and other survivors of a zombie apocalypse.  First issued in 2003 by publisher Image Comics, the series was created by writer Robert Kirkman  and artist Tony Moore (who was later replaced by Charlie Adlard from issue #7 onward,  though Moore continued to do the covers through issue #24.)  The Walking Dead received the 2010 Eisner Award for Best Continuing Series at San Diego Comic-Con International. The Walking Dead is an American television drama series developed by Frank Darabont. The series stars Andrew Lincoln as sheriff's deputy  Rick Grimes, who awakens from a coma to find the world dominated by flesh-eating "walkers", resembling the zombies of George A. Romero's horror movies. He sets out to find his family and encounters other survivors along the way. The Walking Dead premiered on October 31, 2010 on the cable television channel AMC in the United States.  Based on its reception, AMC renewed the series for a second season of 13 episodes, which premiered on October 16, 2011.   Two episodes into the second season, AMC announced that the show would return for a third season, airing on October 14, 2012.  It is presently airing its eighth season, starting on October 22, 2017.  The series has been well received   and has received many award nominations, including a Writers Guild of America Award nomination and a Golden Globe Award nomination for Best Television Series Drama.   The series has also attained strong Nielsen ratings, beating various records for a cable series, including receiving 15.5 million viewers for its season three midseason finale, and 17.29 viewers for its season five premiere, to become the most-watched basic cable drama telecast in history.  Fear the Walking Dead is an American horror drama television series created by Robert Kirkman and Dave Erickson, acting as a companion series and prequel to The Walking Dead.  The series premiered on AMC on August 23, 2015,  and it has been renewed for a third season to air in 2017;  as well as been renewed for a fourth season on April 14 2017, before the season three premiere. . In July 2018 the show was renewed for a fifth season set to air in 2019. Set initially in Los Angeles, California, the series follows a dysfunctional family composed of high school guidance counselor Madison Clark, her boyfriend and English teacher Travis Manawa, her daughter Alicia, and her drug-addicted son Nick, at the onset of the zombie apocalypse.   The four must either revamp themselves or cling to their deep flaws as they come to terms with the impending collapse of civilization.  In July 2018, during San Diego Comic Con, executive producer Scott Gimple announced that a new spin-off is in the works.  The Walking Dead: Torn Apart is a six-part web series based on the television series The Walking Dead. It aired in its entirety on October 3, 2011, on AMC's official website. The web series tells the origin story of Hannah, also known as "Bicycle Girl", the walker whom Rick Grimes killed in the first episode.  Rick risks a walker encounter to go back and find Hannah before he sets out for Atlanta.  After telling her he is "sorry this happened to you," Rick shoots her in what is clearly a humanitarian gesture, which reveals much about Rick's own character and sets a tone for the rest of season one. The Walking Dead: Cold Storage is a four-part web series based on the television series The Walking Dead. It aired in its entirety on October 1, 2012, on AMC's official website, two weeks before the premiere of the third season of the show. The web series follows the story of a young man named Chase as he seeks shelter in a storage facility commanded by a malicious employee named B.J.   This web series marks a second installment, following The Walking Dead: Torn Apart, which aired a year earlier.  The Walking Dead: The Oath is a three-part web series based on the television series The Walking Dead. It aired in its entirety on  October 1, 2013, on AMC's official website. This series tells the origin of the "Don't Open, Dead Inside" paint on the cafeteria doors of the hospital Rick Grimes awakes in, post-apocalypse. It follows Paul and Karina as they escape their zombie-overrun camp in search of a medical station. The central theme of the series examines the will to persevere in the face of inevitable death.  Fear The Walking Dead: Flight 462 is a 16-part web series based on the television series Fear the Walking Dead. The series premiered on October 4, 2015, on AMC's official website. The web series tells the story of a group of passengers aboard a commercial airplane during the earliest moments of the outbreak. Over the course of the series, the plane and the lives of its passengers are put in jeopardy once they discover an infected traveler. Two of its characters, Alex and Jake, are introduced in Fear the Walking Dead season 2, episode 3 "Ouroboros".  A second 16-part web series, debuted on October 17, 2016, and episodes were made available online weekly and aired as promos during the seventh season of The Walking Dead. The web series follows Sierra, a capable survivor, who helps an injured woman named Gabi. A six-part webisode series entitled Red Machete first premiered on October 22, 2017. The web series tells the origin story of Rick Grimes's red machete. The series starred actors Jose Rosete, Anais Lilit, Sofia Esmaili,  and Jeff Kober, reprising his role as Joe, the leader of the Claimers from the fourth season of The Walking Dead.  Multiple board games for the franchise have been released.  In January 2016, Mantic Games announced plans to release a tabletop miniature wargame based on The Walking Dead, named The Walking Dead: All Out War. On February 18, 2011, Telltale Games announced plans to create an episodic video game based on the comics,  was scheduled to debut in fall 2011, but finally was released on April 24, 2012.  Kirkman has said that, unlike typical zombie games such as Left 4 Dead, it focuses more on characterization and emotion than action. The video game includes known characters and also introduces characters not shown in the comic or TV show.  From April 24, 2012 to November 20, 2012, the game released five episodes, and then released a DLC Pack in June 2013. The game was met with critical acclaim, winning several Game of the Year awards. Following Season One's success, a sequel was announced for release. Its first episode was released on December 17, 2013. Its final was released on August 26, 2014. Telltale Games confirmed that it will produce a third season of Walking Dead, following the success of the first two seasons. The season began on December 20, 2016. In July 2017 during San Diego Comic Con, Telltale Games announced that the fourth season of the series will be the final season of the game. The first of four episodes was released on August 14, 2018. Flash based social game on Facebook, launched in 2012 and shut down at the end of 2014. On July 6, 2012, Activision announced a first-person shooter based on the television series, which is being developed by Terminal Reality.  It was released on March 19, 2013 in North America.  It was met with negative reception. The Walking Dead: Road to Survival is a role-playing video game developed by Scopely based on the comic book series. It was released initially on the Android platform, later on iOS. Players complete various missions using teams, in exchange for further rewards, and more challenging stages. Game for Android/iOS The Escapists: The Walking Dead is a spin-off from The Escapists, a puzzle role-playing video game about escaping prisons.  In August 2014, Starbreeze Studios announced that a The Walking Dead co-op first-person shooter is in development by Overkill Software.  The game is called Overkill's The Walking Dead, and it claims to deliver a "completely new co-op experience" to The Walking Dead universe that will explore new characters and storylines. It is scheduled to launch on Xbox One, PlayStation 4, and Microsoft Windows in 2018. The game is being made with The Walking Dead creator Robert Kirkman, who says he was certain from the first day he saw the project that it was the "co-op action game fans have been waiting for." It is also the result of a new "long-term" partnership between Starbreeze and Kirkman's company Skybound Interactive. This partnership will extend "into the next decade" and marks a new era for Starbreeze, the company said. 