The Lego Movie is a media franchise based on Lego construction toys. The franchise began with the 2014 film of the same name, which was directed and written by Phil Lord and Christopher Miller. The success of the film led it to receiving two licensed video games, a theme park film ride attraction, two spin-off films and an animated series among other pieces of media. A sequel and a third spin-off film are both scheduled for release in 2019. The Lego Movie and The Lego Batman Movie have received a "Certified Fresh" rating of 96% and 90% on Rotten Tomatoes, respectively, although The Lego Ninjago Movie received a 55% "rotten" rating, making it the first film in the franchise to receive a lower rating. The film was released theatrically on February 7, 2014, through Warner Bros. Pictures and Village Roadshow Pictures to near-unanimous acclaim; critics praised its visual style, humor, voice cast and heartwarming message. It earned more than $257 million in the U.S. and Canada and $210 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of over $469 million. The film won the BAFTA Award for Best Animated Film, the Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Animated Feature, and the Saturn Award for Best Animated Film. It was also nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Animated Feature Film. The film also received an Academy Award nomination for Best Original Song for "Everything Is Awesome". In October 2014, Warner Bros. scheduled the release of The Lego Batman Movie, a spin-off starring Batman, for 2017, moving the release date for The Lego Movie 2 (later titled as The Lego Movie Sequel) to 2018.   Will Arnett returned to voice Batman, with Chris McKay, who was earlier attached to the sequel, directing the film, the story written by Seth Grahame-Smith, and the film produced by Dan Lin, Roy Lee, Phil Lord and Christopher Miller.  On April 20, 2015, Warner Bros. scheduled The Lego Batman Movie for a February 10, 2017 release.  In July 2015, Arnett's Arrested Development co-star Michael Cera was cast to voice Robin.  In August 2015, Zach Galifianakis entered final negotiations to voice the Joker.  In October 2015, Rosario Dawson was cast to voice Barbara Gordon, the daughter of police commissioner James Gordon who later becomes the crime-fighting heroine Batgirl.  The following month, Ralph Fiennes was cast as Alfred Pennyworth,  Bruce Wayne's butler. Mariah Carey, although initial reports indicated she was playing Commissioner Gordon,  was actually cast as Mayor McCaskill.  The first trailer for the film was released on March 24, 2016, followed by a second on March 28 the same year.  The film was released in the United States on February 10, 2017. Brothers Dan and Kevin Hageman, who wrote Lego Ninjago: Masters of Spinjitzu and co-wrote the story of The Lego Movie, penned the film adaptation of Lego Ninjago, which features a new take that diverges from the TV series. Charlie Bean, who produced Disney's Tron: Uprising, directed the film, produced by The Lego Movie team of Dan Lin, Roy Lee, Phil Lord and Christopher Miller.  The spin-off movie was scheduled to be released on September 23, 2016.  On April 20, 2015, the film was delayed to September 22, 2017 as Storks took over the original release date of the movie.  In June 2016, the cast was announced to include Jackie Chan, Dave Franco, Michael Peña, Abbi Jacobson, Kumail Nanjiani, Zach Woods and Fred Armisen respectively. Even before the critical acclaim and blockbuster success of The Lego Movie, talks for a sequel were already in motion. On February 3, 2014, Jared Stern and Michelle Morgan were tasked to write a screenplay.  On February 21, 2014, the studio scheduled the sequel for a May 26, 2017, release.  On March 12, 2014, Deadline reported that the first film's animation co-director Chris McKay would direct the sequel with Phil Lord and Christopher Miller as producers.  Warner Bros. did not invite co-producer of the first film, Village Roadshow Pictures, to return as a participant in the sequel, due to Warner Bros. having now more confidence in the film and trying to keep as much profit as possible for itself.  On April 10, 2014, McKay expressed that he would like to introduce more women in the sequel than men.  On July 28, 2014, it was reported that on the internet, Chris Pratt expressed interest in reprising his role as Emmet for the sequel.  It was also reported that Will Arnett might return as Batman, but had not decided yet.  In October 2014, Warner Bros. scheduled The Lego Batman Movie for 2017, and The Lego Movie 2 for 2018.  By October 25, 2014, Lord and Miller had signed on to write The Lego Movie 2.  The writers have implied that the sequel will take place four years after the events of The Lego Movie.  In February 2015, Warner Bros. announced that the title of the sequel had been changed to The Lego Movie Sequel, and that Rob Schrab, co-writer of Monster House replaced McKay as director since McKay went to direct The Lego Batman Movie.  According to an interview at the Santa Barbara Film Festival, the sequel will focus on Emmet and his sister, taking place in "weird, dystopian version of Bricksburg."  On April 20, 2015, Warner Bros. scheduled The Lego Movie Sequel for a May 18, 2018 release date.  On June 17, 2016, the film's release was delayed to February 8, 2019.  By July 2016, Raphael Bob-Waksberg had been hired to do rewrites of the script.  By February 2017, Schrab had been replaced by Mike Mitchell, reportedly due to "creative differences".  On September 6, 2017, it was announced that production of The Lego Movie Sequel would begin in Canada on October 2, 2017.   It was also announced that Lord and Miller have returned to re-rewrite the script to tackle with gender issues on how a girl plays vs. how a boy plays.  On March 23, 2018, it was confirmed that Tiffany Haddish was cast in the film as a new lead character while returning actors would be Pratt as regular guy turned Master Builder Emmet Brickowski, Elizabeth Banks as Wyldstyle, Arnett as Batman, Channing Tatum as Superman and Jonah Hill as Green Lantern.  On May 21, 2018, Warner Bros. officially renamed the film The Lego Movie 2: The Second Part along with releasing the first teaser poster.   In March 2015, Warner Bros. announced that a third Lego Movie spin-off, titled The Billion Brick Race, was in development. Jason Segel and Drew Pearce were signed on to co-direct and write the film.  The film is scheduled to be released in May of 2019.   On August 2, 2017, it was announced that Jorge R. Gutierrez had signed on as director, with Pearce stepping down.  But on February 8, 2018, it was announced that Gutierrez had left the project.  On July 16, 2018, the films plot was announced by Pearce who stated it would be a LEGO racing movie inspired from pre-existing racing films including The Cannonball Run. However, it was never specified as to whether the film was still planned for a May 2019 release.  The Lego Movie Videogame is the first video game in the franchise, and is loosely based on the film. The game was developed by TT Fusion and TT Games and published by WB Games. It features over 100 playable characters.  Lego Dimensions is a toys-to-life game by TT Games, and is a crossover game with over 30 franchises, including The Lego Movie and The Lego Batman Movie. Based on The Lego Ninjago Movie, TT Fusion and WB Games released the game coinciding with the release of the film.  Enter the Ninjago is a short film included on the DVD release of The Lego Movie. The president of Hollywood sits down with Emmet and changes up the plot of The Lego Movie to prominently feature Ninjas for marketing purposes. The Master is a 2016 computer animated short film written and directed by Jon Saunders, co-written by Ross Evans, Carey Yost and Remington D. Donovan and produced by Ryan Halprin. The short film was released on September 23, 2016, with Warner Animation Group's Storks, as well as early showings of The Lego Batman Movie in the United Kingdom. It stars Jackie Chan as Master Wu, Abbi Jacobson as The Chicken, and Justin Theroux as Narrator.  The short follows Wu and an annoying chicken. This is the first Lego short film to be released in theaters, and is also the first theatrical short film from The Lego Movie franchise. Batmersive VR Experience is a virtual reality short film, released on the internet in April 2017. Batman takes the viewer on a tour of the Batcave and other places of Gotham City to show the ways of being his sidekick.  Dark Hoser is a short film included on the DVD release of The Lego Batman Movie. Batman attends a tryout to apply to be a member of the Justice League of America, but only finds out he might be Canadian. Batman is Just Not That Into You is a short film included on the DVD release of The Lego Batman Movie. Harley Quinn hosts a talk show and helps The Joker break up with Batman. Cooking with Alfred is a short film included on the DVD release of The Lego Batman Movie. Alfred hosts a Cooking show with Batman and Robin as his guest stars. Movie Sound Effects: How Do They Do That? is a short film included on the DVD release of The Lego Batman Movie. Bane, The Riddler, Poison Ivy and Catwoman are brought into a Sound Booth to help record sound effects for The Lego Batman Movie. Shark E. Shark in "Which Way To The Ocean?" is a short film included on the DVD release of The Lego Ninjago Movie. The short follows a baby Shark who tries make its way back the Ocean after getting shot out of Garmadon's Shark cannon. The short is animated in the style of the artwork seen in Lego instruction booklets. Zane's Stand Up Promo is a short film included on the DVD release of The Lego Ninjago Movie. The short itself is a humorous promo for a Stand-up comedy DVD starring Zane. On August 1st, 2018, a short film marketed as a promotional tie-in and teaser to The Lego Movie 2: The Second Part unofficially titled Turkish Airlines: Safety Video with The LEGO Movie Characters was released. It is an Airline safety video featuring characters from The Lego Movie franchise and was devoloped as part of a partnership between Warner Bros. and Turkish Airlines. It is presented by Emmet and Lucy while featuring cameo appearances from multiple characters all across the different erea's of the franchise.    On December 16, 2015, a promo video for a new 4D film at Legoland Florida based on The Lego Movie called The Lego Movie: 4D - A New Adventure was posted onto Lego's YouTube channel.  The short subject premiered at Legoland Florida on January 29, 2016 before being rolled out to all other Legoland Parks and Legoland Discovery Centers later that year. It sees many of the original cast returning including Elizabeth Banks as Lucy "Wyldstyle", Nick Offerman as MetalBeard, Alison Brie as Princess Unikitty and Charlie Day as Benny while Emmet is voiced by A.J. Locascio (due to Chris Pratt being unavailable at the time). The film is titled The Lego Movie: 4D - A New Adventure, and introduces a new character called Risky Business (voiced by Patton Oswalt) who is Lord Business' older brother.  On May 10, 2017, Warner Bros. and Lego announced that Unikitty, a character from The Lego Movie, would get a spin-off animated television series on Cartoon Network. For the show, she is voiced by Tara Strong. The premiere date was January 1, 2018 and the show's executive producers are Phil Lord, Christopher Miller, Dan Lin, Roy Lee, Jill Wilfert and Sam Register. Ed Skudder (creator of Dick Figures and co-creator of Dogsnack) and Lynn Wang (co-creator of Dogsnack) are signed as producers while Aaron Horvath serves as supervising producer.    The series aired a Halloween special/sneak peek titled "Spoooooky Game" on October 27, 2017.  The series aired a second sneak peek "Sparkle Matter Matters" on November 17, 2017 and a third and final sneak peek/Christmas special titled "No Day Like Snow Day" aired December 1, 2017. 