The Shadowhunter Chronicles is a media franchise based on the writings of American young adult fiction writer Cassandra Clare, which encompasses three novel series, two short-story collections, four graphic novels, one film, a television series, and other media. These works are set in a universe where fairy tales and mythologies, both pagan and Judeo-Christian, exist with its figures existing alongside the mundanes (normal humans). A race of humans who possess angel blood, the Nephilim or Shadowhunters, is organized to patrol the Shadow World and prevent demons as well as Downworlders, including warlocks, faeries, werewolves, and vampires from attacking the mundanes. There is an uneasy peace, a treaty known as The Accords, between the governing body of the Nephilim, known as the Clave, and the Downworlders, not all of whom want peace or respect the Clave's authority. The following books are arranged in order of their respective timelines. The Infernal Devices is a trilogy of young adult fantasy novels written by Cassandra Clare and is the second set of books to be published. Set in 1878 in Victorian era London, it revolves around Tessa Gray, a teenager who comes to London following her brother's invitation but ends up thrust into the shadow world upon learning she is not a mundane but a warlock. The Last Hours is an upcoming trilogy written by Cassandra Clare. It will be the fourth set of books to be published. The sequel to The Infernal Devices series, it will be set in 1903 London and Paris and will revolve around the children of the previous series's main characters, including those of Tessa Gray. The first book, tentatively named Chain of Gold , is set to be released in 2019  The Mortal Instruments is a series of six young adult fantasy novels written by Cassandra Clare. It is the first set of books to be published. The series is mainly set in the year 2007 and revolves around the Shadowhunter Clary Fray. She and her friends are confronted with two wars: the first against Valentine Morgenstern, and the second against his son Jonathan (Sebastian) Morgenstern. The Dark Artifices is a trilogy of young adult fantasy novels written by Cassandra Clare. It is the third set of books to be published. The sequel to The Mortal Instruments series, it takes place in 2012, five years after the events of that series's final book, City of Heavenly Fire. It revolves around the Shadowhunter Emma Carstairs, first introduced in City of Heavenly Fire, as she seeks the answer for her parents' mysterious deaths. The first book, Lady Midnight, was released on March 8, 2016. It brings in many of the previously introduced characters such as Magnus Bane, James Carstairs, and Tessa Gray. The second book, Lord of Shadows, was released on May 23, 2017. The final book in the trilogy, "Queen of Air and Darkness", is set to be released on December 4, 2018.  The Wicked Powers is an upcoming trilogy written by Cassandra Clare. It will be the fifth set of books to be published and is set to wrap up The Shadowhunter Chronicles.  The following books are listed in order of their publication dates. In 2010, Screen Gems announced that they were going into production on the film adaptation of City of Bones,  the first book in The Mortal Instruments series, with hopes of starting a successful film franchise. The film was originally due for release on August 23, 2013, but was pushed back two days earlier, on August 21, 2013.  The film premiered on August 12, 2013, at the Cinerama Dome in Hollywood.   Production on a film adaptation of the second book, City of Ashes, was due to start in September 2013, but was delayed to 2014, and eventually cancelled, after the first film failed to recoup its budget.  On October 12, 2014, at Mipcom, Constantin confirmed that The Mortal Instruments will return as a television series with Ed Decter as showrunner.  Constantin Film and TV head Martin Moszkowicz told The Hollywood Reporter that, "It actually makes sense to do [the novels] as a TV series. There was so much from the book that we had to leave out of the Mortal Instruments film. In the series we'll be able to go deeper and explore this world in greater detail and depth."   The producers hope to adapt the entire book series if the TV adaptation proves successful.  In February 2015, book series author Cassandra Clare announced via Twitter that the television series would be called Shadowhunters rather than The Mortal Instruments.  In March 2015, ABC Family picked up Shadowhunters straight-to-series, and premiered on January 12, 2016.  The series was renewed for a second season in March 2016, comprising 20 episodes, which premiered on January 2, 2017.    In April 2017, it was announced that the series was renewed for a third season of 20 episodes. The first half of ten episodes premiered on March 20, 2018.    On June 4, 2018, Freeform canceled the series after three seasons, but ordered two extra episodes to properly conclude the series' story; the second half of the third season is set to air in early 2019.  