 Drunk History is an American educational television comedy series produced by Comedy Central, based on the Funny or Die web series created by Derek Waters and Jeremy Konner in 2007.  In each episode, an inebriated narrator, who is played by a comedian joined by host Waters, struggles to recount an event from history, while actors enact the narrator's anecdotes and also lip sync the dialogue. In addition to creator Derek Waters and celebrity guest stars, the show's additional characters are played by regulars such as Bennie Arthur, Tim Baltz, Mort Burke, Sarah Burns, Maria Blasucci, Craig Cackowski, Michael Cassady, Michael Coleman, Tymberlee Hill, Adam Nee, Jeremy J. Tutson, J.T. Palmer and Aasha Davis. Will Ferrell and Adam McKay are among the show's executive producers. The series premiered on Comedy Central on July 9, 2013.  On February 22, 2018, Comedy Central renewed the show for a sixth season.  The idea for the series originated from a drunken conversation that Derek Waters had with his friend, the actor Jake Johnson, in which Johnson recounted the story of R&B singer Otis Redding who died in a plane crash. Waters thought it would be funny to film and recreate a story of an intoxicated person stumbling through a historical story, and have actors reenact the story. Waters told his friend actor Michael Cera about the idea and Cera encouraged him to make it and volunteered to appear in the video. The first video premiered on the website Funny or Die on August 6, 2007. It starred Johnson, Waters, Cera, and actress Ashley Johnson.  The series continued to air online on Funny or Die and briefly aired on HBO.  The series premiered on Comedy Central on July 9, 2013.  The storytellers in the series read up on the stories while sober, then rehearse it in front of a producer before getting drunk.  Waters said that he drinks with the storytellers in order to "let them know we're doing this together," and as to make it not feel exploitative.  According to series creator Derek Waters all the dates and story elements are true, though the dialogue of the historical figures is obviously not accurate. He told NPR that he "make[s] sure to go back and say: Make sure you say this date or this person's name. I don't want to mess up anyone's names. But obviously the dialogue is the stuff that is not accurate."  Independent newspapers have verified that the information in the series is historically accurate.   Since January 12, 2015, a British version of Drunk History has been broadcast on Comedy Central's UK channel. A Latin American version called Drunk History: El lado borroso de la historia is presented by Eugenio Derbez. The Hungarian version titled Tömény történelem started airing on October 24, 2016 on Comedy Central Hungary.  A Brazilian version hosted by Danilo Gentili, called Drunk History Brasil: o Lado Embriagado da História, will be broadcast on SBT as a segment of The Noite com Danilo Gentili in 2017.  Comedy Central Brasil will broadcast the show separated from The Noite.  Argentina's Telefe (owned by Viacom) will broadcast the Argentine version of the show, called Pasado de Copas: Drunk History, hosted by Marcos Mundstock, member of renowned group Les Luthiers. An Australian version has been commissioned for a Pilot for Network Ten. The pilot episode will air as a part of the network’s Pilot Week, in which the pilots for several new shows will be aired during a week. The decision to produce further episodes being dependant on the reception of its pilot airing.   The pilot episode featured stories about Ned Kelly (presented by Stephen Curry) and Phar Lap (presented by Rhys Darby). 