The Drowning Girl: A Memoir is a 2012 novel by American writer Caitlín R. Kiernan, set in Providence, Rhode Island.  The story's protagonist and unreliable narrator, India Morgan Phelps (also known as Imp), is schizophrenic.  It has been described as an "eerie masterpiece of literary horror and dark fantasy" containing elements of magical realism.  It has also been described as semi-autobiographical.  The novel has been translated into a number of languages, including French, Polish, Portuguese, Spanish, Romanian, and Turkish. The Drowning Girl follows the story of India Morgan Phelps, an unreliable narrator struggling with hereditary mental illness.  India states that she has decided to write down the bizarre events that occurred two years ago. Early in the novel, she befriends her eventual roommate and lover, a transgender woman named Abalyn Armitage. India works at an art supply store, but she is also a painter and a writer. The entirety of the novel is written as a fictionalized memoir. One night, India picks up a hitchhiker named Eva Canning, whom she finds stranded and naked on the side of the road, although India is unable to pinpoint whether she met Eva in July or November. Eva stays with India only for a short while (much to Abalyn's chagrin) before the mysterious woman takes off on her own, but continues to stalk India. This sparks India's obsession with her and her past. This obsession however, leads to Abalyn leaving India. India often deals with such events by writing short stories, some of them relate to Eva, mysterious artist named Albert Perrault, and a nineteenth century painting known as "The Drowning Girl". After running into Abalyn and her new girlfriend in real time, India begins to lose her grasp on what is real and what isn't. As a result of her inability to tell fact from fiction, her growing obsession with Eva Canning and Abalyn's India suffers a mental breakdown when Abalyn insists that there is only one Eva Canning.  India stops taking her medication, stops eating, neglects phone calls from Abalyn, her therapist, her boss (who fires her), and her aunt, and begins to paint and write obsessively until Abalyn finds her half-dead in her apartment. With the help of Abalyn, India discovers that Eva Canning's mother (also named Eva)  was part of a cult lead by a woman known as Jacova Anjevine, who along with her followers committed mass suicide by walking into the sea some years prior, and that Eva was the only survivor. India believes that Eva Canning might be a ghost or a sea-dwelling creature in a human disguise, but the story is vague as to whether India actually encounters any supernatural phenomena. India eventually does meet Eva Canning, and the two have a bizarre sexual encounter during which Canning appears to morph into a fish-like creature. Eva confesses to India that she wishes to go to the sea to be with her mother, which India obliges by taking her to the beach, at which point Eva walks into the water and India calls out to her. Eva looks back and tells her to "join the dance". India tells the reader that she doesn't know whether or not to run into the water after her. Eva's body washes up on the shore after. India reunites with Abalyn, and it is implied they are still together at the end of the novel. 