The Affair is an American television drama series created by Sarah Treem and Hagai Levi.  The series premiered on Showtime on October 12, 2014. A TV-14 version of the pilot episode was made available online beginning on October 6, 2014, via YouTube, SHO.com, and several other on-demand formats.  A 12-episode second season of The Affair premiered on October 4, 2015.  On December 9, 2015, the series was renewed for a third season,  which debuted on November 20, 2016.  On January 9, 2017, Showtime renewed the series for a fourth season,  which premiered on June 17, 2018.  On July 26, 2018, Showtime announced it had renewed the series for a fifth and final season to debut in 2019.  The series won the Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series – Drama and Ruth Wilson won for Best Actress – Television Series Drama at the 72nd Golden Globe Awards in 2015. At the 73rd Golden Globe Awards in 2016, Maura Tierney won the award for Best Supporting Actress. The Affair explores the emotional effects of an extramarital relationship between Noah Solloway and Alison Lockhart (Dominic West and Ruth Wilson) after they casually meet at the diner where Alison works. The show begins with the Solloway family packing up the family van to stay in the resort town of Montauk, New York. Noah is happily married with four children, but he resents their dependence on his wealthy father-in-law. Alison is a local waitress trying to piece her life and marriage back together in the wake of her young son's tragic accidental death at the age of four. The story of the affair is depicted from Noah's and Alison's perspectives respectively, complete with memory bias which often results in vastly different scenarios.  Each episode has two parts, one as remembered by Noah, the other by Alison. Noah's perspective is of a vibrant, playful, and sexy Alison who comes on to him, while her perspective is more cautious, reserved, with a dulled conservative sense of self, and Noah coming on to her. In the second season, the narrative is expanded to include the perspectives of Noah and Alison's original spouses, Helen Solloway and Cole Lockhart (Maura Tierney and Joshua Jackson), as they all move forward with the dissolution of their marriages and deal with the ramifications.  The subsequent death of Alison's brother-in-law, Scott (Colin Donnell), and the ensuing police investigation and criminal trial, are explored in flashforward scenes at the end of most episodes. The third season is set three years later, following the culmination of the flashforward trial scenes, after Noah is released from prison. Season 3 introduces an occasional perspective, Juliette Le Gall (Irène Jacob), Noah's new love interest.  In the fourth season, Noah has moved to Los Angeles to be closer to his younger children Trevor (Jadon Sand) and Stacey (Abigail Dylan Harrison), as Helen and Vik (Omar Metwally) have moved there. Cole and Luisa (Catalina Sandino Moreno) are living together in Montauk, while Alison is working as a grief counselor. Season 4 features opening flashforward sequences, featuring Noah and Cole, in its first four episodes, which ultimately leads to the discovery of Alison's death. Characters marked "Perspective" have parts of episodes told from their point of view. On February 8, 2013, it was announced that Showtime had ordered a pilot for The Affair.  The network officially picked up the series on January 16, 2014, with a 10-episode order.  On November 10, 2014, Showtime renewed the series for a 10-episode second season;  however, it was later changed to 12.  The first season received praise from critics. On the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the season has a rating of 90%, based on 50 reviews, with an average rating of 8.18/10. The consensus reads: "Thanks to some smart, creative storytelling and spectacular performances, The Affair is a somber, bewitching exploration of truth and desire."  On Metacritic, the first season has a score of 85 out of 100, based on 28 reviews, indicating "universal acclaim".  The second season received continued positive reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, the season has a rating of 90%, based on 21 reviews, with an average rating of 8.04/10. The consensus reads: "The Affair shifts its emphasis in season two, moving psychological drama to the foreground and expanding the show's central crime story to include two new points of view."  On Metacritic, it has a score of 78 out of 100 based on 15 reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews".  Gwen Ihnat of The A.V. Club gave it an "A-" grade and wrote that "With its bold new move to double our number of perspectives, it appears that The Affair will sail over that sophomore slump that has felled so many other Showtime dramas.  The third season received continued positive reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, the season has a rating of 79%, based on 19 reviews, with an average rating of 7.67/10. The consensus reads: "The Affair adds to its cast of strong characters and deepens the mood, tension, and intrigue, even if the plot sometimes struggles to move forward."  On Metacritic, it has a score of 72 out of 100 based on 8 reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews".  The fourth season received continued positive reviews from critics.  On Rotten Tomatoes, the season has a rating of 90%, based on 21 reviews, with an average rating of 7.8/10. The consensus reads: "The Affair's captivating character study returns with fewer kinks than its previous outing, resulting in a more emotionally grounded season that regains much of the show's initial allure."  The first season was released on DVD in region 1 on August 4, 2015. The set contains all 10 episodes, plus special features, including character profiles and costume featurettes.  The second season was released on DVD in region 1 on August 16, 2016.  The third season was released on DVD in region 1 on April 25, 2017.  In Canada, the series premiered simultaneously with the American broadcast on October 12, 2014, and airs on Movie Central and The Movie Network.  The series premiered on Showcase in Australia on February 10, 2015.  Sky Atlantic bought the rights to air The Affair in the UK with season one beginning in May 2015.  