A bachelorette party, hen(s) party, hen(s) night or hen(s) do, is a party held for a woman who is about to get married. The terms hen party, hen do or hen night are used in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Canada, while the terms hens party or hens night are common in Australia and New Zealand, and the term bachelorette party is common in the United States. The term stagette is occasionally used in Canada.  It may also be referred to as a girls' night out or kitchen tea (South Africa in particular) or other terms in other English-speaking countries. Other pre-wedding celebrations, such as the bridesmaids luncheon, are often held in lieu of bachelorette parties due to the latter's association with licentiousness in some countries since the 1980s.   The bachelorette party is modeled after the bachelor party,  which is itself historically a dinner given by the bridegroom to his friends shortly before his wedding.  Despite its reputation as "a sodden farewell to maiden days" or "an evening of debauchery," these parties are simply parties given in honor of the bride-to-be, in the style that is common to that social circle.  Prior to its usage as a term for a pre-wedding party, hen party was used in the United States as a general term for an all-female gathering, usually held at a hostess's residence. In 1897, The Deseret News noted that a hen party was a "time honored idea that tea and chitchats, gossip smart hats, constitute the necessary adjuncts to these particular gatherings".  In 1940 Eleanor Roosevelt was described as hosting a Christmas-time hen party for cabinet wives and "ladies of the press".    The bachelorette party is consciously modeled after the centuries-old bachelor's party,   which is itself historically a black tie dinner given by the bridegroom,  or sometimes his father,  shortly before his wedding.  The practice of giving a party to honour the bride-to-be goes back for centuries. However, certain American bachelorette party customs involving licentiousness among some social groups may have begun during the Sexual Revolution of the 1960s. It was uncommon until at least the mid-1980s,  and the first book on planning bachelorette parties was published only in 1998. Since the 1980s, many parties in honor of the bride-to-be that were labeled as bachelorette parties often involved displays of sexual freedom, such as trading intimate secrets, getting drunk, and watching male strippers.  Parties that honored the bride-to-be without them avoided that label.  Now, however, the term is used for a wide variety of parties.    Bachelorette parties became especially popular around the turn of the 21st century and frequently appeared in the news.  Those uncomfortable with these modern customs of debauchery often celebrate the night before their wedding with a combined stag and doe party, a custom that has become increasingly popular.  Author Beth Montemurro has tied the cultural significance of a bachelorette party to concepts of gender equality.   The phrase "hen party" mirrors the male "stag party" in referencing social stereotypes of each gender at the party.  Many different kinds of entertainment are selected, depending on what the organizers think will best please their guest of honor.   While notions of a bachelorette party as a night of drunken debauchery have persist in some social circles since the 1980s,  it is becoming widely seen in America as an opportunity for female bonding.  According to etiquette expert Peggy Post, "Whatever entertainment is planned, it should not embarrass, humiliate, or endanger the honoree or any of the guests."  When held in a private venue, such as the hostess's home, the party may take any form that pleases the hostesses and honors the bride-to-be. Dinners and cocktail parties, which provide comfortable opportunities for participants to talk or to give intimate advice to the bride-to-be, are common.  Other hostesses choose a themed party, such as a "pamper party," with guests indulging in spa treatments, or a cooking class.   While proposing a toast to the bride-to-be is common at most bachelorette parties, some center on drinking games. In the 21st century, many companies sell products aimed at the organizers of bachelorette parties, including packs of themed games, pre-printed invitations, decorations, novelties, and sex toys. A common theme of parties is male nudity. In North America, it is common in some social circles to hire a male stripper or attend a male strip club. In the UK, a naked butler has become a common theme and a popular hen party idea. The naked butler is often dressed in just a collar, dickie bow, cuffs and a short apron or trunks. He will wait on the hen and her party including serving drinks and food as well as hosting or taking part in hen party games and entertainment. An extension of this concept that has also become popular in the UK is the hiring of a naked chef to cater for the guests often accompanied by a naked butler to serve the food and drinks. Life drawing parties featuring a nude male model might also be held.  Participants are often all women. Bridesmaids (if any) are typically invited, but any of the bride's close friends may be included.  This party is typically hosted by one or more members of the wedding party, although it is possible for any friend to host a party in honor of the bride-to-be. Formally, a party in honor of the bride-to-be is never hosted by the bride-to-be,  although she may participate in its planning. While it is normally the duty of a hostess to pay for the entertainment she gives her guests, it is common in most English-speaking countries for participants to share the costs of this event.  Whether the bride-to-be pays her share, or whether her share is divided between other participants is determined by the organizers and the bride-to-be during the early stages of the planning process. Participating in a bachelorette party is always optional, and many brides decline these parties altogether.  Neither bridesmaids nor other friends can be required either to attend or to pay for any part of this party.  Since it is derived from a formal dinner, a bachelorette party is properly held in the evening,  usually about a week (or at least a few days) before the wedding,  and usually includes dinner, although alternative approaches are not uncommon.  In the early 21st century, some bachelorette parties rivaled the drunkenness seen in Hollywood portrayals of bachelor parties.    However, sober bachelorette parties are not unusual.   Many brides and guests are staying sober in recovery from alcoholism or are not drinking alcoholic beverages due to pregnancy or health issues, for religious reasons, or because they do not want to drink alcohol.   Sober parties focus on building relationships and activities beyond hanging out at a place that serves alcohol.  Many bachelorette parties are held at home or at a nearby restaurant.  Some people turn a bachelorette party into a weekend trip to another city.  Some cities, such as Austin for people in the southwestern US and Nashville for people in the Upper Midwest, are relatively popular with American bridal parties that are seeking a weekend destination and can afford to pay hundreds of dollars per person for the experience.   Other people will travel farther to cities such as Las Vegas.  In the UK, parties in relatively inexpensive European destinations such as Latvia and the Canary Islands are popular.   One reason that bridal parties travel to a different city is because they want to behave differently than they normally would, but they do not want to deal with the social repercussions that might ensue if friends, family members, or professional acquaintances saw them doing this.   When large numbers of bachelor and bachelorette parties choose the same cities, this can produce extra jobs and new businesses to cater to them, but it also draws complaints from local residents who are faced with the disruption and public service costs caused by the seasonal influx of noisy parties and drunken visitors.   Stag parties caused so much disruption in Riga, Latvia that the city formed a police group specifically to deal with bachelor and bachelorette parties.   A more traditional alternative is the bridesmaids luncheon, hosted by friends of the bride's mother or mothers of the bridesmaids, usually give the day before the wedding. Attendees include the bridesmaids, their mothers and close female friends and relatives; the event is often multi-generational including mothers and even grandmothers of the bride and groom. At a bridesmaids luncheon, the bride often presents a small gift to each bridesmaid. The purpose of the luncheon is for the bride to thank her attendants and includes presenting them with bridesmaid gifts. This is also the time when the bridesmaids' gift, if any, is customarily given to the bride. If there is a cake, it may contain symbolic good luck charms. If a significant aspect of the party is presenting small gifts to the bride-to-be, then the event is properly called a bridal shower. For the convenience of the bride-to-be, bridal showers are usually held earlier than a bachelorette party.  A stag and doe party, also called a "Jack and Jill", "buck and doe" or "hag" (hen + stag) party, is a fundraising party that includes both men and women.  These parties are held by couples wishing to distance themselves from the licentiousness associated with many post-1980s bachelorette parties and are becoming increasingly popular, especially as a means to financially support a wedding.  . 