Bosnian genocide denial is the act of denying the planned systematic genocide or the assertion that the Bosnian genocide, planned and perpetrated by Serb academic, political and military establishment against Bosniak Muslim population of Bosnia and Herzegovina, did not occur in the manner or to the extent described by scholarship and established by the ICTY and the ICJ through its judgments. The Bosnian genocide is widely acknowledged and regarded by genocide scholars as the biggest and worst war-crime  perpetrated on European soil since World War II. With its "culture of denial", it can be compared to similar negationist historical revisionisms such as Armenian and Rwandan genocide denial, Nanking Massacre denial, or even Holocaust denial. Sonja Biserko, president of the Helsinki Committee for Human Rights in Serbia, and Edina Bećirević, the Faculty of Criminalistics, Criminology and Security Studies of the University of Sarajevo, have pointed to a culture of denial of the genocide in Serbian society: Denial of the Srebrenica genocide takes many forms [in Serbia]. The methods range from the brutal to the deceitful. Denial is present most strongly in political discourse, in the media, in the sphere of law, and in the educational system.  The debate among revisionist ranges from challenging the judicial recognition of the killings as an act of genocide to the denial of a massacre having taken place. The finding of genocide by the ICJ and the ICTY, has been disputed on evidential and theoretical grounds. The number of the dead has been questioned as has the nature of their deaths. It has been alleged that considerably fewer than 8,000 were killed and/or that most of those killed died in battle rather than by execution. It has been claimed that the interpretation of "genocide" is refuted by the survival of the women and children. From approximately 1 August 1995 to 1 November 1995, there was an organised effort to remove the bodies from primary mass gravesites and transport them to secondary and tertiary gravesites.  In the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia court case "Prosecutor v. Blagojevic and Jokic", the trial chamber found that this reburial effort was an attempt to conceal evidence of the mass murders.  The trial chamber found that the cover up operation was ordered by the VRS Main Staff and subsequently carried out by members of the Bratunac and Zvornik Brigades.  The cover-up operation has had a direct impact on the recovery and identification of the remains. The removal and reburial of the bodies have caused them to become dismembered and co-mingled, making it difficult for forensic investigators to positively identify the remains.  For example, in one specific case, the remains of one person were found in two different locations, 30 km apart.  In addition to the ligatures and blindfolds found at the mass graves, the effort to hide the bodies has been seen as evidence of the organised nature of the massacres and the non-combatant status of the victims, since had the victims died in normal combat operations, there would be no need to hide their remains.   Similarly to their writing on Rwandan genocide, economist Edward S. Herman and independent researcher David Peterson, as well as Diana Johnstone and John Robles were engaged in revision and denial of the Bosnian genocide. In several articles, such as "The Politics of the Srebrenica Massacre", written by Herman, or "The Srebrenica Massacre was a Gigantic Political Fraud", penned by Herman and Robles, while repeating claims about political motives by western government and NATO conspirators from Herman & Peterson book "Politics of Genocide", authors, concentrating on the Srebrenica massacre, state that Serb at Srebrenica were actually "killing (of) Bosnian-Muslim soldiers" and even that was in response to the "killing of over 2,000 Serb civilians, mostly women and children, at the location by Bosnian-Muslim army", and that the numbers of executed Bosnian-Muslim soldiers "were probably in the order of between 500 and 1,000 (...) (i)n other words, less than half of the number of Serbs civilians killed before July, 1995".  For this complete reversal of reality they rely on and cite informations provided by another independent researcher Diana Johnstone, who herself never set foot in Bosnia, without a shadow of a doubt or critical examination into evidence and sources provided. They cite that women and children were largely spared and that only military age men were targeted.   This view is not supported by the findings of the ICJ or the ICTY.  ===Revisionist-denialist claims per sources: Critics, such as Edward S. Herman in his book The Srebrenica Massacre and the British journalist Mick Hume, cite a discrepancy between a figure of over 8,000 victims and the number of bodies found and identified as casting doubt on the explanation of the events, despite the long delays in locating mass graves and identifying the bodies in them. During the Bosnian war, Slobodan Milošević had effective control of most Serbian media.     Following the end of the war, scepticism about Srebrenica continued to be widespread among Serbians.  In March 2005, Miloš Milovanović, a former commander of the Serb paramilitary unit Serbian Guard who represents the Serbian Democratic Party in the Srebrenica Municipal Assembly said that "the massacre is a lie; it is propaganda to paint a bad picture of the Serbian people. The Muslims are lying; they are manipulating the numbers; they are exaggerating what happened. Far more Serbs died at Srebrenica than Muslims."   Similarly to case of Rwandan genocide denial or Armenian genocide denial, revisionist and denialist often claim that genocide is result of international political conspiracy, which invoked violence itself or exeggregated or invented , Roger Booboh, who declared that "to claim that a genocide occurred is closer to the politics of surrealism than to the truth".  A high-ranking Serb and a UN official have claimed that no genocide on Bosniak Muslims the took place at all:  