  Dead Reckoning: Memories of the 1971 Bangladesh War is a controversial book on the Bangladesh Liberation War written by Sarmila Bose.  The book caused an uproar in Bangladesh, where it has been accused of flawed and biased methodology, historical revisionism and downplaying war crimes.     Bose uses personal interviews from all sides of the war.  It accuses Bangladeshis and Pakistanis of "myth making."  Bose's study has been criticized by various indian historians and academics for numerous inaccuracies and excessive reliance on Pakistani military and government sources, thereby giving a low estimate of the 1971 Bangladesh genocide.  Researchers have accused her of flawed and biased methodology, historical revisionism and downplaying  war crimes.     In several cases, she misquoted her interviewees and other academics that she cites as reference.  Bose has been criticised for her bias towards Pakistani Army in the language she deploys – Bangladeshi accounts are labelled "claims", Pakistani officers' accounts are straightforward accounts.  Bose's impartiality has also been questioned due to her role as an advocate of US arms sales to Pakistan.       Srinath Raghavan, the author of 1971: A Global History of the Creation of Bangladesh, calls Bose's book a "disturbing misrepresentation of the 1971 war"  and further writes that "it is impossible to review the entire catalogue of evasions, obfuscations, omissions and methodological errors that suffuses the book".  The most severe criticisms against Bose report that Bose's claims that allegations of genocide and rape by the Pakistan Army were exaggerated by Bangladesh and India.    She is alleged to have presented selective interviews of witnesses in favour of her opinions.   Bose has been criticized long before publishing the book for her research methodologies. She accepts the statement of Pakistani Brigadier Taj that no women were tortured in Rajarbag to be true even though Taj was not present during the operation. But she invalidates the testimony of an eye witness of the incidents of rape done by Pakistani Army as the witness is illiterate. In another case, she asserted that since one rape victim feared for her life, she must have consented to having sex with Pakistani soldiers.  Bose's book implies a claim to being the 'first' to dissect the death toll of 3 million in 1971, Zunaid Kazi had already documented 12 different media estimates of death tolls.  Bose has responded to three of her most notable critics – Naeem Mohaiemen, Urvashi Butalia, and Srinath Raghavan.    Sarmila Bose has responded to her critics,  and maintains that her research is  unbiased and those she calls her critics who were accusing her of "betrayal" were "those who have profited for so long from mythologizing the history of 1971."  Bose also maintains that books written by Pakistanis on Pakistan Army's atrocity during 1971, were 'limited'.  