In epistemology (theory of knowledge), a self-evident proposition is a proposition that is known to be true by understanding its meaning without proof,  and/or by ordinary human reason. Some epistemologists deny that any proposition can be self-evident. For most others, one's belief that oneself is conscious is offered as an example of self-evidence. However, one's belief that someone else is conscious is not epistemically self-evident. The following proposition is often said to be self-evident: Also self evident is the statement that two plus two is equal to four. A logical argument for a self-evident conclusion would demonstrate only an ignorance of the purpose of persuasively arguing for the conclusion based on one or more premises that differ from it (see ignoratio elenchi and begging the question). It is sometimes said that a self-evident proposition is one whose denial is self-contradictory. It is also sometimes said that an analytic proposition is one whose denial is self-contradictory. But the concepts mean different things.[further explanation needed] Provided that one understands and believes a self-evident proposition, self-evident propositions are not in need of proof. Likewise, that their denial is self-contradictory does not have to be proven. It is in this sense that the self-contradictions at work in self-evident and analytic propositions are different. Not all analytic propositions are self-evident, and it is sometimes claimed that not all self-evident propositions are analytic: e.g. my knowledge that I am conscious. Claims of self-evidence also exist outside of epistemology. In informal speech, self-evident often merely means obvious, but the epistemological definition is more strict. Moral propositions may also be regarded as self-evident. For example, Alexander Hamilton cited the following moral propositions as self-evident in the Federalist No. 37: A famous claim of the self-evidence of a moral truth is in the United States Declaration of Independence, which states, "We hold these Truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness."; philosophically, these propositions' self-evidence is debatable. Another classic example in epistemology are the claims by the Vedas (Vedanta) to be self-evident. 