Andrew P. Bremberg currently serves as Assistant to the President and the Director of the Domestic Policy Council for U.S. President Donald Trump. Bremberg attended the Franciscan University of Steubenville in Ohio, receiving his B.A. degree in Psychology and Theology in 2001.  He attended the Catholic University of America, Columbus School of Law, receiving his J.D. degree in 2006.  Bremberg was employed by the US Department of Health and Human Services from July 2001 to January 2009 and served as Senior Advisor and Chief of Staff  to the Assistant Secretary for Public Health during the George W. Bush administration.  From 2009 to 2014, Bremberg served as Department Manager and top health policy expert for MITRE,  a not-for-profit organization that provides services to the United States government. MITRE manages Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDCs) supporting the Department of Defense (DOD), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts on behalf of the Federal Judiciary, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Bremberg served as Policy Advisor and Counsel on Nominations for U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell  and he had also served Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker as Policy Director during his campaign for the US Presidency.   During the 2016 election cycle, Bremberg served as the Policy Director for the GOP Platform Committee.  Bremberg was later the leader of President-elect Donald Trump's transition team for Health and Human Services. He was named Assistant to the President and the Director of the Domestic Policy Council for Trump. Bremberg, alongside Marc Short, and Rick Dearborn, coordinated with aides of Senator Mitch McConnell in employing the Congressional Review Act to reverse 13 regulations made late in the presidency of Barack Obama by creating an Excel spreadsheet of targets, eventually being able to eliminate over twice as many regulations as they had anticipated.  