Ann M. O'Leary (born 1971 or 1972)  is an American political advisor, lawyer, and nonprofit leader who specializes in early childhood education. She worked in the Bill Clinton administration and for Hillary Clinton during her time as First Lady, Senate career, and 2008 and 2016 presidential campaigns. She served in leadership positions at various nonprofit organizations that focus on early childhood education, including Next Generation and the Opportunity Institute. After Clinton's unsuccessful 2016 presidential campaign, O'Leary became a lawyer at the Palo Alto office of the New York-based firm Boies, Schiller & Flexner. O'Leary was born and raised in Orono, Maine.  She is the daughter of Charles John "Chick" O'Leary, a union leader, and Pamela Braley O'Leary, a social worker.  She is of Irish descent.  After graduating from Orono High School,  O'Leary attended Mount Holyoke College, where she was a member of the College Democrats.  She earned a B.A. in critical social thought in 1993,  an M.A. from the Stanford Graduate School of Education in 1997, and a J.D. from the University of California, Berkeley School of Law in 2005.  O'Leary began her career as a volunteer in the Clinton administration.  She later worked as a Special Assistant to the President at the White House Domestic Policy Council,  where she was in charge of children and family policy.  She also advised First Lady Hillary Clinton, acting as a liaison between Hillary Clinton's and President Bill Clinton's policy teams.  In an August 2000 memo to Bill Clinton's Domestic Policy Adviser Bruce Reed, O'Leary urged the government to consider an executive order banning federal contractors from discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation, similar to one issued in 1941 by President Franklin D. Roosevelt banning them from race-based discrimination.  From 2001 to 2003, O'Leary was Hillary Clinton's Senate aide and legislative director;   she helped oversee the passage of the No Child Left Behind Act.  O'Leary was a volunteer for Hillary Clinton's 2008 presidential campaign.  After President Barack Obama was elected, O'Leary advised his transition team on early childhood education.  O'Leary was the senior vice president and director of the Children and Families Program at Next Generation;  it partnered with the Clinton Foundation to start the Too Small to Fail initiative in 2013. O'Leary also helped run the initiative, which addressed early childhood health and education.  During the 2016 campaign, O'Leary worked as an advisor to Hillary Clinton on health and education.   For her role in the campaign, Politico Magazine named O'Leary to its 2015 "Politico 50," its list of people transforming American politics in 2015.  In August 2016, O'Leary joined Clinton's planned transition team in Washington, D.C,   becoming the co–executive director.  After the 2016 election, O'Leary joined the Palo Alto office of the New York-based law firm Boies, Schiller & Flexner as a partner.  In 2002, O'Leary married Goodwin Liu;  they have two children.  On August 30, 2016, O'Leary and Liu announced in a joint statement that they were separating.  