 David Urban (born c. 1964) is an American lobbyist, political operative, and political commentator for CNN who worked on the 2016 Donald Trump presidential campaign, helping to orchestrate the 2016 Republican National Convention and serving as a senior advisor in the successful effort to win Pennsylvania.     It has been reported that Urban has been considered for several positions in the Trump Administration, including Chair of the Republican National Committee, White House Deputy Chief of Staff,   White House Chief of Staff,    and Ambassador to Saudi Arabia.  A native of Aliquippa, Beaver County, Pennsylvania,   Urban was recruited to play football at Harvard University, but opted to instead attend the United States Military Academy at West Point,   where he was featured in the Black Knight's 1982 media guide.  An injury cut short his football career,   and he graduated in 1986 with a B.S..  Urban later simultaneously attended the University of Pennsylvania where he earned an M.G.A., and Temple University School of Law, where he received a J.D..    Urban served as an artillery officer in the United States Army's 101st Airborne Division,  from 1986 to 1991. While serving in the Persian Gulf, he was awarded the Bronze Star Medal for meritorious achievement during combat operations in Operation Desert Storm.    Urban worked with the Philadelphia-based law firm of Ballard Spahr as a public finance attorney from 1994 to 1997,   when he became chief of staff to Senator Arlen Specter.   In 2002 Urban became a partner at the American Continental Group (ACG), where he now serves as President.  ACG is a Washington-based lobbying firm that has worked with companies such as Comcast, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, and Raytheon. He was recognized on The Hill's "Top Lobbyists" list in 2015,  2016,  and 2017.  In April 2016, Urban joined Donald Trump's presidential campaign as senior advisor.  He was the deputy director of caucus operations and senior member on the ground in Cleveland for the 2016 Republican National Convention, spending over two months on that effort, and working to quell disruption by "Never Trump" delegates from the campaigns of other candidates.  Urban developed a relationship of frequent cell phone contact with Trump.  In November 2016, Urban helped gain the first presidential Republican win for Pennsylvania in over 28 years, and it was initially reported that he was being considered as the next chair of the Republican National Committee,  or White House Deputy Chief of Staff. The potential appointment was supported by former Republican Senator Rick Santorum and former Democratic Governor Ed Rendell.  As a political commentator for CNN,  Urban has commented on matters such as the House passage of the ACHA,  Trump's April 2017 NRA speech,  and Trump's 100 day mark.  As of  May 2017[update], Urban was involved in the Pennsylvania gubernatorial campaign of businessman and fellow West Point graduate Paul Mango.  It has frequently been reported that Trump was considering Urban to replace Reince Priebus as White House Chief of Staff.    Urban was an adjunct professor at Carnegie Mellon University's H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management.  Urban is a member of the board of directors of the Museum of the American Revolution,  and the Johnny Mac Soldiers Fund,  and a co-owner of PoliticsPA.  In May 2018, he was appointed by President Trump to the board of the American Battle Monuments Commission, and in July 2018, was elevated by Trump to be Chairman of that Commission.  