 Justin ("JC") Clark (born June 3, 1975) is an American lawyer and current Director of Public Liaison at the White House in the administration of U.S. President Donald Trump.   He formerly held the position of Director of Intergovernmental Affairs at the White House.  Prior to government service Clark was a partner at the law firm of Davis, Clark & Bonafonte LLC where he provided general counsel, compliance and special litigation and recount services to political campaigns and candidates nationwide.  Clark grew up in West Hartford, Connecticut and is a graduate of Conard High School and Wesleyan University.  While at Wesleyan he lettered as a defenseman for the varsity lacrosse team and was a member of the Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity.   He received his JD from the University of Connecticut School of Law in 2004.   Following law school, he clerked for Associate Justice Peter T. Zarella of the Connecticut Supreme Court and was appointed by Connecticut Governor Jodi Rell to serve on the Judicial Review Council from 2009-2013.   Clark has served various state and national campaigns. He served as General Counsel to the Connecticut Republican Party  and managed the Tom Foley gubernatorial campaigns in 2010 and 2014.  He was also political director for Linda McMahon's 2012 United States Senate campaign.  In 2015, he served as General Counsel to Matt Bevin's gubernatorial campaign in Kentucky where, among other things, he successfully developed and executed the plan to preserve an 83-vote margin in a recanvass of votes in the May primary.   Prior to joining the presidential campaign of Donald Trump, Clark served as Director of Operations for Chris Christie for President where, working with other senior staff, he helped develop and manage the budget, helped develop and implement a fifty state ballot access program and managed the travel and advance staff.  Clark was hired by Donald Trump's presidential campaign in March 2016 as the campaign's Connecticut state director and later served as an advisor to the campaign during the Indiana primary in May 2016.  In June 2016, he was named Deputy National Political Director of the campaign and served in that capacity through the end of the election.  In that role he developed and implemented a 50-state political and field strategy and during the 2016 Republican National Convention served as one of the chief whips for the campaign on the rules committee and on the floor.  He later headed the campaign's recount efforts in Michigan and served as the chief whip for the campaign in the electoral college.    After the election Clark served on the Presidential transition team.  Clark became the Director of Intergovernmental Affairs on January 20, 2017.  In March 2018, Clark was named the Director of Public Liaison.  