Marc Short (born March 3, 1970) is a Senior Fellow at the Miller Center of Public Affairs and a contributor for CNN.  He previously served as the White House Director of Legislative Affairs for President Trump; Chief of Staff for Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison; Chief of Staff for the House Republican Conference; and President of Freedom Partners Chamber of Commerce. Short was born in Virginia. He graduated from Washington and Lee University in 1992.  Short served as finance director for Oliver North's unsuccessful 1994 Senate campaign in Virginia. He then worked as spokesperson and executive director for The Freedom Alliance. Short was also the executive director of Young America's Foundation.  In 1998, the group purchased the Reagan Ranch in California,  with the intention of using it for leadership seminars for college students. Short managed the property with his wife and got his start in fundraising from conservative donors.  The Shorts then returned to Virginia, where he received his MBA from the University of Virginia.  Following his graduation, Short was hired as a spokesperson for the Department of Homeland Security. He then worked for Republican Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, eventually becoming her chief of staff. When Hutchison ran for Governor of Texas, Short started working for then-Congressman Mike Pence, who named him chief of staff for the House Republican Conference in 2009. He remained in the position until 2011.  Short was then hired by Freedom Partners, a non-profit, 501(c)(6) chamber of commerce located in Arlington, Virginia that is largely funded by Charles and David Koch.  He served as the organization's President from 2011 to 2016.  In February 2016, Short left his position at Freedom Partners to start his own consulting firm. Among his clients were Marco Rubio's presidential campaign and Pence's Indiana gubernatorial campaign.  Pence eventually withdrew from the gubernatorial race to become Trump's running mate. On June 16, 2016, Short was named Communications Advisor to then Vice Presidential candidate Pence.    President Trump named Short the Director of Legislative Affairs on January 4, 2017.  Short announced he would leave the White House post in the summer of 2018, citing “diminishing returns” of pushing President Donald Trump’s agenda.  Marc and Kristen Short were married in 1997.  They have three children and live in Arlington, Virginia.  