Sam Nunberg (born June 21, 1981) is an American public affairs consultant based in Manhattan.  He was a political advisor to Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. In March 2018, Nunberg was subpoenaed by a grand jury for testimony and documents relating to the Special Counsel's Russia investigation.  Nunberg was born to a Jewish family; his mother was a corporate attorney at Wachtell, Lipton and his father was a real estate attorney who worked with Trump attorney Gerald Schrager.  He attended the Ramaz School an independent (formerly boys' and now co-educational) Modern Orthodox Jewish prep school in the Upper East Side neighborhood of Manhattan.  He graduated with a BA in History from McGill University in 2004.  He attended Touro Law Center on Long Island, New York, from 2007 to 2009, graduating in 2009, and was admitted to the New York state bar in 2013.   While working as a volunteer for the Mitt Romney 2008 presidential campaign, Nunberg met and was hired by attorney Jay Sekulow to work at the American Center for Law & Justice in an attempt to stop the construction of the Park51 mosque.  While working there he met political operative Roger Stone, whom he has described as his mentor and "surrogate father".    Nunberg began working for Trump, as a consultant, in 2011, , after Trump decided not to run for president in 2012.  Nunberg assisted in the writing of Trump's 2011 speech at the Conservative Political Action Conference.  His other work during the period included being the director of the Middle East Forum's Legal Project from January 2012 to November 2014.   After being hired by Trump, Nunberg told friends that the more that Trump considered a presidential run, the more consulting work for Stone and him.  In February 2014 Nunberg was fired by Trump after he arranged a BuzzFeed interview that ended up being highly critical of Trump; the headline was "36 Hours on The Fake Campaign Trail with Donald Trump."   In February 2015 he was rehired by Trump, as a communications adviser for the Trump campaign,  but was let go, shortly thereafter, by then-campaign manager Corey Lewandowski.  Nunberg was rehired by the campaign in April 2015 ; between then and the beginning of July he was paid $15,139 by the campaign.  Nunberg, along with Stone, helped prepare Trump for the first Republican debate, on August 6, 2015.  Nunberg was fired at the end of July  after old Facebook posts which contained racist comments were published.  In March 2016 Nunberg endorsed Senator Ted Cruz for president, saying that Trump "does not have a coherent political ideology."  In July 2016 Trump sued Nunberg for $10 million, accusing Nunberg of violating a confidentiality agreement by leaking information to the New York Post.  In a legal response, Nunberg said that Trump might have illegally funneled corporate money into the campaign.  Trump and Nunberg settled their legal dispute in August 2016.   On March 5, 2018, Nunberg spoke to multiple cable news outlets and newspaper reporters without the knowledge of his attorney. He said he had been subpoened by a grand jury to testify and provide documents relating to Robert Mueller's Russia investigation, including all his email exchanges with Donald Trump, Roger Stone, and eight other people.  He insisted he did not intend to comply with the subpoena, saying "Let him (Mueller) arrest me!"    He also had in-person interviews with CNN's Jake Tapper and Erin Burnett  and MSNBC's Katy Tur and Ari Melber.   He later backtracked, saying that he would cooperate fully with the subpoena, while expressing frustration at the large amount of documentation requested.  On March 9, 2018 Nunberg testified before a federal grand jury for more than six hours, saying it was his, "duty as an American, whether I like it or not."  Regarding the Mueller investigation, when asked whether he believed that the special counsel may have something on Trump, Nunberg responded, "I think they may." He added: "I think that he may have done something during the election. But I don't know that for sure."  He also said "I have no knowledge or involvement in Russian collusion or any other inappropriate act" and that: "Donald Trump won this election on his own. He campaigned his ass off. And there is nobody who hates him more than me."  Regarding Trump's former foreign-policy advisor Carter Page, Nunberg said that he believed that Page did collude with the Russians."  On July 13, 2018, Nunberg spoke to Ari Melber who asked Nunberg, "People in politics say we knew there was hacking, but the man you used to work for, Donald Trump, and many people around him doubt about how it happened, whether it mattered. Do you think today's indictment, which Donald Trump was briefed on, should change his mind about undermining both the fact that the Russians did this and attacking the probe?" Nunberg replies with, "First of all I think this should change the mind of any Republican voter that doesn't want Donald Trump to be impeached."  