Mediterranean Editors and Translators (MET) is a non-profit, interdisciplinary association for language professionals who work mainly with or into English within the Mediterranean area. The association's members include translators, authors' editors, copy editors, writing and presentation coaches, teachers of academic writing, applied linguists, interpreters, professional writers and more. MET offers training workshops, an annual conference, networking and other opportunities of continuing professional development for its members. The activities of the association are guided by six objectives, summarized as follows: MET was founded in Barcelona, Spain, in the spring of 2006 after an initial, exploratory meeting the preceding autumn. It is registered in the Generalitat de Catalunya and has a legally binding charter (written in Catalan but translated into English). Its activities are directed by a Governing Council. The council, elected every two years, is composed of council chair and vice-chair, secretary, treasurer, officers for membership, continuing professional development and promotion, and a webmaster. MET is a member of the VERTICE network of Spanish associations of translators, interpreters and editors, and of the Spanish Network of the Anna Lindh Euro-Mediterranean Foundation for the Dialog Between Cultures. It also maintains relationships with the Society for Editors and Proofreaders (SfEP), European Association of Science Editors (EASE), SENSE (based in the Netherlands), Eastern Mediterranean Association of Medical Editors (EMAME), Associazione Italiana Traduttori e Interpreti (AITI), APTIC (association of translators and interpreters in Catalunya), and Nordic Editors and Translators (NEaT). The founding of NEaT was inspired by, and based on information from, MET.  MET and all these "sister associations" support each other to further the development of the language profession. MET's members are mostly based in the Mediterranean region and elsewhere in Europe, but some members from further away join because of their shared interests. MET has both individual and institutional members. MET's more than 300 individual members hail from about 25 countries in Europe, North America, Asia, Africa, Australia and Canada (data of August 2017). They are employed in freelance, entrepreneurial and institutional settings and work in a wide range of subject areas including science, technology, engineering, medicine, business, commerce, finance, law, politics, art and other cultural areas. Because of the association's focus on communication in the English language, many members originate from countries where English is the vernacular. MET’s institutional membership is a way for institutions and companies to access continuing professional development activities for their staff and to support the association’s mission. Currently there are about 10 institutional members. MET holds a conference every year, usually in early autumn. This is also the occasion for the general assembly of the members. Conferences tend to last 1.5 days and are preceded by two half-days of training workshops. Each “MET meeting” is named with the acronym of METM followed by the last two digits of the year. For example, METM18 is the name given to next year's meeting, to be held on 4-6 October 2018 in Girona, Spain. Previous METMs and their themes are: MET organizes a workshop day every spring. A full day of workshops is also offered prior to the annual conference. The workshops are usually developed and delivered by MET members and offer continuing professional development for editors and translators.  The topics dealt with include knowledge updates in specialized fields, language issues, tools for language professionals, and business development. MET members have written a guide entitled "The English-Language Consultant: MET’s guidelines for choosing an editor, translator, interpreter or other language service provider"; the second, revised edition is available on the association's website.  Discussions at two MET conferences have led to the publication of multiauthor, edited volumes about academic writing. In 2013, a limited group of MET members and their colleagues published the edited volume Supporting Research Writing: Roles and challenges in multilingual settings  (based on a panel discussion at METM09). In 2017, another group of members, invited speakers and colleagues published the edited volume Publishing Research in English as an Additional Language: Practices, pathways and potentials  (based on talks presented at METM15; free e-book). Additional publications by MET members related to the annual conferences, including reviews of the meetings and papers based on the presentations, are listed on the association's website. 