Industrial arts is an educational program which features fabrication of an objects in wood or metal using a variety of hand, power, or machine tools. It may include small engine repair and automobile maintenance, and all programs usually cover technical drawing as part of the curricula. As an educational term, industrial arts dates from 1904 when Charles R. Richards of Teachers College, Columbia University, New York suggested it to replace manual training. In the United States, industrial arts classes are colloquially known as "shop class"; these programs expose children to the basics of home repair, manual craftsmanship, and machine safety. Most industrial arts programs were established in comprehensive rather than dedicated vocational schools and focused on a broad range of skills rather than on a specific vocational training. In 1980, the name of industrial arts education in New York State was changed to "technology education" during what was called the "Figuring Project". The project goal was to increase students' technological literacy.  In Victoria (VIC, Australia) industrial arts is still a key part of the high school curriculum. The term now describes a key study of technology that focuses on both engineering and industrial technologies. Additionally, design using the aforementioned technologies is now a key part of the industrial arts curriculum and has been since the mid-1980s when the subject of technics was introduced into Victorian high schools. One of the most important aspects of industrial arts is still that while students design they ultimately realize a solution; learning the challenges involved with working with materials and also the challenges of small scale project management. Some universities have doctoral programs in industrial arts. An industrial arts club is an organization that promotes the use of industrial fabrication equipment by the general public. Clubs have grown out of the decline of industrial arts (aka shop class) programs in comprehensive school systems in the US. Clubs began as student organizations in primary and secondary schools offering industrial, the TechShop and Sparqs Industrial Arts Club based in Massachusetts which grew out of campus activities at MIT. Industrial Arts (IA) is an important part of the (NSW) high school curriculum. Industrial Arts syllabi are managed, like all NSW syllabi by the Board of Studies. In some schools Industrial Arts faculties have become part of a larger Technology faculty, however many schools still have a stand-alone Industrial Arts faculty. The primary role of Industrial Arts education is to expose students to a variety of industrial and engineering technologies that improve their understanding of the industrial and engineered world. Moreover, students learn both project management and design principles, most courses are project based with students realizing a solution to a design or engineering challenge. Two key components of the projects are synthesis of a solution and evaluation of the final product. Both of these components are the highest order objectives in Bloom's Taxonomy. Industrial Arts has a single compulsory course for Years 7 and 8: Technology (Mandatory). This course also has area that cover Home Economics concepts and Information Communication Technologies (ICT) content. For Years 9 and 10 all Industrial Arts courses are electives, the three electives on offer are Design and Technology, Graphics Technology and Industrial Technology. The most popular Industrial Arts elective is Industrial Technology. tae In Years 11 and 12 Industrial Arts offers three Higher School Certificate (HSC) non-Vocational courses: Design and Technology, Engineering Studies and Industrial Technology. In NSW the professional association for Industrial Arts teachers is the Institute of Industrial Arts Technology Education (IIATE). This organisation releases a quarterly journal (on CD) and also runs an annual conference that investigates matters relevant to Industrial Arts education. Moreover, the IIATE represents Industrial Arts teachers in a variety of situations such as syllabus development meetings and teacher training interviews. Another important role that The IIATE fulfils is that of Professional Learning. The IIATE has run some very successful training days called Hands on Technology where teachers are able to build their skills and knowledge in a variety of areas. This Hands on concept has now been extended with the Hands on Engineering day now being developed to assist teachers in delivering the Industrial Arts' courses Industrial Technology - Engineering and Engineering Studies. The IIATE has also successfully run training programmes for CAD software which has enable many more teachers to effectively embed CAD into their teaching. 