Public intoxication, also known as "drunk and disorderly" and drunk in public, is a summary offense in some countries rated to public cases or displays of drunkenness. Public intoxication laws vary widely from jurisdiction, but usually require some obvious display of intoxicated incompetence or behavior disruptive/obnoxious to public order before the charge is levied. While it is technically illegal in most states and territories of Australia to be drunk and disorderly, most Australian police are relatively lenient about public intoxication. They generally transport the IP ("Intoxicated Person") to his or her residence or temporary detention at a police station or other welfare establishment until the person is sober. In Victoria being "drunk in a public place"  and "drunk and disorderly in a public place"   are separate offences contained in the Summary Offences Act 1966 which have their own power of arrest. Recent changes to legislation allow police to issue an infringement notice for these offences  in addition to the traditional method of charging and bailing the offender to the Magistrates' Court. The current fine attached to the infringement notice is $590 for a first offence and $1,100 for a subsequent offence.  A person arrested for being drunk or drunk and disorderly is held at the Melbourne Custody Centre or the cells at a police station or placed in the care of a friend or relative.   In New South Wales police have the discretion to issue "on the spot" fines or infringement notices for "drunk in public", a fine that costs the individual over $480 (4 penalty units).  Community Legal Centres across the state complain about these fines and the impact it has had on various vulnerable members of the community, including young people, the homeless and minority groups.  Prosecution (charging) is generally only considered if the person is violent or other offenses have been committed. As an example, a "Drunk and Disorderly" Fine in the State of New South Wales starts at $550.  As of February 2009, local councils in the state of New South Wales are not allowed to charge people who drink in alcohol-free zones; they are only permitted to confiscate the alcohol of the intoxicated person.  In Canada, liquor laws are made by the provinces and not the federal government. In British Columbia, drinking in public and public intoxication are offenses.  If an event is to take place in public with alcohol it must have a permit. In Ontario, drinking in public and public intoxication are offenses. Having an open container in public garners a $125 fine. Public drunkenness garners a $65 fine and detainment until sober. If an event is to take place in public with alcohol it must have a permit. While liquor laws are similar from province to province, the laws in the territories tend to be substantially different. For instance, in the Northwest Territories public intoxication can result in imprisonment or detention in a medical facility for up to 24 hours (NWT Liquor Act). In the United Kingdom, there are a number of offences dealing with intoxication, which vary between the constituent countries. In a public place, it is an offence to be: It is also an offence to be drunk: The police will only get involved if the person is so drunk they are unable to act in a reasonable manner, such as passing out on the street. In that case typically the police will, depending on the circumstances, help the intoxicated person on their way or place the person in a police station cell until sober.  Once fit to be dealt with the detained person will normally either be cautioned, be issued with a Penalty Notice for Disorder (PND – £90 fine in ticket form) or bailed to appear at the local court. The court in turn may issue a fine (up to level 1 or level 3 on the standard scale depending on the offence charged). There are also many more specific offences, including driving a motor vehicle while drunk (or being found 'drunk in charge')  and riding a cycle while unfit through drink.  Furthermore, the police have the power (although not the obligation) to confiscate any alcohol which is being consumed in public by those under 18, and local authorities have the power to prohibit alcohol consumption in certain areas.  In New Zealand, drinking in public is not a crime and instead, local governments must specify that alcohol is banned in an area before it is considered a crime to drink in that location. Being drunk in public is not specifically an offense unless the person who is intoxicated is a public nuisance, in which case they may be dealt with for 'disturbing the peace'. This will usually result in being taken home, or otherwise taken to a police cell until sober. Laws in the United States regarding drunkenness vary widely from state to state. In 1968, in the case of Powell v. Texas, the Texas law against public intoxication was challenged in the Supreme Court of the United States for alleged violation of Eighth Amendment, which forbids cruel and unusual punishment. The court upheld the law, ruling that making a crime of public intoxication was neither cruel nor unusual. 