 A sucker punch (American English) (also known as a coward punch, king hit or one-punch attack (Australian English);  or cold-cock (American English)) is a punch made without warning or while the recipient is distracted, allowing no time for preparation or defense on the part of the recipient. It is often thrown from behind—such as in the 'knockout game'—although striking from behind is not a prerequisite for a sucker punch. The term is generally used in situations where the way in which the punch has been delivered is considered unfair or unethical, and is done using deception or distraction, hence the term 'sucker' used to refer to the victim.  In boxing, a sucker punch—as is done when 'hitting on the break', for example—is illegal. For example, when James Butler knocked Richard Grant unconscious after losing a fight to him on points, his license was suspended.  During 2013 and 2014, significant media attention was paid to two violent killings involving one-hit punches in Australia.   Noting that 91 people had died in Australia in the previous four years from brain trauma as a result of being king hit, a media campaign was launched to refer to them as coward punches.   This campaign was supported by the New South Wales Government.   As of 2017, the "one hit punch" and "king hit" is still a controversial subject among various minorities[weasel words] within Australia.[dubious  – discuss] Each share different views on the actual punch, the circumstances around it or  what led to it, the people involved and the outcome of it. Australia has been a leader in criminalising this kind of attack.   The term "sucker punch" was widely discussed after the New York Jets' starting quarterback, Geno Smith, was "sucker punched" by a fellow player, IK Enemkpali, on August 11, 2015. The altercation was in the locker room about compensation regarding a $600 airplane ticket. The sucker punch has been adapted into many films, video games and other forms of media. It can be used to show the antagonist's vileness, the low morals of an anti-hero, betrayal of someone close to the protagonist, etc. However, it also can be used as a weapon of the protagonist to deal with an unfair situation.  A sucker punch is a major dramatic element in the 2004 film Million Dollar Baby.  There are also several videos depicting sucker punches on video-sharing websites such as YouTube, however YouTube forbids such content as a violation of its Community Guidelines and are thus not supposed to be on there. Australian soap operas Neighbours and Home and Away have covered the topic in storylines broadcast in September 2014 and October 2015 respectively.   In the Pokémon game series, a move has the English name of Sucker Punch. It is a Dark-type move that allows the user to attack before the other Pokémon has a chance to, provided that the targeted Pokémon is going to attack in that same turn. P. J. O'Rourke has referred to a combination of grain alcohol and Gatorade as "sucker punch." Sucker punches tend to be done after employing distraction tactics such as pretending to notice something to trick the victim into looking also, having an accomplice to distract the victim, looking away to get the victim's guard down, or pretending to walk away only to turn around and deliver the strike. As sucker punches rely on deception they can often be anticipated using methods such as:  Sucker punches are commonly performed using either a hook-type punch, or a haymaker-type punch, as these are more damaging than straight shots due to the increased distance traveled thus enabling more time for acceleration. Because sucker punches come unexpectedly, people at risk of such blows must be alert to the proximity of potential opponents.  