Humans (taxonomically, Homo sapiens) are the only extant members of the subtribe Hominina. They are characterized by erect posture and bipedal locomotion; high manual dexterity and heavy tool use compared to other animals; open-ended and complex language use compared to other animal communications; and a general trend toward larger, more complex brains and societies. Early hominins—particularly the australopithecines, whose brains and anatomy are in many ways more similar to ancestral non-human apes—are less often referred to as "human" than hominins of the genus Homo. Several of these hominins used fire, occupied much of Eurasia, and gave rise to anatomically modern Homo sapiens in Africa about 315,000 years ago. They began to exhibit evidence of behavioral modernity around 50,000 years ago, and in several waves of migration, they ventured out of Africa and populated most of the world. Do you have a question about Humans that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. World map of early human migrations according to mitochondrial population genetics (numbers are millennia before present, the North Pole is at the center). Homo sapiens population density Humans often live in family-based social structures. Sessue Hayakawa (left) with actress and wife Tsuru Aoki in a screen shot of the 1919 film The Dragon Painter. People in cold climates tend to be lighter skinned, such as these Inuit women from Canada. Human parents continue caring for their offspring long after they are born. Allegory of Music (c. 1594), a painting of a woman writing sheet music by Lorenzo Lippi Buyers and sellers bargaining in a market in Tengeru, Tanzania An older adult human male European in Paris – playing chess at the Jardin du Luxembourg. An adult human male (left) and female (right) from the Akha tribe in Northern Thailand. Illustration of grief from Charles Darwin's book The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals. The rise of agriculture, and domestication of animals, led to stable human settlements. Family tree showing the extant hominoids: humans (genus Homo), chimpanzees and bonobos (genus Pan), gorillas (genus Gorilla), orangutans (genus Pongo), and gibbons (four genera of the family Hylobatidae: Hylobates, Hoolock, Nomascus, and Symphalangus). All except gibbons are hominids. An array of Neolithic artifacts, including bracelets, axe heads, chisels, and polishing tools. A 10 mm human embryo at 5 weeks Statue of Confucius on Chongming Island in Shanghai Men in period costume portraying soldiers during a 2011 reenactment of the Battle of Waterloo (1815) The ancestors of Native Americans, such as this Yanomami woman, crossed into the Americas from Northeast Asia, and genetic and linguistic evidence links them to North Asian populations, particularly those of East Siberia. The United Nations Headquarters in New York City, which houses one of the largest political organizations in the world The Earth, as seen from space in 2016, showing the extent of human occupation of the planet. The bright lights signify both the most densely inhabited areas and ones financially capable of illuminating those areas. People in hot climates are often slender and dark skinned, such as these Maasai men from Kenya. Humans living in Bali, Indonesia preparing a meal. A graphical representation of the standard human karyotype, including both the male (XY) and female (XX) sex chromosomes. A Libyan, a Nubian, a Syrian, and an Egyptian, drawing by an unknown artist after a mural of the tomb of Seti I. Tokyo, the world's largest metropolitan area, is an example of a mass human settlement called a city Drawing of the human brain, showing several important structures The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 