The Journal of Medical Internet Research is a peer-reviewed open-access medical journal established in 1999 covering eHealth and "healthcare in the Internet age". The editor-in-chief is Gunther Eysenbach. According to the Journal Citation Reports the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 4.671, ranking it first out of 22 journals in the category "Medical Informatics"  and 4th out of 90 journals in the category "Health Care Sciences & Services".  The journal was incorporated as JMIR Publications in 2011 and was a cofounder of the Open Access Scholarly Publishers Association. Shortly after incorporation, several sister journals were launched, focusing on specific subtopics within eHealth, such as mHealth, serious games, mental health, and cancer. The publisher of this journal, JMIR Publications, has faced criticism for initially using the same editorial board of its main journal for its sister journals and for offering a fast-track review pathway for a surcharge.  Eysenbach commented that the spin-off journals would eventually have their own boards and that the fast-track option does not affect the quality or integrity of its peer-review processes.   As of the end of 2016, all journals had their own editorial boards. The publisher, JMIR Publications, publishes over 20 journals along with Journal of Medical Internet Research, including some society journals such as the Journal of Participatory Medicine, for the Society of Participatory Medicine  . According to a survey among 398 health informatics experts in 2015 to rank the leading journals in the field of health informatics the Journal of Medical Internet Research was ranked as a top tier journal. Its 2 sister journals JMIR Medical Informatics and JMIR mHealth and uHealth were ranked in the top 20%, as #3 and #6, respectively.  JMIR mHealth and uHealth received an impact factor in June 2018 of 4.541, making it the #2 ranked journal in the medical informatics category (behind the Journal of Medical Internet Research).  JMIR Serious Games received an impact factor in June 2018 of 2.226.  