Kadamba architecture was a style of temple architecture founded by Mayurasharma in the 4th century AD in Karnataka, India  Kadambas created new style of architecture which was the basis of the Hoysalas style of architecture,  developed original school of sculpture, was the forerunner of series of South Indian sculptors.  Many temples at Aihole, Badami and Hampi are built in Kadamba architectural style. During 345 AD to 525 AD, the ancient royal dynasty of Karnataka, the Kadambas made early contribution to the Architecture of Karnataka and they are the originators.  The most prominent feature of Kadamba architecture was Shikara called Kadamba Shikara. The tower rises in steps without any decoration (pyramid shaped shikara)with pinnacle (Stupika or Kalasha) on top. The Kadamba temples vimana usually square in plan, the tower is pyramidal shape and constitutes a series of horizontal step stages decorated with uniform series of quadrangular vertical projections and covering vestibules attached to vimana, The stages are more numerous and less elevated, devoid of pavilion ornamentation. Kadamba's architecture and sculpture contributed to the foundation of Chalukya-Hoysala style. The 5th century monuments at Halasi are the oldest surviving Kadamba structure.  The most prominent feature is the Kadamba Shikara with a Kalasa on top.  In Belgaum district, Hattikeshwara, Kalleshwara and Someshwara temples at Halasi and group of temples at Kadaroli illustrates the Kadamba architecture. The old Jain basadi containing a sanctum and a sukanasi at Halasi the most ancient stone temple in Karnataka. Kadamba architecture constituted an important link between the Shatavahanas, Pallavas and Chalukyas architecture. Kadamba architecture elements in Hoysala Architecture.  Many temples at Aihole including Ramlingesvara temple Complex, Badigergudi temple and small shrines at Durga temple complex, Tryambakeshwara temple complex, ruined temple at Mallikarjuna temple complex, shrines at Jyotirlinga temple complex, small temple at Hucchimalli temple complex, ruined temples Galaganatha temple complex and many temples along the Malaprabha River are built in Kadamba architectural (Shikhara) style. Kadamba style Mallikarjuna group of temples and Bhutanatha group of temples (temple on adjacent small hill top) at Badami. Including Jain temples and two Shiva temples and many ruined temples on Hemakuta hill at Hampi built in Kadamba style of architecture. There are many shrines with Kadamba superstructure at Mahakuta including Bhimeshwara ling temple, newly renovated temple outside main temple complex. There are many temples and Basadis at Bandalike (Bandalika), it is about 35 km from Shikaripura including Shantinath basadi, Sahasralinga temple and Someshwara threemurthy temples those are of Rastrakutas and Kadambas period, temples built in Kadamba style of architecture. Mallikarjuna group of temples at Badami Madhukeshwara Temple at Banavasi Mahadev Tambdi Surla Goa Bhuvaraha Narasimha temple Halasi Two Shiva temples on Hemakuta hill at Hampi Kadamba temples on Hemakuta hill at Hampi near Virupaksha temple Temple in the Chaudayyadanapura Mukteshwara temple complex Narasimha temple Narasapura near Chaudayyadanapura, Haveri District, Karnataka Kamala Narayana Temple at Degaon Ruined temple at Aihole with Kadamba tower Stone curved kalasa, Chandragiri Hill at Shravanabelagola Lakshmeshwara Old Jain temple Kamala basadi Belagavi Ruined temple at Hooli 