Romanesque art is the architecture of Europe which emerged in the late 10th century and evolved into the Gothic style during the 12th century. The Romanesque style in England is more traditionally referred to as Norman architecture. The style can be identified across Europe with certain significant architectural features occurring everywhere. There are other characteristic which differ greatly from region to region. Most of the buildings that are still standing are churches, some of which are very large abbey churches and cathedrals. The majority of these are still in use, some of them having been substantially altered over the centuries.  This list presents a comparison of Romanesque churches, abbeys and cathedrals of different countries. The second section describes the architectural features that can be identified within pictures of major architectural elements. These features often have strong local and regional traditions. However, the movement of senior clergy, stonemasons and other craftsmen meant that these traditional features are sometimes found at distant locations. Atrium of the Basilica of Sant'Ambrogio, in Milan Pisa Cathedral showing polychrome, galleries, dome (completed later), and free-standing campanile San Zeno, Verona, showing defined facade, porch and wheel window West front of Trani Cathedral, with bell tower Front of Basilica di San Nicola, in Bari Modena Cathedral showing tri-apsidal eastern end, shallow transepts and square campanile Interior of the Baptistery of St John, Florence, showing polychrome marble veneer and gold mosaics Bari Cathedral, showing shallow apse, domed crossing, Corinthianesque columns and maetreum gallery The Church of Sant' Ambrogio, Milan, has domical ribbed vaults and a contrasting red brick and stone. Notre-Dame-du-Mont-Cornadore, Saint-Nectaire, Puy-de-Dôme with a polygonal crossing tower like Cluny, flat buttresses and a high eastern apse with radiating low apses forming a chevete. The Abbey of Saint-Georges, Boscherville, is very typical of Norman architecture of the early 12th century with storeys of identical windows, blind arcading and paired turrets. The facade reveals the form of nave and aisles. The Church of the Abbey of la Trinité, Caen shows the development of the twin-tower and triple-portal facade Angouleme Cathedral shows a turreted screen facade which gives little indication of the building's form and is typical of southern France. The Church of Saint-Etienne Nevers shows three stages of the nave: arcade, gallery and clerestorey. Saint-Savin-sur-Gartempe shows a high apse with a clerestorey, and ambulatory with columns of Classical form typical of southern France. St Mary's Parish Church, Iffley, 12th century, shows the detailed carving, particularly chevrons, and the side portal typical of Britain. Southwell Minster 1108-1250, west front 1108-50 (west window 1450). The severe twin-towered facade with balance of vertical buttresses and horizontal courses is similar to St Etienne, Caen. It has retained its simple spires. Rochester Cathedral, 1115-1280, west front 1150 (west window 1470). The west front has its interior forms emphasised by the verticals of the large pinnacled buttresses. The portal is richly carved with Christ in Majesty. The Nave of Durham Cathedral has cylindrical piers with incised decoration, also found at Dunfermline Abbey, Scotland. Although Norman in character, the building has the first use of the pointed ribbed vault and flying buttresses. Peterborough Cathedral, the three-stage nave 1155-75 has piers of ovoid section with attached shafts.  While the forms are typically Norman, the length is greater than found in Normandy. The wooden ceiling is original. Kelso Abbey, Scotland, was founded by French monks and maintains French characteristics. Cormac's Chapel, Rock of Cashel, Ireland, with its steeply pitched roof and bands of blind arcading maintains a distinctly Irish character. Church of Santa Coloma, Andorra, one of a group of such churches, built of rough stone, sometimes laid without mortar Jaca Cathedral, Spain, has the deep side porch and galleried tower found on many Spanish churches. The imposing facade of Lisbon Cathedral, Portugal, The facade has two bell towers in the Norman manner and a wheel window. The cupola of the Cathedral of Zamora has a ribbed stone vault and gives light to the centre of the church. Old Cathedral of Coimbra, like in Lisbon it has a heavy, fortress-like quality. The Church of San Lorenzo in Sahagún, Leon, has the tiered apses and galleried tower of brick churches in the region. The west front of the Cathedral of Santa Maria d'Urgell has retained its Interior of the Cathedral of Santiago de Compostela, Spain, a major pilgrimage destination. Sant Climent, Taüll, one of the Catalan Romanesque churches of the Vall de Boí Maastricht, Netherlands, showing the Basilica of Our Lady, Maastricht to the right, and the shorter towers of the Basilica of Saint Servatius (with the tower of St Jan's Church to the left) Sainte-Gertrude, Nivelles, Belgium, a sturdy church screened behind a large westwerk. Worms Cathedral, Germany, is a double-apsed church with a side entrance. Laach Abbey, Germany, has a westwerk that demonstrates the careful massing and balancing of forms that is typical of Romanesque architecture in Germany. Tournai Cathedral, Belgium, the south transept, is a balanced composition with much detail. Speyer Cathedral, Germany, an imperial church that set the style for the region, and includes a groin vault over the nave. Old Aker Church, Norway, has a very large tower dividing the nave from the chancel. Nylars Church, Bornholm, Denmark, one of a group of rotunda church found in Denmark At Aa Church, Bornholm, Denmark, the western tower has a fortified appearance and crow-step gables. Lund Cathedral, Sweden, has an arcade with paired openings set under a single arch, in a manner common in gallery openings but not usual for nave arcades. At Husaby Church, Sweden, the massive tower is framed by round turrets. Hopperstad Stave church, Norway (1130), one of twenty-five remaining from the Medieval period. Church of St Peter and St Paul, Budeč Czech Republic, one of several rotunda churches in the region. Tum Collegiate Church, Poland, restored after much damage, has small round towers flanking the eastern apses. Ják Church, Hungary, one of the finest Romanesque churches of Eastern Europe Collegiate Church in Kruszwica, Poland At St. Andrew's Church, Kraków, the plain westwerk resolves into octagonal towers. Gurk Cathedral, Austria,  has remarkably little adornment of the westwerk, and arbitrary placement of the lower windows 