Sino-Portuguese architecture (Chinese: 中葡建築) (Thai: สถาปัตยกรรมจีน-โปรตุเกส or ชิโนโปรตุกีส), also known as Chinese Baroque and Straits architecture, is an Asian hybrid architecture style incorporating Chinese and the Portuguese/European architecture styles. The style is traditionally common in wealthy urban centers where Chinese settlers lived in southern China and the Malay Peninsula, with a myriad of examples found across present day Peninsular Malaysia (i.e. George Town, Penang, Alor Setar, Kuala Terengganu, Kuantan, Ipoh, Kuala Lumpur, Klang, Seremban, Malacca), Southern Thailand (Phuket, Ranong, Krabi, Takua Pa, Phang Nga or Trang and Satun), Singapore, Macau and Hainan (primary Haikou). Phuket is the old town or it was called the Old Phuket Town. Phuket has a rich history as a tin - mining country of the Siamese. The era of Western imperialism by 1511 (i.e. 2054), Portuguese settlers came to Phuket and the trade area port of Malacca. They have embraced western culture as well as western science and religion. They have built houses and their architectural style. Portuguese employs Chinese people to build houses and establishment for them. Houses and the establishment of Portuguese have mixed between Portuguese art and Chinese art together The characteristics of Chinese architecture - Portuguese architecture is a mix of European and Chinese art or namely "colonial architecture". These older buildings were built by the Chinese, quality of construction has the design (painting) in Chinese format, but the structure of construction is Portuguese format. The construction majority theme is a two-storey commercial building or one floor. The wall has strength because wall gets to the weight of the tiles on the roof. Construct use roof curved tiles of architecture of Chinese. The pillar and structure have used art, Renaissance and neo-classical are European came to build. Commercial building built at the in the 20th century (Since 1850). Commercial building is two-storey and one floor, followed usability of them. A large building will be the highest official office province governor. But will be open to the public and other special occasions. A home is a place for the whole family to remember both residential and business by front of house (the building) is used for trading and upstairs the rest is a private space. The mansion, built in the age of King Rama V (1853–1910), is a 2-storey building with large brick walls often cladded with plaster and thick cement. The mansion was built with garish interior decoration and follows architectural styles of the majority of large Portuguese buildings. One type of mansion is unique and distinctive due to it's European style architecture but built by Hokkien Chinese, them call is the Angmor-Lao. When 1994 (i.e. 2537), city municipal of Phuket, state agency, and private organization take part conservation of the Phuket old town. They promote to people in Phuket for them to recognizing the value of Sino-Portuguese architecture and history of the Phuket town. Conservation Sino-Portuguese specify an area of about 210 acres in this area is a local environmental art by the Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment issued a declaration. They promote the development of the building in its original form in order to the uniqueness of the Phuket town. Phuket owned building or building repair their house. There is encouragement to residents who conserve their own homes by getting certificate city municipal. Sino-Portuguese architecture by Dibuk Road in old Phuket City, Thailand. Thalang Road townhouses in old Phuket City, depicting varieties of designs in the style. Phuket Thai Hua School building in Phuket City, now a museum. Kuden Mansion in Satun, Thailand, an example of a modest box layout Sino-Portuguese mansion. The building now houses the Satun National Museum. Governor's Mansion in Phuket City represents a contrast to Kuden Mansion, with a more extensive layout. Magazine Road townhouses in George Town, Malaysia Hai Kee Chan, George Town, Malaysia, currently the Pinang Peranakan Mansion, illustrates more basic ornamentation of the style for upper class townhouses. Cathay Hotel in George Town (circa 2002), a hotel conversion of the Yeo Wee Gark mansion. The Edison George Town boutique hotel has since occupied the building. The Tan Boon Chia mansion in Rasa, Malaysia in 2007, an example of an expansive Straits-styled mansion in the former territories of the Federated Malay States. Istana Ulu in Kuala Kangsar, Malaysia, incorporate many ornamental elements of mansion designs in the Sino-Portuguese order of style. Elaborate facade ornamentation of a Straits-styled townhouse at Jonker Walk, Malacca City, Malaysia. Baba Nyonya Heritage Museum, Chinatown, Malacca City, Malaysia. The Johor Art Gallery in Johor Bahru, Malaysia, a converted Straits-styled government mansion. Da Dong Restaurant in Chinatown, Singapore. Assorted Club Street townhouses, Singapore. Some of the buildings incorporate open balconies on the third floor. Tanjong Pagar Road shophouses, illustrating dense three-storey varieties of Straits architecture. Double storey shophouses at Joo Chiat Lane, a common design in the outer reaches of urban Singapore. Tjong A Fie Mansion, Medan, Indonesia, a rarer example of Sino-Portuguese architecture in the country. 