The Charles S. Roberts Awards (or CSR Awards) was an annual award for excellence in the historical wargaming hobby. It was named in honor of Charles S. Roberts the "Father of Wargaming" who founded Avalon Hill. The award was informally called a "Charlie" and officially called a "Charles S. Roberts Award". The Wargamer magazine called it "very prestigious".  Created at the first Origins Game Convention in 1975, the awards were the "brainchild of Canadian hobbyist John Mansfield."   Originally the awards were the Origins Awards but were informally known as the Charles Roberts Awards  and it was only in 1988 that Charles Roberts officially agreed to let his name be used.  The split from the Origins Awards occurred in 1987, after Fortress America by Milton Bradley Company won an award. Fortress America was not considered a traditional historical wargame by the older members in the wargaming community. Prior to 2000, the awards were given at the Origins Game Fair. Since 2000, the awards were given at the World Boardgaming Championships (formerly "AvalonCon"). The Award was managed by the Charles S. Roberts Award Committee with winners chosen by votes submitted by fans. The Awards also included the Charles Roberts Awards Hall of Fame which recognized game designers and producers that have made a significant and long lasting contribution to the contemporary board wargaming hobby. The last year the awards were given was 2012. Source:    Source:    Source:    Source:    Source:    Source:   Source:   Source:   Source:   Source:   Source:   To a Game Designer, Developer, Graphic Artist or Game for outstanding achievement in that year These totals include awards for games, magazine games, game graphics and (for designers) the James F. Dunnigan award. Not included are awards for magazines, computer media and articles. 47 - GMT Games LLC 16 - Multi-Man Publishing 13 - The Gamers Incorporated 12 - The Avalon Hill Game Company 12 - Victory Games 10 - Decision Games 9 - XTR Corporation 6 - Simulation Publications Incorporated 6 - Against the Odds Magazine 5 - Game Designers' Workshop 4 - World Wide Wargames 4 - West End Games 3 - Clash of Arms 3 - Khyber Pass Games 16 - Dean Essig 13 - Rodger MacGowan 9 - Richard Berg 8 - Ted Raicer 6 - Joe Miranda 6 - Mark Herman 5 - Volko Ruhnke 5 - Mark Simonitch 4 - John Prados 4 - Ted Koller 4 - Nicolas Eskubi 3 - Frank Chadwick 3 - Joseph Balkoski 3 - Greg Costikyan 3 - Dan Verssen 3 - Charles Kibler  