The American Society for Political and Legal Philosophy (ASPLP) is a learned society founded in 1955 by political theorist Carl Friedrich.  The ASPLP's annual thematic conferences form the foundation for the Nomos series.  The ASPLP operates according to a distinctive three-discipline structure.  Its annual meetings rotate on a three-year cycle, meeting in conjunction with the Association of American Law Schools, the American Political Science Association, and the American Philosophical Association (Eastern Division).  Its presidency rotates among the three disciplines, with vice-presidents always representing the other two.  And its conferences consist of three lead papers, one from each discipline, each with two commentators from the other two disciplines.   Nomos, now published by New York University Press,  has published work by some of the leading political and legal theorists of the twentieth century, from a wide range of ideological and methodological perspectives, including Hannah Arendt, Isaiah Berlin, Lon Fuller, John Rawls, Robert Nozick, Michael Walzer, Judith Shklar, Cass Sunstein, Martha Nussbaum, Richard Posner, Sheldon Wolin, James Buchanan, Catharine MacKinnon, Jules Coleman, Jean Hampton, Jon Elster, George Kateb, and Richard Epstein.  The series was edited by Friedrich for volumes I-IX, coedited by J. Roland Pennock and John Chapman for volumes IX-XXXI, and edited by Chapman alone for XXXI-XXXV.  Since then, series editors have included Ian Shapiro, Stephen Macedo, Melissa Williams, Sanford Levinson, and James Fleming. The series is currently[when?] co-edited by Andrew Rehfeld (Washington University Political Science) and Jack Knight (Duke Law School). Presidents of the ASPLP have included: The volumes in the series, and their publishers, have been: forthcoming from New York University Press:  LVI. American Conservative Thought The volumes originally published by Atherton, Aldine-Atherton, and Lieber-Atherton are being republished by Transaction Press (starting in 2007). 