Clinical pharmacology is the science of drugs and their clinical use. It is underpinned by the basic science of pharmacology, with an added focus on the application of pharmacological principles and quantitative methods in the real world. It has a broad scope, from the discovery of new target molecules to the effects of drug usage in whole populations. Clinical pharmacology connects the gap between medical practice and laboratory science.  The main objective is to promote the safety of prescription, maximize the drug effects and minimize the side effects.  It is important that there be an association with pharmacists skilled in areas of drug information, medication safety and other aspects of pharmacy practice related to clinical pharmacology. In fact, in countries such as USA, Netherlands, and France, pharmacists train to become clinical pharmacologists. Therefore, clinical pharmacology is not specific to medicine. Clinical pharmacologists usually have a rigorous medical and scientific training that enables them to evaluate evidence and produce new data through well-designed studies.  Clinical pharmacologists must have access to enough outpatients for clinical care, teaching and education, and research as well as be supervised by medical specialists. Their responsibilities to patients include, but are not limited to, analyzing adverse drug effects, therapeutics, and toxicology including reproductive toxicology, cardiovascular risks, perioperative drug management and psychopharmacology. In addition, the application of genetic, biochemical, or virotherapeutic techniques has led to a clear appreciation of the mechanisms involved in drug action. Clinical Pharmacology consists of multiple branches listed below: Medicinal applications of plant and animal resources have been common since prehistoric times. Many countries have written documentation of their early traditional remedies of many types, like China, Egypt and India. Some of these remedies are still identified as helpful in today's society, but most have them have been discarded due to the fact that they were useless and potentially harmful. During the 1500s, intermittent attempts were made to advance the methods of medicine. Schools were made to teach these advances, but none of these methods were effective and this led to the domination of thought that claimed to explain everything in regards to biology and disease with no experimentation to back it up. These schools would come up with strange methods that they believed were the answers to disease and injury. They thought that a wound could be healed if an ointment was applied to the weapon, and that disease was caused by having too much bile and blood in the human body. Around the 17th century, theoretical medicine was set aside and forgotten about, and people started to use medicine that was based on analysis and experimentation. Physicians began to apply these new methods to the traditional drugs and remedies that they had in their own culture. This is when the sciences of the preparation and use of medical drugs began to develop, although they still lacked methods to test some of the hypotheses they had about how drugs worked in the body.  By the late 18th century and early 19th century, the development of the methods of experimental physiology and pharmacology by François Magendie and his student Claude Bernard. From the late 18th century to the early 20th century, advances were made in chemistry and physiology that laid the foundation that was needed in order to understand drugs at the organ and tissue level.  The advances that were made at this time gave manufacturers the ability to make and sell medicine that they claimed to be legitimate but were worthless.   These claims were not able to be evaluated until the rational therapeutic concepts were reestablished in medicine about 60 years later. Around that same time, major development and growth in biology began. Information started to pile up on biological substrates and drug movements as soon as new techniques and concepts arose. During the last half century, many new and some old drug groups were introduced. There has been even more rapid growth in even the last three decades, with understanding the bases of drug action at a molecular level. This new information has helped to identify the molecular mechanisms of many dugs and separate receptors and clone them. These methods aided in the many discoveries dealing with receptors. The expansion of scientific principles of pharmacology is still on-going today.   General education requirements for Pharmacology are as follows: 