  Carry On Behind is the 27th in the series of Carry On films to be made, and was released in 1975. It was the first not to be scripted by Talbot Rothwell since Carry On Cruising 13 years previously. Also missing was series stalwart Sid James. James was busy touring in a play, while Rothwell's health prevented him from writing. The regular actors present are Kenneth Williams, Kenneth Connor, Jack Douglas, Joan Sims and Peter Butterworth, Bernard Bresslaw and Patsy Rowlands. Carry On Behind was the final picture in the series for Bresslaw (in his 14th appearance) and Rowlands (in her ninth). It saw Elke Sommer's, Adrienne Posta's and Ian Lavender's only appearances in a Carry On and was the first of two entries in the series for Windsor Davies. Frustrated butcher Fred Ramsden (Windsor Davies) and his dim electrician friend Ernie Bragg (Jack Douglas) happily head off for a holiday trip at the Riverside Caravan Site, while their respective wives Sylvia (Liz Fraser) and Vera (Patricia Franklin) look forward to their health farm holiday. Once at the caravan site of Major Leaper (Kenneth Connor), Fred starts making eyes at two young female campers, Carol (Sherrie Hewson) and Sandra (Carol Hawkins). However, as Ernie talks in his sleep and any infidelities are likely to be spoken of in the marital bed after their holiday, Fred is despondent. Professor Roland Crump (Kenneth Williams) teams with Roman expert Anna Vrooshka (Elke Sommer) in an archaeological dig at the site. Arthur Upmore (Bernard Bresslaw) and his wife Linda (Patsy Rowlands) are saddled with her mother Daphne (Joan Sims) and her vulgar mynah bird. Arthur is caught in a compromising position with attractive blonde Norma Baxter (Adrienne Posta) whose husband Joe (Ian Lavender) is lumbered with their giant wolfhound. After a few pints with the amused pub landlord (David Lodge), Fred and Ernie discover that the caravan site is riddled with excavation holes. Daphne is perturbed by the discovery that her estranged husband Henry Barnes (Peter Butterworth) lives a downtrodden life as the camp's odd-job man, despite having won the pools. Major Leaper is determined to give the place a boost and arranges an evening cabaret for the caravanners, but a mix-up over the phone secures a stripper, Veronica (Jenny Cox), rather than the singer he wanted. Carol and Sandra having hooked up with archaeology students Bob (Brian Osborne) and Clive (Larry Dann), Fred and Ernie pick up Maureen (Diana Darvey) and Sally (Georgina Moon), two beautiful young women from the village. Some wet paint, some glue, heavy rain that causes the tunnels of the dig to collapse, and the arrival of their wives soon bring their planned night of passion to a halt. The main roles are played by Carry On regulars Kenneth Williams, Bernard Bresslaw, Peter Butterworth, Joan Sims, Kenneth Connor, Jack Douglas and Patsy Rowlands. Newcomers to the series in major roles are Windsor Davies and Elke Sommer. Sims played the role of Rowlands' mother, despite being only eight months older than her on-screen daughter. Supporting roles are played by Sherrie Hewson, Carol Hawkins, Ian Lavender, Adrienne Posta, George Layton, Larry Dann, Larry Martyn and David Lodge. These supporting players were mostly recognisable comedy actors at the time, but not long-term regular members of the Carry On team. Liz Fraser had appeared in three early films in the series; her re-appearance here was after a gap of twelve years. This was the last Carry On film for Bernard Bresslaw and Patsy Rowlands. By this time Sid James, Terry Scott, Hattie Jacques and Charles Hawtrey had already made their final Carry On film appearances. Chilly spring filming meant the bare trees, muddy fields and icy breath are all quite visible, although the setting is a summer caravanning holiday. A similar dilemma met the cast and crew in Carry On Camping. The signage in Fred Ramsden's butcher's shop clearly shows that the shop is closing for the Easter holidays, which can occur as early as March. Whilst this film was in production, Bernard Bresslaw and Joan Sims also appeared in One of Our Dinosaurs Is Missing, another film being made at Pinewood Studios alongside Carry On Behind. Previous Carry On actors Jon Pertwee and Amanda Barrie also appeared in Dinosaurs. Interiors: Exteriors: 