The European Institute for Health Records or EuroRec Institute is a non-profit organization founded in 2002 as part of the ProRec initiative. On 13 May 2003, the institute was established as a non-profit organization under French law. Current President of EuroRec is Prof. Dipak Kalra. The institute is involved in the promotion of high quality Electronic Health Record systems in the European Union. One of the main missions of the institute is to support, as the European authorised certification body, EHRs certification development, testing and assessment by defining functional and other criteria. The objectives of the institute are: The main goal of the ARGOS project was to contribute to creating "Transatlantic Observatory for Meeting Global Health Policy Challenges through ICT-Enabled Solutions" to allow promotion of "Common Methods for Responding to Global eHealth Challenges in the EU and the US".  The results are used to provide various users recommendations in sustaining co-ordinated actions. It is important to both Europe and America of United States because:  Through the challenges of enhancing ehealth strategy development, promoting benefits of consistent strategies and supporting large scale ehealth infrastructure implementations will allow Europe and United States researchers and policy makers gain mutual understanding and learning.  The main topics that were address within this project was; ehealth interoperability an EHR certifications, establishing an approach and identification of indicators of the usage and benefits of ehealth, and aiding clinicians in diagnosis and treatment of rare diseases through human physiology and disease modelling and simulation. However the project has highlighted challenges in  establishing competent ehealth informatics staff.  There are variations of understanding, qualification and definition of workforce requirements through Europe and The United States.  HITCH project begun 01/01/10 and ended on the 30/06/11. The objective of this project was to involve major stakeholders in defining and agreeing a roadmap that is essential to the foundation for the Interoperability Conformance Testing of information systems in the field of healthcare.  HITCH project aims to propose plans on achieving interoperability conformance testing foundation starting 2011 through evaluating existing approaches and identifying potential gaps in initiatives.  The roadmap will identify specific needs in improving processes and tools development that will support research. The roadmap will be tested in real-world settings with healthcare IT applications to determine the next logicals steps in establishing a credibility amongst major stakeholders (vendors, users, patients and authorities).  The Q-REC project started 01/01/06 and finished on 30/06/08. It is a project that is a Specific Support Action and its objective is to supplement the existing e-Health ERA Co-ordination Project "Towards the establishment of a European e Health Research Area". It aims is to create an credible, sustainable and efficient means in certifying EHR system in Europe by concentrating EHR Systems Quality Labeling and Certification Development, Resources for EHR interoperatability, and Benchmarking Services.  Some of the goals stated by Q-REC and EuroREC webpage   includes:  EHR Systems Quality Labelling and Certification Development  Resources for EHR Interoperability Benchmarking Services This project was done with EuroRec institute whose mission was to promote high quality EHRs throughout Europe. Through its networks and its centres acting as platforms along with the collaboration with eHealth ERA consortium and European Health Care Authorities (HCA)/ Ministries groups, EuroRec has provided various methods in assessing the needs and optimal choice methods for quality labelling and certification of EHRs.  RIDE is a project that aims to provide a solid foundation for the action plans of eHealth Communication COM 356. It begun on 01/01/06 and ended on 31/12/07. Through research and development into the interoperability of eHealth systems, meaningful recommendations can be made for actions at a European level. The lack of complete harmonisation between clinical practice, terminology and EHR systems have highlighted that there is an unrealistic expectation in developing a single universally clinical data model. Hence the RIDE project objective is to provide a roadmap through focusing on current limitations of policies and strategies in solutions for ehealth interoperability and assessing health's European best practices in regards to providing semantic interoperability.  The objective of EHR-IMPLEMENT is to provide best practice, policy and strategic recommendations in the implementation of EHR in Europe. This is done though the collection and analysis of EHR implementations in various countries. Previous EHR projects have always addressed the technological area in EHR. Other commonly overlooked in projects, the EHR-IMPLEMENT will focus the social and organisational on a broad national initiative, as these factor may potentially hinder, if not ruin the EHR implementation.  This project comprised a case study approach and a foused survey at a European level. It aims to analyse and collect information on best practices and eloborate recommendations for policy makers to facilitate EHR into member states.  According to EuroREC,  these are the main objectives of the projects: 