 Craig G. Benjamin is an Australian-American historian who is professor of history in the Frederik J. Meijer Honors College at Grand Valley State University, where he teaches East Asian civilization, big history, ancient Central Asian history, and world history historiography. In 2014 and 2015 he served as President of the World History Association. Benjamin grew up in Brisbane, Australia. His father was a well-known TV journalist. Benjamin dropped out of college at the age of 19, spending the next 25 years as a professional musician playing with the great Australian Jazz Band BERT and jazz educator. He pursued his undergraduate education at The Australian National University in Canberra and Macquarie University in Sydney, and gained his PhD in ancient history from Macquarie University in 2003 with his dissertion The Yuezhi: Origin, Migration and the Conquest of Northern Bactria. Having emigrated to the United States after receiving his PhD, Benjamin has since become professor of history in the Frederik J. Meijer Honors College at Grand Valley State University (GVSU) in Allendale, Michigan. He teaches East Asian civilization, big history, ancient Central Asian history, and world history historiography. Benjamin is the recipient of several teaching awards at GVSU, most notably the 2009 Student Senate Award for Faculty Excellence. He received the Faculty of Distinction Award of the Omicron Delta Kappa Society in 2012 and was a nominee for the 2013 US Professor of the Year Award. In 2015 Benjamin received the Niemeyer Outstanding Faculty Award from GVSU, the highest award that university grants to its faculty members. Benjamin has presented lectures at conferences throughout the world, and he is the author of several published books, and numerous chapters and essays on the ancient history of Central Asia, Big History and world history. He has recorded lectures for the History Channel and the Discovery Channel, and has been a lecturer for the Big History Project, and on cruises sponsored by both Scientific American and the New York Times. Benjamin has recorded one course for the Teaching Company's Great Courses series, the Foundations of Eastern Civilization, and is in the process of writing and recording a second course, the Big History of Civilizations.  Together with David Christian and Cynthia Brown, he is the author of the first Big History textbook Big History: Between Nothing and Everything, which was published by McGraw-Hill in August 2014. Benjamin has been Treasurer of the International Big History Association since its inception in January 2011. He is a consultant for the College Board and current co-Chair of the Test Development Committees of both the Advanced Placement and SAT World History exams. In 2014 and 2015 Benjamin served as President of the World History Association. Benjamin lives in Grand Rapids, Michigan with his wife Pamela. Together they have two children living in Australia and New Zealand. In addition to his academic and musical interests Benjamin is an avid mountain hiker, and has trekked and climbed extensively in many of the great mountain ranges of the planet.  He continues to play jazz, and served as President of the West Michigan Jazz Society, and also as Chair of the Easton Special Events committee which organizes the Eastown Street Fair in Grand Rapids, which draws around 10,000 people each September. 