Paul Scott “PB” Scott (born November 22, 1975) is a Jamaican business magnate, investor and philanthropist. He currently serves as Chairman and CEO of the Musson Group of Companies, a powerful conglomerate headquartered in Jamaica, that operates throughout the Latin America and Caribbean region. Scott grew up working alongside his late grandfather, founder of the Musson Group, the Hon. Desmond Blades.  It was through these lessons that his passion for business and philanthropy were ignited. He holds a degree in Accounting from the University of Newcastle. Scott officially joined the Musson Group in 1994, eventually succeeding his grandfather as CEO in 2004. In 2009 he was appointed chairman of the board.  His responsibilities include managing the strategic direction, performance and overall operations of the Musson Group and all of its subsidiaries including the Facey Group, PBS Group, Seprod, T. Geddes Grant Distributors ltd. And General Accident Insurance among others. He is credited with leading Musson’s expansion into IT and telecommunication distribution while continuously growing its investments in consumer goods, manufacturing and insurance. Today Scott focuses on the strategic direction, performance and overall operations of Musson and its subsidiaries: the Facey Group,Seprod Limited, T. Geddes Grant Distributors, General Accident Insurance, Productive Business Solutions among others, totaling thousands of employees. Under Scott’s leadership, the Group established a strong presence locally and internationally through a series of acquisitions and new businesses with annual revenue exceeding US$1.6 billion. Public Service In addition to his responsibilities at Musson he serves on many boards and commissions, both public and private,  including the Scotia Jamaica Life Insurance Company, and the Jamaica Chamber of Commerce . He is also the current Chairman of the Development Bank of Jamaica (DBJ) as well as a trustee of the American International School of Jamaica. In addition, Scott holds the position of the Honorary Consul General in Jamaica for the Republic of Guatemala.  In 2016 he was elected as President of the Private Sector Organization of Jamaica, a position he held until 2017. The Musson Group of Companies is a diversified conglomerate operating as a distributor, logistics partner, manufacturer and sales and marketing company for many global brands, and some of its own branded products in 33 countries worldwide. The Group is headed by Paul Barnaby “PB” Scott, who serves as Chairman and CEO.   Formed in 1962 by the Hon. Desmond Blades, Musson (Jamaica) acted originally as a commission agency dealing mainly in food, but eventually developed into a distribution company.  The 1970s was marked by further expansion of its food distribution business and a very successful marketing relationship representing Max Factor. Insurance agency Orrett & Musson was set up with Musson (Jamaica) as a major partner. The services were further enhanced in 1981, as Musson made the historic step of setting up one of the first general insurance companies in Jamaica, General Accident Jamaica Insurance Company, of which Orrett & Musson became a subsidiary doing premium financing for its mother company. In the 1990s, whilst growing both the services and manufacturing businesses, Musson was able to expand its distribution by purchasing T Geddes Grant Distributors from the Neal & Massy Group. 2000-2009 In 2000, Musson diversified into IT distribution as well as telecommunications logistics and fulfillment. It also acquired Facey Commodity. Further diversification led to Facey starting distribution of cellular cards for Irish telecommunications company Digicel and, based on this relationship, it took over the distribution of the mobile handsets themselves by purchasing Brightstar Jamaica and rebranding it as Facey Telecom. The expansion of Digicel throughout the Caribbean and Latin American region brought about a major boom for Facey Telecom. In every Digicel expansion, Facey Telecom has been its logistics partner, sourcing mobile handsets from the OEMs such as RIM, Nokia, Sony Ericsson. This telecom expansion was not limited to Digicel, as success in the market led to the acquisition of Radius in Ireland, the distributor for O2, and Meteor, and selling products from various manufacturers including Apple. Musson was also able to purchase Xerox (Jamaica) Ltd from Xerox, and based on the success of this arrangement, went on to acquire the operations in Dominican Republic, and Aruba and Curacao. Today, this is branded as Productive Business Solutions (PBS), and operates across the region. It is the largest privately owned Xerox distributor globally and also distributes on behalf of Cisco and other technology brands. 2010–present Following the death of Musson’s  founder, leadership of the Group was assumed by Paul Scott who sought to continue the expansion of the business, consolidate on growth, further professionalize the business, develop number of corporate structures, and restructure the Group. Today, the The Musson Group has growing investments in consumer goods, distribution and manufacturing businesses, enjoying a world-class distribution platform in more than 36 countries in the Caribbean, Central America, Europe, and the Pacific. The Group also has a large footprint in telecommunications and information technology spanning 14 Latin American and Caribbean countries. The group invested over US$40 million (J$5 billion) in Jamaica’s fledgling sugar industry; US$15 million (J$2 billion) in the island’s dairy sector and is currently completing the development of 58 HWTR, a first of its kind Integrated Tech Park in Kingston, to create in excess of 5,000 jobs. The Musson Group has established a strong international presence as a result of of acquisitions and new businesses and boasts annual revenue exceeding US$1.6 billion. Subsidiaries The list of Musson subsidiaries include the Facey Group, Sky Solutions, Transaction E-pins, Productive Business Solutions (PBS), Global Products Alliance Inc (GPA Inc), Radius, General Accident, Eppley Limited, T. Geddes Grant, Seprod, Musson Trading, Oceanic, Reliable Packaging, Acme Spice, The Ketchup Plant, and the Musson Food Factory. Scott is the holder of a Jamaican National Honour, having been awarded with the Order of Distinction (Commander Rank) for his contribution to business development in Jamaica and the Caribbean in 2017. 