 Yuval Noah Harari (Hebrew: יובל נח הררי‎; born 24 February 1976) is an Israeli historian and a tenured professor in the Department of History at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.  He is the author of the international bestsellers Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind (2014), Homo Deus: A Brief History of Tomorrow (2016), and 21 Lessons for the 21st Century (2018). His writings examine free will, consciousness and intelligence. Harari's early publications are concerned with what he describes as the "cognitive revolution" occurring roughly 50,000 years ago, when Homo sapiens supplanted the rival Neanderthals, developed language skills and structured societies, and ascended as apex predators, aided by the agricultural revolution and more recently accelerated by scientific methodology and rationale which have allowed humans to approach near mastery over their environment. His recent books are more cautionary, and work through the consequences of a futuristic biotechnological world where sentient biological organisms are surpassed by their own creations; he has said "Homo sapiens as we know them will disappear in a century or so".  Harari was born in Kiryat Ata, Israel, in 1976 and grew up in a secular Jewish family  with Lebanese and Eastern European roots in Haifa, Israel.   In 2002 he met his husband Itzik Yahav, whom he calls "my internet of all things".   Yahav is also Harari's personal manager.  They married in a civil ceremony in Toronto in Canada.   The couple lives in a moshav (a type of cooperative agricultural community of individual farms), Mesilat Zion, near Jerusalem.    Harari says Vipassana meditation, which he began whilst in Oxford in 2000,  has "transformed my life".  He practises for two hours every day (one hour at the start and end of his work day ), every year undertakes a meditation retreat of 30 days or longer, in silence and with no books or social media,    and is an assistant meditation teacher.  He dedicated Homo Deus to "my teacher, S. N. Goenka, who lovingly taught me important things," and said "I could not have written this book without the focus, peace and insight gained from practising Vipassana for fifteen years."  He also regards meditation as a way to research.  Harari is a vegan, and says this resulted from his research, including his view that the foundation of the dairy industry is the breaking of the bond between mother and calf cows.   As of September 2017, he does not have a smartphone.  Harari first specialized in medieval history and military history in his studies from 1993 to 1998 at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He completed his DPhil (doctorate) degree at Jesus College, Oxford, in 2002 under the supervision of Steven J. Gunn. From 2003 to 2005 he pursued postdoctoral studies in history as a Yad Hanadiv Fellow.  He has published numerous books and articles, including Special Operations in the Age of Chivalry, 1100–1550;  The Ultimate Experience: Battlefield Revelations and the Making of Modern War Culture, 1450–2000;  The Concept of 'Decisive Battles' in World History;  and Armchairs, Coffee and Authority: Eye-witnesses and Flesh-witnesses Speak about War, 1100–2000.  He now specializes in world history and macro-historical processes. His book Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind was published in Hebrew in 2011 and then in English in 2014; it has since been translated into some 30 additional languages.  The book surveys the entire length of human history, from the evolution of Homo sapiens in the Stone Age up to the political and technological revolutions of the 21st century. The Hebrew edition became a bestseller in Israel, and generated much interest both in the academic community and among the general public, turning Harari into a celebrity.  YouTube video clips of Harari's Hebrew lectures on the history of the world have been viewed by tens of thousands of Israelis.  Harari also gives a free online course in English titled A Brief History of Humankind. Harari twice won the Polonsky Prize for "Creativity and Originality", in 2009 and 2012. In 2011 he won the Society for Military History's Moncado Award for outstanding articles in military history. In 2012 he was elected to the Young Israeli Academy of Sciences. His book Homo Deus: A Brief History of Tomorrow was published in 2016, examining possibilities of the future of Homo sapiens.  The book's premise outlines that in the future, humanity is likely to make a significant attempt to gain happiness, immortality and God-like powers.  The book goes on to openly speculate various ways this ambition might be realised for Homo sapiens in the future based on the past and present. Among several possibilities for the future, Harari develops a term for a philosophy or mindset that worships big data.   Harari's most recent book is called 21 Lessons for the 21st Century and focuses more on present-day concerns.    It was published on 30th August 2018.   Articles and reviews about Harari's work have been published in The Times , The New York Times,   The Guardian,   The Economist,  The New Yorker,  NPR,  Financial Times,  Times Higher Education,  The New English Review  and The New Atlantis . Harari is interested in how Homo sapiens reached their current condition, and in their future. His research focuses on macro-historical questions such as: What is the relation between history and biology? What is the essential difference between Homo sapiens and other animals? Is there justice in history? Does history have a direction? Did people become happier as history unfolded? Harari regards dissatisfaction as the "deep root" of human reality, and as related to evolution.  In a 2017 article Harari has argued that through continuing technological progress and advances in the field of artificial intelligence, "by 2050 a new class of people might emerge – the useless class. People who are not just unemployed, but unemployable."  He put forward the case that dealing with this new social class economically, socially and politically will be a central challenge for humanity in the coming decades.  Harari has commented on the plight of animals, particularly domesticated animals since the agricultural revolution, and is a vegan.  In a 2015 Guardian article under the title "Industrial farming is one of the worst crimes in history" he called "[t]he fate of industrially farmed animals (...) one of the most pressing ethical questions of our time."  