A. Monem Mahjoub (born May 4, 1963) is a Libyan linguist, philosopher, poet, historian, and political critic.  Sometimes described as "the last Sumerian",  his major works are in the fields of linguistics, philology, historiography, religion and humanistic thought, civilization development and politics. As a prolific author he has written more than twenty five books.  Mahjoub was born in the Libyan town of Sorman, located east of the archaeological site of the city of Sabratha.  As a youngster he was attracted by the residual remnants of the Roman and Phoenician civilizations. In this time, he documented those moments in a large photo collection. Having completed his primary education, he moved to study Industrial Management at George Brown College in Toronto, Canada where he studied for two years. He received a Master of Philosophy degree at Hassan University in Morocco. His Ph.D thesis under the title of Culture and Communication arts Theory in 1999. Mahjoub argues that he continues to amend an academic percept in the fields of linguistics has been lasted since the late nineteenth century, related to the Sumerian language, which originated in the shores of Tigris and Euphrates in southern Mesopotamia in the 4th millennium B.C.  Mahjoub dismisses the idea that Sumerian was an isolated language and that its influence did not extend to the formulation of the world,[clarification needed] especially Afroasiatic languages. He published his tour de force work Pre-language, Sumerian roots of Arabic and AfroAsiatic languages,  presenting Afroasiology as a new coded term in the field of historical linguistics, claiming that Sumerian is the embryonic stage of the  Afroasiatic languages, including Arabic. Mahjoub has endeavoured[clarification needed] through books issued later to support the theoretical hypothesis demonstrated in his Pre-language. He tracked and memorized phonetic changes that overlapped the Afroasiatic languages, by comparing Sumerian, Akkadian, Arabic and ancient Egyptian. He concluded that the Sumerian and Akkadian superposition is more than borrowed vocabulary, popularized as a result of the representation of the two languages in the same cuneiform writing, but that the Sumerian syllables are an embedded substratum in Akkadian and Arabic. He has also concluded that there are Afroasiatic arrays descended from the Sumerian, and that the Sumerian single and dual syllables are inherent in Akkadian, Arabic, Egyptian and other Afroasiatic languages and spoken dialects. Related to this hypothesis, Mahjoub updated the primeval Arabic language to start from the fourth millennium BC,[clarification needed] i.e. since the cuneiform writing appeared to codify the Sumerian language. Further to that the historical origination of the Arabs themselves must start from 12 thousand years,[clarification needed] since the emergence of the vanguard of the Sumerians in Mesopotamia following the last ice age regression. These results reflected on his further writings in philosophical propositions by stating that the Sumerian epics produced Chaldean wisdom that produced the concept of the logos, which would later be structurized in Greece and turned into an abstract mind out of history mobility then with western philosophers, whom claim to inherit Greece, the Greek philosophy became contrarian to the east despite of being a product of eastwards.[clarification needed]  Mahjoub believes that the current Islam is a new phase of a religion that has been changing since the third century AH (ninth century AD), and it has been remade in the twentieth century out of a farrago of clerical ideas by contemporary clergy, and that the multilayered understanding of Islam is reshaped to comply with ancient tribal traditions which are still powerful in the modern era, due to the control of the Muslim clerics who aspire to establish a theological authority in the Arab countries under the name of Islam. Thinking of faith as an individual matter, he considers freedom of belief to be the most necessary need in Islamic societies. He published his Manifesto against the Islamic priesthood in Tunis, calling to liberate faith from the control of Islamic clergy and to rescue the civil life from religious intervention. He wrote ironically to clerics, "Unchain faith, thus it can leave the muddy body and rise to sky", but in direct words, "Lock up Islam in mosques, Christianity in churches, and Judaism in Synagogues. Religion is an indoor activity. It's of temples not of streets".   Mahjoub's career and cultural participations began in the 1980s, with intellectual and literary contributions in events held by Libyan and Arab world institutions and scientific centers, such as Academy of Jamahiry Thought in Tripoli, Alfateh University, Institute of Graduate Studies and Union of Writers. 