Angela Friederici (born 1952 in Cologne, Germany) is a director at the Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences in Leipzig, Germany, and is an internationally recognized expert in neuropsychology and linguistics.  She is the author of over 360 academic articles and book chapters, and has edited 15 books  on linguistics, neuroscience, language and psychology. From 1970 to 1976 Angela Friederici studied linguistics at the University of Bonn (Germany) and the University of Lausanne (Switzerland), graduating with Ph.D. in linguistics in 1976.  In 1975 she also began studying psychology at the University of Bonn and graduated with a degree in psychology (German: Dipl.-Psych.) in 1980. In 1986 she completed her professorial degree (Habilitation) at the University of Giessen.  After a post-doctoral scholarship at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and work as a research fellow in the Netherlands and France, Angela Friederici was awarded a professorship in cognitive psychology by the Free University of Berlin in 1989. In 1994 she became a Founding Director and Scientific Member of the Max Planck Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience in Leipzig,  which became the Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences in 2004. Angela Friederici also holds honorary professorships (Honorarprofessor) from the University of Leipzig (since 1995) for cognitive psychology, the University of Potsdam for Linguistics in the Faculty of Philosophy (since 1997) and for Medicine at the Charité, Humboldt-University Berlin (since 2004). Professor Friederici’s research centres on how the human brain processes language, examining both first and second language acquisition and use. She was the first to report the early left anterior negativity (ELAN), an EEG response to syntactic violations in sentences.   •	Alfried Krupp Prize for Young Scientists of the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Foundation 1990 •	Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Prize of the German Research Foundation 1997 •	University of Mainz endowed professor (Johannes Gutenberg-Stiftungsprofessur) 2010  She is a member of the  Editorial or Scientific Advisory Boards of: Brain and Cognition (Action Editor), Brain and Language, Cognitive Neuroscience (Action Editor), Cognitive Science Quarterly, Gehirn & Geist, Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, Journal of Memory and Language, Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, Neurolinguistik, Physiological Reviews, Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, Studies in Theoretical Psycholinguistics, The Mental Lexicon, Trends in Cognitive Sciences 