Sally Rice is a professor of linguistics at the University of Alberta, where from 2007 to 2011 she was the Landrex Distinguished Professor in the Faculty of Arts.  Rice is known for her scholarship on the indigenous languages of Canada, especially those of the Athabaskan language family. She was one of the founding directors of CILLDI, the Canadian Indigenous Languages and Literacy Development Institute,  which since 2000 has been an annual tri-Faculty summer institute to provide training in Canadian First Nations languages development.  "There are more than 60 Aboriginal languages in Canada. With the exception of Cree, Ojibway and Inuktitut, all Canadian Indigenous languages are endangered, many critically so. Indigenous communities, colleges and universities are working to preserve — and in some cases, restore — these languages, but so far there has been no national initiative dedicated to Indigenous language sustainability in Canada."Sally Rice was part of a collective of language advocates and educators which including Donna Paskemin and Heather Blair, who established CILLDI in 1999 with its first summer institute held on the Onion Lake First Nation,  Saskatchewan offering one course entitled "Expanding Cree Language and Literacy".   CILLDI, which is hosted at the University of Alberta in Edmonton, is an intensive annual "summer school for Indigenous language activists, speakers, linguists, and teachers."  It is a "multicultural, cross-linguistic, interdisciplinary, inter-regional, inter-generational" initiative. Rice is on the     CILLDI Advisory Council.  2011. Newman, John, Sally Rice, and Harald Baayen (eds.). Corpus-Based Studies in Language Use, Language Learning, and Language Documentation. Amsterdam: Rodopi. 2011. Rice, Sally and John Newman (eds.).  Experimental and Empirical Methods in the Study of Conceptual Structure, Discourse, and Language. Stanford: CSLI/University of Chicago Press. 2010. Ives, John W., Sally Rice, and Edward Vajda. "Dene-Yeniseian and processes of deep change in kin terminologies." In Kari, J. and B. Potter (eds.), Anthropological Papers of the University of Alaska (APUA), Vol. 6 (1-2): 161-187. Fairbanks: UAF Press. 2007. Rice, Sally and Kaori Kabata. "Cross-linguistic grammaticalization patterns of the ALLATIVE." Linguistic Typology 11: 453-516. 2004. Newman, John and Sally Rice. "Patterns of usage for English SIT, STAND, and LIE:  A cognitively-inspired exploration in corpus linguistics." Cognitive Linguistics 15: 351-396. 1999. Rice, Sally. "Patterns of acquisition in the emerging mental lexicon: The case of to and for in English." Brain and Language 68:268-276. 1995. Sandra, Dominiek and Sally Rice. "Network analyses of prepositional meaning: Mirroring whose mind—the linguist’s or the language user’s?" Cognitive Linguistics 6:89-130. 