The Treaty of London, was an agreement between Charles the Bold of Burgundy and Edward IV of England signed on 25 July 1474. Charles agreed to support England militarily during an invasion of France and also to recognise Edward as the King of France.  Following the outbreak of the Wars of the Roses in 1455, England had not been in a position to pursue its claim to the French throne. Edward's position as King had been unstable during his first reign and he was temporarily removed in 1470 with Lancastrian Henry VI replacing him as King. However by 1471 his position on the throne was far more stable as Henry VI and his son Edward had died. With the domestic situation more secure, Edward IV was preparing to launch a military campaign against France, possibly in the hopes of regaining some of the territory which had been lost following the defeat in the Hundred Years War. However it is unclear how serious Edward's intentions were and preparations for the war faced resistance from the English parliament and a lack of support from allies Brittany and Burgundy.  Initially, Burgundy was unwilling to support England's plans and an attempt to reach an agreement at Bruges in August 1473 proved unsuccessful. However on 25 July 1474, the Treaty of London was signed ensuring Burgundian support for the English invasion of France. Edward agreed that Burgundy could retain all of its sovereign territory along with some territorial claims in France as long as it would recognise him as King of France and support the invasion which was to happen before 1 July 1475.  English troops landed at Calais in France in June 1475 however Burgundy had failed to deliver the support that had been agreed and Brittany could also not offer any help. In addition to this, it was relatively late in the campaigning season and Edward was not eager to engage in battle.  Louis XI was happy to bribe Edward to leave and offered a lucrative agreement which included pensions to many important nobles. This agreement was formalised in the treaty of Picquigny which ordered the withdrawal of the English troops in exchange for 75,000 crowns and additional annual payments.   