Animusic is an American company specializing in the 3D visualization of MIDI-based music. Founded by Wayne Lytle, it is incorporated in New York, with offices in Texas and California. The initial name of the company was Visual Music, but changed to Animusic in 1995. The company is known for its Animusic compilations of computer-generated animations, based on MIDI events processed to simultaneously drive the music and on-screen action, leading to and corresponding to every sound.  The animated short "Pipe Dream" showed at SIGGRAPH's Electronic Theater in 2001.  Unlike many other music visualizations, the music drives the animation. While other productions may animate figures or characters to the music, the animated models in Animusic are created first, and are then programmed to follow what the music "tells them" to. 'Solo cams' featured on the Animusic DVD shows how each instrument plays through a piece of music from beginning to end. Many of the instruments appear to be robotic or play themselves using seemingly curious methods to produce and visualize the original compositions. The animations typically feature dramatically-lit rooms or landscapes. The music of Animusic is principally pop-rock based, consisting of straightforward sequences of triggered samples and digital patches mostly played "dry" (with few effects). There are no lyrics or voices, save for the occasional chorus synthesizer. According to the director's comments on Animusic 2, most instrument sounds are generated with software synthesizers on a music workstation (see Software Programs for more info). Many sounds resemble stock patches available on digital keyboards, subjected to some manipulation, such as pitch or playback speed, to enhance the appeal of their timbre. As of  2017[update], three video albums have been released: All Animusic DVDs are set to Region 0, meaning they are playable in all DVD players worldwide.  Animusic was released in 2001 on VHS, and later DVD, with a special edition DVD being released later, in 2004.  This special edition included extra material, such as Animusic's first animation, "Beyond the Walls".  A second album, Animusic 2, was released in the United States in 2005. Later, in 2008, this volume was released in Japan through a distribution deal with Japanese company Jorudan, Co. Ltd.  In a company newsletter, it was announced that the Animusic company would also be producing a high-definition version of Animusic 2 on Blu-ray, to be released sometime before their third major album, Animusic 3.  This HD compilation was eventually released in November 2010, featuring all of the animations featured in Animusic 2, as well as the animation "Pipe Dream" from Animusic encoded at a high bitrate.  In a later newsletter,  the working titles of three animations in Animusic 3, “Sonic Warfare”, “Paddle Ball” and “Super Pipe Dream”, were revealed.  In 2012, a Kickstarter campaign for Animusic 3 was successfully launched and funded. Animusic 3 has not yet been completed; however, "The Sound of Twelve", a music-only album made using similar harmonics as Animusic, was released in March 2015. Animusic has been promoted at SIGGRAPH since 1990, and has been promoted on Public Broadcasting Service and other television networks such as CNN.  Wayne Lytle and his works have also been featured on Fox News and over 30 other local stations in January 2007.  Animusic's "Pipe Dream" was released as a real-time demo for ATI's Radeon 9700 series graphics cards.  Animusic also rendered "Resonant Chamber" and "Starship Groove" in HD resolution for Apple's QuickTime HD Gallery.  A popular tourist destination located in Fredericksburg, Texas, the Rockbox Theater, often plays the Animusic DVDs either before shows or during intermission.  There was an internet rumor that suggested that the "Pipe Dream" video was actually a machine created at the University of Iowa from farm machinery parts. Although this has been proven false,  the rumor is still considered "pretty amusing" to the Animusic staff.  Intel later commissioned a version of the machine to be built which was demonstrated at IDF 2011.  According to the company's FAQ, animation is created procedurally with their own proprietary MIDImotion engine.  Discreet 3D Studio Max was used for modeling, lighting, cameras, and rendering. Maps were painted with Corel Painter, Deep Paint 3D, and Photoshop. They have also created their own software called ANIMUSIC|studio that is based on scene-graph technology.  According to an August 2015 newsletter, Animusic has using Unreal Engine 4 for rendering since Animusic 3.  Track listing: There were also 3 other music pieces only available on the Animusic audio CD. Since they were never animated, it is difficult to determine the shapes of the instruments, although they may strongly resemble many seen in the two Animusic albums. Track listing: The bonus audio tracks on this CD consist of reduced versions of Heavy Light and Fiber Bundles: Animusic is currently producing the third volume of the Animusic series; it was once intended to be released sometime in 2010, featuring animations such as "Sonic Warfare", "Paddle Ball", and "Super Pipe Dream".  However, this release date passed with no word regarding the volume's progress. In November 2010, Animusic attributed this delay to a complete restructuring of their modeling and rendering software.  On August 6, 2012, the company began a Kickstarter campaign aimed at raising $200,000 to fund the completion of the Animusic 3 DVD.  This campaign was featured on several websites such as Animation World Network.  A rough mix from the newly revealed album The Sound of 12, titled "Glarpedge," was released online on August 28, 2012.  This album has been described by the company as "the soul of Animusic 3."  On August 31, 2012, two more mixes were released: "Emoticondria"  and "EchoKrunch."  The Kickstarter page was later updated to confirm that a Blu-ray edition of Animusic 3 would be released shortly following the DVD's completion.  On September 5, 2012, the Kickstarter campaign ended successfully, with a final backing amount of $223,123, surpassing the goal and reportedly putting Animusic 3 into its final production stages.  Animusic posted expected shipping dates of October 2013 for the DVD, and February 2014 for the Blu-ray disc.  However, both dates have passed without either product being released. Although the release of Animusic 3 has been postponed for some time, others have created and released tribute animations and fan-made versions of the Animusic concept through YouTube while the third addition to the series has been anticipated.  Over time, hundreds of these homemade animations have been produced and shared. The bulk of these animations have been created since shortly after the release of Animusic 2. On a Kickstarter update in August 2015,  Wayne Lytle announced some other factors that have delayed the project, including Dave Crognale's departure from the project, personal struggles, physical stress and injury, and the distribution of supplemental prizes for backers. However, he insisted on his determination to finish the project, expressing his excitement about the abilities of the newly-implemented Unreal Engine 4 and his gratitude for those who have invested in him. Lytle stated that he had withheld from posting an update until he had a completion date, but did not give one in the update. Since 2015, no further updates have been posted, and there is once again speculation as to whether Animusic 3 is still in production, and, if so, when it will be completed.  Many Kickstarter backers have expressed their frustration with the company's continued lack of communication about the project, inferring that it is suffering from a lack of personnel in its production team, along with other issues.  In August 2017, the Animusic headquarters, including Animusic's office space and the Lytle residence, was sold  to RP Solutions, Inc.  Coordinates: 42°30′56″N 76°31′10″W﻿ / ﻿42.515528°N 76.519561°W﻿ / 42.515528; -76.519561 