  Individual Education is a school system rooted in the individual psychology of Alfred Adler.   Designed by Raymond Corsini, the Individual Education program includes a number of basic principles. The program consists of three components: Academic; Creative/Applied; Socialization. Corsini also outlined disciplinary procedures and a number of other principles to ensure the most productive possible school environment.  The following are the basic principles of the Individual Education School System: A primary goal of Individual Education is to make children self-sufficient, giving them the mean to become a productive member of society; to become mature and self-reliant. Individual Education is against the infantilization of the child. Instead, Individual Education maximizes the child's self-determination.  Individual Education is designed to develop in children feeling of respect of the self and of others. Traditional school systems make children feel inferior and make many of them feel unsuccessful. A system based on rewards and punishment, praise and disapproval, is considered morally bankrupt in the Individual Education system. Some children are not born into environments conducive to academics. Some children have strengths not visible in the traditional system. Any system that insults these children is wrong.  Every child has innate talents, and some strengths and weaknesses. Whatever resources the child has, Individual Education permits expression, whether academic or non-academic. If little Michaelangelo wants to paint, let him. If he therefore never learns how to solve square roots, so be it. If little Willy Gates doesn't want to leave his computer alone, let him. If he therefore never reads Shakespeare, so be it. As long as Michaelangelo can do basic math, and Willy can read well, that is enough. For others, a broader program will be necessary. The child will determine the program that best suits him/her. The curriculum will be there when he/she needs it. The teacher will encourage learning of all types of academe, but will not force it.  The concept of Social Interest (Gemeinschaftsgefuhl in Adlerian theory) is central to Individual Education. It means responding to the needs of others. It can be seen in school spirit, patriotism, love for family, or elsewhere. This is critical to a child becoming a productive and happy member of society.  This goal is not achieved directly, but rather through the achievement of the first 3 Rs.  The curriculum in the academic component is similar to that in the traditional system.   Language, mathematics, history/geography and science are developed along the mastery model—through a skills list through which children progress from the beginning of school to the end. Children are tested weekly on average but it is the children who request to be tested; teachers cannot demand that tests be written. Instead a Progress Chart shows how far along the child is (80% is considered mastery). The child doesn't have to learn what he/she has already learned—if the child can pass a test without attending class, the Progress Chart is marked identically to that of a child that attended hours of classroom study. A quick learner is offered the next level of curriculum and the opportunity to tutor others. No numerical or letter-based grading system is used.  These courses can be offered in 6-8 week blocks. 1-3 can be chosen out of 9-12 courses offered. Included are topics students want to learn but do not find in traditional curriculum.  They usually involve some physical activities (e.g. soccer), some artistic ones (visual arts) and some applied (horticulture). Teachers offer courses in areas of their interest. Community resources are used where possible.  Teachers socialize children through their positions as teachers and advisers. Children can choose their adviser, though the teacher can choose whether to accept that student.   The adviser is an equal to the child in this environment (unlike during the academic program), and can only enforce the first school rule, related to dangerous behavior (see below). They meet as a group (the adviser with all children who have chosen him or her, or in the absence of a decision by the child, the child is assigned an adviser).Among other things, students learn about problem solving, health maintenance, interpersonal communications and purpose in life.  The adviser supervises homeroom, which occurs at the beginning and end of the day and is unstructured. At least once a week and sometimes every day, the adviser holds a class meeting during which time the children discuss their various concerns. Rules regarding homeroom and class meetings can only be decided democratically. The teacher can suggest rules but the children decide by a vote.  The adviser is also the liaison between the child and other teachers with whom there may be difficulties, and can act as a mediator. The adviser also liaises with the child's parents but only on rare occasions and only with the child's consent. The child should always be in the room during such discussions if possible.  The socialization program includes "playtime" for younger children. Other teachers are also free to discuss social matters with children, as equals.  Individual Education schools have only three school rules:  There are no exceptions to these rules. Violation of one of these rules means the child is given a violation slip which they take to the office to have recorded.  Teachers can establish idiosyncratic classrooms, but they cannot violate the three rules above. Because there are so few rules, teachers must ensure that they are strictly enforced.  These rules are largely based on the discipline concepts of Rudolf Dreikurs.   Dreikurs' concept of logical consequences is particularly useful in understanding the Individual Education disciplinary procedure.  The GO signal is a gesture towards the door. A teacher may quietly say the child's name and make the gesture. The child must then leave the classroom immediately and silently without disruption to others. The child then has a few options: go to another class; go to the study hall; go to the library; seek to re-enter the classroom. The child can return to the classroom but may be given the STOP signal at that time, which means the child must go to another option. The STOP signal is a hand held face up in the direction of the child entering.  Teachers should not keep track of the number of times they give out the GO and STOP signals. They have no meaning in terms of the child's progress in school, and should carry no social consequences. A teacher must not warn the child of an impending GO signal, nor intimidate the child by standing close to them or giving them negative looks. There is no use in intimidating the child, who will rebel against such an attempt.  For each violation there is a consequence. If the ultimate consequence of expulsion is applied, it should include a referral to other professional help.  Research articles have indicated the following findings: Raymond Corsini recognized in the late 1960s that adults were mistakenly blaming children for their poor behavior and grades in school when the problems were promoted by the school system in which the children operated. Corsini argued that the traditional system of education was fundamentally undemocratic. Children were "sentenced" to attend an institution where they had no choice of teacher or level of study, and minimal choice in terms of subjects, places or means of study. He set out to design a school system in which respect would be a central principle.  Research by Paul Clark confirmed that Individual Education is an effective method of encouraging learning.  In the 1980s and 1990s, there were a dozen individual education schools operating in North America and Europe, including Hawaii, Illinois, Colorado, British Columbia and the Netherlands.   One school, the Blooming Grove Academy, operated in Bloomington, Illinois from 1986 until 2011.  Forest Park I.E. (K-5) and Hufford I.E.(6-8), both in Joliet, IL continue to operate using the Corsini system.  The original Individual Education School, Ho'Ala School in Wahiawa, Hawaii, continues to be in operation for kindergarten to grade 12.  DaVinci Charter School closed down in February 2013.  