This is a list of the association football competitions past and present for international teams and for club football, in individual countries and internationally. Confirmed future competitions, such as the 4 Associations' Tournament, are also included. The competitions are grouped by organising authority: the FIFA (international association), the six confederations (continental associations), and the federations (national associations). This section lists the worldwide and intercontinental competitions ruled by the FIFA, by two or more confederations or by two or more federations member of different confederations.  National teams  National youth teams  Clubs This section lists the competitions ruled by the Asian Football Confederation, or by federations member the Asian Football Confederation. National teams AFC competitions Sub-federation competitions Clubs AFC competitions Sub-federation competitions League Leagues  Cup League Cup Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Defunct Leagues Domestic cups International cups Defunct Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cup Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Leagues Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues  Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups This section lists the competitions ruled by the Confederation of African Football, or by federations member the Confederation of African Football. National teams Clubs This section lists the competitions ruled by the CONCACAF (Confederation of North, Central American, and Caribbean Association Football), or by federations member the CONCACAF. National teams Clubs Leagues Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Outdoor Indoor This section lists the competitions ruled by the CONMEBOL (Confederación Sudamericana de Fútbol), or by federations member the CONMEBOL. National teams Clubs Leagues North Northeast Midwest Southeast South Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Cups Leagues Leagues Cups Leagues Leagues Cups This section lists the competitions ruled by the Oceania Football Confederation, or by federations member the Oceania Football Confederation. National teams Clubs This section lists the competitions ruled by the UEFA (Union of European Football Associations), or by federations member the UEFA. Amateur football league — the all-Russian public organization under which aegis competitions for nonprofessional football clubs of Russia are held.  Founders are the Russian football union and following inter-regional associations of federations of football of Russia: They unite 79 regional federations of football of subjects of the Russian Federation. Presidents of inter-regional associations of federations of football are councilors of Amateur football league. This section lists the competitions ruled by associations outside the FIFA. See Non-FIFA football 