A Zone naturelle d'intérêt écologique, faunistique et floristique (Natural zone of ecological interest, fauna and flora), abbreviated as ZNIEFF, is a type of natural environment recognized by France. The inventory of a ZNIEFF area is an inventory of natural resources and scientific program launched in 1982 by Minister of Environment Huguette Bouchardeau and confirmed by the Act of July 12, 1983 called the Bouchardeau act.  A ZNIEFF is not a measure of regulatory protection, but an inventory. It corresponds to the census of outstanding natural land areas in the twenty-two metropolitan areas as well as the overseas departments of France. The designation of a ZNIEFF based primarily on the presence of species or groups of species with strong heritage interest. The presence of at least one population of critical species (fr:espèce déterminante in French) defines a ZNIEFF. This is one of the bases for prioritizing natural heritage issues as part of the National Biodiversity Strategy, or Regional Biodiversity Strategies,  National Strategy for creation of protected areas (SCAP), etc. It is used for environmental impact assessment. The Belgian equivalent of the ZNIEFF is the Site of Biological Interest (SGIB). There are two types of zones: An inventory ZNIEFF second generation was launched in 1996, consisting of an update with harmonization of the methods of carrying out the inventory, better integrating some criteria feature of ecosystem. Up to 9 April 2013, ZNIEFFs were upgraded and validated for the following territories: Limousin, Normandy (Upper and Lower), Champagne-Ardenne, Picardie, Pays-de-la-Loire, Poitou-Charentes, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur, Rhône-Alpes, Center, Corsica, Languedoc-Roussillon, Ile-de-France (excluding Seine-et-Marne), Auvergne, Nord-Pas-de-Calais, Lot-et-Garonne, Guyana and Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon.  This inventory is, in addition to an instrument of knowledge, one of the major elements of French conservation policy and taking into account the environment and spatial planning (green belt, ecological network (including European green infrastructure), protective measures, environmental mitigation, etc.) and in some projects creating protected areas (including nature reserves) or in the development of departmental career paths for the operation of conglomerates. French jurisprudence confirms that it is not creating an inventory for measuring regulatory protection and does not prohibit planning. However, it must be included in all the accompanying planning documents  