The guayabera (/ɡwaɪ.əˈbɛrə/) a.k.a. Camisa de Yucatán (Yucatan Shirt) is a men's summer shirt, worn outside the trousers, distinguished by two vertical rows of closely sewn pleats running the length of the front and back of the shirt. Typically made of linen, silk, or cotton, and appropriate for hot or humid weather, guayaberas are popular in the Caribbean (especially Cuba), Central America, and Southeast Asia. The design of a typical guayabera is distinguished by several details: Though traditionally worn in white and pastels, guayaberas are now available in many solid colors. Black guayaberas, embroidered with colorful flowers and festooned with French cuffs, have for many decades been extremely popular in Mexico and are considered formalwear in some situations.  Mexican guayaberas often use complicated embroidery as a supplement to the traditional alforzas. This style originated in Mérida, Mexico.  The exact origin of the garment is unknown. Various claims for the style have been made, including that: The guayabera is often worn in formal contexts, such as offices and weddings. In Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, and Puerto Rico, guayaberas are part of the traditional wear for men and may be considered formalwear.   In 2010, Cuba reinstated the guayabera as the "official formal dress garment".  Guayaberas have been worn extensively by a number of Latin American political leaders, including César Chávez, Carlos Prío Socarrás, and Fidel Castro.  This is often interpreted as a sign of the wearer's affiliation with populist political positions.  Michael Manley, populist Jamaican prime minister, specifically advocated for the guayabera as an anti-colonialist mode of dress,  and conversely the shirt was later banned in Parliament by the conservative Jamaica Labor Party.  Similarly, Mexican populist Luis Echeverría advocated for its use in Mexico in part to symbolize rejection of European and American-style business suits.   U.S. presidents, including Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, and Barack Obama, have worn the shirts as a sign of solidarity when visiting the Cuban community in Miami  and when attending Latin American summits.  Visiting politicians are sometimes given the shirts by Cuban American or Latin American political leaders.   A variety of similar, lightweight dress shirts exist in other tropical countries. These include: 