Los ángeles (pronounced [los ˈãŋ.xe.les]; Spanish for "the angels") is the debut studio album by Catalan singer Rosalía, with production and arrangements by Raül Refree. It was  released on February 10, 2017 by Universal Music Spain. Los ángeles was released on February 20, 2017 on Universal Music Spain.   It was released at digital audio stores and streaming platforms,   as well as a CD and double LP record.   "Catalina" was released as the album's lead single on October 17, 2016 and presented by Rosalía in Radio 3, after having shared its B side "Que se muere, que se muere" online a few weeks before.  Its music video was directed by Txema Yeste and has been described as "a visual translation of the power of this song, with the voice of Rosalía competing with Refree's guitar for the foreground."  A cover version of Enrique Morente's "Aunque es de noche", which was not included in the album and had only been performed live, was released as a single on November 2, 2017 on streaming platforms.   Its music video was directed by Ignasi Monreal and produced by CANADA in collaboration with Pink Salt and Collateral Films, with animation by Iria López, Dani Negrín and Bjørn-Erik Aschim from the London animation studio The Line.  Filmed as a long take, the video's first two minutes show the inside of a car filled with elements of Christian symbolism, leading the viewer to Rosalía sitting on a chair.  The singer then stands up and shows that she is inside a cemetery and in the last minutes, animation appears around and on her.   According to Rosalía, the music video "intends to be a celebration of death as part of life", and as such has been linked to the concept of Los ángeles.  Los ángeles received several positive reviews from music critics.  Spanish magazine Rockdelux called it "one of the most intense and sweeping debuts of recent times", with critic Juan Monge complimenting its mix of tradition and avant-garde.  AllMusic's Mariano Prunes highly commended Rosalía's vocals, writing that "her instrument is a tornado capable of sweeping away any cultural or language barriers", while noting that "she does not accomplish this with sheer volume or vocal histrionics, but by reaching almost unbearable levels of intensity and expression."  He concluded that Los ángeles "signals the appearance of a major talent in both the flamenco and the world music scene."  Writing for Mondosonoro, Yeray S. Iborra felt that with Los ángeles, Rosalía "is posited as the contemporary cantaora who has better understood the current times", noting the difference between the album and her "more American" collaboration with C. Tangana.  Los ángeles ranked highly in the year-end lists of the Spanish specialized press. It was listed as the best Spanish album of 2017 by newspaper ABC and magazine Rockdelux.   Readers of the Barcelonian edition of Time Out selected Los ángeles as the best album of 2017, with the publication describing Rosalía as "the musical revelation of 2017".  The album also appeared at number 6 in the year-end list of Spanish online magazine Jenesaispop.com, which described it as "an unbeatable presentation, up to the expectations, which are even higher in the face of a bright future."  CrazyMusic ranked the album at number 8 in its list of the best Spanish albums of 2017.  Music critics of El País listed Los ángeles as the 10th best album of the year.  Efe Eme selected the album as the 13th best Spanish record of 2017.  It also appeared in Hipersónica's and Muzikalia's lists of the best Spanish albums of the year, at number 17 and 18 respectively.   In late 2017, Rosalía received the Premio Ojo Crítico in the category of Modern Music, awarded by RNE. The jury highlighted the singer's "artistic projection, her interpretative capacity and versatility, her charisma, capable of transferring flamenco to young audiences."  Rosalía was also nominated for Best New Artist at the 2017 Latin Grammy Awards.  On January 17, 2018, Los ángeles was awarded the Premio Ruido, given to the best national album of the year by the Spanish music press.  The album also received a Premio Glamour to "the arts", awarded by the Spanish edition of Glamour magazine in celebration of its 15th anniversary.  Los ángeles debuted at number forty two on the Spanish Albums Chart on February 19, 2017.  A month later, Sebas E. Alonso of Jenesaispop.com noted that the album had remained charting since its release, ascending to number twenty-eight in its third week and maintaining that position the following week. Feeling that it was in its way to becoming the Spanish "sleeper hit of the year", Alonso described Los ángeles's chart run as "totally exceptional", taking into account that most albums "after the hype of the fans during the first week, [fall] slightly on the list until they settle depending on the duration of the promotion of the album or directly collapse."  The record reached its peak position at number twelve on August 19, 2018 and has remained in the albums chart since its entry, having accumulated a total of sixty-nine weeks.  