 Please note this is about the text of this Wikipedia article; it should not be taken to reflect on the subject of this article. Do not restore or edit the blanked content on this page until the issue is resolved by an administrator, copyright clerk or OTRS agent.  If you have just labeled this page as a potential copyright issue, please follow the instructions for filing at the bottom of the box. The previous content of this page or section has been identified as posing a potential copyright issue, as a copy or modification of the text from the source(s) below, and is now listed on Wikipedia:Copyright problems (listing): Unless the copyright status of the text on this page is clarified, the problematic text or the entire page may be deleted one week after the time of its listing. Temporarily, the original posting is still accessible for viewing in the page history. Your rewrite should be placed on this page, where it will be available for an administrator or clerk to review it at the end of the listing period. Follow this link to create the temporary subpage. If you have tagged the article for investigation, please complete the following steps:  Uchronia: The Alternate History List is an online general-interest book database containing a bibliography of over 3300 alternate history novels, stories, essays and other printed material.  It is owned and operated by Robert B. Schmunk.  Uchronia was twice selected as the Sci Fi Channel's "Sci Fi Site of the Week."   Uchronia catalogues and chronicles almost every published alternate history novel, short story, anthology, collection, series, including reference material and works published in other languages. Entries indicate the original publication date, the point of divergence and a brief synopsis of the plot. A search mechanism that can identify works by author, keyword or language of publication/translation is also included. Uchronia also features a couple of real-world timelines: one devoted to alternate histories published before the Golden Age of Science Fiction, and another offering a complex chronological outline of point of divergences of the entries.  Uchronia also contains large cover art gallery and links to Amazon.com in order to obtain the listed alternate history books.  The idea for creating Uchronia was first conceived in late February 1991 and was initiated by a request to the Usenet newsgroup rec.arts.sf-lovers (now rec.arts.sf.written) for help finding stories in the alternate history genre. Version 1 of the "Usenet Alternate History List" was then posted on April 11, 1991, to rec.arts.sf-lovers. It was essentially a plain text file about 30 kB long and included about 250 items. Much of that first posting was based on information provided by Evelyn C. Leeper, who continues to post information today. A new version of the Alternate History List was posted to Usenet once every month or two over the next six years. The first web version was posted in 1995, but for the next two years it remained just a slightly modified copy of the same material that was still being posted to Usenet. In early 1997, the list became Web-only. Uchronia received its current name late in 1997. At almost the same time it also was converted into a website, which is extracted dynamically from a text database. Although the underlying script has been heavily rewritten since 1997, the user interface of Uchronia has remained basically unchanged since then. As of January 2017, the database was over 1.5 MB in size and included over 3300 entries.  Uchronia also hosts the main website for the Sidewise Award for Alternate History.  