 Guilford Publications, Inc. is a New York City-based independent publisher founded in 1973 that specializes in publishing books, journals, and DVDs in psychology, psychiatry, the behavioral sciences, education, and geography. The firm is owned by its two founding partners, president Bob Matloff and editor-in-chief Seymour Weingarten.  The publishing house currently has over 1,400 titles in print and typically publishes more than 90 new books each year.  The company also publishes 2 newsletters and 9 journals.  In 2008, Guilford Press launched an e-books program and now offers e-book editions of most titles.  Guilford titles are distributed in Europe and India by Taylor & Francis and in Australia and New Zealand by Footprint Books.  Guilford exhibits at over 25 professional conferences each year, such as those held by the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, the American Educational Research Association, the American Psychiatric Association, the American Psychological Association, the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies, the Association of American Geographers, BookExpo America, the International Literacy Association, the International Neuropsychological Society, and the National Association of School Psychologists. The company's titles are regularly reviewed in prominent publications, including Choice Reviews, Doody’s Review Service, and Library Journal. In the academic sphere, Guilford Publications has published books by Aaron T. Beck, who is known as the father of cognitive therapy and was the winner of the 2006 Lasker Foundation Clinical Medical Research Award;  Marsha Linehan, the developer of dialectical behavior therapy (DBT); and the founders of motivational interviewing, Stephen Rollnick and William R. Miller. Mind Over Mood by Dennis Greenberger and Christine A. Padesky was chosen for inclusion in the United Kingdom National Health Service's bibliotherapy program, a selective list of proven self-help books that general practitioners, counselors, and community mental health specialists are encouraged to "prescribe" for patients with mild to moderate mental health concerns.  The book was also voted by the British Association of Behavioural and Cognitive Therapies as "the most influential cognitive behavioural therapy publication"  and was recommended by Scientific American Mind.  In the field of literacy education, Guilford has published books by leading scholars such as Isabel Beck and Margaret McKeown - whose books on vocabulary have sold over 500,000 copies- G. Michael Pressley, Kathy Ganske, Lesley Mandel Morrow, and Linda Gambrell. Among Guilford's authors and editors are 11 past and current presidents of the International Literacy Association, 31 members of the Reading Hall of Fame,  and 13 winners of the Oscar S. Causey Award for lifetime contributions to literacy research from the Literacy Research Association.  Guilford's list of authors includes:  Shamash Alidina, Anita L. Archer, Russell A. Barkley, David H. Barlow, Donald H. Baucom, Roy F. Baumeister, Aaron T. Beck, Isabel L. Beck, Judith S. Beck, Lorna Smith Benjamin, James M. Blaut, Cathy Collins Block, Rachel Brown-Chidsey, Geraldine Dawson, Peg Dawson, Peter Dicken, Glen H. Elder, Jr., Christopher G. Fairburn, Allen Frances, Kathy Ganske, Christopher K. Germer, Eliana Gil, Leslie S. Greenberg, Dennis Greenberger, Richard Guare, Robert D. Hare, Andrew F. Hayes, Steven C. Hayes, E. Tory Higgins, Susan M. Johnson, Jon Kabat-Zinn, Douglas Kellner, David A. Kenny, Rex B. Kline, Diane Lapp, D. Richard Laws, Robert L. Leahy, Michael Lewis, Marsha Linehan, Kee MacFarlane, Cathy A. Malchiodi, Michael C. McKenna, Margaret G. McKeown, Nancy McWilliams, David Jay Miklowitz, William R. Miller, Scott L. Montgomery, James R. Morrison, Lesley Mandel Morrow, Lisa M. Najavits, Kristin Neff, Susan B. Neuman, James O'Connor, Christine A. Padesky, Michael Quinn Patton, Susan Pollak, Stephen Rollnick, Norman E. Rosenthal, Zindel Segal, Eric Sheppard, Daniel J. Siegel, Ronald D. Siegel, Robert E. Stake, John D. Teasdale, Bessel van der Kolk, Sharon Walpole, Barent Walsh, Froma Walsh, J. Mark G. Williams, Charles H. Zeanah, and Edward L. Zuckerman. 