 Dr. Nana Banerjee (President and CEO) McGraw-Hill Education (MHE) is a learning science company and one of the "big three" educational publishers   that provides customized educational content, software, and services for pre-K through postgraduate education. The company also provides reference and trade publications for the medical, business, and engineering professions. McGraw-Hill Education currently operates in 28 countries, has more than 5,000 employees globally, and offers products and services to over 135 countries in 60 plus languages. Formerly a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, now S&P Global, McGraw-Hill Education was divested from McGraw Hill Financial and acquired by Apollo Global Management in March 2013 for $2.4 billion in cash.      Based on the growing demand for classroom technology, McGraw-Hill Education has transitioned from a print-based business model to one based on delivering digital content and technology-enabled learning solutions.  This shift has accelerated in recent years with an increased focus on developing adaptive learning systems that enable classroom teaching to come closer to a one-to-one student-teacher interaction. These systems allow personalized learning by assessing each student's skill level and using data to determine how each can progress through lessons most effectively. McGraw-Hill Education provides digital products and services to over 11 million users. In 2013, the company acquired the ALEKS Corporation  and after acquiring 20 percent equity stake in Area9 ApS went on to acquire the company, its development partner on the LearnSmart Advantage suite.  In 2015 MHE opened a new R&D office in Boston’s innovation district.   In September 2016 the company acquired adaptive learning technology and content provider Redbird Learning.   The company currently offers over 1,500 adaptive products in higher education and digital formats for its major K-12 programs. McGraw-Hill Education traces its history back to 1888 when James H. McGraw, co-founder of the company, purchased the American Journal of Railway Appliances. He continued to add further publications, eventually establishing The McGraw Publishing Company in 1899. His co-founder, John A. Hill, had also produced several technical and trade publications and in 1902 formed his own business, The Hill Publishing Company. In 1909 both men agreed upon an alliance and combined the book departments of their publishing companies into The McGraw-Hill Book Company. John Hill served as President, with James McGraw as Vice-President. 1917 saw the merger of the remaining parts of each business into The McGraw-Hill Publishing Company, Inc.  In 1986, McGraw-Hill bought out competitor The Economy Company, then the nation's largest publisher of educational material. The buyout made McGraw-Hill the largest educational publisher in the U.S.  In 1979 McGraw-Hill Publishing Company purchased  Byte from its owner/publisher Virginia Williamson who then became a vice-president of McGraw-Hill. McGraw-Hill Publishing Company, Inc became The McGraw-Hill Companies in 1995, as part of a corporate identity rebranding. [not in citation given] In 2007, The McGraw-Hill Companies launched an online student study network, GradeGuru.com. This offering gave McGraw-Hill an opportunity to connect directly with its end users, the students. The site closed on April 29, 2012. On November 26, 2012, The McGraw-Hill Companies announced it was selling its entire education division to Apollo Global Management for $2.5 billion.  On March 22, 2013, it announced it had completed the sale and the proceeds were for $2.4 billion in cash.  In 2014, McGraw Hill Education India partnered with GreyCampus to promote Online Learning Courses among University Grants Commission- National eligibility Test Aspirants.  McGraw Hill Education India is located in Noida area of Delhi/NCR. The company also sells books online at www.mheducation.co.in On June 30, 2015, McGraw-Hill Education announced that Data Recognition Corporation (DRC) had agreed to acquire "key assets" of the CTB/McGraw-Hill assessment business.  On May 11, 2017, McGraw-Hill Education announced the sale of the business holdings of McGraw-Hill Ryerson (Ryerson Press) to Canadian educational publisher, Nelson.   Operating segments of McGraw-Hill Education include: Other major subsidiaries, partners and investments:  McGraw-Hill Education is also established in Asia, Australia, Canada (as McGraw Hill Ryerson) Europe, India, and Latin America (as McGraw-Hill Interamericana). In 2013, McGraw-Hill Education acquired the entirety of shares in Tata McGraw-Hill Education Private Limited, the company's long-existing joint venture with Tata Group in India. The company is now known as McGraw Hill Education in India as well. During the course of its history, the McGraw-Hill Companies expanded significantly through acquisition, not just within the publishing industry but also into other areas such as financial services (the purchase of Standard & Poor's in 1966) and broadcasting (the 1972 acquisition of Time-Life Broadcasting). Many of these acquisitions stayed with McGraw-Hill Education after their acquisition by Apollo Global Management in 2013. In 1980, McGraw-Hill Education paid the African American writer and civil rights activist James Baldwin a $200,000 advance for his unfinished book Remember This House, a memoir of his personal recollections of civil rights leaders Medgar Evers, Malcolm X and Martin Luther King, Jr   . Following his death, the company sued his estate to recover the advance they had paid him for the unfinished book. The lawsuit was dropped by the company in 1990, citing a desire not to cause distress to Baldwin's family.  In October 2015, McGraw-Hill Education was accused of whitewashing history after it had published a caption in a geography textbook referring to American slaves as "workers."  The company quickly apologized, updated the digital version of the materials, and offered schools replacement texts at no charge.  Since the controversy began in Houston, it has been linked to broader controversies about conservative texts at the Texas Education Agency.  