Gothic boxwood miniatures are tiny carved wood religious sculptures produced during the 15th and 16th centuries in  today's Belgium.  They consist of layers of Gothic reliefs, sometimes the width of a dressing pin, which are highly intricate, often to nearly microscopic level. A form of miniature art, the objects are micro-carvings of boxwood, which has a fine grain and high density. The majority are spherical prayer nuts (rosary beads; the English term comes from the equivalent German term gebedsnoot),  or pendants, statuettes, skulls, and coffins. Many were designed so that they could be held in the palm of a hand and used for personal devotion, or hung from necklaces and belts as fashionable accessories.  Other miniatures are standalone altarpieces. Boxwood miniatures were highly prized in the early sixteenth century. Their reliefs were mostly executed as multiple individual parts, later glued onto the main block of wood. Magnification was possibly used during the process. Thematically, their imagery can be linked to the divine manifestations and epiphanies found in the reliefs of contemporary woodcut engravings as well as in triptych altarpieces; often, imagery related to scenes from the life of Mary, the crucifixion, and vistas of heaven and hell. Each object's production required exceptional craftsmanship and took an estimated 30 years to complete, indicating that they were intended only for members of the high nobility.    There are around 150 surviving examples; some 20 miniatures are in the form of multi-panel triptychs, diptychs or tabernacles. Most of them might have come from a workshop  led by Adam Dircksz, which is thought to have produced dozens of miniatures. Almost nothing is known about Dircksz, outside of a Latin signature on a single work now held in Copenhagen, and little is known of the artists or craftsmen who produced the miniatures. Some of the original owners can be identified from markings, usually, initials or coats of arms, left by the sculptors.  Important collections are in the Art Gallery of Ontario, in the British Museum as part of the Waddesdon Bequest, and at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York.  However, due to their rarity, as well as the difficulty of discerning their true intricacy from reproductions, the objects are relatively understudied. Boxwood is a hardwood with fine grain and high density, and it is resistant to splitting and chipping -- all ideal characteristics for wood carving, although its application is limited by the small size of available wood pieces.  In 16th century Europe, boxwood was used for woodblock printing and woodcut blocks. Boxwood was especially suitable for miniature wood carvings as it gives an "evenly soft and tactile surface when polished."  In some instances, boxwood miniatures were lined with or encased in silver. Most surviving boxwood miniatures are attributed to Northern Renaissance craftsmen working in the Burgundian and Habsburg Netherlands during the 15th and 16th centuries.  There are examples from Germany and Italy, although according to Wilhelm Bode, "The broad monumental tendency of Italian art, especially in sculpture, seems to exclude a taste for daintily executed small works".   The designs were overseen by master craftsmen who must have had access to prints and woodcuts of contemporary works of art, and who seem to have been influenced by diptych and triptych panel paintings.  The tools used in production were similar to those used in the production of larger altarpieces, and would have included rip and crosscut saws, planes and card scrapers (to smooth out the markings left by the saws), chisels, augers, braces and gimlets. The wood was at first cut into the required dimensions as blocks, after which the joins were carved out. The next step was to establish the surface plane onto which the final reliefs would be added. These would have been created from multiple separate wood or gossamer sheets, individually produced before being overlaid onto one another and joined in layers.  Because of their diminutive scale, the pieces were difficult to hold in place (brace) during their shaping and cutting. They were likely positioned on a bench, between two posts, so that they could be turned 360 degrees. The major figures, usually saints, were carved from single wood blocks of wood. Completed components were then pinned and glued onto prefixed niches within the overall object.  A notably fine example of this layering technique is in the Prayer bead (AGO 29365) in the Art Gallery of Ontario, where minuscule, individually carved, pointed rods suggesting rays of light were added to the vaulted ceiling via tiny drilled holes.  The polyptychs are composed of similar horizontal, landscape formats, and are usually from a single block of wood, with its components hinged together. The triptychs generally follow the format of their larger scale counterparts, consisting of a central panel with major saints (the corpus) with two ancillary wings.  The depth of the reliefs can differ dramatically, with the best examples including figures placed in domed spaces drilled or carved out by the artists, features that in some instances include Gothic windows and ribbed vaultings.   The level of detail indicates the use of magnification, probably with the same instruments used by contemporary jewelers.  Describing these intricacies, art historian Eve Kahn writes that the works can be so rich that "individual feathers are visible on angel wings, and dragon skins are textured with thick scales. Crumbling shacks are shown with shingles missing from their gabled roofs. Saints’ robes and soldiers’ uniforms are trimmed with are nearly microscopic representations buttons and embroidery, as well as jewelry and rosary beads."  It is believed that the majority of the existing boxwood miniatures were made in just a few workshops. Art historian Jaap Leeuwenberg first noted that a majority of the objects share technical, stylistic and thematic similarities, and could be considered as a near homogeneous group.  Such stylistic traits include broad and densely populated animated scenes, often placed in the words of art historian William Wixom, on "steeply angled ground planes of tiled floors".  Other shared features include various spatial devices, figures in contemporary dress, and draperies are arranged in angular folds.  Because of these shared characteristics, many art historians have speculated that the production of a majority of the pieces was overseen by a single master. The sculptor and medalist Adam Dircksz,  about who almost nothing is known, was first attributed as that person by the Dutch art historian Jaap Leeuwenberg.  Dircksz may have lead a workshop in the southern Netherlands, possibly at Delft, or Brabant,  given that Flemish inscriptions appear on some of the carvings,  and that, apart from Henry VIII and Catherine, all of the original owners come from the Netherlands.  Dircksz is through to have been active between 1500 and 1530, and may have produced some 60 of the surviving examples.  He is identified through a signature on a prayer nut now in the Statens Museum Copenhagen, reading "Adam Theodrici me fecit" (Adam Dircksz has made me).  The Latin name "Adam Theodrici" may be translated to English as "Adam of Theodoric", but the Dutch version of his name, Adam Dircksz, is usually used by art historians.    Art historians Lisa Ellis and Alexandra Suda estimate that some boxwood miniature might have taken around 30 years of work to complete, a period equivalent to the entire career of a medieval master carver.  Production would have been organised across a number workshops, each of which contained specialised craftsmen.  Because the pieces were so complex, there was probably only a small number of workshops involved in their production.  In addition, due to this high degree of artistry, art historians presume they were intended as luxury items and status symbols for a high born and sophisticated European elite;  Henry VIII of England and Catherine of Aragon,  Holy Roman Emperor Charles VI  and Albert V of Bavaria,  are known to have owned individual boxwood miniatures.  Only one extant object is dated; a triptych in the British Museum is inscribed with the year 1511.  A minority contain plates of arms or other markings that might indicate origin or the source of commission. A carving in the Musée de Cluny, Paris, contains the letter "M", and must have been completed before the 1524 inventory of the collection of Margaret of Austria. Approximate dates for other objects can be inferred from the inventory records of their owners, while the identification of later owners significantly to art historian's knowledge of their original patronage.  The rosary bead owned by Henry V III, must have been produced between his marriage to Catherine in 1509 and his earliest efforts to separate from her in 1526.  The Metropolitan Museum of Art broadly categorises boxwood miniatures into two groups, those with simple reliefs, and those with a complex design.  A majority of the surviving examples are single prayer beads, often with extravagant combinations of carving, tracery and inscriptions on the outer shells. They often take the form of two hemispheres joined by a girdle with hinges and clasps, with the interiors hollowed out to make way for elaborate carvings.   The miniatures are similar in style to larger scale contemporary artworks, especially panel paintings and altarpieces. They would have been conceived with similar religious outlook and conviction. Their iconography derives both from biblical scenes, with expansive depictions of the Crucifixion, and was, at times, influenced by contemporary literature.  The objects' dramatic and incongruous impact, being both tiny and expansive at the same time, are particularly suited to depictions of Heaven and Hell.  Other examples include spherical pendants, coffins, statuettes, and perfume flasks.   The rosary beads are mostly around the same size so that they fit into a hand, and were intended to be held during private veneration.  The beads were built from turned wood,  made on a lathe turned by a bow. The woodcutters drilled a single block of boxwood into a sphere, which they then cut in half, hollowed out and attached a fastening hinge, and carrying loops. The carvings in the interiors were typically built separately from the smaller hemispheres and later fitted onto an outer shell.  In some instances they are placed in silver housing.  The reliefs are typically bound with pegs, which can be either functional and obviously visible, or implanted into the form of a relief.  The shells are often decorated with carved Gothic openwork tracery and flower-heads, with spaces behind. According to art historian Frits Scholten, the tracery may have been intended to suggest that the object contained a small relic, "so that the object took on the character of a talisman and was deemed to have an apotropaic effect".  Some contain a wooden loop in the middle of one half so they could be worn hanging from a belt, or carried in a case.   A sweet-smelling fragrant substance may have been placed within shells that spread when the beads were used, making the objects comparable to the then fashionable pomanders.  The carvings mostly depict scenes from the life of Mary and the Passion of Jesus.  Some surviving artifacts consist of a single bead, more rarely there are examples of ten half beads, including those gifted by Henry VIII to Catherine of Aragon.  The figures are often dressed in fashionable contemporary clothing. The level of detail extends to the soldier's shields, their jacket buttons, jewelry, and candles.  In some instances they contain carved inscriptions usually related to the meaning of the narrative.   Their shape was likely intended to carry a deeper significance; with the outer sheath representing Christ's human flesh; the bead stand, his cross; and the interior reliefs, his divinity.   According to art historian Dora Thornton, "unfolding the nut is in itself an act of prayer, like opening up a personal illuminated prayer book, or watching the leaves of a large scale altarpiece being hinged back in a church service."  However, Scholten questions their use for private religious devotion, noting how their microscopic scale made them impractical for meditation, as their imagery was not discernible without a magnifying glass or very strong spectacles.  Miniature boxwood triptychs tend to be either standalone altarpieces or fixed hinge pieces embedded in a larger structure such as tabernacles. They usually served a function similar to rosary beads, that is for use during private devotion.  Their popularity reflects the growing affluence of merchants around the major northern European ports. The form and iconography of the altarpieces often follow the imagery of contemporary larger scale panel altarpieces.  Triptychs are highly intricate, and because of their layered structure, often fragile. A triptych altarpiece (MMA 17.190.453) in the Metropolitan Museum of Art has a compartment for holding relics.  Many of architectural features carved in the triptychs closely resemble those found in the contemporary northern Gothic style. Only the example in the British Museum contains an Italian Renaissance influence, evident in its baluster shafts and the pilasters containing prophets on either side of the Crucifixion.  The late 15th-century veneration for the Passion of Jesus and the Sorrows of Mary had a strong bearing on the design and form of many of these type of altarpieces.  Part of the appeal of the Passion was that the contract between relatively simple scenes from the Life of Christ, and highly detailed vistas of more complex scenes, such as the crucifixion or depictions of Heaven and Hell, set in deep relief. A common motif in the inside of the wings was to show Christ carrying the Cross in shallow relief.  For the original owners, the miniatures seemed to have served three functions; aids to private devotion, as luxury objects of status, and as novel playthings. Later they became precious family heirlooms, passed from generation to generation, and as medieval art fell out of fashion in the early modern period, their provenance was often lost.  The earliest modern collection where they were considered objects of art is with the dukes of Bavaria, as recorded in a 1598 inventory which contains several boxwood miniatures.  Of the surviving works, over one hundred re-emerged in 19th century Paris, in its then successful market for medieval and Renaissance art.  During this period, they were acquired by such collectors as Richard Wallace, Frédéric Spitzer, Ferdinand de Rothschild, and Adolphe de Rothschild.   When the American fiancier J. P. Morgan purchased Baron Albert Oppenheim's collection in 1906, he acquired four of the works, including a triptych with the Crucifixion and Resurrection, and a prayer nut showing the Carrying of the Cross.   Objects of this scale are difficult to view with the naked eye, and, even when held in the hand, the true level of intricacy is not easily realised.  The difficulty of producing magnified reproductions contributes to the fact that there has been comparatively little research into the format. Even traditional photography can fail to convey the true level of detail. Meaningful reproduction can only be achieved via computer modeling, where series of photographs at various focal depths are stacked to achieve consistent sharpness.  Modern imaging technology has greatly improved the study of the objects since the late 20th century, including the use of x-rays.  CT scanning allows the capture of thousands of x-ray images which can then be assembled into a three-dimensional model.  