The 2014 CIA estimated average life expectancy in Nigeria was 52.62 years.  Source: UN World Population Prospects  Access to an improved water source stagnated at 47% of the population from 1990 to 2006, then increased to 54% in 2010. In urban areas access decreased from 80% to 65% in 2006, and then recovered to 74% in 2010.  Adequate sanitation is typically in the form of septic tanks, as there is no central sewerage system, except for Abuja and some areas of Lagos.  A 2006 study estimated that only 1% of Lagos households were connected to general sewers.  As of 2014 in Nigeria, the HIV prevalence rate among adults ages 15–49  was 3.17 percent.  The prevalence of HIV in Nigeria varies widely by region. In some states, the epidemic is more concentrated and driven by high-risk behaviors, while other states have more generalized epidemics that are sustained primarily by multiple sexual partnerships in the general population. Youth and young adults in Nigeria are particularly vulnerable to HIV, with young women at higher risk than young men.  There are many risk factors that contribute to the spread of HIV, including prostitution, high-risk practices among itinerant workers, high prevalence of sexually transmitted infections (STI), clandestine high-risk heterosexual and homosexual practices, international trafficking of women, and irregular blood screening.  As of 2012 in Nigeria, the malaria prevalence rate was 11 percent.   A part of this data is from the President's Malaria Initiative which identifies Nigeria as a high-burden country.  Nigeria's branch dealing with this problem, the National Malaria Control Program, has recognized the problem and has embraced the World Malaria Day theme of "End Malaria for Good".  In 1985, an incidence of yellow fever devastated a town in Nigeria, leading to the death of 1000 people. In a span of 5 years, the epidemic grew, with a resulting rise in mortality. The vaccine for yellow fever has been in existence since the 1930s.  The 2010 maternal mortality rate per 100,000 births for Nigeria was 840. This is compared with 608.3 in 2008 and 473.4 in 1990. The under 5 mortality rate, per 1,000 births is 143 and the neonatal mortality as a percentage of under 5's mortality is 28.  In Nigeria the lifetime risk of death for pregnant women 1 in 23.  Nigeria’s abortion laws make it one of the most restrictive countries regarding abortion.  Nutrition, especially in the North of the country, is often poor. Since 2002 food staples are supposed to be fortified with nutrients such as vitamin A, folic acid, zinc, iodine and iron. Bill Gates said there had been “pushback” by some in Nigerian industry as this reduced profit margins. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation is donating $5m over four years to implement a rigorous testing regime to make sure these standards are met.  These nutrients would reach poorer children who ate mainly a cereal and beans diet at very low cost and reduce the risk of stunting.  Vitamin A would reduce the risk of death from measles or diarrhoea. In some districts 7% of children die before they reach the age of five.  Nearly half of these are attributable to malnutrition.  Aliko Dangote, whose companies supply salt, sugar and flour, said there would need to be a crack down on the import of low-quality foodstuff, often smuggled into local markets.  Traffic congestion in Lagos, environmental pollution and noise pollution are major health issues. Every year the lives of approximately 1.25 million people are cut short as a result of a road traffic crash. Between 20 and 50 million more people suffer non-fatal injuries, with many incurring a disability as a result of their injury. Road traffic injuries cause considerable economic losses to individuals, their families, and to nations as a whole. These losses arise from the cost of treatment as well as lost productivity for those killed or disabled by their injuries, and for family members who need to take time off work or school to care for the injured. Road traffic crashes cost most countries 3% of their gross domestic product. Road traffic injuries are the leading cause of death among people aged between 15 and 29 years.  Over 3 400 people die on the world's roads every day and tens of millions of people are injured or disabled every year. Children, pedestrians, cyclists and older people are among the most vulnerable of road users. WHO works with partners - governmental and nongovernmental - around the world to raise the profile of the preventability of road traffic injuries and promote good practice related to addressing key behaviour risk factors – speed, drink-driving, the use of motorcycle helmets, seat-belts and child restraints.  A road accident scene in Nigeria In Africa, Nigeria has the highest record of road traffic accident. Sumaila (2001) observed that road traffic accidents in Nigeria have claimed more lives than deaths resulting from all communicable diseases put together including the dreaded Acquire Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). The study of WHO in 2013 showed that more than one in four deaths in Africa region occurs on Nigerian road.  With the continued dangerous trend of road traffic collision in Nigeria then, which placed it as one of the most road traffic accident (RTA) prone countries worldwide (the most in Africa) in 2013    , the Nigerian government saw the need to establish the present Federal Road Safety Corps in 1988 to address the carnage on the highways. The increase in level of motorization coupled with near collapse of rail system and high cost of air travels in Nigeria have put quite a lot of pressure on the country’s road transport industry. This consequently has caused increased accident and fatality rate in the country. In absolute term there were 13262 traffic accidents in 2012 against 164.8 million population and 13539090 registered vehicles, indicating a rate of 8 accidents per 100000 population or 98 accidents per 100000 registered vehicles.   the Table Below shows the Level and Trend of Road Traffic Accidents in Nigeria: 2007-2012 Adapted from Quest Journals Journal of Research in Humanities and Social Science   The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) says 456 people died and 3404 others were injured in 826 accidents recorded nationwide in January (2018). The FRSC stated this in its CCC report for January signed by its Corps Marshal, Boboye Oyeyemi.    The causes of road traffic accidents depend on a list of factors which can be broadly divided into: In September 2015, the General Assembly adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development that includes 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Building on the principle of “leaving no one behind”, the new Agenda emphasizes a holistic approach to achieving sustainable development for all.  .  The Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages The Federal Government of Nigeria has put some mechanisms in place to ensure implementation of the SDGs in the country  however, Nigeria is still far from achieving this goal. As recent reports have shown, in addition to the many benefits there are also risks associated with the different types of Traditional Medicine / Complimentary or alternative Medicine. Although consumers today have widespread access to various TM/CAM treatments and therapies, they often do not have enough information on what to check when using TM/CAM in order to avoid unnecessary harm. . While traditional medicine has a lot to contribute to the health and economy, much harm has resulted from unregulated sale and misuse of traditional/alternative medicine and herbs in the country and has significantly delayed patients' seeking professional healthcare.   