This is a list of ethnic enclaves in various countries of different ethnic and cultural backgrounds to the native population. An ethnic enclave in this context denotes an area primarily populated by a population with similar ethnic or racial background. This list also includes concentrations rather than enclaves, and historic examples which may no longer be an ethnic enclave. List of African-American neighborhoods - Thousands of African-American neighborhoods exist today. However, many of these communities are now less populated by African Americans than they were during the earlier, sometimes mid and late parts of the 20th century. Canada- Mexico- 12 Largest Bulgarian-American communities. Canada - Mexico - USA - Also persons of mainly English American ancestry. See White Anglo-Saxon Protestants (WASPs). - Outside USA - An estimated 50,000 Chechens live in the USA, here are the top communities. All are largest Belizean, Cuban and Puerto Rican communities in California, respectively, all in Los Angeles area. Ethnic enclaves of Americans - Mexico - (one to 3.5 million Americans, expatriates and by descent) Ajijic and the Lake Chapala region, Mexico; Los Cabos, Baja California Sur; Puerto Vallarta; Cancun; Tijuana, and many others (see Americans in Mexico). - Canada - (500,000 to a million Americans, expatriates and by descent) Alberta, esp. cities of Calgary and Edmonton; the Windsor, Ontario and Niagara Falls, Ontario areas facing the border; and Vancouver, British Columbia. In the 1960s-70s, about 50,000 Vietnam war draft dodgers from the USA settled in Canada, esp. Toronto. Seasonal residents known as "Snowbirds" are in Florida (esp. Hollywood near Miami in the South Florida metro area), the Carolinas, Gulf Coast of the United States, South Texas, Arizona (the Phoenix metro area), Las Vegas, Nevada; and Southern California (the largest concentrations in the Coachella Valley). - Canada (they form a majority of population in Quebec) - - USA - https://www.conservapedia.com/Jewish_communities_in_America - Historic Jewish communities in the United States South Florida, California   , Oregon and Colorado have large Jewish communities, many are seasonal or retirement. The highest concentration of Urban Indians is believed to be in Anchorage, Alaska where over 10 percent of the population identify themselves in the census as having some Native ancestry, with 7.3 percent identifying that as their only ancestry. Some moderate-sized cities and suburbs lie adjacent to Indian Reservations, examples being Asheville, North Carolina; Auburn, New York (nearby Iroquois Nation); Bartlesville, Oklahoma (Osage Indian Reservation); Billings, Montana; Bismarck, North Dakota; Claremore, Oklahoma (historically Cherokee Nation); Grand Coulee, Washington; Muskogee, Oklahoma; Oneida Indian Reservation, New York; Pierre, South Dakota; Rapid City, South Dakota; St. Ignace, Michigan; Sedona, Arizona; Tacoma, Washington; Utica, New York; Wenatchee, Washington; Yankton, South Dakota; and Zebulon, North Carolina. A mostly non-Indian community of Salamanca, New York within the Allegany Indian Reservation located in Upstate New York. See also Samoans and Guamanians. Except for Paterson, New Jersey, all communities in California. In Canada, Vancouver, British Columbia is largest Sikh/South Asian community in North America. 