The following is a list of unproduced James Cameron projects in roughly chronological order. During his long career, Canadian film director James Cameron has worked on a number of projects which never progressed beyond the pre-production stage under his direction. Some of these projects fell into development hell or are officially cancelled. In 1981, Cameron was originally hired as the special effects director for Piranha II: The Spawning and took over the direction when the original director, Miller Drake, was fired (Cameron also re-wrote the screenplay under the pseudonym H. A. Milton). Due to budget limitations the crew was composed essentially of Italians, none of whom spoke English. Some however did have prior experience on horror/fantasy movies so they were, to some extent, able to satisfy Cameron's requirements.  After the first week of shooting, the set harmony was disturbed by some discussions about the work between the director and the producers (the executive producer, Ovidio G. Assonitis, asked to verify the day-to-day activities, arguing with most of Cameron's choices), so while Cameron was only responsible for the shooting, most of the decisions were under Assonitis' authority. According to Dreaming Aloud, a biography of Cameron by Christopher Heard, Cameron was not allowed to see his footage and was not involved in editing. He broke into the editing room in Rome and cut his own version while the film's producers were at Cannes, but was caught and Assonitis recut it again.  Most of the film was reshot by Assonitis after Cameron was fired. In an interview, Cameron stated: "I was replaced after two-and-a-half weeks by the Italian producer. He just fired me and took over, which is what he wanted to do when he hired me. It wasn't until much later that I even figured out what had happened. It was like, "Oh, man, I thought I was doing a good job." But when I saw what they were cutting together, it was horrible. And then the producer wouldn't take my name off the picture because [contractually] they couldn't deliver it with an Italian name. So they left me on, no matter what I did. I had no legal power to influence him from Pomona, California, where I was sleeping on a friend's couch. I didn't even know an attorney. In actual fact, I did some directing on the film, but I don't feel it was my first movie.  In 1984, James Cameron wrote a first draft under the title First Blood II. (Cameron had been recommended by David Giler who did some uncredited script work on the first film. ) Cameron's script had the same basic structure of the first film but had the character of Rambo's partner before later drafts were written by star Sylvester Stallone. Stallone's final draft differed radically from Cameron's initial vision.  Producers considered that Rambo would have a partner in the rescue mission of POWs. The producers allegedly wanted John Travolta to play Rambo's partner, but Stallone vetoed the idea.  Lee Marvin (who was considered to play Colonel Trautman in the first film) was offered the role of Marshall Murdock, but declined, leading to the role being played by Charles Napier. Stallone later recalled: "I think that James Cameron is a brilliant talent, but I thought the politics were important, such as a right-wing stance coming from Trautman and his nemesis, Murdock, contrasted by Rambo’s obvious neutrality, which I believe is explained in Rambo’s final speech. I realize his  speech at the end may have caused millions of viewers to burst veins in their eyeballs by rolling them excessively, but the sentiment stated was conveyed to me by many veterans.... [Also] in his original draft it took nearly 30-40 pages to have any action initiated and Rambo was partnered with a tech-y sidekick. So it was more than just politics that were put into the script. There was also a simpler story line. If James Cameron says anything more than that, then he realizes he’s now doing the backstroke badly in a pool of lies."  An earlier draft of the 1988 film Alien Nation was actually written by Cameron in 1987, but his name however, was not credited in the final cut of the film.  Rockne S. O'Bannon received solo credit of writing the script, which deviated much from earlier drafts. Around 1989, Stan Lee and Chris Claremont entered in talks with Carolco Pictures and Lightstorm Entertainment to make a film adaptation of the X-Men comic book series, with Cameron as producer, Kathryn Bigelow as director and Gary Goldman as writer.  Late actor Bob Hoskins was slated to star as Wolverine  and actress Angela Bassett was attached to star as Storm.  Claremont also contacted Marvel Comics editor-in-chief Jim Shooter to revive the character of Jean Grey due the character's demise in The Dark Phoenix Saga comic book storyline.  However, the project entered into development hell when Lee piqued Cameron's interest on the long planned Spider-Man film and after the defunction of Carolco Pictures.  The film was finally released in 2000 with Bryan Singer as director. In May 1990, Cameron tried to buy the rights to make a film adaptation of Michael Crichton's novel Jurassic Park.  However, film director Steven Spielberg bought the rights by a mere few hours before Cameron could buy them.  According to Cameron's words, his Jurassic Park film would have involved the presence of dinosaurs and aliens.  With the years, Cameron has admitted that after he saw Spielberg's Jurassic Park, he realized that he wasn't the right person to make the film.  The film was finally released in 1993 and directed by Spielberg. On the 1991 American buddy cop action crime thriller film Point Break, only W. Peter Iliff is credited for the screenplay, but Cameron has said that he did a considerable amount of writing with the film's director Kathryn Bigelow for the final film.   Cameron is only credited as an executive producer on the final product.  In 1991, after finishing the filming of Terminator 2: Judgment Day, Cameron tried to get the rights of Daniel Keyes' non-fiction novel The Minds of Billy Milligan. In 1994, Keyes published a sequel novel entitled The Milligan Wars, stating that he published the novel for being a tie-in with the film adaptation, entitled The Crowded Room, which would be developed by Warner Bros. and with Cameron attached to direct, after buying the rights of the novel to Sandy Arcara. John Cusack was attached to play Billy Milligan and Cameron and Todd Graff wrote the screenplay.   However, Cameron finally left the project for unknown reasons. As of December 2006, veteran film director Joel Schumacher was attached to direct the film. The projected release date was supposed to be in 2008, but any film based in the book wasn't released and Keyes passed away in 2014.  During the 1990s, Cameron said many times that he was interested in directing a third Terminator film.  After the defunct of Carolco Pictures in 1997, the developer of Terminator 2: Judgment Day, Cameron and 20th Century Fox were in talks about the production of a possible third Terminator film.  However, at the end, Cameron left the production of the third film to direct Titanic. Arnold Schwarzenegger originally intended to not reprise his role as The Terminator after learning that Cameron was not going to direct the film and tried to convince him to work at least as producer, but Cameron declined.  The film was finally released as Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines in 2003 and directed by Jonathan Mostow. Cameron is cowriting and coproducing his vision with the upcoming untitled Terminator film, which ignores Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines, Terminator Salvation, and Terminator Genisys, picking up after Terminator 2: Judgment Day.   After finishing the filming of True Lies, on September 1, 1993, Variety reported that Cameron had sent a screenplay (apparently written in 1991)  to Carolco Pictures for the long-planned Spider-Man film, a theatrical project that had been in development since 1983.  Leonardo DiCaprio was attached to play Spider-Man, Cameron's frequent collaborator Arnold Schwarzenegger was attached to play Dr. Octopus.   However after problems that producer Menahem Golan had with Carolco (which ended in the bankruptcy of the latter), Cameron left the project and signed a contract with 20th Century Fox.  The film was finally released in 2002 directed by Sam Raimi and written by David Koepp. In 1994, Cameron finished the screenplay of Project 880, his next planned film.  The script was about a man named Josh Sully traveling to the planet Pandora and falling in love with the native alien Zuleika.  In August 1996, Cameron stated that he would direct Project 880 after finishing the filming of Titanic, and that the film would be released in 1999. However, Cameron felt that the technology of that time it wasn't enough and realistic for the project, putting it on hold. Finally, in October 2005, 20th Century Fox greenlighted the production of the project.  Jon Landau was to produce the film.  However, Cameron made many changes to the Project 880 script, and it was finally released in 2009 as Avatar. The filming of the 1995 film Strange Days SQUID scenes, which offer a point-of-view shot (POV), required multi-faceted cameras and considerable technical preparation.  A full year was spent building a specialized camera that could reproduce the effect of looking through someone else's eyes. Bigelow revealed that it was essentially "a stripped-down Arri that weighed much less than the smallest EYMO and yet it would take all the prime lenses." Cameron and cinematographer Matthew F. Leonetti helped Bigelow direct the scenes, which were choreographed weeks in advance, but remained uncredited for their directoral work. According to Cameron, "It's a major set piece. For the jump alone, we built special cameras, special rigs. We designed transitions that would work seamlessly. It was a very technical scene that doesn't look technical."  Cameron was only credited as a cowriter and coproducer on the final product.  In 1996, Cameron intended to direct a reboot of Planet of the Apes, after the poor reception of Battle for the Planet of the Apes in 1973. In 1998, Cameron was to write and produce the movie, while Peter Hyams was to direct the film and Arnold Schwarzenegger was to star in the role of George Taylor.  According to Cameron, he had great ideas for the movie, including Caesar traveling in time and discovering an ape society more technologically advanced.  However, Cameron left the project after the successful reception of Titanic.  The reboot was finally released in 2001 and directed by Tim Burton. In 1997, Cameron expressed his desire to direct a remake of Richard Fleischer's Fantastic Voyage, but he left the project to focus on Project 880.  Despite this, he still planned to make a remake based on his script. In 2007, 20th Century Fox hired Roland Emmerich to direct a remake with Cameron as writer, but Emmerich rejected Cameron's script.  In spring 2010, Paul Greengrass revealed his intentions to direct a remake with Cameron as producer and Shane Salerno as writer, but he was eventually replaced by Shawn Levy, who intended to shot the film in stereoscopic 3-D  On January 7, 2016, it was revealed that Mexican film director Guillermo del Toro is attached to direct the film, along the announcement that David S. Goyer and Justin Rhodes will be the writers and that Cameron will produce the film with his production company Lightstorm Entertainment.   In August 2017, it was reported that del Toro had postponed working on the film to completely focus on his film The Shape of Water.  In 1998, Cameron was looking to remake Andrei Tarkovsky's Solaris. His production company Lightstorm Entertainment spent close to five years securing the rights with both the novel's author Stanisław Lem and the film's production studio Mosfilm.  However, because of his many commitments in the 90s, Cameron was unable to take on directing duties. After seeing the film, Cameron stated: "What I would've done would’ve been more like The Abyss, where visual set pieces might have gotten in the way of what is a clean line as a relationship film. [Soderbergh]'s not interested in the hardware or the visual effects very much, which is good.  In 2000, around the time Steven Soderbergh was working on Traffic, Soderbergh pitched his ideas of a Solaris film adaptation to Cameron and Lightstorm producers Rae Sanchini and Jon Landau. Cameron was thrilled with what he heard and development began on the project. The film was released in 2002, directed and written by Soderbergh.  After the successful reception of his True Lies film, Cameron and Arnold Schwarzenegger decided to make a sequel entitled True Lies 2. Cameron planned to release it after directing Titanic, with a potential release date in 2002.  Schwarzenegger was attached to reprise his role as Harry Tasker/Harry Rehnquist. Also, Tom Arnold, who portrayed Albert 'Gib' Gibson in the original film, revealed at one point that the sequel's script was written.  However, after the September 11, 2001 attacks that happened in New York City, the production of the sequel was cancelled, because Cameron felt that terrorism was no longer a funny joke.  In an interview on January 23, 2002, Ridley Scott expressed interest in making a fifth installment of the Alien film franchise.  He stated that the fifth film would explain the Aliens' origins and where they were discovered.  Alien: Resurrection screenwriter Joss Whedon previously wrote an script for the film,  but Sigourney Weaver disliked it.  Cameron also discussed his possible return as director for the installment, but he finally decided to only work on the project as writer and producer  (due the fact that he worked on the film's story).  Weaver was attached to reprise her role as Ellen Ripley.  However, the project was finally shelved by 20th Century Fox (since they felt that they would ruin the franchise with a fifth film) due the production of the spin-off Prometheus and Alien vs. Predator was released in 2004 instead, as the first installment of the Alien vs. Predator spin-off franchise. Despite Sigourney Weaver's and Michael Biehn's hopes to reprise their roles and director Neil Blomkamp's hopes to direct the film,    on May 1, 2017, Scott stated that Alien 5, whose title would have been Alien: Awakening, was officially cancelled.  On April 17, 2003, it was reported by Moviehole that Cameron had signed with 20th Century Fox to direct a film adaptation of the Yukito Kishiro's manga Battle Angel Alita.  On November 22, 2004, Cameron stated that the film would be released after finishing the filming of his documentary film Aliens of the Deep.  However, on June 16, 2005, The Hollywood Reporter reported that the production of Battle Angel Alita would be delayed since Cameron decided to first direct Project 880  (which would later became Avatar).  On June 29, 2006, Cameron stated that Battle Angel Alita would be the first film of a trilogy.  After other delays,  like Cameron's work on the first two Avatar sequels,  Cameron finally left the project. However, it was finally revealed on October 14, 2015, that the film would be released on December 21, 2018 with Robert Rodriguez as director and Cameron as producer, along with frequent collaborator producer Jon Landau.  On May 8, 2009, seven years after the cancellation of True Lies 2, Cameron stated that although he didn't have plans to revive the True Lies sequel project, he had intentions of collaborating with Arnold Schwarzenegger again.  On September 13, 2010, Deadline Hollywood reported that Cameron was considering making a TV series based on True Lies, with Dark Angel producer René Echevarria as showrunner and producer.  Schwarzenegger was apparently set to reprise his role as Harry Tasker after his departure from the position of Governor of California.  However, the project finally ended in development hell. In March 2008, Variety reported that Paramount Pictures was set to make another animated film with David Fincher "spearheading the project". Kevin Eastman, who is the current owner and publisher of Heavy Metal, will direct a segment, as will Tim Miller, "whose Blur Studio will handle the animation for what is being conceived as an R-rated, adult-themed feature".  Entertainment website IGN announced, on July 14, 2008, "David Fincher's edgy new project has suffered a serious setback after it was dropped by Paramount, according to Entertainment Weekly."  However, Entertainment Weekly quoted Tim Miller as saying "David really believes in the project. It's just a matter of time."    In September 2008, Eastman was quoted as saying "Fincher is directing one, Guillermo del Toro wants to direct one, Zack Snyder wants to direct one, Gore Verbinski wants to direct one". It was reported that the film had been moved to Sony division Columbia Pictures (which had released the original) and had a budget of $50 million.  In June 2009, Eastman said "I've got breaking news that Fincher and Cameron are going to be co-executive producers on the film, Cameron will direct one.  Mark Osborne and Jack Black from Tenacious D were going to do a comedy segment for the film."  However, production is stalled indefinitely, as no film distributor or production company has shown interest in distributing or producing the remake since Paramount Pictures decided to forgo being the film's distributor,  who purportedly thought such a film was "too risqué for mainstream audiences".  In July 2011, filmmaker Robert Rodriguez announced at the Comic-Con that he had purchased the film rights to Heavy Metal and planned to develop a new animated film at the new Quick Draw Studios.  However, on March 11, 2014, with the formation of his very own television network, El Rey, Rodriguez considered switching gears and bringing it to TV.  On August 12, 2010, Entertainment Weekly reported that Cameron was working on a biographical film about Tsutomu Yamaguchi, a Japanese man that survived the Atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945. The film's title was announced as Last Train to Hiroshima.  Cameron met Yamaguchi just days before he died.  The film will be based on the book of the same by Charles R. Pellegrino.  However, the project entered into development hell after Cameron decided to first focus on the Avatar sequels. On July 28, 2010, it was announced that Cameron would produce a film adaptation of H. P. Lovecraft's At the Mountains of Madness for Universal Pictures, with Mexican film director Guillermo del Toro as director. The movie was originally set up as a project at DreamWorks in 2004, but it was cancelled.  Cameron suggested casting Tom Cruise in the lead role and releasing the film in 3-D.   In June 2010, del Toro said that the adaptation probably would not happen at all. He stated, "It doesn't look like I can do it. It's very difficult for the studios to take the step of doing a period-set, R-rated, tentpole movie with a tough ending and no love story. Lovecraft has a readership as big as any best-seller, but it's tough to quantify because his works are in the public domain."  Cameron and Del Toro put forward the idea to Universal, who greenlit it.  Earlier that same year, del Toro had also asked S. T. Joshi if he wanted to be a consultant once the movie got into production.  However, due to many delays, Cameron and del Toro left the project after del Toro realized that the film would have been very similar to Ridley Scott's 2012 film Prometheus. On May 5, 2012, Cameron expressed his desire to direct a prequel to his acclaimed and successful Avatar film,  with Sigourney Weaver slated to reprise her role as Dr. Grace Augustine.  The film was originally supposed to be shot back-to-back with the second and third installment, as the prequel was supposed to be the fourth installment in the franchise. However, on September 8, 2012, Cameron revealed that the prequel will not be shot back-to-back with the second and the third films.  Also, in April 2016, it was stated by Cameron that the fourth and fifth installments are planned to be sequels like the first two,  leaving the fate of the prequel project unknown. On October 23, 2012, Los Angeles Times reported that Cameron had acquired the rights to direct a film adaptation of Taylor Stevens's novel The Informationist for 20th Century Fox. Cameron's Lightstorm Entertainment was attached to develop the film. He announced that he would direct the film after finishing his work on the first two Avatar sequels.  The film's release was planned to be in 2016,  but no film was made, implying that the project was likely abandoned after the announcement of two more Avatar installments.  