The following is a list of unproduced Kamal Haasan projects in roughly chronological order. During his long career, Indian film actor-director Kamal Haasan has worked on a number of projects which never progressed beyond the pre-production stage under his acting commitments or direction. Some of these projects fell into development hell or were officially cancelled. Telugu director Tatineni Rama Rao started working on the film in 1984, which was a social drama centred upon a terminally ill patient and a doctor. Kamal Haasan and Amitabh Bachchan worked on the film which revolved around the notion of euthanasia. However, after shooting a substantial portion of the film, it was shelved.  In the mid-1980s, Muktha Srinivasan planned to direct a film based on the American film The Godfather (1972) with Sivaji Ganesan, Kamal Haasan and Amala. He paid them an advance and confirmed their dates; however the project was dropped after Kamal Haasan's then associate Ananthu felt that it would be a Ganesan-focused film and not a Kamal film.  In the early 1990s, Gangai Amaran agreed terms to direct a film titled Athi Veerapandiyan starring Kamal Haasan in the lead role. The film was based on jallikattu and Aishwarya was signed to portray the leading female role. However Kamal Haasan later opted out of the film and instead began work on another rural drama, Thevar Magan (1992), directed by Bharathan. He later credited Gangai Amaran for the idea of the song "Sandhu Pottu" from the film, which was initially meant for Athi Veerapandiyan.  In 2016, Gangai Amaran alleged that his brother Ilaiyaraaja had effectively told Kamal Haasan to stop working on the project, during an ego clash between the two brothers.  Balachandra Menon wanted to remake his Malayalam film Ammayane Sathyam (1993) into Tamil, and turned down remake offers from other directors.  Producer Raveendran signed on Kamal Haasan to do the film and recruited S. P. Balasubrahmanyam to take another role.  The team initially approached Annie, who starred in the original to reprise her role as the lead female character, though her reluctance meant that the team picked newcomer Ruchita Prasad, who adopted a stage name of Jayasandhya.  The makers abandoned the project due to creative differences. It was later alleged that Kamal Haasan had wanted his role to be more prominent than the character from the original version.   Kamal Haasan subsequently moved on to begin work on Avvai Shanmughi (1996), and recruited several members of the cast of Kanden Seethaiyai to work on his next project.  A remake of the Tamil film Magalir Mattum (1994), the film is yet to have a theatrical release for unknown reasons.    Produced by Kamal Haasan, Ladies Only is the story of three women, Seema Biswas, Shilpa Shirodkar and Heera Rajagopal working in the same office. They are constantly harassed by their lecherous boss Randhir Kapoor. The three decide to gang up against him to teach a lesson, but a strange accident complicates things when the boss lands in a hospital and the three women end up with the dead body of a terrorist, played by Kamal Haasan.   Kamal Haasan had been pondering directing a historical film for a period of four to five years, when writer Sujatha suggested that Kamal Haasan looked at a folk ballad edited by Tamil scholar Vanamamalai, which introduced them to the historical figure of Muhammed Yusuf Khan, an 18th-century warrior.  Kamal Haasan immediately agreed at the prospect and felt that the story had all the potential of a good historical film, being appealed to by the elevation from the nadir to the top of Khan's life. Sujatha revealed that nearly 80% of the film would faithfully adapt Samuel Charles Hill's biography of Khan, also known as Marudhanayagam, and to only use imagination where no solid or substantial information is available.  The producers and Kamal Haasan managed to rope in Queen Elizabeth II to appear as the chief guest at the launch of the project which took place in the MGR Film City on 16 October 1997.  The launch also saw the inaugural shot canned with Kamal Haasan, in the persona of Marudhanayagam, hearing and reacting to an imperial announcement read out by the character played by Nassar, with Om Puri's character looking on.  Official filming began several months later in Velangudi on 10 August 1998 with a scene of where a companion of the lead character, played by Kamal Haasan, is hanged prompting a brief altercation.  Works on Marudhanayagam suddenly ceased after a British company that had planned to co-produce the film backed out and the film has been indefinitely postponed since.   Haasan had invested ₹ 8 crores of his own wealth into the project through and has since revealed that the film would be revived at a future date.  Since 1999, Kamal Haasan has consistently spoken of plans to revive the film.   Kamal Haasan had written the script of Londonil Kameshwaran and wanted to play the lead role in the late 1990s, but never got down to making it because he felt it would not have been cost-effective.  Through the project, he had aimed to reprise his character of the Palakkad Brahmin cook Kameshwaran from Michael Madana Kama Rajan (1990) and place him in funny situations when he visits London. He had briefly considered making the film in early 1999 after Marudhanayagam had run into production troubles, but instead chose to prioritise his commitments for Hey Ram (2000).  After the profitable Pammal K. Sambandam (2002), Mouli asked Haasan to re-collaborate with this particular script but Haasan was uninterested.  Madhavan was selected by Haasan to replace him, after the pair had shot for Anbe Sivam together in the period, and the project was made under Haasan's production house with the title of Nala Damayanthi (2003).  Following the completion of his first directorial venture in Hindi, Nayak (2001), S. Shankar announced his next project, Robot, which was to feature Kamal Haasan and Preity Zinta.   The film was to be produced by the now-defunct company Media Dreams, a division of Pentamedia Graphics.   The film was reported to be a futuristic techno-thriller set in Chennai in around 2200 or 3000 AD.   Despite the completion of a photoshoot featuring Haasan and Zinta,  the project was shelved as a result of scheduling conflicts with Haasan.  Shankar consequently started work on Boys (2003). The film was eventually revived and released in 2010 as Enthiran starring Rajinikanth and Aishwarya Rai.  In February 2004, Kamal Haasan and Singeetham Sreenivasa Rao began pre-production works on a project titled Krishna Leela. The film was set to narrate the story of an individual called Krishna Das, played by Kamal Haasan, and the women in his life. The project was described as a comedy entertainer, much like the actor and director's previous collaborations in the 1990s.  Gautami was reported to feature alongside him in a leading role, in a proposed comeback, while actresses Rohini and Vinodhini were also cast in roles.  Comedians including Goundamani, Vadivelu, Senthil, Vivek and Chitti Babu were also added to the supporting cast. Seeking to cast two new actresses, Kamal Haasan scouted for talent in London. The film was later dropped, and Kamal Haasan and Rao considered working together for a different project.   In May 2004,  Kamal Haasan and Singeetham Sreenivasa Rao were keen to make a Hindi and Tamil bilingual film titled Kumar Sambhavam with Madhuri Dixit as the lead actress. Kamal Haasan stated he needed a "woman of substance who would look convincing as a wife and mother" and stated there was "no second choice" for the role. Bharat Shah was set to finance the project and negotiated terms with Dixit to work on the project, having earlier worked with her during the making of Devdas (2002).  The film was dropped after Dixit quoted a salary, which was more than the whole cost of the film itself.  Kamal Haasan later expressed his disappointment at the film not materialising as a result of Dixit's refusal.  Kamal Haasan, Singeetham Sreenivasa Rao and Ramesh Aravind discussed the script of a film titled KG in early 2004, usually during Kamal Haasan's visits to Bangalore. Described as a "cop thriller" to be shot in Tamil and Kannada around Bangalore, Kamal Haasan revealed that there would be no female lead and that it would be "quite a change" from his other films.   In a turn of events, Kamal Haasan accepted an offer to star in Saran's Vasool Raja MBBS (2004), and put KG on hold. He later continued to work on KG, which marked Ramesh Aravind's directorial debut, and Mumbai-based financier Bharat Shah agreed to fund the film.  The trio later decided to indefinitely postpone work on the project.   Marmayogi was first pondered by Kamal Haasan after the release of Aalavandhan (2001), however nothing proceeded.  After a four-year sabbatical from directing films since Virumaandi (2004), Kamal Haasan announced Marmayogi as his next project after the completion of Dasavathaaram (2008). The film was planned as a bilingual Hindi-Tamil period film, set in the 7th century. Production house Pyramid Saimira along with Haasan's company Raaj Kamal Films International were set to produce the venture, and work began in late 2007.  Early media reports suggested a box-office battle between Marmayogi and Shankar's Enthiran (2010), which was rebooted from the shelved Robot. Pre-production on the film continued throughout 2008, with technicians such as Rajesh Selva and Sanu Varghese actively involved for close to a year.   Meanwhile, Kamal Haasan grew a long, thick beard for the film. He also cast actors Mohanlal and Venkatesh, as well as, actresses including Hema Malini, Trisha and Shriya Saran in pivotal roles. Along with Trisha, Kamal Haasan held a photoshoot at the AVM Studios in August 2008. Following the failure of Rajinikanth's Kuselan (2008), Pyramid Saimira opted out of the project in November 2008, effectively shelving the film. Kamal Haasan subsequently moved on to begin work on Unnaipol Oruvan (2009), and later filed a legal complaint against Pyramid Saimira for loss of earnings.   The project was first reported in the media in November 2008 as Kamal Haasan's next project, after his historical drama Marmayogi was shelved as a result of Pyramid Saimira's financial problems. Titled Thalaivan Irukkiraan and described by the Times of India as an "action adventure" film, it was said to be directed by Kamal Haasan and co-produced by Gemini Film Circuit and Sun Pictures, with A. R. Rahman working as the music composer. Pre-production works continued throughout late 2008, with actors such as Rishi Kapoor, Mohanlal and Venkatesh approached for leading roles.   Actresses Trisha and Shriya Saran, who were originally a part of Marmayogi, were expected to be retained for the film in order to use the dates they had allotted for the shelved film.  Kamal Haasan's Raaj Kamal Films International registered the film's title but production was postponed after a deal could not be agreed with the proposed co-producers. During the period, Kamal Haasan also pitched the idea of financing the film to Udhayanidhi Stalin of Red Giant Movies, who did not take up the offer citing that he felt the script was too political.  He later used the dates offered by Mohanlal and Venkatesh for another of his productions, Unnaipol Oruvan (2009), which was incorrectly reported in the media as being the same project as Thalaivan Irukkiraan.   In November 2010, Kamal Haasan revealed that he was busy writing the final draft of the film and would look to start production by March 2011 with American producers. Actress Anushka Shetty was also reported to have accepted to star in the film during the period, but the film was again stalled.  In January 2012, the film resurfaced with Kamal Haasan confirming that the film would be simultaneously made in Hindi under the title of Amar Hain. The media reported that the film would be produced by Aascar Ravichandran, with actors Mohanlal, Ajith Kumar, Ravi Teja and Katrina Kaif also in the cast, though this later proved to be untrue.   Reports later in February 2012, suggested that Kamal Haasan had asked Shankar to direct the film, with Jackie Chan, Salman Khan, Prabhas and Asin amongst others speculated to be a part of the project.   Chakri Toleti was also reportedly approached to be the film's director during July 2012, but the project still did not materialise.  After three years of inactivity, in June 2015, Kamal Haasan announced that he was reviving the film and that Saif Ali Khan would feature alongside him in a leading role. Associating with Hindi producers Virender K. Arora and Arjun N. Kapoor, Kamal Haasan revealed that the project would be a "contemporary story, touching on politics, finance and the underworld" and "an action film with lots of emotion", while comparing the film to Brian De Palma's English film, The Untouchables (1987).  He added that the film would be shot in Mumbai and Delhi in India, with schedules also planned in Jordan, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and the United States, while also that he would finish scripting the film after he finished work on the production of Thoongaa Vanam (2015). Despite the announcements, the producers backed out of the project and the film was again stalled.  After two more years of inactivity, in July 2017, Kamal Haasan suggested that he would revive the project after the release of his ongoing projects Vishwaroopam 2 (2018) and Sabaash Naidu (2018).   In mid-2008, Kamal Haasan agreed terms to be a part of an Indo-Japanese production titled 19 Steps to be directed by Bharat Bala. The film was written by Malayalam scriptwriter, M. T. Vasudevan Nair and was set to tell the tale of a Samurai warrior trying to conquer the ancient Indian martial art of Kalaripayattu. Starring alongside Asin and Tadanobu Asano, Kamal Haasan was set to play the role of an Indian martial arts guru. The film was being produced by Walt Disney and pre-production work had begun with large portions set to be shot in Kerala.  Twenty days before the film began shoot, Kamal Haasan dropped out and the film was subsequently reported to be shelved indefinitely.  As recently as 2016, Bharat Bala and producer Phillip Lee have expressed their desire to continue the film with a different cast.  In mid-2009, Kamal Haasan agreed terms to work with Mysskin on a film about Buddha. Following the cancellation of Marmayogi and 19 Steps, Kamal Haasan was keen to work on a historical film with a similar theme, with the project also referred to in the media as 500 BC. He travelled to the United States to seek out production companies who were willing to fund the film, but no studio eventually agreed.  Mysskin was then forced to drop the project and revealed it took him six months to get over the disappointment of the project's sudden end.  In late 2012, Hollywood producer Barrie Osborne expressed his interest in making an English film in association with Kamal Haasan, who would direct the project and feature in the lead role. The actor subsequently announced a project titled Moo in February 2013, which was said to be about three lives. A potential English title of Triple Impact was speculated, while other sources titled the film as Yaavarum Kelir, with an English title of All Are Kin. The project later failed to develop.   In 2017, sources suggested that the film was still under consideration.  In November 2015, Kamal Haasan and T. K. Rajeev Kumar agreed to collaborate on a project and announced that they were working on a family drama script to be titled Amma Appa Vilayattu in Tamil and Amma Naana Aata in Telugu. After initial discussions with Sridevi failed to materialise, Rajeev Kumar cast Amala Akkineni and Zarina Wahab in pivotal roles and announced that the film would be shot entirely across the United States, with schedules in New York and Georgia.   The film was later postponed and by early 2016, Kamal Haasan chose to collaborate with Rajeev Kumar on a different project that he had written himself, Sabaash Naidu (2018).  