The following is a list of unproduced Ridley Scott projects in roughly chronological order. During his long career, English film director Ridley Scott has worked on a number of projects which never progressed beyond the pre-production stage under his direction. Some of these projects, fell in development hell or are officially canceled. In the mid-1970s, before the beginning of the filming of The Duellists, Scott pitched the idea of a film adaptation of medieval romantic legend of Tristan and Iseult, and he planned to release this film as his second movie.  However, the project never materialized at the time, and Scott pitched the idea of Legend during the filming of The Duellists as a replacement of this project.  The film, Tristan & Isolde, was finally released in 2006 with Kevin Reynolds as the director and with Scott as the producer. Around 1981, Scott was hired to direct a film adaptation of Frank Herbert's novel Dune.  However, Scott was finally replaced by David Lynch, and the film was released in 1984. In February 1994, Scott signed a deal with 20th Century Fox to direct a film adaptation of Richard Preston's article Crisis in the Hot Zone.  In late April 1994, Robert Redford and Jodie Foster were in talks for star in the film.  However, the project was finally shut down due to many production problems and Foster's departure from it.  On July 2, 1997, Variety reported that Scott had signed a contract with Warner Bros. to direct the third film adaptation of Richard Matheson's novel I Am Legend.  Arnold Schwarzenegger was attached to portray Dr. Robert Neville  and Mark Protosevich was attached to write the film,  but the project was finally cancelled due to budgetary concerns on March 16, 1998.  It was subsequently revived and in 2007 the film was released with Francis Lawrence as director and with Will Smith in the lead role. In an interview on January 23, 2002, Scott expressed his desire to make a fifth installment in the Alien franchise.  He stated that the fifth film would explain the Aliens' origins and where they were discovered.  James Cameron was attached to return as writer and producer.  However, the project was finally shelved by 20th Century Fox (since they thought that they would ruin the franchise with a fifth film) due to the production of the spin-off Prometheus, and Alien vs. Predator was released in 2004 instead, as the first installment of the Alien vs. Predator spin-off franchise. On September 11, 2003, Scott expressed interest in direct the planned sequel to his successful Gladiator film.  In 2006, Rotten Tomatoes reported that Scott and Russell Crowe stated that they wanted to hire Nick Cave for rewrite the sequel's script.  However, at the end, Cave's script was rejected and Scott and Crowe cancelled plans for a sequel in 2009.   On May 10, 2004, Scott revealed his intentions to make, along with screenwriter William Monahan and producer Scott Rudin, a film adaptation of Cormac McCarthy's acclaimed novel Blood Meridian,  a project that  had tried to be filmed in the past by various other filmmakers, like screenwriter Steve Tesich and actor Tommy Lee Jones.  Paramount Pictures was set to develop the feature,  and in June 2008, during an interview with Eclypse Magazine, Scott stated that the script was written, but it contained much violence.  However, on August 17, 2008, Rudin stated that Scott and Monahan had left the project and that director Todd Field would direct it instead than Scott.   In 2006, Rotten Tomatoes reported plans for a Gladiator spin-off. DreamWorks had approached Scott with the intentions of producing a spin-off with Lucius Verus as the main character.  However, after the cancellation of Gladiator 2, any further proposals for a sequel or spin-off were quickly abandoned. In the 2000s, Scott mooted a sequel to 1982's Blade Runner under the title "Metropolis".  On June 4, 2009,The New York Times revealed that Scott along with his now-deceased brother Tony Scott were working on a webseries inspired by Blade Runner with episodes of 5 or 10 minutes, that, according to Ridley, it could have also been transmitted on television.  In February 2010, it was reported that the production of the series was cancelled due to funding problems. On April 4, 2010, Scott revealed his hopes of making a sequel to Robin Hood and more films after that.  On May 13, 2010, Russell Crowe expressed his desire to reprise his role as Robin Longstride/Robin Hood.  However, plans for the sequel fell in development hell, with anticipation of an update being made after this announcement. On March 12, 2013, Tubefilter reported that Scott would work with Machinima in the production of twelve science fiction short films.  However, on November 21 of that year, Scott reported that the Sci-Fi shorts project was canceled due the end of the deal.  