Angola, a west coast country in central and southern Africa, is the seventh largest country in Africa. Cabinda is a province of Angola, next to Congo and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Luanda is the capital and largest city of Angola. Angola gained its independence in 1975 and went through a difficult anti-colonial struggle before 1975 to become the Marxist–Leninist People's Republic of Angola. Angola is one of the world's fastest growing economies because of its rich mineral and oil reserves, but the living standards of most people are poor. Angola has the lowest average life expectancy in the world, yet Angola has the highest infant mortality rate. The disparity between the rich and the poor in Angola is also very large.  In the 20th century, the migration and spread of architectural models accelerated rapidly after World War II. This is an important feature of the modern movement is that the meaning of migration is related to the dissemination of regional culture or the flow of ideas and works. In such a fast flow, Angola's construction production is easy to understand. Architectural production in Angola and Mozambique reflects the special understanding of different authors at different times. There are many researches on the architectural style of Brazil. "Tropical" phenomenon often exists in the tropical and outer architectural languages. In the tropics, architecture is not strictly scientific, but aesthetic standards are sometimes more important.  Cinema can be used as a landmark building in a country. In most cases we think of the film itself as the only important element, but many African countries realize that cinemas themselves are also meaningful. Goethe Institut Angola wants to restore the National Cinema, and they are collecting a little information about important cinemas. The aim of the campaign is to protect Angolan cinemas, which can be regarded as a national cultural heritage and attract foreign visitors as a modern building. The campaign began with a resumption of free fiction. The name is a photo coffee table book. The author is Walter Fernandez and Miguel Hester.  Angola has found a new development point that is the appreciation of the cinema. The film making industry in Angola has never been famous, but by 1975 there were 50 cinemas. Cine-esplanda was designed by Maria Alice Correia & F. Joao Guimaraes and Paula Nascimento (all architects). This design has opened up a new chapter for the cinema in Angola. Nascimento thinks that restoring the function mode of cinema is just as important as restoring architectural form.  When the civil war ends in Angola, President Jose Eduardo DOS SantosAngola will build one million homes. Because most of the country's houses were destroyed due to the long civil war, the people at that time had serious housing shortages. A total of 100,000 hectares of land near Luanda, Benguela, Namibe, Lubango and Malange are planned for housing, mostly contracted by Chinese companies. Kilamba is a superstar city with 710 buildings and 20,000 apartments built in September 2012. In the first stage, 28 urban blocks were built. The northeast of North Luanda provides accommodation for nearly thirty thousand people.  I use the reference of https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Angola  to get an overview of the Angola. It contributes to the first section. In this URL, I know the Angola is s the seventh largest country in Africa.,and some history and economic situation of Angola. I use the reference of https://www.athensjournals.gr/architecture/2018-4-1-2-Magalhaes.pdf to know the history of architecture in Angola. It contributes to the second section, in this section I write some old style of architecture in Angola. I understand that way in the ancient time the architecture of Angola was develop in that way. I use the reference of http://www.designindaba.com/articles/point-view/unique-and-distinctive-architectural-style-angola%E2%80%99s-cinemas to know the development of cinema in Angola. It contributes to my third section. By viewing this website, I get the point that the cinema can be considered as a mark building of a country, and the meaning of this building is better than the movies in sometimes. I use the reference of https://www.goethe.de/ins/za/en/kul/fok/auu/20842368.html to know the situation of cinema in Angola completely. It also contributes to my third section. I know cine-esplanda is vital in that period. I use the reference of https://www.architectural-review.com/essays/angolas-housing-estates-show-a-distinct-lack-of-thought-for-cultural-interaction/10019194.article to understand the development of housing in Angola. It contributes to my final section. In this website, I know that due to the combat in the Angola, there are many people who do not have accommodation in that time, so the president wants to built many housing in order to solve this problem. 