Herbert Greenwald (August 16, 1915 – February 3, 1959) was a Chicago real estate developer who utilized Ludwig Mies van der Rohe as the design architect for several landmark modern residential buildings. Herbert "Squiff" Greenwald was born and raised in St. Louis.  He pursued rabbinical studies at Yeshiva University in New York.  After serving in the military during World War II, he studied philosophy at University of Chicago.   He used money inherited from the death of his mother in 1949 to go into the real estate business with Samuel Katzin.  Herbert S. Greenwald was married to Lillian Feldman Greenwald (Dec. 31, 1915 to Sept. 7, 2007).  They had two sons, Michael and Bennet. Together they supported artists including: Leon Golub, Nancy Spero,  Cosmo Campoli, Misch Cohen, Ruth Duckworth, Richard Hunt (sculptor), David Sharpe, Martha Schlamme and Abraham Stokman.  Lillian Greenwald earned a BA degree and a M.SW degree from the University of Chicago. She served on the Visiting Committee of the University's School of Social Services Administration and may have influence the decision to use Mies van der Rohe to design the School of Social Services building.   Greenwald developed three residential buildings in Evanston, Il by 1946.  Mr. Greenwald sought a famous architect to design his first important building. After failing to hire Frank Lloyd Wright, Le Corbusier, Eliel Saarinen, and Walter Gropius. He followed Gropius's recommendation to hire Mies van der Rohe.   Greenwald utilized Mies on several projects including: Additionally, he worked with Mies on several unbuilt designs including:  In addition to the proposed home for Herbert Greenwald in Lake Forest, Mies designed single family homes for:  Greenwald died in the crash of American Airlines Flight 320 from Midway International Airport to New York City's LaGuardia Airport on February 3, 1959.  The plane crashed in the East River and his body was not recovered. His estate was paid $287,000 by the insurance company.  After his death, his real estate firm, Herbert Realty Co., was renamed Metropolitan Structures. Under the leadership of Bernard Weissbourd, the firm developed Illinois Center in Chicago and other properties throughout the United States including   