Magnetic Field Architecture (MFA) is based on  Lenz’s Law, which states that if a magnetic field moves relative to a conductor, an eddy current is generated in that conductor. The technology uses engines to generate a primary magnetic field. These, in turn, create eddy currents, which generate a magnetic field of their own, mirroring the primary field causing them to repel one another. By focusing this electromagnetic energy downward, they are capable of generating  lift. Architect Greg Henderson had been searching for better ways to build safer and more sustainable structures that could withstand the destructive force of earthquakes. In 2015, he was granted a patent for the magnetic levitation of a moving or stationary object. This marked an advancement from present forms of earthquake protection such as base isolation.  Henderson's MFA uses electromagnetic fields to separate an object or structure from the ground and enable propulsion and control.  With the understanding that MFA had applications beyond structural isolation, Greg founded the Silicon Valley technology company, Arx Pax, and invented and patented (Patent No: US 9,126,487 B2) Magnetic Field Architecture (MFA) technology. To demonstrate the MFA technology, Arx Pax created the Hendo Hoverboard.  The MFA technology has potential uses beyond levitating skateboards. Applications of MFA technology include structural isolation, recreation and entertainment, industrial automation and transportation, according to Arx Pax, Inc. Hovering robots cleaning and sterilizing key areas of a medical facility, industrial tools such as fork lifts incorporating MFA Technology for a safer and more efficient workplace, and even a magnetic tractor beam through a partnership with NASA have been envisioned.   Additionally, once you join MFA technology to the Internet of Things (IoT), the possibilities may seem endless. There are wearables; Arx Pax envisions something called movables, making the environment the MFA technology is employed in a smarter landscape. Employment into the IoT provides the ability to continually respond to space and time.  