Nepal Sanctuary Treks  is a reputed government certified trekking company (Registration No. 9445/055/56) and hold full authority provided by Nepal Rastra Bank (The Central Bank of Nepal) for collection of foreign currency from the designated tourists coming through the company. Nepal Sanctuary Treks  was founded on 19th November 1998 by experienced professional Mr.Tulsi Gyawali. He has obtained more than 30 years of relevant experience in tourism sector and continually making an effort in offering quality service, prioritizing on client safety and promoting responsible travel.  Nepal Sanctuary Treks offers services on various trekking activities in various regions of Nepal. Apart from trekking, Nepal Sanctuary Treks also specialize on School Treks, Mountain Flight, Peaks and Expedition, Jungle Safari, Hiking, Heli Tours, Bird Watching, Mountain Biking and Water Rafting. Nepal Sanctuary Treks specializes in small individuals treks who prefer a tailored itinerary as per client’s requirement of trekking needs and style of travel. Apart from this, Nepal Sanctuary clients are solo travelers (male and female), small groups or family for whom bespoke trekking itineraries are created to match their personal needs. Nepal Sanctuary Treks is affiliated with following organizations: 1.     PATA (Pacific Asia Travel Association) Nepal Sanctuary Treks is a member of PATA with Membership #: PNC 2017-25 .  Every year Nepal Sanctuary Treks partake on travel mart.  2.     GHT (Great Himalayan Trail) Nepal Sanctuary Treks became a member  with Great Himalaya Trail (GHT) in 2018 with the vision to with the vision to support unexplored and unexploited region of Nepal. 3.     KEEP (Kathmandu Environmental Education Project) Nepal Sanctuary Treks is affiliated  with KEEP which is a registered  non-profit, non-governmental organization in Nepal  4.     TAAN (Trekking Agencies' Association of Nepal) Nepal Sanctuary Treks is a general member  of TAAN (membership number 9445/055/56  5.     NATTA (Nepal Association of Tour and Travel Agents) Nepal Sanctuary Treks is associated with NATTA. This association protect the professional interests of those involved in the travel trade business, to promote its systematic growth and expansion, to maintain the travelling public from exploitation by untrustworthy agents. 6.     Travelife Nepal Sanctuary Treks received the recognition of Sustainability Travelife Partner Award on August 07,2018. Nepal Sanctuary Treks fulfil with more than 100 criteria, in terms of  an operators’ office management, product range, international business partners and customer information. The Travelife standard encompasses the ISO 26000 Corporate Social Responsibility themes, comprising environment, biodiversity, human rights and labor relations; and is officially recognized as in full compliance with the UN-supported Global Sustainable Tourism Criteria. Nepal Sanctuary Treks is Eco-friendly trekking company committed to offer safety, quality service and well-designed bespoke itinerary, create more sustainability awareness among clients and employees. In addition, Nepal Sanctuary Treks aims to minimize negative effects on the natural and social environment through implementation of sustainable practices and centered on supporting community based homestay. Equipment and Services Nepal Sanctuary Treks continually updates its trekking equipment and provides the best support equipment as per the trek requirements. Nepal Sanctuary Treks is one of the selected few agencies to provide a Portable Altitude Chamber (PAC), Oxy-Meter, oxygen supply and comprehensive First-Aid kit on treks and expeditions above 4,000 meters. The company offers high-quality camping instruments for regular treks and uses Satellite Phones to relay consistent information about the trek details and destinations reached to ensure the further safety of the clients. Bespoke Itinerary Nepal Sanctuary Treks offer tailored made trekking itinerary, designed to match client’s unique trekking preferences and requirements. The Travel specialists carefully plan, attention to detail and design trek itinerary just the way client want and deliver all information required for client’s safety, comfort, and pleasure. Nepal Sanctuary Trek is very active in promoting the social livelihood and living conditions of local individuals and communities in and around the trekking destinations. Nepal sanctuary Treks involve continuously with local NGO to promote responsible tourism and to give back opportunities for the local community. Some initiative and action that was taken by NST : 1.      Earthquake Relief Campaign Nepal Sanctuary Treks provided relief materials such as aid, tents, food materials and mattress at earthquake-hit areas in 2015 massive earthquake. Nepal Sanctuary Treks helped  staffs in trekking areas with financial support and built damaged houses.  2.     Collaboration with Charity Trekking and local NGO Nepal Sanctuary Treks specializes in Charity trekking to raise fund for special projects. Nepal Sanctuary Treks focuses on "Trekking for a Cause" initiative and intends to give back something to local communities. NST also involves in Women Empowerment Program for local women and girls by providing training on Sanitation and Hygiene in cooperation with Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) conducted by UNICEF. 3.      Support Destitute Children Nepal Sanctuary Treks has been arranging the sponsors and supporting  more than 100 underprivileged children from various parts of Nepal of different ethnic communities with food, shelter, and education. Many children have successfully completed their studies and engaged in different occupations such as doctors, engineer, nurse, dentists and in managerial position. Nepal Sanctuary Treks also runs "The Porter Clothing Bank" where foreigners bring old/used warm clothes such as jackets, sweaters, gloves, hats and donate these materials they use during high altitude trekking to local porters. Most of the porters at high altitude are illiterate, poor, and not sufficiently equipped to sustain the normal environmental conditions.   The "Porter Clothing Bank" run by "International Porters Protection Group (IPPG)" based in Kathmandu oversees the delivery of materials collected from the clothing bank. Nepal Sanctuary Treks follows the guidelines  on porter safety provided by IPPG  and promotes the upliftment of safety conditions and work environment for the porters which are as follows: 