Alan Marshall is a New Zealand author, artist, & scholar working within the discipline of environmental studies. He is noted as a key scholar in environmental philosophy   and for inventing the 'Fantasy Method of Urban Design' . For his research on these topics, the University of Wollongong awarded Marshall a doctorate and National Geographic assigned him as an explorer. Marshall has undertaken projects within institutes all around Europe and in the Asia-Pacific region. For example, he's held fellowships at IAS-STS (Austria), the State University of Nizhny Novgorod (Russia), Prešov University & UPJŠ (Slovakia), Masaryk University (Czech Republic), KUSTAR (Abu Dhabi), Nirex UK (Great Britain), Curtin University of Technology (Australia), and Mahidol University (Thailand).  In the 1990s Alan Marshall developed a postmodern version of the Human–Nature relationship,  one that throws into doubt the very concepts of 'Humanity' and 'Nature'.   Marshall's approach is heavily influenced by the science of ecology but has been criticized as privileging one school of ecology, i.e., 'community ecology', over others such as systems ecology and the ecology of Gaia.   His book The Unity of Nature  is one of the fiercest critiques of Systems Theory in general, and Gaia Theory and Chaos Theory in particular. In 2006, Alan Marshall founded The Ecomimicry Project which tries to meld ecology with Green innovation, sustainable art, and the ethics of environmentalism.  Examples of designs that emerged from this project include: These designs were compiled into Marshall's Wild Design book and then praised by the Australian art & design media.    In January 2013, Marshall started the 'Ecotopia 2121' project; which (as noted by CNN , Vanity Fair  and The Independent ) explores 'graphic future scenarios' of 100 'super-ecofriendly' cities across the world. In 2015, the master-class part of this project conducted at Mahidol University was awarded the 2015 Kenneth M. Roemer Innovative Course Design Award by the Society for Utopian Studies. Ecotopia 2121, the book of the project written and illustrated by Marshall, has attracted broad critical acclaim.    The Times Higher Education review of Ecotopia 2121 stated "very few academics ever produce anything as stunning and imaginative as this" , whilst the Daily Mail , National Geographic  Al Jazeera , Forbes  and Publishers Weekly  declared it 'visionary', 'thought-provoking' and 'curious and creative'. Ecotopia 2121 was put on Resurgence and Ecologist magazine's Book of the Year list , won a Silver Medal at the 2017 Nautilus Book Awards and placed 1st in the 'Future Forecasts' category of the 2016 Green Book Festival, whilst the 'London 2121' cityscape from the book was chosen by the Museum of London to be displayed within their 2018 London Visions exhibition . A reviewer in Strange Horizons , in contrast, indicated that Ecotopia 2121 was 'offensive fluff' without 'seriousness' and warned people 'not to read it under any circumstance'.   Marshall is also widely referred to as a critic of the car industry , of the nuclear industry  and of space exploration.  His writings on the latter subject have been cited as insightful but are usually regarded by scientists and engineers as being too radically 'environmental'    especially his calls for the protection of the Martian landscape.  In early 2016, Marshall began a new project in urban ecology called Frankencities   which details the worst-case scenarios of emerging environmental problems in a series of cities around the world whilst comparing them to the insights offered by the Dr. Frankenstein story.  With projects such as these, Marshall has often been labeled as 'anti-science'. In response, he has explained he is a 'science critic' and not 'anti-science' (in the same manner that a 'film critic' is not 'anti-film'). For the Frankencities project and for the Ecotopia 2121 project, Marshall developed a novel urban design methodology known as 'The Fantasy Method of Urban Design', which is not so much about design but more about inventing new social change strategies.  Alan Marshall is an award-winning writer of fiction. His works of fiction include an historical novel, Lancewood, about an iconic New Zealand plant, and a science fiction radio drama called This Pointless Thing Called Life that was broadcast on NPR and XM Satellite Radio in the USA. In 2001 This Pointless Thing Called Life received the "Silver Award" from the Mark Time Awards by a panel that included Grammy-award winner Phil Proctor.  Along with Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings movie trilogy, This Pointless Thing Called Life was nominated for a Vogel Award in the category "Best Long Form dramatic science fiction and fantasy production made in New Zealand in the year 2002".   Like his scholarly writings, Marshall's fiction explores the relationships between "humans and technology" and between "humans and nature". The sequel to "This Pointless Thing Called Life" was another award-winning full-length radio feature broadcast in four parts on XM Satellite and by some NPR stations in 2003. This sequel was titled 'This Miserable Thing Called Life". 