 William Robert ('Bill') Freudenburg, (2 November 1951 – 28 December 2010) was an environmental sociologist and social theorist, best known for his work in rural sociology on the topics of risk perception, social disruption, and the causes of environmental degradation. Born in Madison, Nebraska, raised in West Point, Nebraska, he was educated at the University of Nebraska and Yale University. Freudenburg was a professor of sociology at a number of universities; his ultimate position was as Dehlsen Professor of Environmental Studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara.  He died at his home in Santa Barbara, of cholangiocarcinoma (cancer of the bile duct).  Much of Freudenburg's research dealt with the relationship between society and the environment, often in rural communities. Although not opposed to forms of environmentalism which emphasize  reducing one’s impact on the environment (such as recycling), Freudenburg focused less on the role of consumers and more on the role of regulatory structure and actions of industry, emphasizing the socially structured sources of environmental impacts. He was prominent in both rural and environmental sociology, and was elected and served as president of the Rural Sociological Society in 2004-2005, and at the time of his death was president-elect of the Association for Environmental Studies and Sciences (AESS), an organization which he helped found.  Freudenburg completed his undergraduate work at the University of Nebraska and then earned three graduate degrees, including his Ph.D., from Yale University. He began his professional career at Washington State University, then moved to the University of Wisconsin, where he spent most of his professional career. During that time, a compilation by graduate students found Freudenburg to have published more articles on environment-society relationships in leading journals than anyone else.  While he was still on the faculty at Wisconsin, he was nominated for an endowed professorship at the University of California, Santa Barbara, which he accepted, and he worked at UCSB until his death. Freudenburg published a number influential ideas, but his central focus in recent years was on what he called the double diversion.  Although in his latter years he taught in the program established in part by Garrett Hardin, and he often stressed his high regard for Hardin's work, the predictions that derive from Freudenburg's double diversion work are contrary to those associated with Hardin's "tragedy of the commons."   Rather than being due mainly to the actions of individual consumers, Freudenburg argued, much or most of all environmental harm is actually due to a small number of organized producers. Contrary to the notion that environmental protection is bad for the economy and jobs, the worst sources of environmental harm are commonly due to a surprisingly small fraction of all economic activity—and to an even smaller fraction of the jobs. In the first peer-reviewed article in which this perspective was spelled out, for example, Freudenburg found that the majority of all toxic emissions in the U.S. economy came from industries that were responsible for only about 5% of the gross national product—and just 1.4% of the nation's jobs.  "Catastrophe" was written with Robert Gramling, Shirley B. Laska, and Kai T. Erikson. It was published in August 2009, on the fourth anniversary of Katrina:  Catastrophe in the Making: The Engineering of Katrina and the Disasters of Tomorrow. (Washington, D.C.: Island Press, 2009). Unlike most "Katrina" books, which tend to focus on the hurricane's aftermath, this one discusses the ways in which public works projects—supposedly designed to bring greater prosperity to New Orleans—actually had little if any economic benefits, while potentially contributing to the storm's devastation.  Particularly noteworthy in this connection was the Mississippi River Gulf Outlet Canal (MRGO), which did little to serve as an "outlet" for commerce, but did serve as a major inlet for salt water, which killed much of the vegetation that held together the fragile but formerly healthy wetlands to the southeast of New Orleans. Providing the reader with New Orleans history, engineering data, and scholarly analysis, the authors argue that land development in the region led to the creation of several canals intended to promote economic prosperity, which ironically resulted in the intended economic capital was never realized due to the excessive maintenance costs. Instead, significant human capital was lost in 2005 as the canals and their subsequent environmental degradation exacerbated the impact of Katrina and her deadly floodwaters. Freudenburg's final published book, written with long-time collaborator Robert Gramling, was released in October 2010. Blowout in the Gulf: The BP Oil Spill Disaster and the Future of Energy in America (Cambridge MIT Press) puts the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in historical and policy perspective. Before he died, Freudenburg was working on a book tentatively entitled Robbing Nature’s Bank, which explored learning from problems of the past in order to prevent similar “unnatural disasters” in the future. The manuscript focuses less on the individual factors in harming the environment and points out that a large majority of this harm comes from organizational factors. 