May Sun (born 1954) is a Los Angeles-based artist known primarily for her public art projects.   Sun works in the mediums of sculpture, mixed media, photography and installation. Her work has been exhibited nationally and internationally.  She was born in Shanghai, China, moved to Hong Kong at the age of two with her family and immigrated to the United States in 1971 to attend the University of San Diego. "May Sun often refers to aspects of her Chinese heritage in her work, which consistently crosses cultural and political boundaries as well as the boundaries traditionally separating art forms and disciplines."  Her installation "UnderGround"  is in the permanent collection of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles. Her multi-media installation "L.A./River/China/Town" premiered at the Santa Monica Museum of Art's Art in the Raw series in 1988, and the MOCA-produced radio version of the installation won a Silver Award from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Her installation "Fugitive Landing", created at Capp Street Project in San Francisco, moved on to the MIT List Visual Arts Center in 1991 and to the Asia Society Galleries in New York City in 1994.  She has won numerous awards and fellowships, including two National Endowment for the Arts Visual Artist's Fellowships and a Getty Fellowship for the Visual Arts. Sun received her B.A. in Art (Painting/Sculpture/Graphic Arts) from UCLA and attended the MFA program at Otis Art Institute (now Otis College of Art and Design), Los Angeles. She was on the faculty at California Institute for the Arts, and is a visiting artist and lecturer at art schools and colleges nationally. She is currently on faculty at Otis College of Art and Design in Los Angeles. Sun's public art commissions include the Hollywood and Western Red Line Subway Station in Hollywood, CA;  Union Station Gateway Center, Los Angeles; City Hall in Culver City; Warner Center, Woodland Hills; San Antonio International Airport, San Antonio, Texas; the Best Friends Animal Society in Mission Hills, Los Angeles ; the Rose Kennedy Greenway in Boston, Massachusetts and the Robert F. Kennedy Inspiration Park at the site of the former Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles.  Her installations and public art projects are heavily researched and she draws inspiration from the history and surroundings of the site.  2012 Honor Award, public/open space category for Robert F. Kennedy Inspiration Park, 2012 Design Awards, Westside Urban Forum, Los Angeles, California. 2010 Certificate of Commendation, City of Los Angeles for Robert F. Kennedy Inspiration Park. 2004 American Institute of Architects Certificate of Recognition Award for San Antonio International Airport. 2001 Artist Research for Completion (ARC) Grant, Durfee Foundation, Los Angeles, California. 1996 Lila Wallace/Reader’s Digest Artists Residency at Giverny Program, Giverny, France. 1996 International Artists in Residence Program, Art Pace, San Antonio, Texas. 1995 Visual Artists Fellowship, the J Paul Getty Trust Fund for the Visual Arts, Los Angeles, California. 1994 Artist Grant, Art Matters, Inc., New York City, New York. 1993 Visual Artists Fellowship, New Genres, National Foundation for the Arts, Washington, DC. 1992 Artists Fellowship, California Arts Council, Sacramento, California. 1990 Resident Fellowship, National Foundation for Advancement in the Arts, Miami, Florida. 1990 SILVER Award, Corporation for Public Broadcasting (radio version of L.A./River/China/Town) 1989 Visual Artists Fellowship, New Genres, National Endowment for the Arts, Washington, DC. 1988 LACE Interdisciplinary Grant, Rockefeller Foundation, New York City and the National Endowment for the Arts, Washington, DC. 1987 Brody Arts Fund Fellowship, California Community Foundation, Los Angeles, California. 