 The Tanster is an American artist in the Hamptons on the East End of Long Island in New York State.  She began installing public art works in the community in the late Summer of 2014.  Her project was named as one the top 10 artistic events in 2014 by the cultural magazine Dan's Papers.  The Tanster has partnered with a local charity, the Coalition For Women's Cancers at Southampton Hospital.  Each piece of pop up art that The Tanster installs includes donation information for the Coalition. People are encouraged to take the art when they find it. On the back of it is a request for donations and a guide on how people can help.  The Tanster has received corporate sponsorships for her project, including contributions from Home Depot, Rust-Oleum and Meineke.  The Tanster was born in Southampton Hospital in Southampton, New York, United States and attended Southampton High School. She graduated Magna Cum Laude from Stony Brook University and has a master's degree in video production from the New York Institute of Technology. For a year she lived in Paris, France, studying art history at the Sorbonne. Her photographs have been published in magazines all over the world and her celebrity photography is currently managed by Getty Images. She began installing pop up public art in the Hamptons in August 2014.  The primary style of The Tanster public art installations involves repurposed yard signs spray painted in rainbow palettes. Oftentimes the pieces include original stencils. The yard signs which serve as her canvases are typically plastic rectangles. The Tanster creates her works in a studio in Water Mill, New York and then places them out in the public, either mounted on metal frames or stapled with wire to posts. She also paints, tie dyes, sews and makes videos. In February 2016, The Tanster was interviewed on iHeart Radio's Savvy Central channel by Christina Nitschmann. During the interview, The Tanster discussed a variety of topics, including both the origins of her charity rainbow street art project and how she became interested in Napoleon Bonaparte.  In July of 2018, The Tanster did a wide ranging, two part interview on The Scott Johnson Radio Show on the Building Fortunes Radio Network. The topics covered included her ongoing, multi-media art project which she characterized as a Hero's Journey partially inspired by Napoleon Bonaparte. During the interview, Tanster also discussed her efforts to highlight the statements of Ben Szemkus, an eyewitness whose story links the allegedly sadistic NXIVM sex cult and certain political elements.    Tanster is currently using her artistic talents and her industry to promote public awareness of the elicit behaviors of corrupt institutions and private groups. Her blog is a center of information regarding various topics of public concern. Tanster was featured on Neon Nettle as a source about the persecution that NXIVM whistleblower Ben Szemkus was facing for coming forward with his story.   