The Catalan Republic (Catalan: República Catalana, IPA: [rəˈpubːlikə kətəˈlanə]) was a state proclaimed in 1931 by Francesc Macià as the "Catalan Republic within the Iberian Federation".  It existed between 14 and 17 April 1931. By the Pact of San Sebastián (August 17, 1930), the Spanish republican parties agree to prepare a change of regime in case of victories in the following elections. In this project, there was a provision for the political autonomy of Catalonia, within the Republic. On 14 April 1931, after the municipal elections which gave in Catalonia the large majority to a party founded three weeks before of the elections by the union of the independentist Estat Català and the Catalan Republican Party, the Republican Left of Catalonia (ERC), its leader Francesc Macià, few hours before the proclamation of the Second Spanish Republic in Madrid, from the balcony of the Palace of the Generalitat (then the seat of the Provincial Deputation of Barcelona), proclaimed the "Catalan Republic, expecting that the other peoples of Spain constitute themselves as republics, in order to establish the Iberian Confederation".  Macià was appointed as acting president. Immediately, Macià began exercising power and dismissed General Despujols, chief of the Spanish Army in Barcelona, appointing General López Ochoa in his place and his companion Lluís Companys was designated civil governor of Barcelona. He also appointed the ministers of the Catalan government, dominated by the Republican Left of Catalonia, and included a member of the Radical Republican Party and another from the UGT trade union, but none from the conservative Regionalist League (on the streets many citizens said "Long live Macià and death to Cambó!").  The government also had representatives from the Socialist Union of Catalonia and Acció Catalana, and Macià even offered a ministry to the anarchist CNT, but the anarcho-syndicalist organization finally refused to participate, claiming its traditional apoliticism. Three days later, the government of the new Spanish Republic, worried, sent three ministers (Fernando de los Ríos, Lluís Nicolau d'Olwer and Marcel·lí Domingo) to Barcelona to negotiate with Macià and the Catalan government. Macià reached an agreement with the ministers, in which the Catalan Republic was renamed Generalitat of Catalonia, becoming an autonomous government inside the Spanish Republic, that would be granted an Statute of Autonomy after the elections to Spanish Cortes. Francesc Macià would be the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia until his death in 1933.  