The Bangladesh Mathematical Olympiad (BdMO) is an annual mathematical competition arranged for school and college students to nourish their interest and capabilities for mathematics. It has been regularly organized by the Bangladesh Math Olympiad Committee (BdMOC) since 2001. The first Math Olympiad was held in Shahjalal University of Science and Technology. Mohammad Kaykobad, Muhammad Zafar Iqbal and Munir Hasan were instrumental in establishing the Mathematics Olympiad in Bangladesh. With the dedicated endeavor of the members of the committee, the daily newspaper Prothom Alo and the Dutch Bangla Bank Limitedf, BdMOC has already achieved its primary goal – to send a team to the International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO). Bangladeshi students have participated in the International Mathematical Olympiad since 2005. Besides arranging Divisional and National Math Olympiads, BdMOC always extends its cooperation to all interested groups and individuals who want to arrange a Mathematics Olympiad. The Bangladesh Math Olympiad and the selection of the Bangladeshi national team for the IMO is bounded by rules set by the BdMOC, called BdMO Regulations. The Bangladesh Mathematical Olympiad is open for school and college students from the country. The competitions usually take place around December–January–February. In IMO 2014, the Bangladesh team achieved one silver, one bronze and four honorable mentions, placing the country at 53 among 101 participating countries.  In IMO 2015, the Bangladesh team achieved one silver, four bronze and one honorable mention, finishing in 33rd place.  In IMO 2018 Bangladesh won a gold medal for the first time.  The students are divided into four academic categories: The country is divided in 24 regions for the Regional Olympiad. In each division except Dhaka, nearly 60 students among 1000 participants are selected for the National Olympiad.  In Dhaka, the number of participants is more than 3000 and 100–150 are selected for the National Olympiad.  In all of the problems in the Regional Olympiad, only the final answers are necessary. In the National Olympiad, the top 71 participants are given prizes. The time given for solving the problems depends on the category: 2 hours for the Primary category, 3 hours for the Junior category, and 4 hours for the Secondary and Higher Secondary category. A group for the National Math Camp is selected from the winners of the National Olympiad. For every year since 2005, Bangladeshi students have participated in the International Mathematical Olympiad. Samin Riasat and Nazia Chowdhury won bronze medals for Bangladesh in 2009. Dhananjoy Biswas won the first silver medal for Bangladesh in 2012. The following is the full list of medal winners from Bangladesh: 