 The iTest (formerly known as the American High School Internet Mathematics Competition (AHSIMC)), was founded in 2004 by Bradley Metrock and takes place each September,  offering students from across the country to compete against the best and brightest high school students in a highly competitive environment. Any American high school student (or middle school, though the competition may be too challenging for all but the brightest of these) may compete in a team of up to five people. Students are not required to be students of the same school, or even residents of the same state.  Because of the decentralized nature of the competition, an advisor such as a teacher of a guardian is required for each team to monitor the team and vouch for compliance with the competition's rules. No computer or calculator programs or applications are allowed on the iTest, though graphing calculator use is allowed. Prior to 2008, it had consisted of 25 multiple-choice questions (with 1 answer choice on the first problem, 2 on the second, etc.), 25 short-answer questions, and 10 "Ultimate" questions, which are much like relay questions in that each Ultimate question depends on the answer to the previous ones. In 2008, it consisted only of 100 multiple choice or short answer problems. There were 4 Tiebreaker proof questions up until 2008 - in the 2008 competition, ties were solely broken by submission time. Students from 44 states have participated in the iTest, including home school students.  In 2005, the iTest admitted the American School of Warsaw in Poland as part of a pilot program to open the competition to international schools. When the iTest was founded in 2004, it was named the American High School Internet Mathematics Competition, as mentioned before. However, the iTest soon became its nickname, and the competition officially adopted the name in 2007. The iTest offers a different prize each year, attempting to reward the top students with cutting edge technology.   Prizes are also offered for other criteria, including State Champion, Sponsor's Award for Leadership, and Best Team Name. The 2006 logo The 2007 logo 