The North East Asian Mathematics Competition (NEAMC) is a three-day mathematics competition held in a predesignated location in North East Asia. It is a qualifying competition by Competition Academy for invitation to the World Mathematics Championships. The location of the NEAMC changes annually. There are now at least two venues held annually and any institution may host it (with significant discounted perks).  The Senior level is open to all youths in Grade 12 (Year 13) or below during the month of the event. The Junior level is open to all youths in Grade 9 (Year 10) or below during the month of the event. The Prime Plus level is open to all youths in Grade 7 (Year 8) or below during the month of the event. SEAMC and NEAMC are three-day events for school students located in South East and North East Asia, respectively. Participants work alone and in teams, as well as listen to mathematician guest speakers. SEAMC was conceived at the turn of the millennium by Steve Warry, a teacher at Alice Smith School in Kuala Lumpur who believed that mathematics could be a spectator sport. In pursuit of this, he organised the South East Asian Mathematics Competition (SEAMC) for March 2001, although he died a week prior to the competition. NEAMC was organised in February 2014 by Malcolm Coad of Nanjing International School, China as a parallel event to SEAMC. Haese Mathematics are proud partners of the event since conception  SEAMC, NEAMC and all other WMC qualifying competitions have: School teams engage within the Communication skills rounds. The Collaboration skills rounds are in buddy teams of three (the Open round involves 2 buddy teams working together). The Challenge are skills rounds undertaken as individuals. Three skills rounds are (subject specific skills and procedures) knowledge based, three are (plan and execute) strategy focused and three depend upon (new and imaginative ideas) creativity. So each strategy, creative and knowledge skill category is engaged in alone, in school teams and in buddy teams. Past team winners  Past individual winners  