The Rhode Island Mathematics League (RIML) competition consists of four meets spanning the entire year. It culminates at the state championship held at Cranston High School West.  Top schools from the state championship are invited to the New England Association of Math Leagues (NEAML) championship. Each meet consists of five rounds and a team round.  Each team consists of five students, and each school may have as many as six teams.  However, each team may have a maximum of two seniors and four sophomores/juniors.  At least one sophomore or freshman must be on each team (or the team may compete with an empty slot).  Three students from each team participate in a round.  Therefore, each student participates in three rounds and the team round.  The first five rounds consist of three questions each.  Beginning in 2007, one of the five rounds is designated as "calculator-free," and in 2008, this number was increased to two. The first question in each round is worth one point, the second two points, and the third three points.  Each student works on the questions independently in the ten minutes allotted.  All answers must be presented in simplified and rationalized form unless specified otherwise.  After the completion of the first five rounds, there is a team round.  All five players from each team collaborate on five questions worth two points each.  The maximum score for one team is 100 points, and the maximum score for one student is 18 points. At the first meet the rounds are as follows: Round 1:  Arithmetic and Number Theory (non-calculator) Round 2:  Algebra I Round 3:  Geometry (non-calculator) Round 4:  Algebra II Round 5:  Statistics and Probability Team Round (calculator allowed) At the second meet the rounds are as follows: Round 1:  Arithmetic and Number Theory Round 2:  Algebra I (non-calculator) Round 3:  Geometry Round 4:  Algebra II (non-calculator) Round 5:  Trigonometry Team Round (non-calculator) At the third meet the rounds are as follows: Round 1: Statistics and Probability Round 2: Algebra I Round 3: Geometry Round 4: Algebra II Round 5: Trigonometry (non-calculator) Team Round (calculator allowed) At the fourth meet the rounds are as follows: Round 1: Matrices Round 2: Algebra I (non-calculator) Round 3: Geometry Round 4: Algebra II Round 5: Conic Sections and Analytical geometry (non-calculator) Team Round (non-calculator) At the playoff meet the rounds are as follows: Round 1: Arithmetic (non-calculator) Round 2: Statistics, Probability, and Matrices Round 3: Algebra I Round 4: Geometry (non-calculator) Round 5: Algebra II Round 6: Algebra II, Trigonometry, Conic Sections, and Analytical geometry At the end of the six rounds, a relay round will occur, where 4 people from a team of 6 will participate. In this round, four questions are given, and you must use the answer from the previous question to answer the next one. At the end of this, there will be a team round, where 4 people from the team will compete to answer 5 questions together. The 2007-08, and 2008-09 league champion was Wheeler School.  Wheeler School ranked third among small schools at the 2006  and 2007  New England championships. In 2009 two seniors from Wheeler, Matthew Halpern and Karan Takhar, tied for first in the state.  Barrington High School ranked first among medium schools at the 2006 New England championships.   