The South East Asian Mathematics Competition (SEAMC) is a 3-day math competition held in a predesignated location in South East Asia.  It is a qualifying competition by Competition Academy for invitation to the World Mathematics Championships. This competition embodies the spirit of communication, collaboration, creativity, critical thinking (strategy), content knowledge, character, and cultural competence through the diverse range of competitors and schools from various countries. The location of the SEAMC changes annually. There are now at least two venues used annually. The Senior Competition is open to all students in Grade 12 (Year 13) or younger during the month of the event. The Junior Competition is open to all students in Grade 9 (Year 10) or younger during the month of the event. SEAMC and NEAMC are mathematics collaboration experience for school students located in South or North East Asia to come together for three days. SEAMC was conceived at the turn of the millennium by Steve Warry, who taught at Alice Smith School, Kuala Lumpur, and believed that mathematics could be a spectator sport. In pursuit of this, he organised the South East Asian Mathematics Competition (SEAMC) for March 2001. He died the week prior to the competition, but the event went ahead. From 2014, the NEAMC sister event has been organised for students in North East Asia. Currently, Singapore American School is the only school to have won SEAMC for 4 consecutive years. Lead by student coaches and captains such as A Hyun (Annie) Kim and Rhea Jain, they've managed to place 1st for 3 years and win the Warry Cup in 2018.  All WMC qualifying competitions have: School teams engage within the Communication skills rounds. The Collaboration skills rounds (Open, Lightning and Innovation) are in buddy teams of three . The Challenge are skills rounds undertaken as individuals. Three skills rounds are (subject specific skills and procedures) knowledge based, three are (plan and execute) strategy focused and three depend upon (new and imaginative ideas) creativity. So each strategy, creative and knowledge skill category is engaged in alone, in school teams and in buddy teams. Past questions can be found around the web.  There are many prizes to be had, with the most important being the intangibles that one gains from such an experience. On top of that: The better ranked teams across all of the competition venues that year are invited to the ultimate World Mathematics Championships showdown, hosted by Trinity College, University of Melbourne in the following July each year. 