The World Education Games  (WEG) is a Global Online Event for all schools and students around the world and is held semi annually during the month of October. It is the expanded format of what was once known as World Maths Day but it now includes World Literacy Day and World Science Day too. It is organized by the 3PLearning and sponsored by Microsoft,  UNICEF,  3P Learning  and MACQUARIE.  The World Maths Day holds the 'Guinness World Record' for the Largest Online Maths Competition in 2010.   Its Global Ambassador is 'Scott Flansburg' aka the Human Calculator . Its inception with the expanded format was in 2012 when 5,960,862 students from 240 countries and territories around the world competed with each other. In 2013, it was held March 5–7. The World Education Games had taken place October 13 through 15, 2015,  where over 6 Million students joined worldwide from over 20,000 schools in 159 countries and raised over $100,000 which will help send 33,000 students to school.  The World Education Games is a major free online educational competition-style event, hosted by the global e-learning provider 3P Learning (creators of subscription-based e-learning platforms designed primarily for schools - such as Mathletics, Spellodrome and IntoScience). The World Education Games (or WEG) had its origins purely as a mathematics-based event, then known as World Maths Day in 2007. The event was powered by 3P Learning's flagship online learning resource, Mathletics. In 2011, the event expanded to include a second subject (World Spelling Day, renamed World Literacy Day in 2013), followed a year later by a third subject (World Science Day) and at which point the event took on the fully encompassing World Education Games  name and branding. Since 2012 The World Education Games has been collaborating with UNICEF  in the framework of a program called "School in a Box " that supports the development of education in regions that are affected by various disasters and poverty. Summary: Participation in the Games is open to all students from any country and is completely free. Registration is required and an access to the internet is a must. Students are matched according to their age/ grade levels or abilities if such is requested by their teachers. Students play randomly against other students from all over the world. Students answer as many questions as possible during the allotted time for each Game. Correct answers get points, wrong answers no points and three wrong answers end the game prematurely. Each student plays and scored for the points accumulated during the first 20 games only. Results are announced after counting all the points and after the organizers had communicated with the parents/ teachers of possible winners and ensured that they had participated in the Games under their own registered accounts. Multiple registrations and/ or playing under someone's else account is a violation punishable by annulling the results of everyone involved. Winners are the students who score the highest points in their grade level in each competition separately and in total. Schools are also awarded for receiving the highest point-average in each grade level as long as at least 10 students had participated from that school. Top 100 participants also get their achievements listed on the Hall of Fame.  Students who win their regional lead-up events in their countries are hand-picked to become Ambassadors. The Winners of each group are awarded a 'Minted Gold medal' and the Top Ten in each group receive 'Gold Medals'. There are also various other prizes including Trophies, Certificates, etc.Full list of Winners including Top Ten in each category is available at the official website of World Education Games. The complete list of various prizes and cups over the years can be found in the official website of World Education Games Salcombe Prep School, UK Salcombe Prep School, UK Canadian International School, Hong Kong & Ali Saud Khan Beaconhouse School System, Mandi, Bahauddin, Pakistan Cempaka Schools, CH, Malaysia Salcombe Prep School, UK Balwyn Primary School, Australia The Glasgow Academy, UK Cempaka Schools DH, Malaysia 8-10 yrs: Alastair Gibson, Hexham Middle School, UK 11-13 yrs: Ali Saud, Khan, Beaconhouse School System, Mandi, Bahauddin, Pakistan 14-18 yrs: Kianna Wan, Team Canada, Canada 8-10 yrs: Rohith Niranjan, Global Indian International School, Japan 11-13 yrs: Ali Saud Khan, Beaconhouse School System, Mandi, Bahauddin, Pakistan 14-18 yrs: Husnain Ali Abid, FFC Grammar School, Pakistan 8-10 yrs: Chiacia Putri Effendy, Cahaya Harapan Sejahtera, Indonesia 11-13 yrs: Aryan Saju, The British Al Khubairat, UAE 14-18yrs: Danial Bin Muhammad Syafiq, Cempaka Schools CH, Malaysia 8-10 yrs: Dylan.C, Linn Primary School, UK 11-13 yrs: Edryna Syfinaz Z A, Cempaka Schools DH, Malaysia 14-18 yrs: Phoebe M, Sha Tin College, Hong Kong 8-10 yrs: Darshan.S, Indian Public School, India 11-13 yrs: Moosa FerozeTarrar, Beaconhouse School System, Pakistan 14-18 yrs: Kaya Genc, Southport College, Australia 8-10 yrs: Derek.L, Monterey Ridge Elementary School, USA 11-13 yrs: Sharan Maiya, The Glasgow Academy, UK 14-18yrs: Malayandi P, Cempaka Schools DH, Malaysia 8-10 yrs: Dylan.C, Linn Primary School, UK 11-13 yrs: George.W, Team United Kingdom, UK 14-18 yrs: Phoebe M, Sha Tin College, Hong Kong 8-10 yrs: Mason F, Team New Zealand, New Zealand 11-13 yrs: Kaya Genc, The Southport School, Australia 14-18 yrs: David Andersen, Fraser Coast Anglican College, Australia 9-13 yrs: Kaya Genc, The Southport School, Australia 14-18 yrs: David Andersen, Fraser Coast Anglican College, Australia 9-13 yrs: Kaya Genc, The Southport School, Australia 14-18 yrs: David Andersen, Fraser Coast Anglican College, Australia (in Russian) "Всемирные Образовательные Игры".  