World Maths Day (World Math Day in American English) is an online international mathematics competition, powered by educational resource provider 3P Learning (the same organisation behind the school resources Mathletics, Spellodrome and IntoScience). Smaller elements of the wider Mathletics program effectively power the World Maths Day event. The first World Maths Day was held on March 14, 2007 (Pi Day), and has been held on the 1st Wednesday in March in subsequent years. Despite these origins, the phrases "World Maths Day" and "World Math Day" are trademarks and not to be confused with other competitions such as the International Mathematical Olympiad or days such as Pi Day. In 2010, World Maths Day created a Guinness World Record for the Largest Online Maths Competition.   In 2011, the team behind the competition added a second event World Spelling Day - and officially rebranded as the World Education Games. In 2012, a third event was added - World Science Day. The World Maths Day and World Education Games are now sponsored by Samsung, and supported by UNICEF as global charity partner.  No event was held in 2014, and the schedule was changed to hold the event in October 2015. World Maths Day involves participants playing 60 second games, with the platform heavily based on "Live Mathletics" found in Mathletics. The contests involve mental math problems appropriate for each age group which test the accuracy and speed of the students as they compete against other students across the Globe. The simple but innovative idea of combining the aspects of multi-player online gaming with math problems has contributed to its popularity around the world. Nowadays there are 10 levels. Level 1 is simple addition to 10, while the higher levels involve converting units for area and volume, Cartesian graphs and factorizing algebraic expressions to name a few. The inaugural World Maths Day was held on March 13, 2007. 287 000 students from 98 countries answered 38 904 275 questions.The student numbers and the participating countries have steadily increased in the following years as evidenced by the Guinness Record created in 2010, though since then Game limits have caused the number of questions answered to drop each year(In 2015 the number was less than in 2008). In 2012 as the World Education Games, over 5.9 Million students from 240 Countries and Territories around the World registered to take part in the games with the World Maths Day being the biggest attraction. In 2013, it was held between 5–7 March and the awards were presented at the Sydney Opera House to the Champions. In 2015 it was held for 96 hours in October and a similar prize-giving is planned. A number of awards are offered to the students who take part and for those who do well in the event. Additionally the Champions and the Top Ten students in the world are awarded Gold medals every year. There are also a number of National lead-up events in different regions around the world which are also based on the Mathletics format.The winners  may become the Ambassadors of their Country for the World Education Games the following year and help to promote the event. The complete list of individual Champions, School, Class and other winners over the years could once be found in the World Education Games website. The new 2015 website no longer has the archive of Hall of Fames and other statistics. The Individual Gold Medal Winners through the years are listed below Sha Tin College, Hong Kong The 2015 event was held on October 13-October 15, 2015. There were 10 ages categories: 1 each for grades K-8, and one for grades 9+. The game limit was dropped to 20 games per student. It is possible to play further, but these do not count to ones personal total, only the event total. 169 Million points were scored across Maths, Literacy and Science. Throughout the year Mathletics host several National Mathletics challenges in the lead up to World Maths Day.  These challenges and the winners list are as follows: The American Math Challenge :Winner- Alek K, Haddonfields schools, Null. The Australian Maths Challenge :Winner- Parker C, Home Education, Queensland The Canadian Math Challenge :Winner- Shekar S, North Kipling Junior Middle School, ON. The European Schools Maths Challenge:Winner- Anna S, British International School of Ljubljana, Slovenia. The Middle East Schools Maths Challenge:Winner- Zakria Y, Australian International School, UAE. The NZ Maths Challenge :Winner- Vlad B, St Mary's School, Christchurch. The South African Maths Challenge :Winner- Jaden D, Wilton House, GT. The UK Four Nations Maths Challenge :Winner- Sharan Maiya, Glasgow Academy, Scotland. The American Math Challenge :Winner- Sayan Das, Team USA, Minnesota. The Australian Maths Challenge :Winner- Tatiana Devendranath, Team Australia, VIC. The Canadian Math Challenge :Winner- Tom.L, MPS, Etobicoke. The European Schools Maths Challenge:Winner- The Middle East Schools Maths Challenge:Winner- . The NZ Maths Challenge :Winner- Thomas Graydon, Pitt Island School. The Pakistan Maths Challenge: Winner- Dilsher A, The International School of Choueifat. The South African Maths Challenge :Winner- Jaden D, Team ZAF. The UK Four Nations Maths Challenge :Winner- Sharan Maiya, Glasgow Academy, Scotland, United Kingdom. The American Math Challenge :Winner- Zhe W, Team USA, Massachusetts The Latin American Math Challenge :Winner- Adriana Donis, Colegio Internacional Montessori, Guatemala The Australian Maths Challenge :Winner- Aaron Herrmann,, Seaford 6-12 School, South Australia The Canadian Math Challenge :Winner- Hanting C, Maywood Community School, Canada The European Schools Maths Challenge:Winner- Filip Szary, Team Poland The Middle East Schools Maths Challenge:Winner- Pushp raj P, MES Indian School, Qatar The NZ Maths Challenge :Winner- Willem Ebbinge, Remarkables Primary School, Otago The Pakistan Maths Challenge: Winner- Husnain Ali Abid, Team Pakistan, Punjab The South African Maths Challenge :Winner- Bradley P, Merrifield College, Eastern Cape The UK Four Nations Maths Challenge :Winner- Ryan Conlan, Team GBR, Scotland The Nigerian Maths Challenge Winner Ayomide Adebanjo, Xplanter Private School, Lagos 