  Air Service Training (AST) is an organisation in Perth, Scotland, that has been training engineers and pilots for airlines, maintenance organisations and the military since 1931.  It is owned by Perth College UHI, with training taking place on the college campus and at Perth Airport, near Scone. Working with the College, AST delivers aeronautical engineering courses for professionals so they can meet European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) standards. These range from introductions to aircraft systems and maintenance processes to approved courses needed for Licensed Aircraft Engineer (LAE) status. They include: approved Part 66 Category A; approved Part 66 Category B; Category B sandwich course, non-certifying courses and modular courses. AST also runs academic courses up to BEng(hons) degree in aircraft maintenance.  EASA licences are generally regarded as suitable qualifications for beginning a career in aviation. AST has approval to run courses from ARB, CAA, JAA and EASA and meets the JAR-147 requirements to deliver and assess the JAR-66 Ab-Initio course. It has also gained approval under EASA Part 147 regulations and is the preferred training provider of national and international companies, such as Cathay Pacific, British Airways, BMI British Midland, EasyJet and Bristow Helicopters Ltd.     AST has also been the preferred training provider for aircraft engineer licensing for several military and governmental organisations, including the Royal Flight of Oman, Kuwait Air Force and the British Army Air Corps.     As well as approved courses for engineer licensing, AST also provides customised training for individuals and organisations, including aircraft mechanics, aeronautical fundamentals and helicopter maintenance fundamentals. In 2015 Air Service Training was awarded the highly prestigious Queens Award in the category of International Trade.  The Aeronautical Engineering College, founded by John Davenport Siddeley, opened in 1931 at Hamble aerodrome in Hampshire and operated there until 1960, when it moved to Perth Airport. More than 160,000 engineers and pilots from 150 countries have been trained as a result.    Air Service Training was originally Airwork Services Training[dubious  – discuss], and at various times was part of the British & Commonwealth group and Bristow Helicopters Limited. After its flying college closed, the aeronautical engineering college became a wholly owned subsidiary of Perth College UHI in September 1996.  Former AST aviation students include: The Hon Mrs Victor Bruce, the first female pilot to circumnavigate the globe; Amy Johnson, holder of records for flying to Australia and Japan, and Sir Alan Cobham, founder of the flying circus and the Cobham Company. 