Barry Schiff is an American pilot and author of more than 1,800 articles published in 111 aviation magazines, notably AOPA Pilot of which he is a contributing editor. Schiff holds 10 journalism awards from the Aviation/Space Writers Association and four special awards from the FAA. He is also a member of the Aviation Speakers Bureau.  With 28,000 hours logged in 357 different types of aircraft, Schiff has received worldwide recognition for his wide-ranging aeronautical accomplishments.  He received his ATP license at 21,  and has earned every FAA category and class rating (except airship).  Schiff holds eleven type ratings and every possible instructors rating.  He has also been an FAA-designated check airman on the Boeing 767 and a general aviation designated examiner.  Schiff retired from Trans World Airlines in 1998 after a 34-year career during which he flew the Lockheed Constellation, the Boeing 707, 727, 747, 757, 767 and the Lockheed Tri Star 1011.  Schiff holds five world speed records  and has received numerous honors for his many contributions to aviation safety.  These include a Congressional Commendation (1975),  the Louis Bleriot Air Medal (France),  Switzerland's Gold Proficiency Medal,  an honorary doctorate from the Embry-Riddle School of Aeronautics (1980),  and AOPA's L.P. Sharples Perpetual Award.  Schiff has been inducted into the New Jersey Aviation Hall of Fame  and the EAA/NAFI National Flight Instructor's Hall of Fame,  and was elected as an Elder Statesman of Aviation by the National Aeronautic Association.  Captain Schiff was inducted in 2012 as a Living Legend of Aviation. In 1963, Schiff sold his publishing company Aero Progress, Inc to Elrey Jeppesen; Schiff is an award-winning aviation journalist  and author, being well known to flying audiences for his numerous books and aviation articles.  His articles have earned him eleven prestigious journalism awards.  Many of his articles discuss personally developed concepts, procedures and techniques that have received international acclaim . Schiff's flight experience includes experimental flight testing of light aircraft, transoceanic, polar and international aircraft operation, air taxi, corporate, and flight-training activities.  He has flown numerous military aircraft including Lockheed's U-2.  Schiff also developed and worked to have adopted the concept of providing general aviation pilots with safe VFR routes through high density airspace. In 1995 and with the direct approval of Jordanian King Hussein and Israeli Prime Minister, Itzhak Rabin, Schiff contributed to the Middle East peace process by leading a formation of 35 airplanes carrying 135 Americans, Israelis, and Jordanians from Jerusalem to Amman.  Codename "Operation Peace Flight",  Schiff became the first pilot ever allowed to fly between those countries.  Schiff is currently retired from TWA and is currently working as a journalist and aviation expert witness.  