A flight instructor is a person who teaches others to fly aircraft. Specific privileges granted to holders of a flight instructor qualification vary from country to country, but very generally, a flight instructor serves to enhance or evaluate the knowledge and skill level of an aviator in pursuit of a higher pilot's license, certificate or rating. A person who holds a flight instructor certificate (called a "certificated flight instructor" or CFI) is authorized to give training and endorsements required for and relating to:  Certain limitations are placed on the instruction a flight instructor may give. For example, flight instructors wishing to train applicants for a flight instructor certificate must have held their own flight instructor certificate for at least 24 months and must have given at least 200 hours of instruction. Specific training programs have additional requirements or limitations.  The occupational privileges of instructors employed by flight schools regulated under 14 CFR parts 141 and 142 are further restricted. Specific authorization is often required from the local controlling agency (Typically the flight standards district office) in order for instructors to conduct evaluations, for example.  Flight instructors in the United States must hold at least a commercial pilot certificate or ATP (airline transport pilot) certificate. Individuals wishing to give instruction in airplanes or powered-lift aircraft are additionally required to hold an instrument rating in the desired category and class. Holders of a sport pilot certificate may obtain a flight instructor certificate with sport pilot rating, allowing them to give instruction for the sport pilot certificate in light-sport aircraft. All individuals desiring flight instructor privileges must pass two additional written exams (fundamentals of instruction, or FOI; and a knowledge test specific to the category of aircraft in which instructional privileges are desired, such as fixed-wing) as well as a practical test.   Flight instructors must be at least 18 years of age to be eligible. Those airmen who hold commercial privileges in lighter-than-air aircraft (balloons and airships) have flight instructor privileges in those category and classes they have on their pilot certificate.  Lighter-than-air flight instructor privileges do not get placed on a flight instructor certificate. In the United States, two professional organizations represent flight instructors nationally: The National Association of Flight Instructors (NAFI), and Society of Aviation and Flight Educators (SAFE) In India there are 3 grades of flight instructors namely API (Assistant Pilot Instructor), PI (Pilot Instructor) and CFI (Chief Flying Instructor). A PII (Pilot Instructor In-Charge) and Dep.CFI (Deputy CFI) are both variations of the PI and CFI ranks respectively but they essentially hold the same certificate / rating issued by DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation). Typically, an API, PI and PII wear 3 bar epaulets and a Dep. CFI and CFI wear 4 bar epaulets. In Europe under the EASA regulatory system there are several different levels of flight instruction ratings.  Flight Instructor (FI) teaches basic flight instruction, but a FI may also hold the privileges from any other rating such as IRI and CRI. Instrument Rating Instructor (IRI) teaches instrument flying towards an instrument rating. Class Rating Instructor (CRI) teaches on a certain class of aircraft towards a rating, such as Single Engine Piston Land (SEPL) or Multi Engine Piston Land (MEPL). The instruction license can be issued for airplane, helicopter, baloon or sailplane, e.g. a helicopter flight instructor holds a FI(H). This section currently covers only the aeroplane flight instructor ratings. In Canada, the holder of a commercial pilot licence or airline transport pilot licence may have their licence endorsed with a flight instructor rating - aeroplane. Initially, the pilot is endorsed as a "Class 4" flight instructor. This allows the pilot to deliver flight training towards the issuance of a recreational pilot permit, private pilot licence, commercial pilot licence, night rating, and VFR over-the-top rating. The "Class 4" flight instructor may only conduct training while under the supervision of a "Class 2" or "Class 1" flight instructor. After satisfying certain requirements (satisfactory flight test records, experience requirements, written exams, and flight tests), an instructor can upgrade their rating to a Class 3, Class 2, and Class 1 instructor rating. The Class 3 flight instructor does not require the supervision of a Class 2 or Class 1 flight instructor. The Class 2 flight instructor may supervise Class 4 flight instructors and act as the chief flight instructor (CFI) of a flight training unit. The Class 1 flight instructor may give ground school and flight training towards the endorsement of a flight instructor rating. In order to give instruction towards the instrument rating, multi rating, type ratings, and class conversions (for example, land plane to sea plane), an instructor rating is not necessarily required.  The requirements may be limited to holding a commercial or airline transport license and having met certain experience levels (such as time on type and in class).  In the case of an instrument rating, the holder of a flight instructor rating can teach it even if they do not have the experience level required for non-flight instructors.  Details are contained in the Canadian Aviation Regulations, parts 401 and 421. Flight instructors in New Zealand must have a Category A, B, C, D or E flight instructor rating. The Category E rating is specifically for conducting agricultural (top dressing, etc.) flying instruction. Category D flight instructor may conduct type ratings for any aircraft for which they hold a type rating. Category C flight instructors cannot send students on their first solo, and must operate under the supervision of a Category A or B flight instructor. The chief flying instructor (CFI) is the flying instructor responsible for all flight training at an organization. NZ CAA Advisory Circular on Flight Instructor Ratings In South Africa, Grade I, II and III instructor ratings exist. Ratings for aeroplanes and helicopters are obtained and revalidated separately. A Grade III instructor rating is an entry-level qualification, allowed to provide basic instruction toward the issue of a Private Pilot Licence (PPL) under supervision of a Grade I or Grade II flight instructor. A Grade III instructor must hold at least a Commercial Pilot Licence (CPL) in the same category. A Grade II instructor requires at least 200 hours of instruction experience, and can function without supervision in most types of training (instrument, night, commercial, multi-engine etc.). Grade II instructors have some examiner privileges, specifically for PPL initial and revalidation tests and can be appointed as Chief Flight Instructors. A Grade I instructor requires at least 1500 hours of instruction experience, and can provide any type of training on classes and types of aircraft on which the instructor is rated. A Grade I instructor is also eligible for appointment as a Class 1 Designated Flight Examiner (DFE-I). A DFE-I can issue and renew any licences and ratings that he or she is rated for. The appointment is renewed annually. Most DFE-Is are employed by major airlines. There is also a parallel system, not in compliance with ICAO guidelines, for recreational pilots. This training takes place under Part 62 of the Civil Aviation Regulations. Such instructor ratings come in Category A, B and C, with A being the most senior. https://www.faa.gov/documentLibrary/media/Advisory_Circular/AC_61-65G.pdf 