Cueva de los Tayos (Spanish, "Cave of the Oilbirds") is a natural cave located on the eastern slopes of the Andes mountains in the Morona-Santiago province of Ecuador.  It is sometimes called Cueva de los Tayos de Coangos (the Río Coangos is nearby), presumably to distinguish it from other oilbird-containing caves with similar names. Cueva de los Tayos is located in the high rainforest, 2 km south of the Santiago River, and 800 m west of Coangos River. According to the last GPS measurement in 2008, its altitude is 539 m above sea level. Located at an elevation of about 800 m within thinly-bedded limestone and shale, the principal entrance to Cueva de Los Tayos is within a rainforest at the bottom of a dry valley. The largest of three entrances is a 65-meter-deep shaft leading to 4.6 kilometers of spacious passages and a chamber measuring 90 meters by 240 meters. The cave has a vertical range of 201 meters with its lowest point ending in a sump. The cave has long been used by the native Shuar Indians who descend into the cave each spring using vine ladders and bamboo torches to collect fledgeling tayos (the nocturnal Steatornis caripensis).  Written references to the cave go back as far as 1860 and it is known to have been visited by gold-seekers and military personnel in the 1960s. Actually, the cave is located inside the Sindical Center Coangos (formed by native people). So, the cave belongs to the independent territory of the Shuar-Arutam. Today, access to the cave is restricted. It is necessary to obtain permission (access and temporary visit) and pay a tax (in order to improve life-condition of the communities) in Sucúa, Ecuador, at Shuar Center Federation. (FICSH: Federación Interprovincial de Centros Shuar) The cave was popularized by Erich von Däniken's 1973 book The Gold of the Gods, in which he wrote that János Juan Móricz (1923–1991) had claimed to have explored Cueva de los Tayos in 1969 and discovered mounds of gold, unusual sculptures and a metallic library.  These items were said to be located within artificial tunnels that had been created by a lost civilization with help from extraterrestrial beings.  Von Däniken had previously claimed in book Chariots of the Gods? that extraterrestrials were involved in ancient civilizations. As a result of the claims published in von Däniken’s book, an investigation of Cueva de los Tayos was organized by Stan Hall of the United Kingdom, in 1976. One of the largest and most expensive cave explorations ever undertaken, the expedition involved over a hundred people, including experts in a variety of fields, British and Ecuadorian military personnel, a film crew, and former astronaut Neil Armstrong. [full citation needed] The team also included eight experienced British cavers who thoroughly explored the cave and conducted an accurate survey to produce a detailed map of it.  There was no evidence of Von Däniken’s more exotic claims, although some physical features of the cave did approximate his descriptions and some items of zoological, botanical, and archaeological interest were found. The lead researcher met with Moricz's indigenous source, who claimed that they had investigated the wrong cave, and that the real cave was secret.  On 31 January 2018, Tayos Cave was featured on the 6th episode of the 4th season of Expedition Unknown, titled "Hunt for the Metal Library". Explorer Josh Gates and his team, helped by local Shaur Indians and Eileen Hall, daughter of Stan Hall of the earlier expedition, headed to Ecuador to explored the watery depths of the cavern.  Coordinates: 1°56′00″S 77°47′34″W﻿ / ﻿1.93333°S 77.79278°W﻿ / -1.93333; -77.79278 