Jungfrau Park is an amusement park located near Interlaken, Switzerland. It opened as the Mystery Park in 2003, and closed in November 2006 due to financial difficulties and low turnout. The park was designed by Erich von Däniken, and consisted of seven pavilions, each of which explored one of several great "mysteries" of the world. Von Däniken opened the theme park to present his interpretations of unsolved mysteries involving extraterrestrial life that he believes took place around the world.   Since 2009 it has regularly re-opened for the summer seasons as the Jungfrau Park.  The Panorama Kugel was the central pavilion, topped by a 41-meter high sphere, from which the park's grounds could be seen. The "Kugel" contained exhibits of von Däniken's works. Erich von Däniken used the different pavilions to show the works that he believed extraterrestrials have had on ancient artifacts. His book "Chariots of Gods?" explains his ideas on each of these pavilions and how they are all linked to visits from outer space. Von Däniken is an advocate of aliens influencing Earth and he has written books about the subject. All attractions heavily advocated the idea of alien visits to Earth. The Mystery Park was labeled a "cultural Chernobyl" by Académie suisse des sciences techniques member Antoine Wasserfallen who was cited by the Swiss newspaper Le Temps and other media.  The Swiss federal railroad company (SBB) advertised for the park and sold a combined ticket. Controversy struck again in August 2005 when Erich von Däniken decided to have a special exhibition on crop-circles and also a hoaxing-competition. Due to the fact that no school classes nor hoaxers replied to the competition, land surveyor and artist Vitali Kuljasov was asked to create a complex crop circle.  The creation of the crop-circle would be caught on surveillance that was set up at the park to document the work of Vitali Kuljasov. The webcam was set up the night before the event was to take place in order to test the position and clarity for the big event.  This is when a mysterious formation appeared.  Investigators came to Mystery Park to make sense of what had taken place. Very experienced field investigators examined the crop-circle and concluded it was obviously man-made due to amateur mistakes and a crooked performance.  However, there was disagreement between one investigator who did not believe the crop-circle was done by a human hoaxer and blamed the "mistakes" on people coming to view it. Investigators then used the webcam that was testing the night the crop circle "appeared" in order to gather more information. The web-cams showed little about what went on that night due to the darkness and camera angles but the biggest pieces of evidence found were the appearance of car headlights coming and leaving around the time the crop-circle was estimated to have "appeared". There was also one person pressed into the field that night which disproved the idea that multiple guests could have made the crop-circle appear to be manmade.  Investigators did not find who was behind this hoax but they concluded it was created by human hoaxers.  In the winter of 2004, the park and its governmental support came under heavy criticism by the news channel, SRG SSR idée suisse. Owing to failed expectations that projected 500,000 guests per year when in 2005 only 200,000 visited the park, Mystery Park found itself in dire financial straits.  Operation of the park was suspended on November 19, 2006.  Critics also attributed the park's failure to other reasons:  On May 16, 2009, the park was renamed Jungfrau Park and reopened by its new owner, New Inspiration Inc., for the summer season hoping to attract at least 500 visitors a day until November 1. In June, a children's paradise (German: Kinderparadies) is on schedule.  It opened again for the 2010 season.  Coordinates: 46°40′56″N 7°53′17″E﻿ / ﻿46.68222°N 7.88806°E﻿ / 46.68222; 7.88806 