Hilti Corporation (Hilti Aktiengesellschaft or Hilti AG, also known as Hilti Group) is a Liechtenstein multinational company that develops, manufactures, and markets products for the construction, building maintenance, and mining industries, mainly to the professional end-user. It concentrates mainly on anchoring systems, hammer drills, firestops, and installation systems, but manufactures and markets an array of tools (including cordless electric drills, heavy angle drills, laser levels, power saws, and fasteners). Hilti, a registered trademark of the various Hilti corporate entities, is the family name of the company's founders. In 1941, the Hilti company was founded by Martin and Eugen Hilti,  with the opening of a mechanical workshop in Schaan, Liechtenstein. Martin Hilti was trained in mechanical engineering and automotive design at the Wismar Engineering College and was 26 at the time of founding the company. The Martin Hilti Family Trust holds all of Hilti's registered shares as of 2003.  Hilti OHG began as a company that produced equipment and components on contract for the German industry during World War II.  The exports went largely to Maybach Motorenbau in Friedrichshafen and Robert Bosch in Stuttgart. The products included tank parts and ammunition components for the Nazi war effort.  After the war the company repositioned itself and began producing fasteners and other construction material.  Hilti is based in Schaan, Liechtenstein, and is the principality's largest employer. The company employs more than 20,000 people worldwide. Hilti has over 2,500 employees in the United States. HNA's headquarters had been located in Tulsa, Oklahoma, since 1979,  although it has employees in all fifty states.  It moved its North American headquarters from Tulsa to Plano, Texas by June 2015 and opened a research and development center in Irving, Texas.  HNA developed an employee corporate culture that was later adopted by the entire company worldwide. Employees who are hired are put through a Basic Training Seminar in Tulsa for four weeks, and on a yearly basis employees complete a survey called GEOS (Global Employee Opinion Survey) in which they give feedback about the company.  Hilti Northern Europe is headquartered in the Hilti Limited office in Manchester, Great Britain. The Hilti (Gt. Britain) office oversees a staff of over 1000 team members in varying roles such as  sales, engineering, marketing, finance, HR, IT, procurement and customer services. Coordinates: 47°10′50″N 9°31′27″E﻿ / ﻿47.18056°N 9.52417°E﻿ / 47.18056; 9.52417 