The Society for Lincolnshire History and Archaeology or SLHA  aims to create a greater awareness of the history of Lincolnshire, and works to discover and record its heritage. The Society was formed in 1974, but it has antecedents which date back to 1844.  Currently the Society's activities include arranging  lectures and other events about Lincolnshire’s history and archaeology, the publication of a journal, a newsletter and books about Lincolnshire. The Society has its headquarters at the Jews' Court in Lincoln, where it  has a lecture room, and runs a bookshop for new and secondhand books. It has two branch groups, the Sleaford History Group and the South Holland History  Group at Spalding, and also works with other local groups throughout the historic county of Lincolnshire.  The Lincolnshire Topographical Society was established in 1840 under the patronage of Lord Monson. Among its members were the architects Edward James Willson and William Adams Nicholson. It only published one volume of proceedings and appears to have been defunct by 1843.  In 1844 the Lincolnshire Society for the encouragement of Ecclesiastical Antiquities was founded in Louth. Membership was by election and initially this was limited to members of the Anglican church. This is probably the reason why Edward James Willson, a Roman Catholic, did not join this Society. In 1849 the Society changed its name to the Lincolnshire Architectural Society and then in 1853 to the Lincolnshire Diocesan Architectural Society.  With the appointment of Archdeacon Edward Trollope as secretary of the Society in 1850, the Society moved to Lincoln and started to publish its proceedings in the Reports and Papers of the Associated Archaeological Societies. A further name change occurred in 1885 when it became the Lincolnshire and Nottinghamshire Architectural and Archaeological Society. This was to reflect the removal of the Archdeaconry of Nottingham from the Diocese of Lincoln and the creation of the new Diocese of Southwell. In 1902 Nottinghamshire was dropped from the title.  During these early years a high proportion of the members of the Society were clergymen within the Diocese of Lincoln and most of the published articles are about Church history and architecture. While the Lincolnshire Architectural and Archaeological Society continued to publish its papers with the Associated Archaeological Societies until 1936, other developments were taking place. In 1930 the Lindsey Local History Society was founded and it came to publish the Lincolnshire Historian. In 1945 the Lincoln Archaeological Research Committee was founded and this started to conduct a series of notable excavation both in the City of Lincoln and in the County. The Lincolnshire Architectural and Archaeological Society merged with the Lindsey Local History Society in 1965 and, in 1974 the Society for Lincolnshire History and Archaeology was created by a further merger with  the Society for Lincolnshire History and Archaeology.  