The Sustainable Preservation Initiative (SPI) is a not-for-profit organization dedicated to preserving the world's cultural heritage by providing transformative and sustainable economic opportunities to local communities. SPI is focused on countries in the developing world, more particularly those that are not part of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development as well as Mexico, Greece and Turkey. SPI seeks to encourage and develop sustainable economic development in the communities surrounding archaeological sites by aiding in the development of locally owned businesses that maximize the spending of dollars in these communities and regions.  Some manufacturing industries are aided as well, including local artisans. SPI's projects provide a two-for-the-price-of-one benefit: they create viable economic opportunities for the local residents while saving archaeological sites for future generations to study and enjoy.  According to Felix Salmon of Reuters, SPI is about taking archaeological sites "in poor countries and making them generate cash for the locals — thereby giving them a real monetary incentive (rather than a high-minded lecture) aimed at preserving archeological treasures."  In an article on job creation, Salmon cites SPI as a model for maximum job creation through small investments: "In general, if you want to create the maximum number of jobs for the smallest amount of money, the best way of doing so is to provide catalytic capital which helps to give a small business the step-up it needs to sustain new jobs on a permanent basis".  In a recent report, the Milken Institute called for the adoption of SPI's model by the state of Israel in order to better protect that country's cultural heritage.  Handeye Magazine, an international publication dedicated to culture and commerce, cites the organization as one that "continues to put 'people, not stones' at the forefront, placing equal or greater focus on economic and social investment as opposed to purely preservation."  BigThink.com, a website that seeks to identify the "best thinking on the planet — the ideas that can help you think flexibly and act decisively in a multivariate world," featured SPI's paradigm for preservation and its success.  SPI is active at ten sites in Peru, as well as in Guatemala and Jordan. The SPI mantra is "Build Futures, Save Pasts." The program's executive director is archaeologist Larry Coben. SPI was incubated at the Cotsen Institute of Archaeology at the University of California, Los Angeles and the Archaeological Institute of America. 