The West Lothian Archaeological Trust was formed on 19 April 2012 and registered as Scottish Charity  No. SC043118 on 26 April 2012, having been known informally, since 2007, as West Lothian (Aerial) Archaeology. The Trust also has an interest in sites in England, especially Gloucestershire, where it is known as Stroud Aerial Archaeology. In May 2013, the Trust was approved as an Associated Partner.   of ArcheoLandscapes Europe (ArcLand), part of the European Union's Culture Programme, to represent its area of expertise. Also in May, the Trust launched The Scottish National Aerial Photography Scheme (SNAPS)  In 2016, the Trust became a member of the successor to ArcLand Europe, ArcLand International. The aims of the Charitable Trust, as officially registered, are for 'the advancement of heritage and science' by  (b) Promoting the use of kite aerial photography as a low-cost, inclusive, environmentally friendly technique for archaeological/heritage photography and promoting the use of any other techniques which may be deemed appropriate by the Trustees. (c) Running and maintaining an archaeological website as part of an associated community and heritage website. West Lothian Archaeology specialises in kite aerial photography (KAP) from the near ultra-violet through to the near  and thermal infrared   (Thermography). KAP is one of many techniques of aerial archaeology and was first used in an archaeological context by Henry Wellcome over 100 years ago. For a detailed consideration of kite aerial photography in the near-UV and near-IR, see the online publications of Geert Verhoeven which are listed in the external links below. On-site aerial  photography complements the non-invasive methods of geophysical survey (archaeology) and images can be used to create virtual 3D models and animations.   Kite aerial photography is a simple, cheap, technique. A Camera, or phone, is suspended on a kite line about 20m from the kite, on either a Picavet suspension (see Kite aerial photography) or using a simple selfie stick. Details are given in the Scottish National Aerial Photography Scheme reference 3. The work of the Trust is published on its Community and Heritage Website  of Armadale, West Lothian and on its Kite Aerial Remote Sensing Facebook page  The Trust maintains a register of archaeological/heritage kite aerial photographers in the UK and Ireland.   