Korure Limited, also known as Kōrure, is a New Zealand health food company in which manufacture vitamin, nutritional supplement in accordance to New Zealand dietary supplement regulation. Kōrue's products specialise in joint care and are known for using New Zealand Green Lipped Mussel (Also known as Perna canaliculus) for its core ingredients. Kōrure started as a company which specialise in joint care supplements. Its joint care supplement line include Marine Phospholipid Oil and Marine Phospholipid Powder. These products are made from New Zealand Green Lipped Mussel which supports joint health. Kōrure holds two distinctive New Zealand licenses: New Zealand Fern Mark and New Zealand Made. The silver fern is one of the best recognised symbols of New Zealand around the world. It exemplifies New Zealandness and is used by government officials to represent our country all over the world. The Fern Mark Licence Programme is run by the New Zealand Story Group which is a Government initiative that enhances New Zealand's reputation beyond natural beauty and ultimately contributes to the prosperity of New Zealand. A licence to bear the Fern Mark is formal recognition of a business's role as an ambassador of the New Zealand Story. It is a privileged role, requiring a business to responsibly represent New Zealand offshore and always protect the well-being and reputation of New Zealand. ' The New Zealand Made trademark is for businesses to use and promote New Zealand made goods and services that meet the Fair Trading Act of New Zealand.  This ensures premium quality of the products.  When products carry the registered Kiwi trademark, customers can be confident that the country of origin is New Zealand and the high quality standards are met. Karakia, also known as Māori blessing is a traditional prayer done by the Māori people of New Zealand, used to invoke spiritual guidance and protection.  Kōrure products are blessed through Karakia as the company visions to inspire people mentally, physically and spiritually.  Kōrure company website New Zealand Fern Mark website New Zealand Made website Category:History 