Virtual University of Uganda (VUU) is the first fully online university in Uganda ; with all teaching, learning, assessment and support provided online.  The University’s Head Office is located at Plot 425 Zzimwe Road, Muyenga, Kampala, Uganda. VUU has continuing students and graduates from 15 countries in Africa and the rest of the world  Virtual University of Uganda’s mission is to achieve excellence in tertiary education through providing quality programmes of the highest standards to students who will contribute to positive development in society. Currently Virtual University of Uganda offers post graduate diplomas and Masters degrees in Public Health, ICT for Development, International Development and Business Administration. Master of Business Administration degrees may be pursued either as a general MBA or a specialization in one of four areas i.e. Oil and Gas Management, Environment Management, Tourism and Hospitality Management, or Women in Finance. To date, the University has held three graduation ceremonies and has notable alumni such as Peter Maina Njuguna, an IT/ Digital Birth Registration Advisor with Plan International Kenya;  Emilly Kemigisha, a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist with USAID- Uganda Monitoring and Evaluation Management Services (UMEMS) and Daniel Adekera Chief, Public Information/Spokesperson with the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei (UNISFA). Virtual University of Uganda was founded by renowned academics, Professors Michel Lejeune and Deirdre Carabine, and opened in December 2011.  Professor Michel Lejeune holds a PhD in Law from Louvain University, Belgium, and has lectured at several institutions of higher education including Makerere University, Fribourg University, Louvain-la-Neuve University and Dundee University. His illustrious career has seen him work in Uganda for more than 50 years, including being the founding Vice Chancellor of Uganda Martyrs University in 1993 and joining the Uganda National Council for Higher Education in 2006. Professor Deirdre Carabine holds a PhD in Philosophy from Queen’s University, Belfast (QUB), and a PhD in Classics from University College Dublin (UCD). She taught at both these prestigious institutions from the mid-1980s until 1993 when she relocated to Uganda to teach at Uganda Martyrs University. She rose up to the rank of Deputy Vice-Chancellor in 2005 and became the founding Vice-Chancellor of International Health Science University in 2006. Driven by their vision of bringing post-graduate learning to busy professionals unable to physically attend classes in-country or out of their countries, Professors Lejeune and Carabine teamed to set up the Virtual University of Uganda in 2011, as the first fully online university in the region. Professor Deirdre Carabine took on the responsibility of being the first Vice Chancellor, later replaced by Professor Lejeune in 2013. Lady Justice Flavia Senoga was installed as the first Chancellor in 2011 and re appointed in 2017 for a second term. In 2017, VUU was acquired by the UK-based company Educational Capital Funding Ltd and Professor Everd Maniple, PhD, was appointed as the new Vice Chancellor. The university received its operating license from the Uganda National Council for Higher Education in 2011 and has the ambition to attain a Charter. Potential students apply for the course of their interest online through the University website. The applicant receives same-day feedback.  The University operates under the stewardship of the Board of Trustees which is responsible for establishing and maintaining the University’s mission, vision and objectives. It includes: Mr. Grayson Nash (Chairman), with Eng. Greg Coleman, Mr. Matthias Magoola, Dr. Patrick Bitature and Prof. Charles L.M Olweny as members.  It has a Governing Council made up of top university managers and representatives of various interests in line with Ugandan laws. The Council is the supreme authority which guides the university administration and monitors the implementation of Strategic Plans, policies, and establishment of effective systems of control and risk management to ensure sustainability. VUU’s Governing Council consists of Prof. Patrick Mangheni (Chairman), Eng. Isaac Kasana, (Vice Chairman), Eng. Greg Coleman, Ms. Evelyn Grace Ayot, Ms. Dolorence Wakida, Prof. Paul Mugambi, Ms. Gertrude Kayaga Mulindwa, Prof. Everd Maniple, Dr. Adalbertus Kamanzi, Ms. Sarah Omwene, Dr. Anthony Tibaingana and Mr. Michel Parys. The Governing Council works through a structure of the following Committees:  ●       Appointments Committee, responsible for appointment of senior staff  ●       Finance Committee, responsible for overseeing financial matters ●       Quality Assurance Committee, responsible for monitoring staff performance, and integrity and quality of the curriculum and teaching standards  The University Management is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the university, and comprises of: ●       Professor Everd Maniple, Vice Chancellor ●       Dr Adalbertus Kamanzi, Director of Programmes ●       Mrs Sarah Omwene, Registrar ●       Dr Joab Agaba, Director, E-learning ●       Ms Jennifer Mpyisi, Director, Business Development  ●       Dr Anthony Tibaingana, Programme Leader, MBA ●       Mr Rene Eno-Akpa, Quality Assurance Manager ●       Mr Paddy Mugambe, Visiting Professor ●       Mr. Brian Ntambirweki, Director Marketing The supreme academic authority of the university is the Senate, comprising of the Vice Chancellor, Director of Programmes, the Registrar, Faculty Deans and a student representative. The university has four faculties i.e. Business Administration and Management, Health Sciences, International Studies, and ICT. Each faculty runs one or more academic programmes. Each faculty is headed by a Dean, and each academic programme is headed by a Programme Leader. Programme Leaders and tutors are, typically, renowned international academics from various countries including the Netherlands, Ghana, UAE, Kazakhstan, Tanzania, Kenya, the UK, Ireland, Uganda and others.  The University offers a range of programmes including: ●      Postgraduate Diploma programmes in ●      Masters degree programmes The programmes are offered in self-contained stand-alone units called courses. The courses are studied on a modular basis, with an exam at the end of each course. Each course takes two months to complete. Each programme has 10 courses and takes twenty months. Masters degree students are allowed an extra six months to conduct and defend a supervised dissertation. VUU programmes are designed for business professionals who wish to progress their career and acquire qualifications whilst working or attending to their other commitments. As a result, classes are schedule to run for 1-2 hours from Monday to Sunday, after work hours. A recording of the lectures is available to all students after class. Students sit exams upon completion of each course and submit their work online.  VUU uses the friendly e-learning platform, Moodle. It is customized to be downloaded on computers and mobile phones for free. The content of each course is posted on the platform for access by the students who receive an individualised access code. VUU uses the flipped classroom method of teaching where all learning resources required for self or group study are provided online, according to a specified schedule.  This method leaves the rest of online contact time for quality discussions among the students, or consulting lecturers and tutors for purposes of mentoring and developing problem-solving skills. The lecturers/tutors use Zoom for live lectures and Moodle, WhatsApp, email, or other social media to provide additional support to the students. Students say that this model of teaching gives a better learning experience than they would get in a classroom due to its interactive and convenient nature. Additional learning resources include a large online library with a wealth of books and papers on different subjects enabling the students to carry out research and enrich themselves appropriately. For a post-graduate diploma programme, applicants should have obtained a primary degree from a recognised university. For a Masters degree progamme, applicants should possess a bachelors degree from a recognised university with at least a Second Class Honors degree.  All teaching and correspondence takes place in the English language. Students whose first language is not English and who did not undertake their prior education in English are required to submit evidence of proficiency in English. The University accepts payment through its bank accounts as well as online and mobile money payments.  Students meet online and build networks among themselves, share knowledge and build a bond beyond country borders mainly by creating WhatsApp groups for themselves and the alumni. However, students in the same country have been known to meet in person in different towns to discuss and grow together. Once a year, a Drop-in Day is organized in June for those interested in coming to the university physically, during which visitors meet students, university officials and alumni, and listen to student and alumni testimonies as well as ask questions. Those interested may also apply for courses of their choice on spot.  Virtual University of Uganda offers a wealth of sponsorships in form of scholarships for meritorious performance and bursaries for those in financial need. Scholarships are as high as 75% for Oil & Gas programmes and up to 50% on tuition in other programmes, with this funding based on academic excellence and pertaining to each individual course. Scholarships are retained course by course on academic merit while bursaries cover 100% of the costs for each individual course, and are renewed based on demonstrated financial need.  There is an association of VUU alumni, currently with 45 registered members. The alumni have an active LinkedIn page  where they maintain connection with each other even after their course.  