The Sociological Educational Institute of the Russian Academy of Education (SEI RAE) is a Russian science organization in the area of Sociology of Education. A decision to found the Sociological Educational Center in the structure of the Russian Academy of Education was made on the 22 December 1992. The Center started working fully in the beginning of 1993. Because of the structure reorganization of RAE it was renamed as Sociological Educational Institute in 2008. During this period of time more than fifty research works were carried out. Since the moment of its foundation the Institute has been developing constantly: it accepts new employees, carries out research projects by orders of scientific and public organizations. A great variety of scientific works is being published and translations of important foreign sociological papers are being made. Nowadays the Institute continues working and developing actively. It collaborates with such organizations, funds and instates as: The Institute also takes part in a number of international projects. Problems of tolerance in teenager subculture. The book is based on the results of investigations carried out under Federal Target programme “Set formation of tolerant consciousness and prevention from extremism in the Russian community” (2001–2005) and “Education in the Russian community: socio-cultural dynamic and institutional transformations”. The monograph examines peculiarities of different spheres of social reality: inter-confessional and international relations, interaction with representatives of informal groups, attitude towards representatives of risk groups (alcoholics, drug addicts, HIV-infected etc.). Jewish kindergarten in Russia: problems, contradictions, perspectives. Sobkin V.S., Elyashevich E.K., Marich E.M. The monograph is based on the results of comparative socio-psychological research of teachers, parents and children of Jewish and Russian kindergartens. The research was carried out under investigational programme of Sociological Educational Center RAE. The work analyses general life orientations of teachers, their professional sets, peculiarities of pedagogical realization, professional competence and satisfaction. Life values of parents, strategies of  upbringing and their attitude towards kindergarten are investigated. Peculiarities of intellectual development and emotional state of children in their families and kindergartens are studied. Political sociology of educational reforms: power/knowledge in education, teachers training and research. The book was written by one of the leading American researchers in the field of education. Philosophical reasons and socio-cultural tendencies which determine reformatory educational processes are analyzed in the book. It realizes a complex philosophical, sociological and historical approach to studies of educational policy. Some articles show concrete results of empirical investigations. Such aspects are analyzed there: the attitude of senior pupils towards national policy, specificity of formation value process of different national groups, the role of macrosocial surrounding in identity formation. The peculiarities of Self-concept of the Russian, Tatar, Bashkir, Tuvinian and Jewish teenagers are shown on the materials of psycho-semantic research.  The book is addressed to specialists who work in spheres of pedagogy, sociology, psychology, ethnography and culturology. The materials can be used for a student training on sociological and psychological faculties, training courses for employees of educational organizations.  Russian teenager of the 90s: movement to risk zone, Sobkin V.S., Kuznetsova N. The report is devoted to the analysis of problems connected with sex education of teenagers and senior pupils. Such topics are considered in the report: aspects of social dynamic of teenager sex behavior, way of model translation of sex behavior in mass-media, modern family state in Russia, teenagers’ attitude towards family relations, teenagers’ awareness about sex relations, peculiarities of communication about sex relations. Socio-cultural analysis of educational situation in a megalopolis, Sobkin V.S., Pisarskyi P.S. The book presents the results of sociological poll of 2736 teachers, pupils and parents who live in Moscow. This poll was held in April–May in 1991. The research was carried out under scientific investigation project “Socio-cultural analysis of educational situation in a megalopolis” (Federal complex programme of scientific pedagogical studies of the Ministry of education of the RF “Educational development in Russia”). Dynamic of artistic preferences of senior pupils, Sobkin V.S., Pisarskyi P.S. The book shows the results of studying dynamic of artistic preferences of senior pupils on the basement of sociological polls held in 1976-1991. This work discovers dynamic of artistic preferences of different art genres: visual arts, music, theatre, cinematography, fiction. The popularity of diverse TV-shows and periodicals was analyzed. Scientific interests: sociology of education; infant, age and pedagogical psychology; psychology of art. Sobkin Vladimir Samuilovich is the initiator and the author of many research works in the sphere of sociology of education.  He made a considerable contribution in the development of theoretical and applied aspects of sociology of education, social, age and pedagogical psychology. Particularly he has worked out methodological principles of multiway sociological analysis of educational situation, suggested the idea of socio-cultural  educational trajectories, investigated types of parents’ upbringing strategies. In the beginning of the 90s he was a co-head in the development of the first Russian Federal Target Complex Programme “Russian education during transitional period: stabilization and developmental programme” (1991). At the same time he was an adviser of the Minister of education on the problems of sociology, the head of social service and a member of Ministry board of education of the RF. In 1992 due to his initiative Sociological Educational Center RAE was established, and  he became its director-organizer (up to nowadays). In 2008 the Center was transformed into Institute of sociology RAE. It is the main organization which implements RAE complex programmes in the sphere of sociology of education. Under the guidance of V.S.Sobkin a number of large sociological research was carried out; it was aimed at receiving new fundamental knowledge and shaping scientific potential for the development of sociology of education as a scientific discipline. The results of these investigations are implemented into scientific pedagogical practice and accelerate quality changes in educational sphere, its transformation into a model of stable innovative development which provides institutional and functional modernization of Russian education, rise of its competitiveness. V.S.Sobkin is the head and the author of unique scientific research projects which were carried out within the bounds of Federal Target Programmes: “Educational development in Russia”, “The children of Russia”, “The children of Chernobyl”, “Set formation of tolerant consciousness and prevention of extremism in the Russian society” (2001–2005), “Informatization of educational system”. By the order of UNESCO an analytic report about deviant displays of teenager subculture was prepared (“Teenager of the 90s: movement to risk zone”). A great amount of scientific applied studies were carried out under the guidance of V.S.Sobkin by orders of several ministries and departments (Ministry of education and science of the Russian Federation, Moscow Department of education, Regional governing authorities of education of Krasnoyarsk Territory, Stavropolsk Territory, Republic of Karelia, Omsk region etc.). The results of these investigations were used to work out regional developmental educational programmes. V.S.Sobkin is Doctor of psychology, Professor, academician of the Russian Academy of education. He is the author of more than 400 scientific works, which were published both in Russia and abroad. Only during last years he published a number of monographs appreciated by scientific and pedagogical community: “Sociology of family upbringing: preschool age” (2002), “Problems of tolerance in teenager subculture” (2003), “ A teenager: virtuality and social reality” (2004, published in USA), “A teenager: norms, risks, deviations” (2005), “The attitude of participants of educational process towards informational communicational technologies” (2006), “A student of pedagogical university: estimation of life and professional perspectives” (2007), “Monitoring of social consequences of informatization: what has changed at school during 3 years?” (2008), “Teachers’ attitude towards Common State Exam (on the materials of sociological research)” (2009). In addition, more than 20 issues were published in scientific series “Studies on sociology of education” edited by V.S.Sobkin. Under the guidance of V.S.Sobkin Institute of sociology RAE has become a scientific institution which affectively explores the problems of sociology, connected with modernization of Russian education. Studies carried out in the Institute were recognized by scientific and pedagogical community. Scientific employee team and V.S.Sobkin were awarded to Presidential Prize in the sphere of education in 2001. The Institute has postgraduate course and trains qualified specialists among young scientists. A big amount of Candidate Theses in sociology, psychology and pedagogy was successfully defended under the guidance of V.S.Sobkin. Now V.S.Sobkin is scientific head of Theses of 8 postgraduate students. He is a member of Council on candidate and doctor theses defence in psychology (MSU, MPSU). Besides scientific and organizational activity, V.S.Sobkin is a chairman of Ethno-psychological section of the Russian psychological society, editor of scientific series “Studies on sociology of education”, a member of editorial board of the magazine “Questions of psychology”, “Questions of mental health of children and teenagers” and other issues. V.S.Sobkin was awarded to “Honorary Science Worker of the RF” (October 2008) and was decorated with Medal “ For service to motherland” II Degree (April 2004), Medal “In commemoration of 850 years of Moscow” (October 1997). In addition, he has such awards:  Badge  “Honorary worker of general education of the RF” (2002), the President Prize in the field of education for the year 2001, Letter of commendation of the Ministry of education (April 2000), Medal of K.D.Ushinskyi “For service to pedagogic sciences” (June 1998),  Golden medal of the Russian Academy of education “For achievements in science” (November 2007). 