An educational institution is a place where people of different ages gain an education.  Examples of some institutions are preschools, primary schools, secondary schools, and further and higher education. They provide a large variety of learning environments and learning spaces. The American Educational System typically divides learning facilities by an age grade system. The student is designated to a grade level based on their age, and advances one grade each year. This determines what educational institution would be an appropriate setting for the individual. The institution can be public, private or unconventional. Institutionalized  education came to the United States of America, with the new settlers of the 13 original colonies. Initially educational institutions were privatized and reserved only for the wealthy.  Public educational institutions were born after the industrial revolution. Machines took over the work of much of the child laborers. This creating a necessity to identify the next need for the children, in the progression of the nation. Massachusetts was the first known colony to require all children to participate in public schooling, as an institution, with the intent to unite the colonies and educate the children.     The idea to gather the children in one place, for a particular time period, allowed for the adults to ensure all of the children were introduced to the same information, thus the public educational institution was initiated. The American educational institutions remain conventional in structure, despite ever evolving curriculum, and technological advancements. Types of educational institutions in the United States include the following: Preschool educational institutions range from three months to five years. The foundations started with John Amos Comenius, John Locke, and Jean Jacques Rousseau.  The creators of the different styles of learning and creating curriculum came from Johann Heinrich Pestalozz, Friedrich Froebel, Maria Montessori, Loris Malaguzz and Rudolf Steiner. The curriculum ranges from place to place and you can come across various teaching styles, from traditional teaching in a classroom, to teachers providing materials to students while observing the outcome. The three main styles used in this setting are direct instruction, traditional nursery school model, and the Reggio Emilia or high scope model.  Early education institutions have a staff to student ratio and a max of how many children can be in a classroom depending on the size.  Forms of early childhood education are nursery, preschool, elementary school (grade school), and primary school up to the age of seven.  Primary educational institutions encompass primary level  Kindergarten through 5th grade or ages 5 to 9 years old, dependent on the child's birth-date. The child is taught the fundamental building blocks as identified by the curriculum by one instructor. The subjects are typically language, writing, basic math and physical education. The primary school grades in each institution can vary from state to state. (ie. K- 5; K-6; K-7) and can also be referred to as: Elementary school, grade school, primary school or grammar school. The Secondary Educations Institutions focus on kids aged eleven to eighteen, and in some cases twenty one, for those with special needs. The focus in secondary institutions revolves around kids learning how to apply their new found knowledge into real life situations and typically begin putting plans into actions.  Secondary institutions typically begin breaking down classes and have specialized teachers with degrees in each subject for deeper information. It is much more developed in contrast to primary education institutions where students rely on one single teacher to demonstrate all the basic fundamentals of simplistic subjects, such as Mathematics, English, and Sciences. Further and higher educational institutions are where people go to further their knowledge in a specific area, and/or to acquire a degree. There are many types of further education such as, community college or university, trade and technical schools, and military colleges/academies. Different degrees include the Associates degree which is a two year program, Bachelors degree which is generally 4–5 years, Masters degree, and PhD.  There are different types of degrees geared towards the students goals. According to recent statistics from the National Center for Education Statistics, the average cost of attending an institution full-time is $21,728.  