The Institut Nova Història (INH) is a Catalan cultural foundation with headquarters in Barcelona. Its members, of which the most prominent is Jordi Bilbeny, a pseudohistorian, writer and nationalist, hold that history has been systematically manipulated by the Spanish (or "Castilian") state since the 15th century, to eliminate the Catalan contribution to world history. They claim that major historical figures, including Christopher Columbus, Miguel de Cervantes, Leonardo da Vinci, William Shakespeare, Erasmus, Saint Teresa of Ávila and others were Catalan. The institute's work has been criticised as pseudohistory. The institute promotes research, study and dissemination of ideas about Catalan influence on history through publications, conferences and symposia, in particular the annual "Symposium on the Catalan discovery of the Americas" in Arenys de Munt. It is funded by the Catalan autonomous government,   and has received support from Catalan nationalist politicians. The INH was created in 2007 following a split in the Foundation of Historical Studies of Catalonia.  The principal researcher of the INH is Jordi Bilbeny, a member of the "Arenysian Movement for Self-Determination", a local independentist movement, and of the Arenys de Munt's Popular Unity Candidacy,  who launched the "Symposium on the Catalan discovery of the Americas" in 2001.  From its inception, the INH has undertaken the study and dissemination of the Catalan background and/or culture of Christopher Columbus, Miguel de Cervantes, Lazarillo de Tormes, all topics put forward by Bilbeny.  The president of the Institute is Albert Codinas,  vice president of the Fundació Catalunya Estat, secretary of the Associació Catalunya 2014, and co-founder of the Platform for the Right to Decide.  Víctor Cucurull, another researcher,  is president of the Fundació Societat i Cultura,  and a member of the national secretariat of the Catalan National Assembly  The INH has supported and organized, together with the municipality of Arenys de Munt, the Simposis sobre la descoberta catalana d'Amèrica (Symposium on the Catalan Discovery of the Americas),  held since 2001, where speakers present research on the Discovery of the Americas by the Catalans.  In 2013, the Institute organized the first Universitat Nova Història in Pla de l'Estany, under the sponsorship of the Provincial Council of Girona, the municipality of Arenys de Mar, Cercle Català de Negocis (Catalan Business Circle), asamblea.cat, the Regional Council of Pla de l'Estany and Fundació Catalunya Estat.   The INH considers that the history of Catalonia has been manipulated and distorted since the end of the 15th century to favour the construct of a centralised Spanish ("Castilian") state. By minimising the role of Catalonia—or the Crown of Aragon—in Spanish collective history through falsification, concealment and censorship or "appropriation" of certain historical episodes, the prevalence of Castilian ideology is established.  Among its claims are: The INH is funded by the Catalan autonomous government.  It has collaborated with the Catalan National Assembly in organising conferences on the history of Catalonia.  In 2013 it was one of the recipients of the Premi Nacional President Lluís Companys (President Lluís Companys National Awards) by the Sants-Montjuïc branch of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya.   In 2012 the former president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Jordi Pujol, wrote to Bilbeny congratulating him on his book Discovery and Catalan conquest of America. A history rewritten by the Castilians, noting that the books published by the INH "are very convincing", while in 2014, the former vice-president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Josep Lluís Carod-Rovira, participated at the reissue of Bilbeny's Brief account of the destruction of history, where he spoke in praise of the book.  The 2015 INH symposium in Arenys de Munt, under the title "The Catalan Discovery of the Americas", was financed by the councils of Arenys de Munt and Arenys de Mar, together with associations such as the Ateneu Independentista of Arenys de Munt. Muriel Casals, representative of Junts pel Sí, gave the closing speech entitled "From the erased past to political independence".  INH members have given talks on their theories in the main Catalan television and radio channels such as TV3, Catalunya Ràdio, El Punt Avui TV, and others.     The INH has been described by one academic as "a group of Catalan self-styled scholars trying to prove and promote the idea that, throughout History, a massive conspiracy by the Crown of Castille, the Inquisition, and any institution that may be related to Castille, has been orchestrated against the nation of Catalonia to deprive it of its History and cultural identity in order to promote Castile".  It was criticised in the Catalan parliament by the pro-Spanish party Ciudadanos spokeswoman, Carina Mejías, who described its theories as "ridiculous".  Javier Barraycoa, vice-chancellor of the Abat Oliba CEU University, former secretary of the Carlist Traditionalist Communion (ca) in Catalonia,  and member of the far-right organisation Somatemps,   said that the INH "has absolutely no recognition in the academic world" and that its members "have not been invited to any serious congress because it is impossible for them to defend these things."  