Materials science in science fiction is the study of how materials science is portrayed in works of science fiction. The accuracy of the materials science portrayed spans a wide range – sometimes it is an extrapolation of existing technology, sometimes it is a physically realistic portrayal of a far-out technology, and sometimes it is simply a plot device that looks scientific, but has no basis in science. Examples are: Critical analysis of materials science in science fiction falls into the same general categories. The predictive aspects are emphasized, for example, in the motto of the Georgia Tech's department of materials science and engineering – Materials scientists lead the way in turning yesterday's science fiction into tomorrow's reality. This is also the theme of many technical articles, such as Material By Design: Future Science or Science Fiction?,  found in IEEE Spectrum, the flagship magazine of Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. On the other hand, there is criticism of the unrealistic materials science used in science fiction. In the professional materials science journal JOM, for example, there are articles such as The (Mostly Improbable) Materials Science and Engineering of the Star Wars Universe  and Personification: The Materials Science and Engineering of Humanoid Robots.  In many cases, the materials science aspect of a fictional work was interesting enough that someone other than the author has remarked on it. Here are some of these examples, and their relationship to the real world materials science usage, if any. In real life, scientists have announced a plastic as strong as steel, but transparent.  A duralumin briefcase was featured in the game Resident Evil: Code Veronica. The name of the fictitious alloy duranium used in the Star Trek universe is basically a take-off of duralumin. Daxamites are highly susceptible to lead poisoning. Lead poisoning is a very real effect. In the X-COM series, in reference to this kind of UFO theory, "element 115" is known as elerium-115 or just elerium. A stable isotope of "element 115" occurs in the game Dark Reign. A stable isotope of "Element 115" powered the "Back Step" time machine system in the American television series Seven Days.  An accidental environmental contamination once caused a large number of congenital disorders. Element 115 is featured in the Call of Duty: Black Ops subseries in the "Nazi Zombies" game mode, where it is referred to as Divinium. In the game, Divinium is used for multiple purposes, such as powering weapons, teleporters, liquid drinks known as "Perk-a-Colas", special gumballs known as "Gobblegum", and even creating the zombies themselves.  In Tomb Raider III, "Element 115" is one of the four pieces of meteorite rock acquired by Lara Croft during the course of the game. The element can shoot powerful turquoise blasts, and can also be used to speed up and personally alter evolution, even evolving an already developed life form. In the 2016 tenth season of the television show The X-Files, the episode "My Struggle" features a triangular, levitating aircraft built from alien technology. When Fox Mulder asks a scientist how the aircraft could turn invisible, the scientist states "Element 115: Ununpentium," apparently obtained from the alien spacecraft crash site at Roswell, New Mexico in 1947. The protagonists of the film Evolution use hundreds of gallons of Head & Shoulders shampoo (which they say contains selenium) to defeat the titular alien menace. Critics have noted the method of picking selenium as a poison is less than scientific.  In the book I, Robot, in the story "Runaround", selenium is used on Mercury to generate power, and to protect Gregory Powell and Michael Donovan from the heat of the Mercurian sun. In the Lexx episode "Twilight," Stanley Tweedle becomes ill due to a selenium deficiency. He is eventually cured with a dose of dandruff shampoo. Head & Shoulders shampoo actually uses a zinc-based active ingredient, while Selsun Blue, Extra Strength Head & Shoulders, and many other brands of anti-dandruff shampoo do contain selenium sulfide. Photo-sensitivity of selenium was discovered in the 19th century. It is really used in some types of photocells, but many alternatives are available today. The bounty hunting mutants of Strontium Dog attribute their deformities and freakish powers to strontium-90 contained in the fallout of atomic wars. In the video game Fallout 3, one of the consumable items is called the "Nuka-Cola Quantum", which supposedly gets its unique properties from the addition of strontium-90 in its formula. Thorium is also used as a highly explosive material in the game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II. A Soviet doomsday device in Stanley Kubrick's film Dr. Strangelove employs "Cobalt Thorium G". In the game World of Warcraft, thorium is a workable metal mined from rock deposits that are greenish in color. The DSiWare game "Thorium Wars" envisions a future "era of peace and prosperity" powered by thorium which is shattered when "Thorions—a super species of Thorium-based machines" turn against mankind.  In the movie Up, Up and Away, tin foil acts as kryptonite for the superheroes. In current times, the material known as tin foil is made of aluminium, not tin.  This matters little for the intended use since both are conductive and ductile metals. 