A Jihad satire is a political satire that satirizes the idea of violent jihad. The musical comedy Jihad! The Musical and the film Four Lions are works of art that satirise jihadis.      The Australian describes Four Lions as "a satire on Islamic jihadism and its murderous ambitions."    The satirical Jihad! The Musical featured a hero who cheerfully sang, "I wanna be like Osama, I wanna bomb a path to fame across the Earth.  People may abhor me but by God, they won't ignore me, When the CIA determines what I'm worth."  Comedian Jeff Dunham's puppet character "Achmed the dead terrorist" is a popular example of jihad satire in the United States.   Achmed is a puppet who shouts, "Silence, I kill you!" whenever the audience laughs at something that offends his sensibilities.   Dunham explains that he portrays Achmed as incompetent so that when the audience realise that the character is "a bumbling idiot with problems in life", they appreciate that he is human.  Mental health professionals argue that humor and satire can alleviate the mental health impact of terror attacks, helping to heal the survivors of terror attacks and rescue personnel suffering the consequences of exposure to the horrors of deliberate mass murder.     Arab-American comedian Ray Hanania has written, "If there were a bit of humor in the Middle East, I think that there might not be so much fanaticism. Humor can be a counter to the environment that breeds fanaticism and terrorism."  According to Psychology Today,  humor is the most powerful tool to prevent individuals from becoming  Islamic suicide bombers, however, to be effective, the humor has to come from within the Muslim community and it has to be "aimed at the culture's sacred values."  According to psychologist Molly Castelloe Fong, "Humor has the potential to gradually, over time, alter what it means to be a heroic martyr in the mind of extremist groups."  Agence France-Presse has reported that "Satire and ridicule can help win the fight against Al-Qaeda by stripping it of its glamour and mystique."   The Demos group, a think tank in the United Kingdom, is among the academic institutions that have suggested that satire can be an effective tool in undermining support for  violent jihad.   According to some terrorism experts, successful recruitment for violent jihad depends upon convincing potential recruits that jihadis are "pious warriors of God". They postulate that by "highlighting their incompetence, their moral failings, and their embarrassing antics", it may be possible to "undermine" support for violent jihadi organizations including Al Qaeda and the Taliban.  Researchers for Demos recommend satire as a means of undermining the popularity of violent jihad, noting that "satire has long been recognised as a powerful tool to undermine the popularity of social movements: both the Ku Klux Klan and the British Fascist party in the 1930s were seriously harmed by sustained satire."  