The Light Art Biennale Austria 2010 (in German: Biennale f端r Lichtkunst Austria 2010) is the first biennale for light art in Austria. About 60 artists from 21 countries and 4 continents participate. The "Biennale f端r Lichtkunst Austria 2010" is a non-commercial biennale of light art-projects and the first biennale of light art that happened in Austria. The biennale 2010 has the slogan "private light in public spaces" and runs in several Austrian cities in the autumn of 2010. It started on September 1 in Linz, at nearly the same time as the Ars Electronica festival which started on September 2. The organisation is done by Gallery Artpark Linz, consultant is Peet Thomsen (USA/Copenhagen/Linz). The selection of the artists was curated. Members of the jury were artists and curators, one of them Laura Plana Gracia from Spain. This first Biennale for Light Art in Austria wants to generate a cut surface between society and art. The spontaneous conjunction with art in public spaces leans on the art concept of Joseph Beuys from 1965 "How to define the paintings to the dead rabbit" in D端sseldorf. A dialogue should arise between art and the public. The concept was made by the two founders of the Light Art Biennale, Manfred Kielnhofer and Martina Schettina. The Biennale f端r Lichtkunst Austria 2010 is supported by the cultural boards of Upper Austria, Lower Austria and the City Linz as well as companies and private sponsors.   The opnening in September took place in  Linz     and September 4, 2010 in Perchtoldsdorf.  The Light Art Biennale Austria 2010 runs from September to December 2010, the final Exhibition will take place in Vienna. The documentation of the biennale includes a blog, a website and a catalogue. The Biennale is inspired by a similar Biennale, which was held in the Ruhrgebiet. The Austrian's theme for the first edition of the Biennale will be "Private Light in Public Spaces". The name a gentle teasing of the German Light Art Biennale "Open Light in Private Spaces". The "Light Art Biennale Austria 2010" has been invited to the contemporary art ruhr (C.A.R.) 2010 in Essen, Welterbe Zollverein as an official part of the European Capital of Culture-program Ruhr.2010. The Light art Biennale Austria will be held every two years in various cities in Austria. 