Second Liberian Civil War Iraq War War in Afghanistan Maersk Alabama hijacking Robert O'Neill  is a former United States Navy sailor. A former U.S. Navy SEAL and special warfare operator, O'Neill has claimed to have fired the head shots that killed Osama bin Laden during the raid on his Abbottabad compound on May 2, 2011.  O'Neill was born April 10, 1976 in Butte, Montana, where he was raised.  In his youth, his father, Tom, took him hunting and taught him sharpshooting. In 1995, at age 19, a year after graduating from Butte Central Catholic High School, O'Neill enlisted in the Navy.  O'Neill initially sought to become a sniper and enlist as a U.S. Marine where he had known some friends. On the day he arrived at the recruitment office, the Marine recruiter was not in. Instead, a Navy recruiter suggested that O'Neill enlist in the U.S. Navy, telling him that he could be a sniper in the U.S. Navy SEALs.  O'Neill graduated from Basic Underwater Demolition/SEAL (BUD/S) Training class 208. O'neill served with SEAL Team TWO from 1997 to 2001 and SEAL Team FOUR from 2001 till 2004.  In March 2004, O'Neill joined the elite Naval Special Warfare Development Group and completed numerous deployments to Afghanistan and Iraq over the next eight years.  As a member of the U.S. Navy SEALs, O'Neill was reportedly involved in more than 400 missions,  including the mission to save Captain Richard Phillips during the Maersk Alabama hijacking, and Operation Red Wings in which O'Neill helped save Marcus Luttrell.   On 11 occasions during his career, O'Neill left home thinking he would not return alive.  In 2012, having served 16 years, O'Neill left the U.S. Navy, feeling that the choice was best for his family.   As O'Neill had not served the full 20 years needed to receive certain benefits, he and his family immediately lost their health insurance and were left in dire financial straits.   At the time of his retirement, he was reportedly earning over $50,000 a year. He is now a public speaker employed by Leading Authorities, a speakers bureau.  O'Neill was hired as a contributor for Fox News Channel in 2015 to lend "his military expertise across the cable channel’s daytime and primetime programs."  O'Neill rose to the rate of senior chief special warfare operator (E-8). His 52 decorations include two Silver Stars, four Bronze Star Medals with Valor device, a Joint Service Commendation Medal with Valor device, three Presidential Unit Citations, and two Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medals with Valor device.  In 2017, O'Neill published The Operator, in which he describes his deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan, life as a Navy SEAL, and killing Osama bin Laden.  The claims that O'Neill killed bin Laden came on October 5, 2014, in anticipation of a Fox News special called The Man Who Killed Osama bin Laden,  which was expected to reveal his identity and details of the mission Operation Neptune Spear. He had previously been interviewed anonymously in an Esquire magazine article in February 2013.   O'Neill's statements resulted in criticism by fellow Navy SEALs. Rear Admiral Brian Losey and Force Master Chief Michael Magaraci issued a public statement, stating that "a critical tenant  [sic] of our ethos is 'I do not advertise the nature of my work, nor seek recognition for my actions.'"  In 2012, Matt Bissonnette, using the pseudonym "Mark Owen", wrote a book called No Easy Day: The Firsthand Account of the Mission that Killed Osama bin Laden documenting his participation in the raid. In his book, he does not identify the man who fired the fatal shots at Bin Laden, referring to him as simply the "Point Man". Bisonnette himself admits to firing his weapon at bin Laden after the fatal shots were fired by the "Point Man" when bin Laden was already "in his death throes."  He has, however, refused to respond directly to O'Neill's claims, adding that he believed the team effort was more important than one person pulling the trigger.  The United States Department of Justice launched a criminal investigation into whether Bissonnette leaked classified material.  [not in citation given] O'Neill has also been criticized by other former Navy SEALs for disclosing his role.  In April 2016, O'Neill was charged with DUI after police found him unconscious behind the wheel of a car at a gas station in Butte, Montana. He failed a field sobriety test and refused to undergo a breathalyzer test; he denied being intoxicated, saying that him falling asleep was the result of him taking a prescription sleep aid. The Butte-Silver Bow County Attorney's office opted to downgrade charges from driving under the influence to endangerment and defer prosecution for 12 months, agreeing to drop the charges completely so long as O'Neill sought treatment for unspecified medical reasons.    In September 2017, O'Neill, then 41, married Jessica Halpin, then 27, in a Catholic ceremony held on Cape Cod, Massachusetts.  He was previously married to Amber O'Neill, with whom he has children; O'Neill blamed the breakdown of his first marriage on stress and alcoholism caused by his time in the military.   