Playing For Change is a multimedia music project, co-founded in 2002 by American music engineer/producer Mark Johnson and film producer/philanthropist Whitney Kroenke, that seeks to inspire, connect, and bring peace to the world through music. Playing For Change also created a separate non-profit organization called the Playing For Change Foundation, which builds music and art schools for children around the world. Playing For Change was born in 2002 as a shared vision between co-founders, Mark Johnson and Whitney Kroenke, to hit the streets of America with a mobile recording studio and cameras in search of inspiration and the heartbeat of the people. Producers Johnson and Enzo Buono traveled around the world to places including New Orleans, Barcelona, South Africa, India, Nepal, the Middle East and Ireland. Using mobile recording equipment, the duo recorded local musicians performing the same song, interpreted in their own style. Among the artists participating or openly involved in the project are Vusi Mahlasela, Louis Mhlanga, Clarence Bekker, David Guido Pietroni, Tal Ben Ari (Tula), Bono, Keb' Mo', David Broza, Manu Chao, Grandpa Elliott, Keith Richards, Toots Hibbert from Toots & the Maytals, Taj Mahal and Stephen Marley. This resulted in the award-winning documentary A Cinematic Discovery of Street Musicians. In 2005, Mark Johnson was walking in Santa Monica, California, when he heard the voice of Roger Ridley (now deceased) singing "Stand By Me."   Roger had so much soul and conviction in his voice, and Mark approached him about performing "Stand By Me" as a Song Around The World. Roger agreed, and when Mark returned with recording equipment and cameras he asked Roger, "With a voice like yours, why are you singing on the streets?" Roger replied, "Man I’m in the Joy business, I come out to be with the people." Ever since that day, the Playing For Change crew has traveled the world recording and filming musicians, creating Songs Around The World, and building a global family. Creating Songs Around The World inspired the PFC crew to unite many of the greatest musicians they met throughout their journey through the creation of the Playing For Change Band. These musicians come from many different countries and cultures, but through music they speak the same language. The PFC Band is now touring the world and spreading the message of love and hope to audiences everywhere. The founders of Playing For Change created the Playing For Change Foundation, a separate 501(c)3 nonprofit organization dedicated to building music and art schools for children around the world, and creating hope and inspiration for the future of our planet. PFC videos have exceeded an estimated 500 million online views, continuing to grow steadily through active & dedicated community members from 195 countries. ● "Songs Around The World” features over 100 musicians from 21 countries ○ Debuted #10 on Top 200 Billboard Chart 2009, #1 on World Music Charts 2009, AP Top Ten album of the year 2009, & Platinum Award - Brazil ● “PFC2 Songs Around The World” features over 150 musicians from 25 countries ○ Debuted #1 Billboard World Music Charts 2011 & Platinum Award - Brazil  ● “PFC3 Songs Around The World” features over 185 musicians from 31 countries ○ Debuted #1 on the 2014 FNAC charts in Brazil ● “Playing For Change: Listen to the Music" was released in April 2018 via Motema Music and features 210 musicians from 25 countries. ● Has recorded more than 1,000 musicians from 50+ countries ● Has worked with Bono (U2), Keith Richards (Rolling Stones), Manu Chao, Toots Hibbert, Ziggy Marley, Keb’ Mo’, Baaba Maal, Char, Tinariwen, Los Lobos, Jackson Browne, Taj Mahal, Jimmy Buffett, Sara Bareilles, Maroon 5, Robert Plant, John Densmore, Stephen Marley, Bombino, Bill Kreutzmann (Grateful Dead), David Crosby, Chad Smith (The Red Hot Chili Peppers), Jason Mraz, Josh Groban, Jake Shimabukuro, Yo-Yo Ma, Citizen Cope, Bernie Williams, Trombone Shorty, Buddy Guy, The Doobie Brothers (Tom Johnston, John McFee and Pat Simmons), Jack Johnson, Ben Harper, Tom Morello, James Gadson, Pancho Amat, Warren Haynes, Ivan and Cyril Neville, Rocky Dawuni, Jon Cleary, Donald Kinsey, Lee Oskar (from the band War), Dr. John, and Robbie Robertson. ● PFC “Daylight” video made for Maroon 5 was #1 on VH1 and MTV top 20 video countdown ● PFC Song Around The World “Ripple” in honor of the Grateful Dead’s 50th Anniversary premiered at their final “Fare Thee Well” concert in Chicago. 10 musicians from 10 countries play together onstage as a tangible representation of our mission to inspire, connect, and bring peace to the world through music. ● More than 300 performances in over 13 countries since 2008 ● Tonight Show with Jay Leno & with Conan O'Brien, Globo TV (Brazil) appearance to over 25 million viewers ● Skoll Forum, Starbucks Shareholders meeting, Google/YouTube major event, Hollywood Bowl, Caja Magica, New Orleans Jazz Festival, Belo Horizonte Festival, Glastonbury Festival England, DirectTV Arena Argentina, Byron Bay Bluesfest (4x), 3 World Economic Forums, and the United Nations (3x) ● Opener for Robert Plant for his Australian tour ● Collaborated with Toots & the Maytals, Ziggy Marley, Keb’ Mo’, Baaba Maal, and Tinariwen, Jimmy Buffett, Jackson Browne, Taj Mahal, The Doobie Brothers, Little Feat, and many more. The Playing for Change Foundation is a non-profit organization 501(c)3, dedicated to creating and supporting music schools, principally in developing countries. Three music schools and a total of twelve music programs have been created since 2008: In 2011, the Playing For Change Foundation established an annual Playing For Change Day.  The goal of Playing For Change Day is to "unite a global community through the power of music to affect positive social change".  In 2012, the PFC Day consisted of over 330 events across 52 countries and helped raise over $150,000 for the Playing For Change Foundation, and in 2014, PFC Day saw over 400 events in 60 countries.   It is held on the Saturday nearest the United Nations' International Day of Peace, which takes place each year on Sept. 21. In 2015, Playing for Change Day was celebrated on September 19. The sixth-annual Playing for Change Day was on September 24, 2016.  In 2013, the Foundation introduced the Stand by Me Scholarship program, allowing people to sponsor a child to learn music for an entire year. Scholarships are need-based and are given to children who could not participate otherwise. Donors can either make a one-time gift to fund a student, or set up monthly contributions. 