The Visitors is a 2012 installation and video art piece created by Ragnar Kjartansson. Kjartansson named the piece for The Visitors, the final album by the Swedish pop band ABBA. The piece was commissioned by the Migros Museum in Zurich, and was one of the museum's inaugural exhibits.   The premiere of the piece marked Kjartansson's first solo show in Switzerland. The Visitors constitutes the performance of a song written by Ásdís Sif Gunnarsdóttir, Kjartansson's ex-wife. The piece is displayed across nine different screens, each featuring musicians or artists either by themselves or in groups in different rooms of a house, or outside, performing simultaneously but separately.  One screen features Kjartansson by himself. Others featured in the piece include friends of Kjartansson, both from the artist's native Reykjavík and elsewhere, as well as residents of Rokeby Farm, where the piece was filmed. The piece was originally shown at the Migros Museum in Switzerland, and premiered in the United States in early 2013 at the Luhring Augustine Gallery. The piece has since been displayed in several museums around the world, including The Broad  in Los Angeles, The Guggenheim  in New York City, the Institute of Contemporary Art  in Boston, the Turner House Gallery  in Penarth, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden  in Washington, D.C., and the Frist Center for the Visual Arts  in Nashville, Tennessee. The piece will be on display at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art until January 1, 2018.  The piece was filmed at Rokeby Farm, located in upstate New York, near Barrytown. Rokeby is a home and estate that at one point belonged to the Astor family, and later the Livingston family.  The property is now inhabited by various descendants of both families, and other tenants.  The property was the site of an earlier 2007 piece by Kjartansson, titled The Blossoming Trees Performance, during which he recorded himself as a plein-air painter for two days. The estate has also been used by other artists, due to the unique interiors of the main house on the property.   The piece has been positively reviewed, with critics highlighting Kjartansson's focus on repetition, a recurring theme in his performances.   