 Sade 2019  Sade is a 2019 Nigerian animated musical adventure film produced and released by Greathouse Network. It is the first feature film project of UK based Jazz artist and filmmaker Miller Luwoye and the first film of its kind to have been created by a Nigerian cast and crew. The film includes the voices of Bimbo Manuel, Norbert Young, Gabriel Afolayan, Biodun Aleja, Jude Orhorha, Yemi Shodimu, Judith Audu, Kate Adepegba, Deji Adenuga, Ngozi Nwosu and Omowunmi Dada as Sade. The film also features musical composition from Kentoxygen Egunjobi and Iniobong Uko.  Sade will be released theatrically on April 2019 world wide.  Plot  The story centres around a little girl, Sade and her family who adopt TEJ, a wandering dog and victim of a hit-and-run driver. Soon, the society discovers that TEJ is not an ordinary dog; leading to a race by the 'powers that be' to abduct the dog from Sade's family Cast  Omowunmi Dada as Sade Jude Orhorha as Tej Bimbo Manuel as Dad Yinka Davies as Mum  Mayowa Ogundele Reporter Gabriel Afolayan as Joe Kate Adepegba as Mrs Moore Norbert Young as  Dr. Moore Yemi Shodimu as Charlie Deji Adenuga as Constable Jaja Toyin Oshinaike as Hassan Friday Francis as Zoo Worker Abiodun Aleja as Neighbour Tobi Aleja as Paper Boy Steve Onu as Bobo Biodun Olapade as Bozo Ngozi Nwosu as Ene Kehinde Fasuyi as Dance Teacher Judith Audu as Farm Girl Sophia Mohammed Announcer King Sunny Ade as Singer  Directed by: Miller Luwoye Executive Producer: Olukayode Owolabi Writers: Olawale Obadeyi, Victoria Diffenbacher Story by: Miller Luwoye Produced by: Olukayode Owolabi, Miller Luwoye Line Producer: Kate Adepegba Music Score: Ini Dminstrel, Kent Edunjobi Production Company: Greathouse Pictures Production UK based director Miller Luwoye first had the idea for Sade whilst on a flight to Los Angeles in 2013 and immediately began developing the story. He said it was particularly important that the film be a melting pot of culture and good values which are a hallmark of people’s identity’. The aim of Sade Animated movie introduce Nigerian Icons such as popular popular Story Teller Jimi Solanke to the younger generation, as well as the traditional Bata dance and chants. ‘I grew up in Lagos before going to the United Kingdom to study. I thought of the then NTA with Jimi Solanke, and I wanted SADE to make a statement,’ said Miller who described Solanke as the ‘Disney of Nigeria’. Initially Sade was thought up as a series for children, a way to create productions that embody the talent, innovation, cultural values and creativity that are bound in Nigeria and Africa but viewed all over the world. As it moved onto the film stage, Casting Director and Production Manager Abiodun Aleja and Line Production Kate Adepegba were introduced as well as Pastor Olukayode Owolabi as Executive Producer. Pastor Owolabi recently spoke about faith influencing the direction of the film; ‘As a pastor, I thought of the Bible as a big book with different segments that can be scripted and adapted into a movie. For me it’s about giving back to the people. When Miller came along, we began to look into things we could do together. Then this idea of a family-oriented movie came. Not only is it full of action, it will also teach you how to treat people. If Nigerians can treat their dogs and cats very well, they will treat their neighbours very well.’ Previously Miller has written a number of educational entertainment content for children including acclaimed nursery rhymes and songs. Sade will be his first feature film. Miller says the aim of SADE is to rekindle the African folklore using modern cinematic technology. This was part of the testimonies that the crew and cast of SADE recently shared in Lagos when the film was unveiled to the media. Miller Luwoye also noted that the great spirit that the musicians and actors deployed in the production of the film made it a big success. Casting For the casting it was extremely important to get the voices correct in terms of emphasis and dialect. It was also essential to re-introduce the correct pronunciation to a new audience for terms such as ‘Bata’. Miller utilised authentic Nigerian actors whose voices brought the film together and gave it its own identity. Casting was completed by production managers Abiodun Aleja and Kate Adepegba from a repertoire of experienced and talented actors and actresses. Abiodun decided not to hold auditions for the roles as he wanted to handpick the correct voices for the roles; ‘Well, this is about voicing, and I can tell you that the actors we have in SADE are some of the best in the Nigerian film industry.’ Animation The film uses Nigerian animators as well as LA based animators to create a unique, and unrivalled Nigerian film offering.   Music & Soundtrack The music and soundtrack features an array of popular Nigerian artists and composers, most notably of which is music superstar, King Sunny Ade. Ade is famed for his juju style and has been called one of the most influential musicians of all time . Filmmaker Miller Luwoye who is a huge fan of KSA was both surprised and delighted at his enthusiasm at being included in Sade .  All songs on the soundtrack were written specifically for Sade and include Cobhams Asuquo, Deola Adebiyi, Omolara Ayodele and productions from some of the hottest producers on the scene, including Young John, Ini Dminstrel, Asuquo, Kent Edunjobi and others. Tying in the music and storyline was of upmost importance to Lowoye who said recently; ‘I thought there has to be a marriage of music and animation. When Hollywood wants to pass a message across, they do it through movie. For the first time, you will hear Bata sound in animation. As a matter of fact, one track in SADE features 10 drummers.’ Release  Country: Nigeria / United Kingdom: 2019  The Original Motion soundtrack will be released : 2019 References 