Synchysis is a rhetorical technique wherein words are intentionally scattered to create bewilderment, or for some other purpose.   By disrupting the normal course of a sentence, it forces the audience to consider the meaning of the words and the relationship between them.  That is, "When earthquakes swallow towns to one grave, or when tempests sweep whole nations to the deep". This poetry form was a favorite with Latin poets. It is described by the website Silva Rhetoricae as "Hyperbaton or anastrophe taken to an obscuring extreme, either accidentally or purposefully." It is doubtful, however, whether it could be correct to describe effects in Latin poetry, which was very carefully written, as accidental.  A synchysis may be opposed to chiasmus, which is a phrase in the form A-B-B-A, either in the same line or in two consecutive lines. A line of Latin verse in the form adjective A - adjective B - verb - noun A - noun B, with the verb in the center (or a corresponding chiastic line, again with the verb in the center), is known as a golden line. A highly common occurrence in Virgil's Aeneid,  an example is aurea purpuream subnectit fibula vestem, "a golden clasp bound her purple cloak" (Virgil, Aeneid 4.139). Usually, synchysis is formed through the adjective A - adjective B - noun A - noun B structure, but it can also exist as adjective-noun-adjective-noun.  Today, it is mainly found in poetry,  where poets use it to maintain metre or rhyme.  Synchysis is derived from the Latin and Ancient Greek word σύγχυσις or synchysis, meaning “a mixing”.  Catullus notably made use of synchysis in his poetry. Catullus 75 has this line: Taking mea with Lesbia this line reads: The correct way to translate the line, however, is to take it with the more distant mens, observing Catullus's synchysis: Another example comes from Horace (Odes I.35, lines 5ff.), part of a hymn to a goddess: The meaning is "thee, (the mistress) of the countryside, the poor farmer beseeches with anxious prayer, thee, the mistress of the ocean, whoever provokes the Carpathian sea in a Tyrrhenian boat (beseeches)", dominam being understood with ruris as well as aequoris. Often, through failure to spot the synchysis, ruris is taken with colonus, and the verse is incorrectly translated as "the poor farmer of the countryside".  