The National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (NCLIS) was an agency in the United States government between 1970 and 2008.  The activities of the Commission were consolidated into the Institute of Museum and Library Services. President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed a National Advisory Commission on Libraries in 1966.   The Advisory Commission was appointed to "make a comprehensive study and appraisal of the role of libraries as resources for scholarly pursuits, as centers for the dissemination of knowledge, and as components of the evolving national information systems". Other responsibilities included the appraisal of public agency programs and library funding. The Commission also had the task of making recommendations for government and private agencies to "ensure an effective and efficient library system for the Nation".  The Advisory Commission ultimately recommended "the establishment of a National Commission on Library and Information Science as a continuing Federal Planning agency."  The recommendations of the National Advisory Commission were incorporated into legislation (PL 91-345) that established the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (NCLIS) as a permanent, independent agency of the Federal government of the United States in 1970. Studies making recommendations on the dissemination of federal government information, including: In 2004 the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (NCLIS) announced three strategic goals to guide its work in the immediate future. Brief biographies and photographs of NCLIS chairs are provided in Meeting the Information Needs of the American People: Past Actions and Future Initiatives Appendix B. The Commission issued a comprehensive list of publications in Appendix F of its final (March 2008) report, Meeting the Information Needs of the American People: Past Actions and Future Initiatives.  The report documents the history and accomplishments of the Commission and provides a compelling future agenda for information policy research and development. In Fiscal Year 2007–2008 appropriations, the Commission received limited funding and instructions to terminate its operations. Activities were consolidated under the IMLS, and the Commission office closed on March 30, 2008.  