 Gabrièle Buffet-Picabia (often spelled Gabrielle Buffet-Picabia), (21 November 1881 – 7 December 1985 ) was a French art critic and writer, linked to the dada movement. She was the first wife of artist Francis Picabia. Gabrielle Buffet was the daughter of Alphée Buffet and his wife Laure Hugueteau de Chaillé. She studied music at the Schola Cantorum in Paris with Vincent d'Indy, later in Berlin with Ferruccio Busoni. She grew up with a brother artist who painted in the classical manner (See: classicism), far removed from the visionary works of her future husband , the painter Francis Picabia, whom she married in January 1909.  Her influence inspired Picabia to compose his paintings as musical pieces. In Zurich Gabrielle and Francis met Hans Arp and Tristan Tzara. In October 1912, while she was with her mother in the family home of Étival, Picabia rejoined her along with Guillaume Apollinaire and Marcel Duchamp.  Apollinaire there completed his poem Zone, which begins the cycle entitled Alcools. This journey served as an inspiration to Duchamp who wrote four " notes marginales " " Route Jura-Paris " from La Boîte de 1914.  Duchamp created a prelude to his work La Mariée mise à nu par ses célibataires, même. On the basis of the meeting, a book was published with essays on Cubism, Les peintres cubistes, by Apollinaire, financed by Picabia.   The marriage with Francis Picabia, which gave four children, Laure, Pancho, Jeanine and Vincente, ended in divorce in 1930. From 1941, during the Second World War, she was a member of the French Resistance in Paris, alongside Samuel Beckett, Mary Reynolds, Suzanne Picabia and others.  She died in 1985, well past the age of 104. In August 2017, Gabriëlle, written by Anne and Claire Berest, was published by Stock .  The authors Berest are great-granddaughters of Gabrielle Buffet, and their biography underscores Buffet's decisive influence within avant-garde circles. According to an interview with the Berests (Bibliothèque Médicis, 2017), a second volume of Buffet-Picabia's life may follow. 