Brainly is an educational technology company based in New York City, New York, United States. It is owned by Polish company Zadane.pl sp. z o.o. It operates a group of social learning networks for students and educators.  Brainly inspires students to share and explore knowledge in a collaborative community, and engage in peer-to-peer educational assistance. The network has elements of gamification in the form of motivational points and ranks, and encourages users to engage in the online community by asking questions and answering those of other students.  Initially called Zadane.pl, the company was founded in 2009 in Poland by Michał Borkowski (current chief executive officer), Tomasz Kraus and Łukasz Haluch. The first million unique users monthly was achieved within 6 months after the release. In January 2011, the company announced Znanija.com, the first international project dedicated to Russian language speakers.  Several other versions in multiple languages for the following markets included Turkey (eodev.com), Latin America and Spain (brainly.lat) and Brazil (brainly.com.br).  In December 2013, seven new language versions of Brainly were released, include the English language (brainly.com), Indonesian (brainly.co.id), Indian (brainly.in), Filipino (brainly.ph), Thai language (brainly-thailand.com),  Romanian (brainly.ro) and Italian (brainly.it) sites. Brainly was initially funded by the co-founders, but then raised funds from Point Nine Capital   In October 2014, the company announced that it had raised another round of funding from General Catalyst Partners, Runa Capital and other venture capital firms.  The total amount of the investment was $9 million and allowed further product development, as well as the opening of the US-based headquarters in New York City.   In May 2016, another funding round of $18 million of combined debt and equity was disclosed.  In June 2016, Brainly acquired the US-based OpenStudy.   In October 2017, Brainly raised $14 million in the funding round led by Kulczyk Investments.  The total funds raised by the company since its establishment, is reported to be $38.5 million.  In January 2018, Brainly announced it had acquired the video education start-up, Bask,  to bring video technology to the Brainly platform.  Brainly provides questions and answers for students looking for help with homework-related tasks. They can post questions to the community, who offer help in return. Users may post comments to every question and answer and can freely collaborate on problems.  All questions are categorized by subject, respective of country and school level. Each user is given a fixed amount points upon registration, which they can use to ask questions.  Points are mainly earned by answering questions, however there are specific activities, which can earn a user additional points. Each respondent is awarded half of the points given by the inquirer for each answer. Additionally, the author of the question gets the chance to choose one of the answers as the best (for the "Brainliest" award), which awards both the authors of the question and the answer additional points. The website also features rankings (daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly) of users with the highest number of points gained by answering questions respectively to the correct category chosen on the leaderboards. (“Brainliest Users”). Template:Online social Educational networking 