Fooya (styled as fooya!)  is a medical mobile app  which uses gamification of learning and educational entertainment principles to induce its users to improve their dietary choices.  It was developed by the mHealth company FriendsLearn;   the product team is led by Bhargav Sri Prakash,  who devised the concept when he was a fellow of the Kauffman Foundation. Studies have shown that Fooya is able to induce children and young adults to improve their dietary choices   for overall positive effects on their health.   Following peer review, evidence of statistically significant health outcomes measured during two randomized controlled clinical trials conducted by researchers at the Baylor College of Medicine Children's Nutrition Research Center and of one longitudinal trial, by researchers from Kaiser Permanente and the Bernard A. Harris Foundation, have been presented at leading academic medical conferences. Results of the underlying mechanisms in Fooya have been presented at the 2015 MedicineX Conference at the Stanford School of Medicine,  2015 Biennial Childhood Obesity Conference,  2015 Child Health Bay Area Conference at UCSF School of Medicine and the 2014 ObesityWeek Conference  Fooya is designed to deliver health outcomes through behavior as a result of underlying theoretical models from neuropsychology and cognitive behavioral therapy. Innovations within Fooya as it pertains to 'learnified' gaming were presented at the 2014 Stanford MedicineX Conference  under a session titled "Scalable Behavior Design through Mobile Gaming". The session focused on scientifically validated mobile content platforms as possible solutions for global health issues, as well as a case study of Fooya and lessons learned for digital health gaming. The impact of Fooya among 6th grade students from YES Prep Public Schools in Houston (Texas), was measured through a study by Scientists at the Baylor College of Medicine's Children's Nutrition Research Center. Fooya is the official title sponsor of "The Health Gaming Championship", an annual tournament open to professional and amateur Fooya health gamers.  The inaugural 2015 edition was conducted at the College of Engineering, Guindy campus in partnership with Rotary International.  More than 50 contestants competed for a total prize money of over $5,000. Health outcomes of clinical Fooya trials conducted by researchers at the Baylor College of Medicine's Children's Nutrition Research Center were presented at The Obesity Society's 2014 ObesityWeek Conference in Boston.  Fooya was first launched as a Facebook App in 2012 at the DEMO Conference in Silicon Valley,  and successfully raised over $50,000 through a crowdfunding campaign   via Kickstarter     