Krampus, the "Christmas Devil" of Austrian and Bavarian folklore, has entered the popular culture of North America;  Christian Jacobs notes that "thanks to the Internet and YouTube[note 2] [Krampus] is now very much on America's Christmas radar".  Tanya Basu interprets this as part of a "growing movement of anti-Christmas celebrations": a "bah, humbug" rejection of – or novel alternative to – mainstream festivities.  Brian Joines of Image Comics suspects that the reason Krampus (specifically, as well as dark aspects of Christmas in general) has not been historically popularized in America is a social artifact resulting from "the nature of how we view Christmas in this country, both as a big day for kids and as the birth of a big religious figurehead".  In some North American depictions, Krampus is an antihero who seeks to prevent children from becoming spoiled by rampant consumerism flowing from the economics of Christmas. Krampus is often mentioned in media related to Christmas,[note 3] but the following lists instances where the character is featured significantly.  Krampus-related events are held in cities across north America.  Each may have a theme or cause, be it a simple bar crawl, toy drive, or a charity fundraiser. Below are a few: Costumed characters are a central part of all Krampus celebrations.  These characters include: Krampus, Saint Nikolaus, the woodsman, angels, and the old woman.  As Krampus is half-goat and half-demon, the costume normally shares certain primary elements such as: a fur suit, horns, demon mask, and hooves. Props commonly used are; bells, a  birch switch, basket worn on the back, chains, walking staff, and a horse hair or hemp flogger.  The most traditional Krampus costumes are made from goat/sheep skins, animal horns, and hand carved masks.  More often they are made with modern and less costly materials, such as: fake fur and latex masks.  Several Krampus costume instructional YouTube videos are available.      Apart from evil versions of normally good Christmas characters (i.e. Santa, Frosty, etc.), or Jack Frost who is usually depicted as just mischievous, malevolent monsters associated with Christmas in North American popular culture other than Krampus include, in chronological order: 