Sheri Berman, chair The Council for European Studies (CES),  based at Columbia University, is an academic organization for the study of Europe. It offers scholarships and research grants, publications, and an annual conference. The Council for European Studies was founded in 1970 with a grant from the Ford Foundation.  First located at the University of Pittsburgh and later moved to Columbia University, its current institutional host, CES was originally formed as a limited consortium of Western European studies programs at eight major U.S. universities: University of California Berkeley, Columbia University, Harvard, Princeton, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of Michigan, University of Wisconsin, and Yale.  However, it ceased to be a consortium of eight in 1972, when twenty other universities were invited to become institutional members. Since that time, its institutional membership has grown substantially.  Its institutional members currently include over 100 universities, colleges, and institutes around the world. Moreover, although membership was once restricted to institutions, CES has opened its membership rolls to individuals and now counts about 1,200 individuals as organization members. Membership provides access to the full range of CES fellowship and award competitions, publications, research resources, and professional development opportunities. The Council for European Studies is an independent, 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization. CES sponsors a variety of fellowship and award competitions for graduate students and scholars of European Studies, which are available exclusively to individual CES members, as well as students, faculty, and researchers affiliated with CES member institutions. The Council for European Studies hosts an annual conference.  The 24th International Conference of Europeanists will be held at the University of Glasgow from July 12–14, 2017.  CES is a leading publisher of research on Europe. The organization's publications include: The following research networks are currently supported by the Council for European Studies: 