  Royal Hospital School (1996 - 2003) War in Afghanistan David James Love (born 21 Sep 1984)  is a British Army officer, adventurer, mountaineer and speaker.  He is best known for his work in youth development and inspiring social mindset change by highlighting the accessibility and benefits of leading an adventurous lifestyle.  Since starting his career in adventure with a solo ascent of Mont Blanc at the age of 18,  he qualified as a professional mountaineer  and expedition leader, principally in support of the Duke of Edinburgh's Award.  He has also undertaken numerous climbs and expeditions throughout the world and traveled to some of the most volatile countries on earth.   Most recently, in 2017, he made the first recorded solo winter traverse of the Transylvanian Alps, reaching the summit of Moldoveanu Peak, the highest mountain in Romania.    Love was born in Kent, England and later educated at the Royal Hospital School, Suffolk, where he joined the Combined Cadet Force and achieved his Gold Duke of Edinburgh's Award.  He went on to gain an honours degree in Sport and Exercise Science at Canterbury Christ Church University, where he focused on the physological effects of high altitude mountaineering. He was commissioned as an officer into the British Army on 7 Aug 2007  and served two tours of Afghanistan on Operation Herrick as well as undertaking short deployments to North and South Sudan, Mali, Libya, Somalia, DR Congo, Kenya and Bosnia.  Love was promoted to the rank of Major on 31 July 2015.  Mont Blanc.  In 2003, at the age of 18, Love undertook a solo, unguided ascent of Mont Blanc,  despite having no prior mountaineering experience. Tanzania.  In 2005, Love spent several weeks in Tanzania during which time he summited Mount Meru and Mount Kilimanjaro, as well as spending time with the Masaai and exploring the Ngorongoro Conservation Area. Operation Frankton.  In 2006, Love retraced the World War II mission; Operation Frankton, for a pilot documentary.    Theatrically captured in the 1955 film The Cockleshell Heroes, the original mission led to the creation of the Special Boat Service (SBS). Matterhorn.  In 2013, Love made an unguided ascent of the Matterhorn. Sudan.  In 2015, Love led an expedition to Gebeit, Sudan, and successfully located the Lost Memorial of Gebeit;   an important Colonial-era monument, the location of which had remained undiscovered since its construction in 1956. Eiger.  In 2016, Love made an unguided ascent of the Eiger.  Transylvanian Alps.  In 2017, Love made the first recorded solo winter traverse of the Transylvanian Alps, which included an ascent of Moldoveanu Peak, the highest mountain in Romania.    