University of Montana  TED Fellow 2018  Jerilynn Emily "M" Jackson is an American climate scientist and National Geographic Society expert. She is the author of the popular science book While Glaciers Slept and is a 2018 TED Fellow. Jackson completed her undergraduate studies at the University of Montana, which she graduated in 2011.   She attended the University of Oregon, where she earned a doctorate in geography and glaciology.   She worked in The Glacier Lab under the supervision of Mark Carey.   Together they proposed a feminist glaciology framework for global environmental change.   They proposed the study to provoke discussion about the people who are researching glaciers, and whose voices are left out.   She completed her thesis, "Tangled Up in Blue: Narratives of Glacier Change in Southeast Iceland", in 2017.  Jackson has received a Fulbright fellowship three times, working in Turkey and Iceland.  On her second Fulbright-funded project she worked in Höfn, looking at how climate change affected fishing communities.  During her PhD she became a National Geographic Student Explorer.  She has served in the Peace Corps in Zambia.  In 2017 she gave a TED talk "Glaciers, Gender and Science".  She an Arctic expert and Emerging Explorer for the National Geographic Society.   She has led expeditions in Alaska and Icleand.  She regularly visits Svinafellsjokull glacier.  She is currently working Tangible Ice, a multi-year Artic project that studies the impact of socio-physical dimensions of glacier retreat.  The project partners with the National Geographic Explorers, filmmakers and scientists.  In 2018 Jackson was announced as a TED Fellow.   Jackson's first book, While Glaciers Slept, was published by Green Writer's Press in June 2015.  It explores the parallels between the destruction of the planet as a result of climate change and a family facing the loss of parents.  The book combines personal science with exploration, and was well received by critics.   The foreword is by Bill McKibben.  She has given several talks about her book and exploration work.    In 2018 she will publish her second book, The Secret Lives of Icelandic Glaciers, the stories of people in Iceleand impacted by climate change.  