Pornography addiction is an addiction model of compulsive sexual activity with concurrent use of pornographic material, despite negative consequences to one's physical, mental, social, or financial well-being. Problematic internet pornography viewing is viewing of internet pornography that is problematic for an individual due to personal or social reasons, including excessive time spent viewing pornography instead of interacting with others. Individuals may report depression, social isolation, career loss, decreased productivity, or financial consequences as a result of their excessive internet pornography viewing impeding on their social life.  Universally accepted diagnostic criteria do not exist for pornography addiction or problematic pornography viewing.  Pornography addiction is often defined operationally by the frequency of pornography viewing and negative consequences.  The only diagnostic criteria for a behavioral addiction in the current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders are for pathological gambling, and they are similar to those for substance abuse and dependence, such as preoccupation with the behavior, diminished ability to control the behavior, tolerance, withdrawal, and adverse psychosocial consequences. Diagnostic criteria have been proposed for other behavioral addictions, and these are usually also based on established diagnoses for substance abuse and dependence.  A proposed diagnosis for hypersexual disorder includes pornography as a subtype of this disorder. It included such criteria as time consumed by sexual activity interfering with obligations, repetitive engagement in sexual activity in response to stress, repeated failed attempts to reduce these behaviors, and distress or impairment of life functioning.  A study on problematic Internet pornography viewing used the criteria of viewing Internet pornography more than three times a week during some weeks, and viewing causing difficulty in general life functioning.  According to the American Society of Addiction Medicine, some psychological and behavioral changes characteristic of addiction brain changes include addictive cravings, impulsiveness, weakened executive function, desensitization, and dysphoria,  and there is evidence that such changes can occur in internet porn addicts.   The status of pornography addiction as an addictive disorder, rather than simply a compulsivity, has been hotly contested. [unreliable medical source?] [unreliable medical source?] In November 2016, the American Association of Sexuality Educators, Counselors and Therapists (AASECT) issued a position statement on sex/porn addiction which states that AASECT "does not find sufficient empirical evidence to support the classification of sex addiction or porn addiction as a mental health disorder, and does not find the sexual addiction training and treatment methods and educational pedagogies to be adequately informed by accurate human sexuality knowledge. Therefore, it is the position of AASECT that linking problems related to sexual urges, thoughts or behaviors to a porn/sexual addiction process cannot be advanced by AASECT as a standard of practice for sexuality education delivery, counseling or therapy." The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) includes a new section for behavioral addictions, but includes only one disorder: pathological gambling.  One other behavioral addiction, internet gaming disorder, appears in the conditions proposed for further study in DSM-5.  Psychiatrists cited a lack of research support for refusing to include other behavioral disorders at this time.  Porn addiction is not a diagnosis in DSM-5 (or any previous version).    "Viewing pornography online" is mentioned verbatim inside DSM-5,  but it is not considered a mental disorder either.    When the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) was being drafted, experts considered a proposed diagnostic addiction called hypersexual disorder, which also included a pornography subtype. But in the end, reviewers determined that there wasn't enough evidence to include hypersexual disorder or its subtypes in the 2013 edition. A number of studies have found neurological markers of addiction in internet porn users,    which is consistent with a large body of research finding similar markers in other kinds of problematic internet users.  The International Classification of Disorders 11 (ICD-11) rejected "pornography addiction". Specifically, the World Health Organization wrote "Based on the limited current data, it would therfore seem premature to include [pornography viewing] in ICD-11."   Cognitive-behavioral therapy has been suggested as a possible effective treatment for pornography addiction based on its success with internet addicts, though no clinical trials have been performed to assess effectiveness among pornography addicts as of 2012.  Acceptance and commitment therapy has also been shown to be a potentially effective treatment for problematic internet pornography viewing.  Some clinicians and support organizations recommend voluntary use of Internet content-control software, internet monitoring, or both, to manage online pornography use.    Sex researcher Alvin Cooper and colleagues suggested several reasons for using filters as a therapeutic measure, including curbing accessibility that facilitates problematic behavior and encouraging clients to develop coping and relapse prevention strategies.  Cognitive therapist Mary Anne Layden suggested that filters may be useful in maintaining environmental control.  Internet behavior researcher David Delmonico stated that, despite their limitations, filters may serve as a "frontline of protection."  Studies of those with non-paraphilic expressions of hypersexuality have hypothesized that various mood disorders, as defined in the DSM, may occur more frequently in sexually compulsive men.    There is only one representative sample to date concerning distress about sex video use.  They found that of 10,131 women surveyed, 0.5% of women agreed with the statement that they were "addicted" to pornography; 1.2% (of 4,218 who viewed) when limited to women who say they viewed sex films. The comparable figure limiting to men who view sex films was 4.4%. This was without any clinical screening that should eliminate primary disorders (e.g., depression) or religious-based concerns, so these should be considered high-end estimates for potential disorders, if any exist. Most studies of rates use a convenience sample. One study of a convenience sample of 9,265 people found that 1% of Internet users have concerns about their Internet use and 17% of users meet criteria for problematic sexual compulsivity, meaning they score above one standard deviation of the mean on the Kalichman Sexual Compulsivity Scale. [full citation needed] A survey of 84 college-age males found that 20–60% of a sample of college-age males who use pornography found it to be problematic.  Research on internet addiction disorder indicates rates may range from 1.5 to 8.2% in Europeans and Americans.  Twelve-step programs such as Sex Addicts Anonymous (SAA), Sexaholics Anonymous (SA), Sex and Love Addicts Anonymous (SLAA), Sexual Recovery Anonymous (SRA) and Sexual Compulsives Anonymous (SCA) are fellowships of men and women who share their experience, strength and hope with each other so they may overcome their common problem and help others recover from addiction or dependency, by using the 12 steps of AA and other recovery tools. NoFap is an online community founded in 2011.  It serves as a support group for those who wish to avoid the use of pornography, masturbation, and/or sexual intercourse.   There is also a PornFree group which focuses on giving up porn rather than masturbation.  Recent peer-reviewed data highlighted considerable misogyny and poor understanding of sexual relationships in this online community.  Covenant Eyes is a Christian company founded in 2000 whose accountability software is designed to help users overcome porn addiction by monitoring their online activity and sending a report to a trusted friend who holds them accountable for their online choices. Celebrate Recovery (CR) is a Christian inter-denominational 12 step program with about 35,000 available groups and is open to any person who is struggling with life's bad habits, hurts, and hang-ups.  CR was started in 1991 at Saddleback Church in CA, and the CR program is based on the 8 Beatitudes from Christ's sermon on the Mountain, and Twelve-step programs from Alcoholics Anonymous. According to E.T.M. Laan, a sexologist working for the Academic Medical Center, it is usually the religious right which claims the existence of pornography addiction and such claims are rare among sexologists.  