China International Technology Transfer Center (Simplified Chinese: 中国国际技术转移中心; pinyin: Zhōngguó guójì jìshù zhuǎnyí zhōngxīn) (CITTC), is a platform set up by the Ministry of Science and Technology of the People's Republic of China, the Beijing Municipal Commission of Science and Technology and the Haidian District Government. It is devoted to promote and facilitate global technology transfer between universities, research centers, science parks, competitive clusters, public organizations, as well as the Chinese industry. China International Technology Transfer Center was established in 2011 by the Ministry of Science and Technology of the People's Republic of China, Beijing Municipal Commission of Science and Technology and Haidian District Government. Created in China's innovation and technology hub – Zhongguancun, Beijing, CITTC is the only all-China agency that provides comprehensive promotion services in high technology and innovation exchange fields. CITTC specializes in matchmaking events, training, seminars, conferences, incubation for start-ups, concrete project collaboration and others; it further provides business domiciliation, as well as assists with the facilitation of easy market access and partnering solutions with Chinese entities.  CITTC also offers B2B online system, an internet-based interactive connection platform, that allows to browse a database of thousands of Chinese companies that have posted tech requests, and connects automatically to potential Chinese partners. B2B Online System enables companies to establish partnership with target Chinese licensee, buyer, investor, distributor or joint research partner. CITTC is the main organizer of China (Beijing) International Technology Transfer Convention  (China ITTC), China's largest technology transfer forum, matchmaking event and an important international platform for supporting Beijing's “World City” and “City of Innovation” effort that has facilitated the securing of a series of major international technology transfer projects in Beijing.  ITTC has played a significant role in moving nationwide  international technology transfer forward by attracting governmental agencies, hi-tech enterprises, research institutes and universities from nearly 20 provinces and regions throughout China. In 2014, more than 4,000 representatives from over 40 foreign countries and 20 provinces and cities of China were present at the conventions. Through the previous three events, over 500 cooperation intentions have been reached, and contracts of 60 projects worth over CNY 50 billion have been signed. CITTC is located in Ding Hao Mansion in Beijing's Haidian district right in the heart of the innovation center Zhongguancun. It is surrounded by famous universities and research institutes like the Peking University, Tsinghua University, and the Chinese Academy of Sciences with direct access to the metro Line 4. On a daily basis, the CITTC is managed by the Beijing Technology Exchange and Promotion Center (BTEC).   It consists of several departments including legal, scientific and international relations. CITTC is the main organizer of the China (Beijing) International Technology Transfer Convention  (China ITTC),  China's largest technology transfer forum and matchmaking event, which builds an important international platform for supporting Beijing's “World City” and “City of Innovation” effort and has facilitated the landing of a series of major international technology transfer projects in Beijing.  ITTC has played a significant role in moving nationwide  international technology transfer forward by attracting governmental agencies, hi-tech enterprises, research institutes and universities from nearly 20 provinces and regions throughout China. In 2014, more than 4,000 representatives from over 40 foreign countries and 20 provinces and cities of China were present at the conventions. Through the previous three events, over 500 cooperation intentions have been reached, and contracts of 60 projects worth over CNY 50 billion have been signed.  