 This list of oldest heraldry aims to include the oldest documented, non-attributed heraldic achievements for individuals, families, locations or institutions. A problem with determining early occurrence of heraldry stems from the fact that many early heraldic charges and compositions emerged in emulation of prior visual identifications, as seen in ante-heraldic seals and standards of individuals, authorities and towns, well before traditional heraldic custom was established. Visual culture and identity naturally predated heraldry. Notably, lions that would subsequently appear in coat of arms of royal dynasties, such the Kingdom of León, predated heraldry well enough in the early Middle Ages. In an extreme comparison, some elements today commonly associated with heraldry have even been traced in Western civilisation to antiquity, such as to the Lions gate of Mycenae from the 13th century B.C. A reoccuring, less distant perception of proto-heraldic appearances is that of the Bayeux tapestry (11th century) in Normandy, following the Battle of Hastings (1066). It has been suggested that the use of heraldic devices in western Europe was strongly influenced by the return of noblemen from the First Crusade (1095–1099). King Alfonso VII of León started using a lion device in 1126 and the lion was already used as heraldic emblem in 1148. Henry I of England may have been using a lion as a heraldic device during his reign in the early 12th century.  A later chroncler would claim he awarded his son-in-law, Geoffrey V, Count of Anjou, a lion device in 1127, and several lineages descended from Henry would use lions on their coats of arms once full-fledged heraldry developed. The earliest known heraldic representation appears on the funerary enamel of Geoffrey of Anjou (d. 1151), showing a coat of arms that appears to be the same as one later used by some of his descendants, though it has been pointed out that they may be merely post-mortal, attributed coat of arms. Even so, it would still demonstrate the development of heraldry within a short time after his death.  Likewise the early seals of King Richard Lionheart of the House of Plantagenet are usually taken as a manifestations of heraldry, due to the apparent similarity between the shield represented on the second Great Seal and the documented coat of arms used by the British royal family shortly afterwards.  