 This is a list of smoking bans by country. Smoking bans are public policies, including criminal laws and occupational safety and health regulations, which prohibit tobacco smoking in workplaces and/or other public spaces. Legislation may also, in some cases, restrict the carrying or possessing of any lit tobacco product.  A law came into effect on 30 May 2007 restricting smoking in closed public areas and outlawing the advertisement of tobacco, although the measure was reportedly poorly enforced in the country until 2013. From 2013 law enforcement has been implemented, and smoking is strictly forbidden in closed public areas, including bars, pubs, restaurants etc. If any of these places are caught allowing a customer to smoke, they are fined 2200 euros and the person smoking is fined 350 euros.  Since 2004, smoking is prohibited in government buildings, educational facilities, hospitals, enclosed sport facilities and buses. In 2010, an increase in restrictions at restaurants, bars, and workplaces was under discussion.  Andorra introduced a smoking ban in all public places on 13 December 2012. However, an exception was made for bars and restaurants, allowing special smoking rooms as long as they fulfill strict conditions: such as not serving food and drink.  In 2014, Andorra joined France and Spain in banning smoking indoors, which resulted in the first smoke free ski season in Andorra.  In 2017, Andorra was one of the countries with the lowest mortality rate from cardiovascular disease, whose main causes include smoking.  Since June 1, 2011 a smoking ban in all of Argentina prohibits smoking in workplaces, all public indoor areas, schools, hospitals, museums and libraries, theatres,  and all public transport.  However, smoking is still allowed in balconies, terraces and patios. The law also included the prohibiting of advertising and sponsoring of tobacco. The fine for breaking the law is equivalent to 250 to 1,000,000 packets of the most expensive cigarettes in the market.  A law came into effect in March 2005 prohibiting smoking in hospitals, in cultural, educational and mental institutions, and on public transportation. On 1 March 2006, new rules came into effect requiring all public and private institutions, including bars and restaurants, to allow smoking only in special secluded areas. Absence of any legal sanctions against those who violate the smoking laws has made them completely ineffective.  Tobacco advertising is prohibited in TV, radio and outdoor advertising. Other sources of advertising on newspapers, magazines of tobacco products is not fully restricted.[clarification needed] Sponsorships are partially allowed in Armenia.  In 2012, Armenia had the third-highest number of male cigarette smokers in the world.  In January 11, 2017, the Eurasian Economic Commission said that starting mid-March 2017, graphic pictures would be implemented on the packaging of cigarettes in all Eurasian Economic Union member states (EEU).  In Australia, smoking bans are determined on a state-by-state basis. In chronological order by state: Austrian law limits or bans smoking in certain areas: In December 2017, after a change in government, an already passed bill  banning smoking in all restaurants, bars, discos and pubs from May 2018 was repealed and the prior rules reinstated with some minor changes.   In 2008, the Bahrain government introduced anti-smoking laws indoor public areas, including restaurants, cafes, hair salons, shopping malls and public transport. The law was highlighted by the ban of smoking in private cars when there are children.  The law could be implemented in the following points: Benin has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.  As of 1 October 2006, smoking is banned in all enclosed workplaces in Bermuda, including restaurants, bars, private clubs and hotels.  Following a resolution of the 87th session of the National Assembly on 17 December 2004, a national prohibition upon the sale of tobacco and tobacco products went into effect, but importing limited tobacco was still permitted subject to very heavy taxes.  Smoking in all public places in Bhutan became illegal on 22 February 2005. It thus became the first nation in the world to outlaw this practice outright. The Tobacco Control Act of Bhutan was enacted by parliament on June 16, 2010.  It regulates tobacco and tobacco products, banning the cultivation, harvesting, production, and sale of tobacco and tobacco products in Bhutan. The act also mandates that the government of Bhutan provide counseling and treatment to facilitate tobacco cessation. Premised on the physical health and well-being of the Bhutanese people – important elements of Gross National Happiness – the Tobacco Control Act recognizes the harmful effects of tobacco consumption and exposure to tobacco smoke on both spiritual and social health. The consumption of tobacco is not altogether prohibited in Bhutan, though it is largely banned in places of public accommodation. The Act largely targets smoking in particular, though all forms of tobacco are subject to the Act. The Tobacco Control Act establishes non-smoking areas: commercial centers including markets, hotel lobbies, restaurants, and bars; recreation centers such as discothèques, cinemas, and playing fields; institutions and offices, both public and private; public gatherings and public spaces such as festivals, taxi stands, and the airport; all public transportation; and any other places declared by the Tobacco Control Board. The board also has the authority to designate smoking areas in public. Smoking areas are permitted in non-public areas of hotels (i.e. smoking floors or smoking rooms) at the discretion of the patron. The Act prohibits the cultivation, harvest, manufacture, supply, and distribution of tobacco, as well as the manufacture, supply, distribution, sale, and purchase of tobacco products within Bhutan. The Act allows individuals to import tobacco and tobacco products for personal consumption subject to limits set by the Tobacco Control Board, as well as duties and taxes. Those who bring their own tobacco or tobacco products into Bhutan must bear[clarification needed] proof of taxation, may only bring goods that display required health warnings, and must not bring goods that promote tobacco by means that are false, misleading, or likely to create an erroneous impression of its characteristics, health effects, or hazards. (e.g. descriptors such as "light" or "mild") The Act totally prohibits tobacco advertisement, promotion and sponsorship, restricting the appearance of tobacco in domestic videos and movies to educational clips produced for the purpose of health promotion. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has prohibited smoking in public buildings nationwide since 1 September 2007. However, until 2016, indoor buildings were not completely smoke-free.  Bosnia and Herzegovina was ranked the 4th highest in Europe by percentage of daily smokers in 2016, after Russia, Serbia and Greece (the highest). Smoking in Brazil is forbidden in all enclosed public spaces  except for specifically  designated smoking areas.  Since 15 December 2011, Federal Law 12546 (article 49) forbids smoking in enclosed spaces in the entire country, including restaurants and bars.  As of 3 December 2014, Brazil has banned smoking in all indoor private and public places, including restaurants, bars and nightclubs.  In 2017, a research was published in Brazil that the smoke-free laws implemented resulted in a reduction in the number of heart attacks welcomed in the hospitals. After a year and half, the number of deaths caused by heart attacks decreased by 12%   In Brazil, the legal age for sale and consumption of tobacco is 18.  Tobacco advertising is restricted to posters in shops,  and is banned on television and radio.  All cigarette packs contain advertisements against smoking and government warnings about possible adverse health effects of smoking. A comprehensive smoking ban has been introduced prohibiting smoking in all public places including bars, restaurants, clubs, workplaces, stadiums, etc. and came into effect on 1 June 2012.  Burkina Faso has a smoking ban in place.  In Cameroon, smoking is only prohibited in schools, universities and ministry buildings.  In Canada, indoor smoking is restricted by all territories and provinces and by the Canadian federal government.  As of 2010, smoking bans within each of these jurisdictions are mostly consistent, despite the separate development of legislation by each. The federal government's workplace smoking ban applies only to the federal government and to federally regulated businesses, such as airports. In Ontario and Alberta, smoking is banned in all workplaces except designated areas. Smoking rooms are available in select hotels and motels in most jurisdictions. Individual communities have bylaws restricting where individuals may smoke. In several Canadian cities smoking has now been banned on municipally owned property including public parks. Manitoba, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Alberta, and Ontario have also prohibited smoking within vehicles with children under 16.   Chile prohibits smoking in schools, hospitals, government offices, shopping centres, supermarkets, pharmacies, airports, buses, subway networks and other indoor public places.  Smoking indoors in universities is restricted, although it is allowed outdoors. In 2013 Chile's legislative body approved a ban on all smoking in public enclosed spaces nationwide, including restaurants, pubs and clubs.  Shanghai Municipality expanded a smoking ban from hospitals to kindergartens, schools, libraries and stadiums, as of 1 March 2010,  and had attempted to restrict smoking in restaurants for the 2010 World Expo, but compliance in restaurants was reportedly poor and enforcement lax. In 2015, Shanghai municipality improved the smoking ban by adding hotels, offices and restaurants. As of March 2017, Shanghai widened its smoking ban by implementing on all public places and adding some outdoor areas   In Guangdong Province, the municipalities of Guangzhou and Jiangmen restricted smoking in public places in 2007, but the law was not effectively enforced.  A new national smoking ban, which extends to all enclosed public areas, came into effect on 1 May 2011.  However enforcement of this is patchy at the best of times, especially outside developed cities like Beijing.  On June 1, 2015, Beijing enacted a new law banning smoking in public spaces such as restaurants and bars, offices, shopping malls, on public transportation and at airports. Those breaking the law will be fined 200 yuan ($32) and will be "named and shamed" on a government website after three times.  Businesses allowing patrons to light up could be fined up to 10,000 yuan ($1,600) and could have their licenses revoked for repeat offences. The new law also cracks down on advertising.   In 2009, Colombia extended its existing tobacco control regulations by requiring all indoor work places and public places be immediately smoke-free; prohibiting tobacco advertising, promotions and sponsorship, and the use of terms such as ‘light’ and ‘mild’ on packaging, requiring large, pictorial health warnings on tobacco packaging (covering 30 per cent of the front and back) within a year, preventing the sale of tobacco products to minors; and mandating public education programs on the deadly effects of tobacco use. Comoros has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.  In 2012, Costa Rica passed one of the strictest smoking regulations in the world. This legislation has banned smoking in buses, taxis, trains and their terminals, work places (including parking lots), public buildings, restaurants, bars, casinos, and all enclosed public-access buildings, granting no exceptions (no separate "smoking areas" are permitted). It also bans smoking in outdoor recreational or educational areas such as parks, stadia and university campuses.  It introduced a 20 colones tax per cigarette and prohibits any form of tobacco advertising, the use of misleading terms such as "light" or "mild" and the sale of small packages or individual cigarettes. It also prohibits bars and restaurants from selling cigarettes. Violators will be fined a minimum of 180.000 colones (US$355).  On 22 November 2008 the Croatian Parliament passed legislation  prohibiting smoking in public institutions such as hospitals, clinics, schools, nurseries and universities with infractions punishable with up to 1000 kuna (140 euros). A notable exception in the Act are psychiatric wards in Croatia's hospitals. The law went further in May 2009 when smoking was banned in all enclosed public areas including bars, restaurants and cafes. The smoking ban applies to all public areas where non-smokers could suffer from second-hand smoke including open public areas like sport stadiums, arenas, open-air theatres, tram and bus stations etc.     On 10 September 2009 the regulations restricting smoking in bars and cafes in Croatia was partially repealed for a grace period until 9 April 2010, local media has reported. Proprietors with establishments that are up to 50 sq m that meet very strict conditions will now be able to choose whether to allow smoking. One of the conditions is a ventilation system that is able to change indoor air at least 10 times per hour. By March 2010 only 16 (out of 16,000) establishments in all of Croatia had met the conditions and been permitted to allow smoking.  Larger establishments will have to include a designated and separately ventilated smoking area  Cuba has prohibited smoking in most workplaces, removed cigarette machines and made it illegal to sell tobacco products near schools since February 2005.  The ban included prohibiting smoking in closed public spaces, public transport, educational, health and sporting institutions. However, the ban was not very effective as a study revealed that more than 50% of the population are being exposed to smoking in daily life. In 2014, Cuban authorities said that they are working on passing further anti-smoking legislation. Such legislation will prevent the sale of cigarettes to people under the age of eighteen. The new legislation will also require tobacco companies to add graphic warnings on the packaging.  On 9 July 2009 Cyprus passed a new law, tightening up ineffective 2002 legislation, which banned smoking in bars, restaurants, nightclubs and workplaces as of 1 January 2010.  Since the implementation of the smoking ban on 1 January 2010, compliance levels have been variable, apparently mainly due to a lack of enforcement by the police. A spokesman for some restaurant & bar owners has nevertheless complained that the introduction of the ban has led to a drop in revenue  but produced no evidence to support this statement. The second German anti-tobacco organization, the Bund Deutscher Tabakgegner (Federation of German Tobacco Opponents), was established in 1910 in Trautenau, Bohemia. In 1920, a Bund Deutscher Tabakgegner in der Tschechoslowakei (Federation of German Tobacco Opponents in Czechoslovakia) was formed in Prague, after Czechoslovakia was separated from the Austro-Hungarian Empire at the end of World War I.  Currently, there is a law in force that restricts smoking in some public places such as institutions, hospitals, bus stops and other public service stops, in May 2017 restriction expanded to prohibit smoking in restaurants, bars and clubs. In June 2009 the parliament approved a bill ostensibly regulating smoking in public places. However, at the time this regulation only required bars and restaurants to post a sign saying whether smoking was allowed, not allowed, or whether there are separate rooms for smokers and non-smokers in the establishment. In February 2011, the popular initiative "stop kouření" announced, that 115,000 people had signed their petition demanding a ban on smoking in restaurants and denouncing the country's high cancer rate, poor rating concerning tobacco control and possible corruption of members of the Czech parliament.  On December 9, 2016, the Chamber of Deputies passed a law that bans smoking in all restaurants and bars. The bill was approved by the Senate on January 19, 2017,  and signed by the President Miloš Zeman on February 14, 2017.  It came into effect on May 31, 2017. The Democratic Republic of the Congo has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.  Since 15 August 2007, smoking in hospitality facilities, restaurants, bars, clubs, public transport, and all private and public workplaces has been forbidden. Exemptions to the law are bars with a floor space of less than 40m². Separate smoking rooms are allowed in hospitality facilities as long as no food or beverage is served there. The law's initially controversial reception was accompanied by variable enforcement. As of July 1, 2014, smoking is prohibited in train stations including the platforms (whether inside or out),  it is however poorly enforced, and smoking is seen on both inside and outside platforms regularly. In 2017, a lot of different sectors grouped in order to work on a mobile app to combat underage smoking in Denmark.  In the municipality of Randers, politicians are preparing to implement outdoor anti-smoking recommendations, which will advise people not to smoke and without any fines applied.  Djibouti has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.  Smoking is more common among men and younger people in Ecuador.  Smoking is common in bars and dance clubs, but non-smoking signs in restaurants in Quito are generally respected. A national law has forbidden smoking in bars.  A bill was passed in 2006 that prohibits smoking in indoor workplaces, public transportation and public places.  In 2011, Ecuador Parliament implemented a new tobacco control, that witnessed the addition of smoking ban in sport facilities and on all health or educational institutions. In addition, the sponsorships and advertisements were prohibited. And finally a ban on tobacco vending machines  Smoking ban in Egypt was first implemented in 2010 in Alexandria, when it banned smoking in governmental institutions.  Now smoking in Egypt is prohibited in specific public places: health and educational facilities, government venues, social and sporting clubs, youth centers and public transportation.  Smoking has been restricted in indoor public areas and workplaces since 4 June 2005, except in restaurants. Subsequently, a ban on smoking in bars, restaurants, coffee shops and nightclubs started on 5 June 2007 (although smoking is still allowed in isolated smoking rooms). Smoking has been prohibited in all enclosed public places (including pubs, restaurants, social clubs, hotels and shops), enclosed workplaces, and public vehicles (taxis and buses) since 1 February 2011.  As of 1 July 2008, smoking ban applied on all public and private workplaces. The ban also included public areas and transport.  Smoking has been restricted in indoor public areas and workplaces from 1 March 1995, and permitted only in specially designated smoking rooms; restaurants were included in 2007. Legislation aimed towards voluntary reduction of second-hand smoke was enacted, but was not successful; few establishments installed effective ventilation systems. Dividing a restaurant into a smoking and non-smoking section was also an ineffective measure. As a result, smoking has since been prohibited in all indoor public and workplaces, including bars, cafes, clubs and restaurants, from 1 June 2007, except in some places permitted a transition period of up to two years. Smoking was permitted in trains in designated smoking booths until June 2013, when it was banned by the national railway company. Smoking in bars is still allowed in enclosed smoking booths, where it is not permitted to serve or consume food or drink.  Many smaller bars have not been able to build such smoking booths and patrons must smoke outside. As of early 2010, Finland's government has openly considered planning gradual moves towards prohibiting smoking completely.  Smoking is banned in all indoor public places (stations, museums, restaurants, cafés, etc.) Establishments with the sign "Tabac" come within the same strict regulations. This sign only means that they are state-licensed to sell tobacco products. In Gabon, smoking is prohibited in many public places but the law requires designated smoking areas to be provided.  The Gambia has a smoking ban in place.  The 16 states of Germany have their own smoking laws.  As of July 2016, nearly 40% of the German population (Bavaria, North Rhine-Westphalia, Saarland) live in a state with a strict smoking ban including all restaurants, pubs, cafés and discos. In the other 13 states designated smoking rooms as well as one-room smoking bars with less than 75 m² are permitted. Smoking has been prohibited in all enclosed public spaces since 1 October 2012.  As of 2010, Greece was the country with the highest rate of tobacco consumption (more than 40%) in the European Union.  Since older legislation was not very efficient; a new, more comprehensive law was passed. Effective from 1 September 2010, this law prohibits smoking and consumption of tobacco products by other means, in all workplaces, transport stations, taxis and passenger ships (in trains, buses and aeroplanes smoking is already prohibited), as well as in all enclosed public places including restaurants, nightclubs, etc., without any exception. Casinos and bars bigger than 300 m2 were given eight months to apply the law.  Enforcement of the law is reportedly weak, with most owners of coffee shops, pubs, and restaurants continuing to permit smoking, especially at outdoor sitting areas. In Santorini, there appears to be no enforcement. Guinea has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.  Guatemala has implemented a comprehensive smoking ban covering all types of places and institutions. In December 2008 the Guatemalan Congress approved Decree 74-2008 and it became effective in February 2009. This law restricts smoking in all work-places including health-care facilities,  governmental facilities, schools, universities, airports, bars and restaurants. However, two years after the law's implementation enforcement has been deficient. Governments are facing pressures to permit work-place smoking once more by local tobacco companies.  Smoke-free ordinances were introduced at different times in the Bailiwick of Guernsey, a British Crown dependency. Smoking was restricted in all enclosed public places in the island of Guernsey, including workplaces, bars, clubs and restaurants, on 2 July 2006, under the "Smoking (Prohibition in Public Places and Workplaces) (Guernsey) Law 2005". Anyone who breaks the law, upon conviction, could be fined up to the maximum of £1000 (~€1150, ~$1470). Smoking is allowed anywhere outside and in whatever company.  In Alderney, the States of Alderney passed a smoke-free law with the President's casting vote on 13 January 2010; the legislation came into force at 4 am on 1 June 2010.  Smoking in indoor public places continues to be permitted in Sark, except in pubs and restaurants.  Honduras strictly banned smoking in all indoors places in Feb 2011.   It carries fines of $311 per incident, with police involvement, and fines up to $6,000 for businesses with possibility of being forced to close, and has been strongly enforced, even in provincial areas, including in large bars and nightclubs.  Billiards areas at night continue to allow smokers. Hong Kong has seen all public smoking restricted from 1 January 2007 under the government's revised Smoking (Public Health) Ordinance (Cap. 371), first enacted in 1982 with several amendments subsequently. The latest amendment enlarges the smoke-free regulations to include indoor workplaces, most public places including restaurants, Internet cafés, public lavatories, beaches and most public parks. Some bars, karaoke parlors, saunas and nightclubs were exempt until 1 July 2009. Smoke-free regulations pertaining to lifts, public transport, cinemas, concert halls, airport terminals and escalators had been phased in between 1982 and 1997. The smoke-free requirements in shopping centres, department stores, supermarkets, banks, game arcades have been in place since July 1998. An anomaly exists on cross-border trains between Hong Kong and mainland China as they are operated jointly between MTR Corporation and China Railways, of whom the latter allows smoking in the restaurant car and in the vestibules at the end of the cars, but not in the seating area. Any person who smokes or carries a lighted tobacco product in a statutory no smoking area commits an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a maximum fine of HK$5,000. Unlike many other jurisdictions, Hong Kong does not place the onus on licensees of liquor licensed premises to enforce smoke-free regulations bans with subsequent loss of licence for non compliance. A 2009 law provides for fixed-penalty arrangement (HK$1,500) for smoking, on a par with that for littering. At the same time smoking was to be prohibited in designated public transport interchanges, but the government has yet to clarify how it will enforce this against non Hong Kong ID card-holders and tourists, since the offender has 21 days after the ticket issue to pay up. The overall daily smoking rate in Hong Kong is 11.8% (HK Department of Census and Statistics Household Thematic Survey 36) with 25% of males smoking whereas in China 63% of males smoke. Smoking has been restricted for several years on public transport, in hospitals and airports and in public and national buildings; including the Parliament. From 2010, a smoke-free policy has been in effect in playgrounds and underpasses.  Several cities, including Budapest, have prohibited smoking at public transport stops.   Following a decade of  resistance by the tobacco lobby, a comprehensive nationwide smoke-free law covering all indoors public spaces (including workplaces, clubs, pubs, restaurants) came into effect from January 2012.   Since July 2013, the sale of tobacco is limited to state-controlled (but privately-owned) tobacco shops called Nemzeti Dohánybolt (National Tobacco Shop), the number of stores where people can buy tobacco reduced from 40,000–42,000 to 5,300.  In March 2017, Hungary was one of only seven EU member states that have a complete ban on smoking in all public places.  Smoking and the use of other tobacco products are prohibited in most public spaces in Iceland. This includes all enclosed spaces in common ownership, all public land intended for use by children, all public transport and all services; including restaurants, bars, clubs and cafés.  A nationwide smoke-free law pertaining to public places came into effect from 2 October 2008. Places where smoking is restricted include auditoriums, movie theatres, hospitals, public transport (aircraft, buses, trains, metros, monorails, taxis, autos) and their related facilities (airports, bus stands/stations, railway stations), restaurants, hotels, bars, pubs, amusement centres, offices (government and private), libraries, courts, post offices, markets, shopping malls, canteens, refreshment rooms, banquet halls, discothèques, coffee houses, educational institutions and parks. Smoking is allowed on roads, inside one's home or vehicle.  Smoking is also permitted in airports, restaurants, bars, pubs, discothèques and some other enclosed workplaces if they provide designated separate smoking areas.  Anybody violating this law will be charged with a fine of ₹200.  The sale of tobacco products within 100 yards of educational institutions is also prohibited.  This particular rule is strictly enforced.Further as of 2014, there is strict provision of imprisonment for selling tobacco products to any person aged below 18 years of age .  The Cable Television Network (Regulation) Amendment Bill, in force since 8 September 2000, completely prohibits cigarette and alcohol advertisements.  In Jakarta's restaurants, hotels, office buildings, airports and public transport, and overall public areas smoking is not permitted. Restaurants wanting to allow smoking must provide a separate smoking space, as of 4 February 2006.   As in some other Asian nations, it remains to be seen whether it can be enforced. Building separate facilities for smokers had only taken place in half of establishments by June 2007.  Smoke-free regulations were extended to Bali in November 2011, affecting tourist sites, including restaurants and hotels; plus schools, government buildings, places of worship and other public places.  A ban on sale and advertising tobacco in schools was also enacted, although this would not stop tobacco companies offering sponsorship to schools.  However, regulations were not strong enough, leading to a new stricter promulgation for June 2012. Smoking in trains of state company PT Kereta Api Indonesia has been banned as of 1 March 2012.  Bali has banned smoking to be effective 1 June 2012, also having heavy fines.   Hotels, restaurants, tourist attractions, places of worship, healthcare facilities and schools are to be smoke-free areas.  Smoking and advertising for tobacco products have also been banned in playgrounds, traditional and modern markets, transportation terminals, airports, government offices and on public transportation.  Smoking in Iran has been banned in all public places since 2007. This includes all state bodies, hotels, restaurants. The law also bans the smoking of traditional waterpipes (ghalyun) which were common in Iranian tea houses. A smoking ban for all car drivers nationwide was implemented in March 2006, and although offenders can face fines, the ban has been widely ignored. The sale of tobacco products to anyone under the age of 18 is prohibited and is punishable by the confiscation of the vendor's tobacco products and a fine. Ireland became the first country in the world to institute a nationwide comprehensive smoke-free workplaces law on 29 March 2004. Prior to this, comprehensive smoke-free law was instituted, smoking had already been outlawed (1988) in public buildings, hospitals, pharmacies, schools, banking halls, cinemas, public hairdressing premises, restaurant kitchens, part of all restaurants, on public aircraft and buses, and some trains (Intercity trains provided smokers' carriages).  On 1 July 2009, Ireland banned in-store tobacco advertising and displays of tobacco products at retail outlets and introduced new controls on tobacco vending machines. The Isle of Man's smoke-free law is similar to the one introduced in England, and came into effect on 30 March 2008.  This also included Europe's first fully smoke-free prison.  In Israel, smoking is prohibited  in public  enclosed places or commercial areas via several laws: particularly, since 1983, the "Israel Clean Air Act" (חוק אוויר נקי לישראל (in Hebrew)).  The law was amended in 2007 so that owners are held accountable for smoking in premises under their responsibility.  The second means by which smoking is regulated in Israel is via the environmental hazard law,  and via criminal law smoking (or the introduction of second-hand smoke) may even be considered an assault.   The restrictions include all commercial entities such as lavatories, office buildings, gyms, cafés, restaurants, discos, pubs and bars, and it is illegal for the owners of such places to put ashtrays anywhere inside enclosed spaces. Also, owners of public places must display "no smoking" signs and prevent visitors from smoking. They can also designate a well-ventilated and completely separate area for smokers, as long as the non-smokers' area does not fall below 75% of the whole area. The fine for owners of public places is ₪ 5,000 (around US$1400) and for smokers – ₪ 1000. In spite of all of this, the smoke-free law has not met with 100% compliance and smoking is still encountered in some pubs, bars and clubs. In Israel, a 2011 law restricts smoking in railway stations and at bus stops, and prohibits the sale of tobacco from automated vending machines.  An individual may call the police in cases of smoking in a restricted environment and can also sue (via the citizen's court) the smoking entity (i.e., both the person smoking and the facility that allowed smoking to occur).    Some cities are known for their rigorous enforcement of the smoke-free laws, such as the city of Be'er Sheva (which raised revenue of 799,000 NIS (~215K USD) in 2011 through fining smoking in public places)  and Tel-Aviv,  but in many municipalities the law isn't enforced.  Since 2003   it is forbidden to smoke in all public indoor spaces, including bars, cafés, restaurants and discos. However, special smoking rooms are allowed. In such areas food can be served, but they are subjected to strict conditions: they need to be separately ventilated, with high air replacement rates; their air pressure must constantly be lower than the pressure in the surrounding rooms; they must be equipped with automatic sliding doors to prevent smoke from spreading to tobacco-free areas; they may occupy at most 50% of the establishment. Only 1% of all public establishments have opted for setting up a smoking room. Smoking is also forbidden in all enclosed workplaces – this includes also trains and underground stations. It is, indeed, permitted to smoke outdoors, which means that since Italy has sunny weather more than half of the year, people can still smoke at restaurants and bars as long as they sit at the outside tables and the establishment permits it. Ivory Coast has a smoking ban in place.  Smoking is not permitted in the airport or generally indoors at shops and malls and places of business.  However smoking is usually permitted in bars, discos and other licensed premises that serve alcohol indoors, but not in restaurants or casinos.  Smoking is often permitted in tourist resorts in places that would be typically considered indoors in North America (roof but no walls), but this does not apply to indoor air-conditioned places.  Jamaica has no national smoke-free law, but most places have a no-smoking sign if smoking is not permitted and it is open-air with a roof.  Most places that permit smoking indoors will have ashtrays on the table to signify that it is permitted.  However, if there is a sandbox at the entrance of a building then it usually signals that the place you are entering does not permit indoor smoking. Effective 15 July 2013, Jamaica's Health Minister banned smoking in all covered public places on the island. Although there are no consistent nationwide smoke-free regulations in Japan, and all moves to introduce such reforms are strongly opposed by the powerful lobby groups, there are a growing number of local ordinances restricting smoking. Smoking is forbidden on the streets of the Chiyoda, Shinagawa, Shinjuku and Nakano wards of Tokyo  for reasons of child safety (not health). Smoking is prohibited on public transport and subway platforms, while above ground train station platforms typically have smoking areas. Unlike Tokyo wards' ability to fine people for smoking on the streets, public transportation companies don't have the authority to enforce no smoking rules. Due to this inability, there are smokers not respecting no smoking rules, in some cases on a very frequent basis such as at Minami Urawa station in Saitama Prefecture, adjacent to Tokyo. Kanagawa Prefecture has implemented in April 2010 the nation's first prefecture-wide smoking ban, banning smoking in public facilities, including hospitals, schools and government offices. The ordinance requires large restaurants and hotels to choose whether to become nonsmoking or create separate smoking areas, while mah-jong and pachinko parlours, restaurants with floor space of up to 100 sq. meters and hotels of up to 700 sq. metres are merely required to "make efforts" to reduce second-hand smoke. Another Kanagawa ordinance to restrict smoking at swimming beaches was expected to be implemented in May 2010.  Although still relatively few, there are a growing number of private businesses implementing voluntary smoking restrictions bans in restaurants, taxis, buildings and bars.   In 2017, Japan experienced pressure from the International Olympics Committee (IOC) to implement smoking bans in all public areas to offer for healthy sporting environment. Japan are planning to host the 2020 Summer Olympics and are risking to be the unhealthiest country to host the Olympics in years.  Smoking is restricted in public places in Jersey (a British Crown dependency). The Restriction on Smoking (Jersey) Law 1973  enabled the States of Jersey to pass regulations prohibiting or restricting smoking in places of entertainment and public transport. In pursuance of this law, smoking was banned on public transport by the Smoking (Public Transport) (Jersey) Regulations 1982.  The Restriction on Smoking (Jersey) Law 1973 was amended by the Restriction on Smoking (Amendment No. 2) (Jersey) Law 2006  adopted 16 May 2006 that enabled the States to make regulations that prohibit or restrict smoking tobacco or a substance (or a mixture of substances) other than tobacco, or the use of tobacco, in a workplace or other defined places. "Smoking is banned in hospitals, health centers, schools, cinemas, theaters, public libraries, museums, governmental and non-governmental public premises, means of transportation, arrivals and departures halls at airports, enclosed stadiums, lecture-halls".  In 14 April 2015, three coffee shops closed for violating smoking ban laws and their owners went to court.  Kazakhstan partially restricted smoking in public places on 1 April 2003.  A comprehensive smoke-free law was instituted in September 2009.  Enforcing the smoke-free law appears to be somewhat problematic as far as public bus services are concerned. While smoking by passengers on the public bus services was never an issue, bus operators on duty were being consistently reported as smoking inside the bus vehicles and persistently ignoring requests by the passengers not to do so.  Smoking in public indoor areas is restricted in Nairobi, Kenya, since July 2007.   Small private bars will be exempted. Mombasa already has a similar pre-existing smoke-free ordinance. Kuwait has outlawed smoking indoors in public places as of 2012, including restaurants, cafes and hotels, but exempting shisha parlours.  In 2015, Kuwait's General Traffic Department considered banning smoking when driving, which is considered the major cause of accidents in Kuwait.  In February 2016, smoking in malls was banned and fine of 50KD for the first time and 100 KD for the second time getting caught. While the owner of restaurants and cafes inside the malls could face a fine of 5000KD if someone is caught smoking inside their facilities.  As of 1 May 2010, smoking has been completely outlawed in restaurants and bars. Previously non-smoking areas had to be larger than half of the total area of the establishment. In addition, more than half of the summer terraces of bars and restaurants are required to be smoke-free. Smoking is also restricted in parks and for ten metres around entrances of public buildings as well as public transportation stops. Smoking on public transportation, except for ferries, is also forbidden. In late 2011 some municipalities, for example, Ozolnieku novads, prohibited smoking on balconies and by open windows in apartment blocks and others multi-storey buildings. In late 2014 amendments to the law considering smoking ban took effect and included whole areas surrounding educational institutions, apartment building balconies, entrances and staircases as prohibited areas where smoking is not allowed. Also additions to law states that every person, located in the vicinity of the smoker, now are given rights to ask the smoker to extinguish the cigarette at once upon request. Smoking in vicinity of underage children is now classified as child abuse, and punished respectively. Smoking ban in place.  Smoking has been restricted in restaurants, bars, places where food is served, clubs (except for special cigar and pipe clubs), and nightclubs since 1 January 2007. Furthermore, smoking on public transportation is forbidden (except on long-distance trains with special facilities), and workplaces inside a building (except designated places). It is also illegal to smoke inside public halls where non-smoking people might have to breathe tobacco fumes. The law is well respected (at least in the largest cities) but smoking in hallways and staircases is still common. The age restriction is 18 years old. As of 3 September 2012, smoking has been prohibited in enclosed public places such as restaurants, cafes, and hotel. Anybody violating this ban will be charged with a fine of over $100, and the restaurant, the cafe or the hotel will be charged with a fine between $1300 and $4000  Smoking is prohibited in all indoor public places, like hospitals, shopping centres, schools and restaurants. However, cafés and bars that only serve snacks are exempt. There is a smoking prohibition from 12 noon to 14:00h and 19:00h to 21:00h in cafés where meals are served. From 1 January 2014, the smoking ban will also cover all cafés and bars, except in specially ventilated smoking rooms.  As of 13 August 2017, smoking is prohibited in playgrounds, sporting venues in which under 16s will be playing and private vehicles in which under 12s are present. The law was also changed to prohibit under 18s from purchasing tobacco and to treat e-cigarettes in the same fashion as tobacco.   Macedonia has a comprehensive national smoke-free law covering all public indoor areas, and in some cases in outdoor areas. Smoking is prohibited in bars, cafes, restaurants, and nightclubs starting 1 January 2010.  Smoking is permitted only in people's homes, at open spaces and public areas free of sporting competitions, cultural and entertainment events, gatherings and other public events.  By official law, smoking is prohibited in taxi-brousses, but this is not enforced. The only transport environments in which smoking is prohibited are Antananarivo International Airport and on Air Madagascar flights. It is also forbidden to smoke in pubs and clubs. No smoke-free ordinance is in place, nor is one planned (December 2012) In April 2004, smoking was restricted in all enclosed public spaces, including public transportation, clubs and restaurants, although smoking areas are allowed. In all, 21 areas are smoke-free, including hospitals/clinics, airports, public lifts and toilets, air-conditioned restaurants, public transport, government premises, educational institutions, petrol stations, Internet cafes, shopping complexes and private office spaces with central air-conditioning. However, enforcement is lax, and the government claims to have plans to get tougher on offenders.   Starting 1 June 2010, it is an offence to smoke at private office spaces with central air-conditioning. People who violate the rules can be fined up to RM10,000 (US$3,333), or two years of imprisonment.  Since 1 March 2009, smoking is completely prohibited in all public places, workplaces and inside vehicles if they are carrying people other than the driver. Smoking in hospitals and airports has been restricted for at least 15 years. Smoking is allowed in designated areas at the Cancun Airport, although there are no longer any smoking areas within the international terminal. Mexico City's current smoking policy, passed in April 2004, requires physically separate smoking and non-smoking areas, and for non-smoking areas to make up at least 30% of all space in restaurants and bars.  A proposal debated early in 2007 to extend Mexico City's smoking policy to provide completely smoke-free restaurants, bars, schools, taxis, and buses, did not pass.  It was proposed again in the middle of 2007. Since April 2008 the law has covered Mexico City, and since 28 August 2008 the law has been extended nationwide, although now some restaurants and other public places have the same designated areas for smokers as those that existed before the introduction of the law. Some bars and clubs continue to tolerate illegal indoor smoking at night, regardless of the law. Advertisement of tobacco products has been barred from TV and radio for approximately 6 years. There has been a smoke-free law pertaining to public indoor places in Monaco since 1 November 2008, including bars, restaurants and nightclubs. Smoking in public places is prohibited in Montenegro, unless you obtain a smoking permit from the government. Most cafes and bars in Montenegro continue to permit smoking on the premises, although several organizations like https://www.facebook.com/smokefreemontenegro are putting pressure on more local businesses to forbid smoking indoors. The law also forbids smoking advertising and the display of people smoking on television.  Morocco's House of Representatives unanimously passed a smoke-free law pertaining to public places.[when?] Since 2007, smoking has been restricted in indoor public places including public transport, government buildings, schools, hospitals, libraries, cinemas, theatres, restaurants and bars, with the exception of specially designated smoking rooms.   Myanmar has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.  On 8 October 2009, the Namibian National Assembly adopted the Tobacco Products Control Bill, potentially one of the most comprehensive smoke-free ordinances. The law, (once implemented) will prohibit "the smoking of tobacco in a public place, any outdoor public place or any area within a certain distance of a window, ventilation inlet, door or entrance".  The bill was voted into law on 16 February 2010, became effective on 1 April 2014, and a public ban on smoking was in effect by 1 July 2014.    Nepal Government implemented a smoke-free law covering public places, effective from 7 August 2011. The Tobacco (Control and Regulatory) Act restricts smoking in airports, hotels, restaurants, government offices and other public places. The act also makes it obligatory for tobacco product manufacturers to ensure that product packs carry graphic warnings about the adverse effects of smoking and the harmful ingredients the products contain. The warnings should cover at least 75% of the total pack area.  The act also prohibits sales of tobacco products to pregnant women and people below the age of 18. The Tobacco Control and Regulation Act-2068 was signed by President Dr. Ram Baran Yadav on 29 April. The Act includes provisions for officials to inspect implementation of the new law. A fine of Rs 100-100,000 will be slapped on anyone who smokes in public places or sells tobacco products to people below 18 or to pregnant women. The smoking of tobacco is prohibited by law in all public buildings and on public transport. On railway platforms, the limited smoking areas are not enforced.  As of 1 January 2004, every employee has the right to work in a smoke-free environment. Tobacco legislation states that employers are obliged to take measures to ensure that employees are able to carry out their work without being bothered or affected by secondhand smoke from other people. On 1 January 2008, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol became the first completely smoke-free European airport ; however, since August 2008; smoking has been permitted in designated smoking rooms. Since 1 July 2008, the smoke-free law has also applied to all hotels, restaurants, bars and cafes in the Netherlands. Separate smoking rooms are allowed in hospitality facilities as long as no food or beverage is served there, although the court banned them as of February 2018. All forms of tobacco advertising, promotion or sponsorship are prohibited. Smoking of cannabis (including hashish) in coffeeshops is permitted as long as it is not mixed with tobacco. In 2010, the new government spoke out against the effects of the smoke-free law upon small catering businesses. The law was widely ignored with statistics showing that around 41% of bars and discos had flouted it.  On 3 November 2010, the new government lifted the smoke-free regulations for bars of 70 square metres or less, on the condition that the bar did not employ any staff other than the owner.  Around 3,000 of the 5,500 bars in the Netherlands are staffed by the owner alone.  On 12 February 2013, the Dutch lower house agreed on a total ban in the hospitality sector with 77-73, with no exception for smaller, owner-operated bars. Special smoking rooms without service were not affected by the change in the law. Since 1 January 2017, smoking rooms are no longer be allowed in city hall and other municipal buildings of Amsterdam and within a 20-meter distance of these buildings.  On 13 February 2018, the court in The Hague decided that smoking rooms are no longer legal in pubs, clubs and restaurants.   The first building in the world to have a smoke-free policy was the Old Government Building in Wellington, New Zealand, in 1876. This was over concerns about the threat of fire, as it is the second largest wooden building in the world.  New Zealand passed an amendment to the Smoke-free Environments Act 1990 law on 3 December 2003 (effective in 2004) that covers all indoor public workplaces and inside hospitality venues (pubs, bars, restaurants and casinos). Studies have shown very high levels of compliance with the law. Also the air quality inside hospitality venues is very good compared to similar settings in other countries where smoking is still permitted. In New Zealand, tobacco and tobacco products cannot be sold or supplied to anyone under 18.  Outdoor smoke-free laws cover the grounds of all schools, the grounds of some hospitals, stadiums and two university campuses (Massey University, and the University of Auckland, in 2010). Victoria University of Wellington has restricted smoking rules with specified areas where one may smoke. The government has not moved to restrict smoking in cars but has run mass media campaigns that promote smoke-free cars and homes. There are also increasing numbers of local councils implementing educative smokefree policies. South Taranaki District Council was the first. In May 2005 the Council made its playgrounds, parks and swimming pools smokefree, as well as ensuring that all Council events held in South Taranaki parks were to be promoted as smoke-free events and in May 2006 the Upper Hutt city council followed suit and declared all  "open areas for which members of the public gather" (i.e., parks, playgrounds, pools) smoke-free however this by-law lacks in enforcement other than a polite request by city council officials and Security Guards (rather than confiscation and court penalty).  At least 19 of New Zealand's other Councils have followed suit. (Source: www.smokefreecouncils.org.nz). On 5 September 2007, Action on Smoking and Health (ASH) New Zealand called for the removal of tobacco from sale by 2017.  The Government wants to be smokefree by 2025.  Smoking is prohibited in public places in Lagos, Nigeria, and is punishable by a fine of not less than N200 and not exceeding N1000 or to imprisonment to a term of not less than one month and not exceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.   In Norway, smoking has been restricted in public buildings, workplaces and public transportation since 1988, often allowing for separate, walled-off smoking areas of restaurants, pubs, etc. Since 1 June 2004, smoking has been prohibited in all indoor public areas. Outside some places this ban includes the immediate area surrounding the doorways, etc.    Advertising for tobacco has been illegal by law since 1975 (The tobacco related damage protection act). The smoking ban also includes vaping since 1 July 2017. As of 2008, smoking is prohibited at all restaurants, bars, and dance clubs, outdoor dining areas, balconies, and indoor areas such as transport terminals and areas that locals would consider a workplace. Effective April 2010, Paraguay has restricted smoking in all indoor areas including bars and restaurants.  The Prohibition of Smoking and Protection of Non-Smokers Health Ordinance-2002 came into effect on 30 June 2003. The law had the following aspnects: restriction upon tobacco use in public buildings and transportation, limiting tobacco advertising, prohibiting tobacco sale within 50 metres of educational institutions, and requiring "no smoking" signs displayed in public places, public buildings and transportation, limiting tobacco advertising. In Peru, it is illegal to smoke in any enclosed public place (inc public transport), according to Law 25357, since December 1993. This has been re-inforced with the Anti-Tobacco Law 28705 and 29517. Davao has prohibited smoking in a large number of public places, including public buildings, entertainment venues, hospitals, shopping malls, concerts since 2002. Smoking at gasoline stations is also banned.  Manila has restricted smoking in large public areas like hospitals, malls, public transport, as well as Makati in 2002 Ordinance 2002-090, banning all public transport and enclosed indoor smoking.   After many attempts, finally in June 2011 Metro Manila banned smoking with heavy penalties including community service time for offenders, after 3 months the ban seems to be well respected.  President Duterte has ordered a strict smoking ban, Executive Order 26, forbidding tobacco and e-cigarette use in all public spaces.  No one under 18 can use, sell or buy cigarettes or tobacco products. Tobacco cannot be sold where children might gather and be kept 100 meters from schools and playgrounds.  Citizens are encouraged to help apprehend violators. Those who violate the ban could face up to four months in jail and a fine of 5,000 pesos (around $100).  As of 2017, a pack of cigarettes is still cheap, costing about 27 pesos (54 cents) and more than 74 percent of that is taxes.  Smoking is prohibited in schools, hospitals or other medical facilities and public transport (including the vehicles such as train or bus and bus stops, train stations, etc. within the 10 metres radius). In March 2010, an attempt to introduce a complete smokefree law failed. Since 1 January 2011, it is forbidden to smoke in indoor workplaces, and all public indoor spaces, including public offices, museums, bars, cafés, discos, shops or restaurants smaller than 100 square metres. In larger restaurants enclosed smoking areas are permitted, provided they are physically separated and properly ventilated.  Smoking is also prohibited in venues for cultural and sporting events. Portuguese Law 37/2007 (in force since 1 January 2008) governs various aspects of the consumption, sale and control of tobacco in Portugal, and lists a large number of enclosed spaces where smoking is not permitted, including such obvious cases as schools, hospitals and theatres. The law states that exceptions to the no-smoking rule may be made in the cases, inter alia, of enclosed eating and drinking establishments (i.e. restaurants, cafes and bars) not frequented by under-18s if the smoking area is physically separated from the non-smoking area or where ventilation and air extraction systems directed towards the exterior are effective to the point of preventing smoke from entering the non-smoking area, and that in the case of establishments with a floor area of more than 100 square metres no more than 40% (if physically separated) or 30% otherwise may be designated a smoking area. In effect, restaurants are almost always smoke-free as are most cafes whose trade is mainly for food, whereas in bars the law is ignored by customers and bar owners alike. A study published in 2011 by the Ministry of Health showed 90% compliance with the law in establishments with a total smoking ban, but only 50% compliance in establishments where smoking is partly or wholly permitted (i.e., most bars).       The Law No. 40 from 1993, the Law to Regulate the Smoking Practice in Public Places, and its later 1996 amendment Law 133, regulate smoking in private and public places. The most recent modification established in [2 March 2007], Law 66, amended articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9 and 11 of Law Num. 40, forbids this practice inside jails, pubs, restaurants (including open-air terraces with one or more employees), bars, casinos, workplaces, educational institutions, cars with children under age 13 and most public places. Smoking sections are not allowed. Fines start at $250. The capital of Qatar, Doha, restricted smoking in public or closed areas     in 2002. The law discouraged shopkeepers from selling to under-aged people and completely banned tobacco advertisements in the country and punished violaters with hefty fines. However, the law is openly flouted especially by the youth.  Smoking is banned in "indoor public places" such as schools, office buildings and public institutions, though specially designed smoking areas may be established on the premises under certain conditions. Hospitals, CFR passenger trains and the Bucharest Metro, among others, are completely smoke-free.    Since 2011, bars and restaurants may be designated either as smoke-free or exclusively for smokers.  On 15 December 2015, the Romanian Parliament adopted a law banning smoking  in public areas. The law, that came into effect on March 2016 forbids smoking in any closed environment for public use, defining a closed environment as one having at least two walls.  Russia had been highly tolerant of smoking for a long time, with almost no regulation. However, the Soviet Union had approved countrywide campaigns against smoking.   The law "on the protection of the population from the harmful effects of cigarette smoke and the consequences of tobacco consumption" has passed the third and final vote in the State Duma and has been effective partly from 1 July 2013 and has completely from 1 July 2014.  Starting 1 June 2013, smoking in workplaces, on aircraft, trains and municipal transport as well as in schools, hospitals, cultural institutions and government buildings has been restricted and tobacco advertising and sponsorship forbidden. Graphic warnings have become compulsory.  Starting 1 June 2014, smoking has also been prohibited in restaurants and cafés. Smokers will also be fined for smoking within a distance of 15 meters in front of entrances of subway stations, the airport or in children playgrounds and parks, as well as places and squares that attract many people. Rwanda has a smoking ban in place.  Saudi Arabia had almost no restrictions against smoking until 2010 when the Council of Ministers urged the General Authority of Civil Aviation (GACA) to restrict smoking at all airports and their facilities in the Kingdom, and strict rules were imposed. It also advised GACA to impose a fine of SR200 (US$53) on people who violate the new regulations.   Many commercial buildings and work places banned smoking at offices in an attempt to stop smoking in public places. In addition, King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals in Dhahran, for instance, launched a program in 2010 to make their university smoke-free, and Umm al-Qura University in Mecca launched a campaign with the same title[clarification needed] in 2011.  In May 2012, King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre in Riyadh banned people from smoking in and around its buildings, the first such move in the country. The hospital implemented fines of SR200 for violations. On 30 July 2012, Interior Minister Prince Ahmed bin Abdulaziz ordered the implementation of a royal ban on smoking in all government facilities (ministries, buildings, institutions, offices etc.)  and most indoor public places. The ban also prohibits smoking of hookahs in public places, and prohibits selling tobacco to anyone under 18.   On 1 December 2012, the Saudi Commission for Tourism & Antiquities (SCTA) imposed a ban on smoking in all tourism facilities.  From 6 June 2016, smoking is prohibited in the vicinity of religious, educational, health, sport and cultural institutions, social and charity institutions. Smoking is also prohibited at private and government offices, factories, banks, public transport facilities, in areas for manufacturing and processing food products and drinks, petrol, gas and fuel distribution systems, warehouses, elevators and restrooms, in addition to several other public places. Violating the law is punishable by a fine of SAR 200, which increases for repeat violations.  The Serbian Parliament passed a new law on public smoking in November 2010. It forbids smoking in every indoor working or public space, and any outdoor space that is a functional part of a facility connected with health care, education, or child care. This law prescribes very high fines for employers and restaurant owners who do not post smoking ban notifications. Outlets (bars, cafés, restaurants, night clubs etc.) smaller than 80 sq m can choose whether to ban smoking or not, and outlets larger than this margin have to have divided areas for smokers and non-smokers. Smoking was restricted in hawker centres, coffee-shops, cafes and fast-food outlets beginning 1 July 2006. For establishments with an outdoor area, 10–20% of the area can be set aside for smoking, although they would have to be clearly marked to avoid confusion. Gradually, the regulations have been extended to bus interchanges and shelters, public toilets and public swimming complexes.  On 1 July 2007, the regulations were extended to entertainment nightspots. The rule allows for construction of designated smoking rooms that can take up to 10% of the total indoor space. On 1 January 2009, the regulations were extended to all children's playgrounds, exercise areas, markets, underground and multi-storey carparks, ferry terminals and jetties. Coverage was also extended to non-air conditioned areas in offices, factories, shops, shopping complexes and lift lobbies.  Smokers found flouting the rules are fined S$200 while the owners of the establishments are fined S$200 and S$500 for a subsequent offence. On 22 November 2010, the Towards Tobacco-Free Singapore online  campaign was launched to support the initiative to phase out tobacco in Singapore by preventing the supply of tobacco to Singaporeans born from the year 2000.  Social movements such as Tobacco Free Generation also exist on the island.  Smoking is prohibited in most indoor places. Since 2004, employers have been obliged to provide separate smoking rooms or a designated outdoor smoking place if smoking is allowed at work. Smoking is also prohibited in the majority of indoor public places. The regulations currently exempt bars that do not serve food. Restaurants are also excepted from indoor smoking restrictions. Since 2010 there has been no requirement for restaurants to have separate smoking and non-smoking areas. Smoking is also prohibited in shopping centres but a loop-hole in the law allows smoking on the balconies of cafeterias in shopping centres. Enforcement of this law is the responsibility of the Slovak Business Inspection (SOI) service. There is also a partial restriction upon outdoor smoking, especially around railways stations and bus termini, and close to the entrances of government buildings. Local police forces are responsible for enforcing these laws, although this has on occasion been lax, reportedly due to a mix of corruption and insufficiently clear legislative requirements. On 22 June 2007, the Slovenian National Assembly approved a law prohibiting smoking in all indoor public and work places, effective 5 August 2007. Exempted from the ban are "open public areas, special smoking hotel rooms, special smoking areas in elderly care centres and jails, and special smoking chambers in bars and other work places. The smoking chambers, which will have to meet strict technical standards, will however not be allowed to occupy more than 20% of an establishment."   The law also raised the minimum age to purchase tobacco products from 15 to 18 and mandated that tobacco labels carry the telephone number of a quit-smoking hotline. The South African government passed the first Tobacco Products Control Act in 1993 and started implementing the act in 1995. The act regulated smoking in public areas and prohibited tobacco sales to people under the age of 18. Some aspects of tobacco advertising were also regulated for example labelling.  The 1993 act was not considered to be comprehensive enough and the Tobacco Products Control Amendment Act was passed in 1999. This act prohibits all advertising and promotion of tobacco products, including sponsorship and free distribution of tobacco products. The act also restricts smoking in public places, which includes workplaces, restaurants, bars, and public transport. The act does allow for designated smoking areas (no more than 25% of the total floor area). The act also stipulates penalties for transgressors of the law, and specifies the maximum permissible levels of tar and nicotine. The regulations were implemented in 2001.  The government proposed further amendments to the bill in 2007 that sought to deal with new practices designed to circumvent the Act. These amendments also aim to bring the current law into compliance with the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC). This framework has been ratified by the South African government.  The South African government has currently set the minimum legal age for smokers to 18.   South Korea enforced strict smoking bans in public places since July 2013, with fines of ₩100,000 won on any spotted smoker and up to ₩5 million won on shop owners not following the law. It is illegal and strictly prohibited to smoke in all bars and restaurants, cafes, internet cafes, government buildings, kindergartens, schools, universities, hospitals, youth facilities, libraries, children's playgrounds, private academies, subway or train stations and their platforms and underground pathways, large buildings, theaters, department stores or shopping malls, large hotels and highway rest areas. The strict bans came into force gradually beginning with a ban on places larger than 150 square meters in 2012, extended to 100 square meters in 2014, with a full-fledged complete nationwide ban on 1 January 2015.  Since 1 January 2006 Spain had a partial restriction upon smoking in most public places. Offices, schools, hospitals and public transportation were smoke-free, but restaurants and bars could create a "smokers' section" or allow smoking if they were small (under 100m²).  Since 2 January 2011 smoking has been restricted in every indoor public place, including restaurants, bars and cafes. Hotels may designate up to 30% of rooms for smoking; mental hospitals, jails and old people's residences may have public rooms where workers cannot enter. Outdoor smoking is also prohibited at childcare facilities, in children's playparks and around schools and hospital facilities.  Establishments can be closed by the authorities for repeatedly violating the smoke-free law, as happened for the first time on 10 February 2011 in Marbella.  Suriname has a smoking ban in place.  In Sweden, smoking was restricted in restaurants, cafes, bars and nightclubs in June 2005. Smoking rooms are, however, allowed in these institutions. The smoking rooms contain a few restrictions: no serving or consumption of food or beverages is allowed in the smoking rooms and it may not cover more than 25% of the institution's total area. The smoke-free law was very popular amongst the population and even the industries affected.  In January 2008, The Swedish Prison and Probation Service prohibited smoking indoors in prisons.  The Swiss Federal Assembly enacted a law for protection against second-hand smoke in 2008, which came into force on 1 May 2010. It prohibits smoking in enclosed, publicly accessible areas and in rooms that are workplaces for several persons. There are exceptions for bars and restaurants, which may allow smoking in separate, ventilated rooms or in establishments smaller than 80m², but the federal statute allows for more stringent cantonal smoking bans.  10 cantons (Jura, Aargau, Obwalden, Nidwalden, Zug, Schwyz, Glarus, Schaffhausen, Thurgau, Appenzell Innerrhoden) have imposed only the national mandated restrictions, with the remaining 16 (Geneva, Vaud, Neuchâtel, Valais, Fribourg, Bern, Solothurn, Basel-City, Basel-Land, Zürich, Uri, Ticino, Graubünden, St. Gallen, Lucerne, Appenzell Ausserrhoden) imposing stricter laws by not excluding establishments smaller than 80 square meters. All 16 cantons however permit separate smoking rooms with 7 (Bern, Solothurn, Zürich, Uri, Ticino, Graubünden, St. Gallen) permitting service. Smoking is restricted inside cafes, restaurants and other public spaces by a presidential decree issued on 12 October 2009 and came into force on 21 April 2010. Syria claims to be the first Arab country to introduce such a ban.  The decree also outlaws smoking in educational institutions, health centres, sports halls, cinemas and theatres and on public transport. The restrictions include the nargile, or waterpipe. According to the official news agency SANA, fines for violating the law range from 500 to 100,000 Syrian pounds (US$11 to $2,169).   A decree in 1996 banned tobacco advertising while a 2006 law outlawed smoking on public transport and in some public places, introducing fines for offenders. Under-16s are not allowed to buy tobacco.  Smoking is regulated by the Tobacco Hazards Prevention Act (Taiwan), promulgated on 11 July 2007. Indoor smoking restrictions have been in effect in all indoor air-conditioned establishments throughout Thailand since November 2002, with entertainment areas exempted. Cigarettes have had graphic pictures since 2005, and advertising is banned. Enforcement and compliance have been strong. On 10 January 2008, Thailand announced further restrictions that came into force on 10 February 2008, in that smoking would be banned (indoors and outdoors) in establishments open to the public, including restaurants, bars, and open-air markets. Members of the public face a 2,000 baht fines for not complying, and establishments face a 20,000 baht fine for not enforcing the ban (including not displaying mandated 'no smoking' signs). In addition to fines, those who fail to comply may be arrested. Most legal bars comply with these regulations, but in establishments that operate illegally or semi-legally they are mostly disregarded. Togo has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.  Turkey currently restricts smoking in government offices, workplaces, bars, restaurants, cafes, shopping malls, schools, hospitals, and all forms of public transport, including trains, taxis and ferries.   Turkey's smoke-free law ban includes provisions for violators, where anyone caught smoking in a designated smoke-free area faces a fine of 83 liras (~€35/$47/£30) and bar owners who fail to enforce the law could be fined from 560 liras for a first offence up to 5,600 liras.  Smoking was first restricted in 1997 in public buildings with more than four workers, as well as planes and public buses.  On 3 January 2008, Turkey passed a law prohibiting smoking in all indoor spaces including bars, cafés and restaurants. It also restricts smoking in sports stadia, and the gardens of mosques, hospitals and schools. The smoking ban came into force on 19 May 2008; however, bars, restaurants and cafes were exempted until mid-July 2009. On 19 July 2009, Turkey extended the indoor public smoking restrictions to include bars, restaurants, village coffeehouses and nargile (hookah) bars.  In 1998, a ban on tobacco advertising was enacted. Under decree from President for life Saparmurat Niyazov, has prohibited the chewing of tobacco.  In 2000, Turkmenistan banned smoking in all public places. People say the ban was implemented because the president was advised by his doctor to quit smoking.  In 2002, it was forbidden to smoke while behind the wheel.  According to the Code of Administrative violations for smoking cigarettes, including hookah and other tobacco products in the bodies of state power and administration, executive bodies and local authorities, enterprises, institutions and organizations irrespective of ownership, military units and formations, educational institutions, theaters and cinemas, public transport, parks and other places of mass visiting citizens – punishable by a fine in the amount of 100 manats.  In January 2016, Turkmen President Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow banned the sales of all tobacco-related products nationwide, making Turkmenistan the second country in the world (after Bhutan) to implement such policy.    In March 2004, smoking was prohibited in public places, including workplaces, restaurants and bars. An extension to private homes is being considered. Smoking is banned in all indoor public places, including restaurants, discos, nightclubs, indoor workplaces and all state and cultural institutions, including football stadiums.   Emirates in the United Arab Emirates recently started restricting smoking in shopping malls, beaches, gardens. The states leading the regulations on smoking are Abu Dhabi,  Ajman,  Dubai  and Sharjah.  Since 1 July 2007 smoke-free workplace laws have been in effect across the whole of the UK. These were introduced in each constituent administration of the United Kingdom separately, as decided by the partially devolved governments of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and the UK Parliament acting for England. For details, see (in chronological order of bans): Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and England. Smoke-free regulations covering all indoor work-places in England, including bars, clubs and restaurants, came into force on 1 July 2007. Some places, such as certain smoking hotel rooms, nursing homes, prisons, submarines, offshore oil rigs, and stages/television sets (if needed for the performance) were initially exempted, as well as Royal Palaces,  although members of the House of Commons and the House of Lords agreed to ban all smoking in the Palace of Westminster.  The on-the-spot fine for smoking in a workplace is £50 (~€60/~$75), £30 (~€35/~$45) if one pays within 15 days, while a business that allows smoking can be fined £2,500 (~€3,700/~$3,800). Smoking largely remains permitted outdoors, apart from railway stations.  However, an internal government briefing obtained by The Independent on Sunday newspaper reveals that powers are available to extend coverage to further outdoor areas if required.  A legal loophole exists for cigar smokers who are allowed to smoke in store to 'sample' the cigar in England only. In Northern Ireland, a smoke-free law has been in effect since 30 April 2007. It is illegal to smoke in all enclosed workplaces. This includes bars, restaurants, offices (even if the smoker is the only person in the office) and public buildings. Like Scotland, the smoke-free law is comprehensive in that places such as telephone boxes and enclosed bus/train shelters are included. The on-the-spot fine for smoking in a workplace is £50 (~€70/~$100), while a business that allows smoking can be fined £2,500 (~€3,700/~$5,000). A £200 fine may be levied by local councils if businesses fail to display no-smoking signs. An opinion poll showed that 91% of people supported the law.   On 26 March 2006, Scotland prohibited smoking in enclosed (more than 50% covered) public places, which includes public buildings, workplaces, sports stadiums, bars and restaurants. Exemptions are in place to allow hotel guests to smoke in their own rooms, as long as the hotel has designated them as smoking rooms. The law restricts smoking in bus shelters, phone boxes or other shelters that are more than 50% enclosed. It also prohibits smoking in trucks and vans owned by a company, whether or not the driver is the only person inside (though smoking while driving was already legally questionable as it could be presented as "driving without due care and attention"). Nevertheless, the ban on smoking in work vehicles is commonly flouted, especially by tradesmen, and compliance with outdoor bans is minimal. There are no restrictions on smoking in railway stations as the railway bylaw applies only to England, and smoking remains common in outdoor areas of railway stations. Compliance with the indoor ban in pubs, restaurants and other workplaces is almost universal. Businesses covered by the smoking ban must display a statutory smoking sign at the entrance to, and around the building  as well as a smoke-free policy. Opinion polls at its introduction showed a clear majority of the Scottish public were in favour of the ban  As in New Zealand, the smoke-free law was initially criticised by certain interested groups (e.g., publicans, cafe and bingo hall owners, etc.) who feared that it would adversely impact their businesses. A survey published by the Scottish Beer & Pubs Association one year on from implementation concluded that "the number of pub licensed premises in Scotland has remained more or less constant over the last year"  indicating fears of an adverse impact of the ban on the hospitality industry were unfounded. Widespread concerns prior to implementation about the impact on bingo halls  prove harder to objectively assess: As at May 2008 there is anecdotal evidence  to suggest an increase in closures of bingo halls since implementation. However, no statistical analysis has been conducted and speculation within the betting and gaming industry is that a decline could also be the result of demographic changes and increases in online gaming.  The NHS Scotland Quit Smoking Line reported it received an additional 50,000 calls from people wishing to give up in the six months after the smoke-free law was introduced.  In September 2007 a study of nine Scottish hospitals over the twelve months following implementation reported positively on its impact on the country's health, including a 17% drop in admissions for heart attacks, compared with average reductions of 3% per year for the previous decade.  Smoking was restricted across all enclosed public premises and work premises in Wales on 2 April 2007. Adherence is widespread and many public houses have closed since the law came into place.  Public places must display a special bilingual no smoking sign: In addition, Wales is due to introduce a smoking ban outside schools and hospitals from Summer 2019.  As United Nations buildings are not the subject of any national jurisdiction, the United Nations has its own smoking and non-smoking policies. Following the gradual introduction of partial smoking restrictions between 1985 and 2003, Secretary-General Kofi Annan introduced in 2003 a total prohibition upon smoking at United Nations Headquarters.   Similar restrictions have not been introduced in field offices of the United Nations worldwide.  Some specialised agencies of the United Nations, such as the United Nations Children's Fund and the World Health Organization have their own strict smoke-free regulations that apply to their offices worldwide, but the same is not necessarily true for entities of the Secretariat, such as the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). Only on 13 December 2007, OCHA introduced a smoke-free regulation applicable to all its field offices. In the United States, Congress has not attempted to enact any nationwide federal smoking ban. Therefore, smoking bans in the United States are entirely a product of state and local criminal and occupational safety and health laws. As a result, the existence and aggressiveness of smoking bans varies widely throughout the United States, ranging from total bans (even outdoors), to no regulation of smoking at all. Jurisdictions in the greater South tend to have the least restrictive smoking bans or no statewide bans at all. Of the 60 most populated cities in the United States, all but 17 ban smoking in all bars and restaurants. According to Americans for Nonsmokers' Rights, as of October 2012, 81.3% of the U.S. population is covered by bans on smoking in "workplaces, and/or restaurants, and/or bars, by either a state, commonwealth, or local law,"  although only 48.7% are covered by bans in all workplaces and restaurants and bars.  As of November 2012, 28 states have banned smoking in all general workplaces and public places, including bars and restaurants (though many of these exempt tobacconists, cigar bars, casinos, private clubs, and/or small workplaces). Six have enacted smoking bans exempting all adult venues including bars, and in some cases casinos and restaurants (Tennessee exempts any place not admitting patrons under 21). Georgia, Idaho, Nevada, New Hampshire, North Carolina, and Virginia have particularised state laws banning smoking in specific places but leaving out all others. The remaining 10 states have no statewide smoking bans at all, though many cities and/or counties in those states have enacted local smoking bans to varying degrees (except Oklahoma, which prohibits local governments from regulating smoking at all). As for U.S. jurisdictions that are not states, as of November 2012 smoking is banned in all public places (including bars and restaurants) in American Samoa, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and United States Virgin Islands. Guam prohibits smoking in restaurants, but not in any other workplaces. The Northern Mariana Islands prohibits smoking in most workplaces and in restaurants but not in bars. In Indianapolis, Indianapolis Motor Speedway announced that it will ban smoking in its grandstands starting fall 2017.  In March 2006, it became illegal in Uruguay to smoke in enclosed public spaces. Now bars, restaurants or offices where people are caught smoking face fines of more than $1,100 or a three-day closure. This makes Uruguay the first country in South America to ban smoking in enclosed public spaces.  Anti-smoking groups estimate that as many as a third of Uruguay's 3.4 million people smoke. President Tabaré Vázquez, a practicing oncologist, has cited reports suggesting about seven people die each day in Uruguay (an estimated 5,000 people a year) from smoking-related causes including lung cancer, emphysema and other illnesses.  A July 2002 law signed by Pope John Paul II banned smoking on all places accessible to the public, and in all closed places of work within the Vatican City, and within all extraterritorial properties of the Holy See. Smoking bans in museums, libraries and churches on Vatican territory had already been in force for a long time.  In November 2017, Pope Francis banned the sale of cigarettes throughout Vatican City, the sale of cigars is still legal.  On 31 May 2011 Venezuela introduced a ban on smoking in all enclosed public and commercial spaces, including malls, restaurants, bars, discos, workplaces, etc.  The owners or managers of the establishments where smoking is banned, must post a notice   measuring 80 cm. (31.5 inches) wide and 50 cm (19.7 inches) high; The poster should contain an international smoking ban pictogram and the following text: "Este es un ambiente 100% libre de humo de tabaco, por resolución del Ministerio del Poder Popular para la Salud" (This is a 100% smoke-free environment, by resolution of the Ministry of Popular Power for Health). Owners or managers also have the obligation to ensure compliance with this rule. Owners or managers that do not post the notice or do not ensure compliance with the rule may be penalized with the closure of the establishment and / or a fine that can be up to 190,000 VEF (1.9 USD), however, regulation does not provide sanctions for smokers.  The Vietnamese government has banned smoking and cigarette sales in offices, production facilities, schools, hospitals, and on public transport. However, bus drivers, especially in north Vietnam, occasionally smoke.     Smoking was banned in enclosed indoor spaces and public facilities in Ho Chi Minh City in 2005 with the exception of entertainment areas. A ban has also been imposed on all forms of advertisement, trade promotion, and sponsorship by tobacco companies, as well as cigarette sales through vending machines, or over the telephone and on the Internet. Smoking is prohibited in public places in Zambia and is punishable by a fine of K400 or imprisonment of up to two years.   In some countries, such as Germany, India and Russia, earlier smoke-free regulations allowed for smoking sections in restaurants, as well as possible special rooms for use by smokers in other workplaces (though many employers prefer not to incur the costs of building and maintaining such rooms). International treaties that ban smoking: New Caledonia is likely to introduce restrictions on smoking in public places following a 2007 25-nation global air-quality monitoring initiative.  Niue is considering banning tobacco completely, and is seeking the cooperation of Australia and New Zealand to ensure that no tobacco can be imported into the country.  In 2008, a bill was introduced in outlawing both the sale of tobacco and smoking, but it is yet to be implemented.  Some Singapore citizens have launched an online campaign to support the proposal to prevent the supply of tobacco to Singaporeans born from the year 2000.  New Zealand hopes to be smoke-free in 2025. ASH New Zealand is a group of people who believe New Zealand should be smoke-free and have become popular. The Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health also are trying to promote the idea that New Zealand should be smoke-free. In the United Kingdom, there have been calls from MPs for the prohibition of smoking in cars that have children in them.  This has been further advocated by doctors and the devolved governments of Wales and Northern Ireland.  Some countries have no legislation restricting smoking whatsoever; these include Cameroon,[when?] Central African Republic,[when?] Chad,[when?] and a number of other countries in Central and Western Africa. 