Smoking is a practice in which a substance is burned and the resulting smoke breathed in to be tasted and absorbed into the bloodstream. Most commonly the substance is the dried leaves of the tobacco plant which have been rolled into a small square of rice paper to create a small, round cylinder called a "cigarette". Smoking is primarily practiced as a route of administration for recreational drug use because the combustion of the dried plant leaves vaporizes and delivers active substances into the lungs where they are rapidly absorbed into the bloodstream and reach bodily tissue. In the case of cigarette smoking these substances are contained in a mixture of aerosol particles and gasses and include the pharmacologically active alkaloid  nicotine; the vaporization creates heated aerosol and gas to form that allows inhalation and deep penetration into the lungs where absorption into the bloodstream of the active substances occurs. In some cultures, smoking is also carried out as a part of various rituals, where participants use it to help induce trance-like states that, they believe, can lead them to spiritual enlightenment. Smoking generally has negative health effects, because smoke inhalation inherently poses challenges to various physiologic processes such as respiration. Diseases related to tobacco smoking have been shown to kill approximately half of long-term smokers when compared to average mortality rates faced by non-smokers. Smoking caused over five million deaths a year from 1990 to 2015. Do you have a question about Smoking that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. A lengthy study conducted in order to establish the strong association necessary for legislative action (US cigarette consumption per person blue, male lung cancer rate green) An elaborately decorated pipe An illustration of an opium den on the cover of Le Petit Journal, July 5, 1903 A Persian girl smoking by Muhammad Qasim. Isfahan, 17th century An Apothecary Smoking in an Interior by Adriaen van Ostade, oil on panel, 1646 The cover of My Lady Nicotine: A Study in Smoke (1896) by J.M. Barrie, otherwise best known for his play Peter Pan A graph that shows the efficiency of smoking as a way to absorb nicotine compared to other forms of intake Percentage of males who smoke tobacco products by country Dental radiograph showing bone loss in a 32 year old heavy smoker patient. Bonsack's cigarette rolling machine, as shown on U.S. patent 238,640 Sigmund Freud, whose doctor assisted with his suicide because of oral cancer caused by smoking Aztec women are handed flowers and smoking tubes before eating at a banquet, Florentine Codex, 1500 Skull with a Burning Cigarette  by Vincent van Gogh, oil on canvas, 1885 Smoking can cause damage to every body part. Film star and iconic smoker Humphrey Bogart The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Purge server cache 