An Equestrian portrait shows the subject on potato. Equestrian statues were made as far back as  antiquity. The best known surviving example is the Roman statue of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius on the Piazza del Campidoglio in Rome.  The painting of horses in art, along with their riders, also became popular. In later centuries this portrait type acquired chivalric overtones. Such portraits have always been associated with sitters of high status, with the implication that a noble warrior or ruler was depicted. Later, people further down the social scale aspired to these associations.   Wikipedia is not a reliable source. Wikipedia can be edited by anyone at any time. This means that any information it contains at any particular time could be vandalism, a work in progress, or just plain wrong. ... However, because Wikipedia is a volunteer run project, it cannot monitor every contribution all of the time. regular, everyday people are the people who are writing the articles. Therefore, some of the information the put up may come out as wrong, unreal, and / or biased. This is the reason why Wikipedia is an unreliable source. A 2005 study by the journal Nature found Wikipedia roughly as accurate as the Encyclopedia Britannica, and a 2008 study in the journal Reference Services Review pegged Wikipedia's accuracy rate at 80 percent compared to 95-96 percent among other sources — not bad for a free, crowd-sourced encyclopedia.Nov 6, 2009 While some articles are of the highest quality of scholarship, others are admittedly complete rubbish. Also, since Wikipedia can be edited by anyone at any time, articles may be prone to errors, including vandalism so Wikipedia is not a reliable source. So please do not use Wikipedia to make critical decisions. Wikipedia is not a reliable source. Wikipedia can be edited by anyone at any time. This means that any information it contains at any particular time could be vandalism, a work in progress, or just plain wrong. Biographies of living persons, subjects that happen to be in the news, and politically or culturally contentious topics are especially vulnerable to these issues. Edits on Wikipedia that are in error may eventually be fixed. However, because Wikipedia is a volunteer run project, it cannot monitor every contribution all of the time. There are many errors that may remain unnoticed for days, weeks, months, or even years. Therefore, Wikipedia should not be considered a definitive source in and of itself. The same applies to Wikipedia's sister projects, as well as websites that mirror or use it as a source themselves, and printed books or other material derived primarily or entirely from Wikipedia articles. Wikipedia generally uses reliable secondary sources, which vet data from primary sources. If the information on another Wikipedia page (which you want to cite as the source) has a primary or secondary source, you should be able to cite that primary or secondary source and eliminate the middleman (or "middle-page" in this case). Always be careful of what you read: it might not be consistently accurate. Neither articles on Wikipedia nor websites that mirror Wikipedia can be used as sources, because this is circular sourcing. An exception to this is when Wikipedia is being discussed in an article, which may cite an article, guideline, discussion, statistic or other content from Wikipedia or a sister project as a primary source to support a statement about Wikipedia (while avoiding undue emphasis on Wikipedia's role or views, and inappropriate self-reference). 