This page is a list of staff at South Park Elementary from the characters in the American animated television series South Park.  Ms. Diane Choksondik becomes the boys' new teacher after they enter fourth grade and is voiced by Trey Parker. Ms. Choksondik has extremely exaggerated saggy breasts, is overweight, wears glasses, and has a lazy eye. She also does not wear a bra, and when she lifts her arms, the bottom few inches of her breasts show below the bottom of her blouse. One of the early jokes about Ms. Choksondik is that the children do not get the obvious pun in her name, and try to create other names for her (such as "makesmesick", "chokesonbricks" and "chokesonrocks"). She corrects them in full seriousness. In the episode "Proper Condom Use", it is strongly implied that her contemptuous attitude towards sexual activity stems from the fact that no man before Mr. Mackey had any sexual interest in her. The episode "Professor Chaos" ends on a cliffhanger saying someone would die, in a parody of cliffhanger endings, and it was revealed during this gag that Ms. Choksondik has died. In the episode "Simpsons Already Did It", the boys reveal they put some of their Sea People in her coffee. When she dies soon after, they became horrified when they thought that their prank had killed her. Later, the news says that large amounts of semen (or, as the boys took it, "sea men") had been found in her stomach, and they go to great lengths to hide their apparent role in her death, until Chef explains that Ms. Choksondik must have died from something else. After her death, the boys receive two weeks off school to "deal with" her death, and then are taught for a short time by Mr. Mackey before Mr. Garrison is allowed a return to teach them. Ms. Claridge is a South Park Elementary preschool teacher. Her first appearance was in "Pre-School". Ms. Claridge was disabled and covered in burns after a fire broke out in the pre-school classroom at South Park Elementary. The fire was started when Stan, Kyle, Cartman and Kenny wanted to play "fireman" and asked the "baddest kid in pre-school", Trent Boyett, to start a fire for them. In spite of the boys' efforts to extinguish the fire (by urinating on it), the fire grew out of control and nearly killed Ms. Claridge. Ms. Claridge survived, but was badly injured and placed in an electric wheelchair which very much resembles that of Captain Christopher Pike in the original Star Trek episode "The Menagerie". Ms. Claridge communicates by 'beeping' once for yes and twice for no. It is not clear how she can function as a teacher if she can only communicate "yes" and "no", yet her students appear to understand her. The boys denied all culpability for the fire and Trent Boyett was sent to Juvenile Hall for five years. While trying to escape the newly released Trent, Cartman fires a taser gun, which accidentally powers Ms. Claridge's wheelchair, sending her crashing into a propane shop, exploding and setting her alight once again. The police arrive and ask if Trent started the fire. She replies "no" with two beeps but the police mistake it for "yes yes" and arrest Trent. Ms. Claridge appears briefly in two other episodes, "The Death of Eric Cartman", where Cartman, in his efforts to atone for his life's misdeeds, gives her a fruit basket, and also again at the talent show in "Erection Day". Mr. Connors (Trey Parker) was the wrestling teacher at the school. He appeared in "W.T.F.", where he is fired due to some of the wrestling videos on his iPhone being mistaken for gay pornography, and eventually joined the WWE. Ms. Veronica Lee Crabtree, known in the series as Mrs. Crabtree, was voiced by Mary Kay Bergman in seasons 1–3 and Eliza Schneider in seasons 4–8, when she was officially "killed off" in "Cartman's Incredible Gift". She was the bus driver for South Park elementary, and enforced incredibly strict discipline on the bus, constantly yelling at the students to enforce quiet. She does the same to adult staff travelling on the bus, and doesn't seem to understand that she can't report the staff for disorderly conduct like she would with the students. The students often mutter various insults to her, then quickly cover them up with poor excuses when she demanded they repeat themselves. However, Stan Marsh once repeated the insult back word for word. As a result, Ms. Crabtree said "oh" and drove off without letting the boys getting on the bus. In one episode, a kid from the drug rehabilitation center (across from Cartman's fat camp) is forced to climb into Ms. Crabtree's body vaginally while pretending to be Kenny (who was arrested for prostitution), but was rebirthed stillborn. Moments later, she squeezed out another kid, who resembled Harry Potter. In the episode "Chef Aid", Chef resorts to prostitution to get needed money, and Ms. Crabtree, over whose head he puts a bag first, is one of his "customers". The character's biggest role was in the season 2 episode "City on the Edge of Forever", where she has the main role in the episode's b-plot. After the bus becomes stranded at the edge of a cliff, Ms Crabtree leaves the children behind to try to find assistance, but ends up getting sidetracked by a stand up comedian agent who draws her into a career in stand-up. She eventually starts a romantic relationship with a truck driver she met while hitchhiking, and the two spends the last few minutes of the show watching the sunset together. Ms. Crabtree – as well as the bird nesting on her head – was murdered by a serial killer in the 2004 episode "Cartman's Incredible Gift". Detectives investigating the crime in the episodes noted she was "an ancillary character the fans wouldn't miss much". The school janitor Mr. Venezuela is currently the new school bus driver. Mr. Derp is most prominent as Chef's substitute in "The Succubus". Voiced by Trey Parker, the character commonly displays slapstick and physical camp humor, much to the chagrin of the boys. He tends to hit himself in the head with a claw hammer in attempts to make the boys laugh. In the season three commentary, Matt and Trey reveal that his namesake, "Derp", is the sound commonly made in a klutzy situation when things go horribly wrong, literally and comically, like a joke that can be "seen from a mile away". The word derp has become a popular phrase and Internet meme. He has also since appeared in the background in "Eek! A Penis!", possibly indicating that he has since replaced Chef. He also appeared before Chef's death briefly in "Professor Chaos" and "Timmy 2000" (as the lemonade stand clerk at Lalapalalapaza). Ms. Ellen (appeared only in "Tom's Rhinoplasty" and voiced by a celebrity guest star, Natasha Henstridge) substituted for Mr. Garrison in South Park Elementary as a third-grade teacher when he was away for a few days undergoing a plastic surgery on his nose. She was promoted to a permanent teaching position after Mr. Garrison, enjoying his new 'David Hasselhoff' look, quit to do what he "always wanted to do: hang out and screw hot chicks." Chef went out on a date with Ms. Ellen and only to find out that she is a lesbian. When the boys found out that she was a lesbian, they tried every effort to become one themselves. Ms. Ellen's attractive looks and kind nature caused the boys in the class to develop deep amorous feelings towards her, which also caused Wendy to become very jealous (oblivious to the fact that Ms. Ellen does not reciprocate their interest). Wendy frames her in a way that causes Iraqi soldiers to send her on a rocket into the sun. Mr. Garrett is the coach of the South Park Elementary basketball team. He appears very briefly in the episode 'Elementary School Musical.' Mr. Garrison has been the children's teacher throughout most of the series. In the beginning, Garrison was in denial of his homosexuality to the point of homophobia, and was always seen with either of his hand puppets that he claimed were gay. Later he went missing, hiding on a mountain, living in isolation. He eventually "came out of the closet" and returned with the intention to teach again. In "4th Grade", he was denied the job by Principal Victoria, who said, "Oh, we don't hire gay people." He was eventually allowed back as the Kindergarten teacher. In "The Death Camp of Tolerance", a change in laws allow Garrison to be promoted to teach the 4th grade, receiving his old 3rd grade students who have now advanced a grade. In the season 9 episode "Mr. Garrison's Fancy New Vagina", Garrison got a sex reassignment operation, after which he came to be known as Janet Garrison. In the season 11 episode "D-Yikes!", Garrison becomes a lesbian. Finally, in the season 12 episode "Eek, a Penis!", he gets reassigned back to being male again. Nurse Mary Gollum (called Nurse McSchwartz in the original pilot of "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe") is the school nurse at South Park Elementary, notable primarily for the fact that she has a dead fetus attached to the side of her head, which terrifies the children (she lacks this in the original pilot). Nurse Gollum is described in her first appearance on the show as suffering from the (fictional) condition "conjoined twin myslexia". Principal Victoria asked her if she could have it removed, Nurse Gollum stated yes but that it would cost her life. In Nurse Gollum's first appearance, "Conjoined Fetus Lady", Kyle is sent to see her and shocked at her appearance. The rest of the children are soon terrified, leading to Sheila and Mayor McDaniels to arrange a special week for Conjoined Twin Myslexia awareness. However, this leads to Nurse Gollum becoming angered, saying that she just wants to live her life normally (especially since she's the only person in the city to suffer of this condition). She made an additional appearance in "Roger Ebert Should Lay Off the Fatty Foods" playing the role of Nurse Chapel in a recreation of the Star Trek episode "Dagger of the Mind". Despite having a dead fetus on her head, she is one of the most normal and intelligent adult characters on the show.  Despite not wanting to be singled out for being different, she appeared in the episode "Freak Strike" where she is one of the freaks in the infomercial that is promoting awareness of 'freaks' through daytime talk shows. Nurse Gollum's last appearance on the show was in Season 9 episode "Two Days Before the Day After Tomorrow" in a very minor cameo, but in the "South Park: The Stick of Truth" video game, there are posters scattered around South Park, revealing Nurse Gollum's first name as Mary, and declaring that she has been missing since "October 19th", which is a reference to her appearance in the aforementioned episode, which first aired on October 19, 2005. Nurse Gollum is named after Gollum, the deformed creature from The Lord of the Rings. The Groundskeeper appears very briefly in the episodes "Damien" and "Butters' Bottom Bitch". She appears to be in charge of watching the students during recess. She is of old age and possesses an unpleasant demeanor, exclaiming to the students "five minutes until recess is over, you little bastards!" Mr. Mackey, voiced by Trey Parker, is the school guidance counselor. He has a disproportionately large head and mumbles "M'kay" into most sentences.  He speaks with a Southern accent, and he is believed to be from Louisiana. It is assumed he is at least 40 years old (he once said he had sex at 19 and that it has been about 21 years since). He is based on Trey Parker's junior high school counselor, Stan Lackey. He has occasionally taught classes at the school, and taught sex education with Ms. Choksondik. During this time he had a sexual relationship with Ms. Choksondik until her death. After her death, he took over the fourth grade class until Mr. Garrison returned. In the episode "Erection Day" he is shown to be left-handed. Despite his slightly odd appearance and catchphrase (M'kay), Mr. Mackey is generally portrayed as an able and responsible counselor who actually cares about the children, much unlike Mr. Garrison and other adult authority figures. He sometimes appears with Principal Victoria when punishing a student or announcing an important message. His methods as a counselor often reflect real-life controversies in education. For example, when Kyle talks about seeing Mr. Hankey the Christmas Poo, he places Kyle on a heavy dose prescription of Prozac. In an early episode, the children feign having Attention Deficit Disorder, and he prescribes them all Ritalin. During a drug-education class in the episode "Ike's Wee Wee", he passes some marijuana around the classroom, and it is stolen (apparently by one of the children, though it is later revealed that the actual thief was Mr. Garrison). For this, Mr. Mackey is fired by the school, evicted by his landlord, and, feeling depressed, he ends up using alcohol, marijuana and LSD. The episode suggests that his large head is caused by the tightness of his tie around his neck, but in "Child Abduction Is Not Funny", his parents are shown to have large heads as well. He becomes a hippie and travels to India with a like-minded woman. Mr. Mackey is captured by The A-Team, and his former employers, along with Jimbo, say that they should have helped him with his drug problem rather than firing him. Mr. Mackey protests, saying that he likes his new life and that he actually has not done drugs since his first experimentations back in South Park. Nobody listens and in rehab at the Betty Ford Clinic, he is "cured" of his addiction to drugs. Mr. Mackey's social worker then re-ties his tie, which makes his head swell back to its original size. In the episode "Something You Can Do with Your Finger" he is shown to have a bondage sex scene with Liane Cartman. In "Cat Orgy", he's shown to have presumably had sex with her again. In "Rainforest Shmainforest", it is revealed that he can speak Spanish fluently. In "Trapped in the Closet", Mr. Mackey is seen at the Church of Scientology Org where Stan is having an auditing session. However, it is not known whether or not he continues having sessions with the Org from that point on.  From "Major Boobage" onward, Mackey's sweater and jeans were re-designed, much like Mr. Garrison's two episodes later in "Eek, a Penis!". In "Insheeption" he is revealed to be a hoarder with a troubled childhood, having been bullied and later being molested by Woodsy the Owl. In the Season 1 DVD, Parker stated that Mr. Mackey was based on his school counselor, who, when he saw Parker in the halls during class, would simply say, "Okay, Trey, get back to class now, mmm-kay?" Mr. Meryl is the Audio/Visual Department Teacher and appeared in "Quest for Ratings". He tells Stan, Cartman, Kyle, Butters, Jimmy and Token that their show "Super Action News" is losing in the ratings to Craig's home video show, "Animals Close-Up With a Wide-Angle Lens" and subsequently gives them all a failing grade. This inspires the boys to come up with new ideas to revamp their show. Ms. Pearl is the Home Economics teacher. She speaks with a soft, gentle voice and does her job well, although she appears to believe in old-fashioned gender roles, namely by having all the girls on her course, despite a couple having applied for wood shop class, and by teaching her class ways to find, manipulate and marry rich men. She is good with chat up lines (as seen in "Tweek vs. Craig"). She also dates Richard Adler, and mentioned she wanted to sleep with him. He refused because he was still mourning the death of his fiancée. PC Principal is the current principal of South Park Elementary, replacing Principal Victoria in the show's nineteenth season. He graduated from Texas A&M University and is very emphatic on political correctness issues. The character was first introduced in "Stunning and Brave". He is a muscular man with dark blonde hair, a very faint mustache, and a goatee. He is often shown wearing Oakley sunglasses. He is very aggressive and violent in enforcing compliance to his ideas of acceptable behavior, for instance in the episode "Stunning and Brave" he responds to Cartman's use of politically incorrect language by beating him so severely that he is hospitalized. The episode also showed that Principal lives in a fraternity house with other similar, violent, college-age men that is a few houses down the street from Randy and Sharon Marsh's house.  It is later implied that he is part of a larger conspiracy involving online ads.  Once he discovers this conspiracy, however, he turns against the ads to defend humanity from their intolerance. His character was central to most episodes of the nineteenth season, and at the end of the season, he announced in the episode "PC Principal Final Justice" that he would be remaining as principal of South Park Elementary.  He has been the principal ever since. Mr. Slave, voiced by John Hansen, is the homosexual lover of Mr. Garrison up until the episode "Mr. Garrison's Fancy New Vagina" when he breaks up with Garrison after Mr. Garrison had a sex change. Mr. Slave, as his name suggests, is a masochist and is permanently dressed in a leather bondage outfit. His catchphrase is an excited exclamation of "Jesus Christ!" spoken with a lisp. In many episodes, he says little else. Mr. Slave's first major appearance is during the fourteenth episode of season six "The Death Camp of Tolerance", although his voice was heard briefly in "Butters' Very Own Episode". Despite Mr. Slave's occupation, he is shown to be wise and knowledgeable, offering characters advice. One of his most prominent moments was in "Stupid Spoiled Whore Video Playset", when he gave Wendy Testaburger and most of the town advice that Paris Hilton is not to be admired. He explains that he himself is a whore and that it is not a good thing. He then shoves Hilton up his own anus, where she meets the same creatures Lemmiwinks did in "The Death Camp of Tolerance". After Garrison's sex change operation, Mr. Slave ended their relationship due to no longer being sexually interested in Garrison and that his own feelings about the operation were not brought up prior. By the events of "Follow That Egg!", despite Garrison's attempts to stop him, Mr. Slave moved on and married Big Gay Al. Ms. Stephenson appeared as the kindergarten teacher for South Park Elementary in "Miss Teacher Bangs a Boy". She falls in love and has sex with Ike Broflovski. They run away together after Kyle's strenuous attempts lead to their prosecution. Ms. Stephenson eventually commits suicide because of the ordeal. She drives a blue pickup truck with yellow stripes. Mr. Stkrdknmibalz (pronounced stick-your-dick-in-my-balls) is a Canadian language teacher hired in "Where My Country Gone?". He leads various South Park residents, including Mr. Garrison, in singing the Canadian ABCs, which is similar to the American version, but with varied lyrics (for example, G is replaced by "Guy", and Mr. Stkrdknmybalz points it out on a wall chart, where it is a G with eyes and a top hat drawn on it). Yvonne Streibel appeared in "Toilet Paper". She is the art teacher and gave Stan, Kyle, Cartman, and Kenny detention for making a penis sculpture out of clay. They decided to get revenge by toilet papering her house. She is married and has two daughters. Strong Woman is the vice-principal of South Park Elementary. She has blonde hair and wears a lilac-blue coat and a dark purple shirt. Strong Woman is first introduced in the episode "Super Hard PCness", in which she is hired by PC Principal as the vice-principal to address the problem of bullying in the school. Woman is assertive of herself and dislikes those who are assertive for her, seeing it as a way of quietening her. She develops a sexual relationship with PC Principal by the following episode, "Splatty Tomato". Principal Victoria was the principal of South Park Elementary for the first eighteen seasons. She was always seen with curly hair and glasses, and usually appears with Mr. Mackey. Her name is a play on Victoria Principal. She speaks with a heavy Minnesotan accent. In "Helen Keller! The Musical", she reveals that she does recreational drugs. In the episode "Sexual Harassment Panda", when she was put on the witness stand during Cartman's second trial over the school allowing him to be sexually harassed, Principal Victoria hysterically confessed that she murdered a man, cut up his body, and hid his remains (though the court was only interested in whether or not the school did anything to stop Cartman from being sexually harassed). In "Breast Cancer Show Ever", it is revealed that Principal Victoria has been a breast cancer survivor for seven years, which inspires Wendy to fight back against Cartman (who, according to Principal Victoria, is Wendy's "cancer"). Principal Victoria appears to be very able to run the school, despite its strange crew. In "Go God Go", she is shown telling Mrs. Garrison he has to teach evolution in class, which he refuses. When pushed, he makes a complete mess of the subject, so Principal Victoria asks Richard Dawkins to teach it. Her husband is shown for the first time on the episode "About Last Night...". In "Cartman's Mom Is a Dirty Slut", when Garrison asks "who here hasn't had sex with Mrs. Cartman", she and Mayor McDaniels exchange uncomfortable glances, implying that she, like almost everyone else in South Park, has at some point slept with Mrs. Cartman. At the start of season nineteen, "Stunning and Brave", Victoria was said to have been fired as principal and replaced by PC Principal.  However, she resurfaces in the episode "Sponsored Content" to confide to Garrison the truth of how she actually lost her position as the two return to South Park. Mr. José Venezuela is the janitor.  He appeared in "Mystery of the Urinal Deuce" and is a stereotypical poor Latin American immigrant.  He has three children. He makes six dollars an hour, at best. Also, in the same episode, his first name is revealed to be José. Later, he also replaces the school bus driver.  Mr. Wyland was the 3rd grade substitute teacher for Mr. Garrison for two episodes after Mr. Garrison was caught attempting to molest a child (Cartman) in "Cartman Joins NAMBLA". Wyland wears a blue top with a red bow tie. He was first shown in "Cherokee Hair Tampons" and made the class make a get well card for Kyle, who needed a kidney transplant. As a joke, the children make Butters into a get well card by gluing glitter and a sign that says "Get Well Kyle" on him and making him sing a song for Kyle. He was then shown in the next episode, "Chef Goes Nanners", and organized a debate on whether or not to change the South Park Flag, which depicted four white men hanging a black man. 