A curb stomp, also called curbing, curb checking, curb painting, or making someone bite the curb is a form of assault in which a victim's mouth is forcefully placed on a curb and then stomped from behind, causing severe injuries and sometimes death.   It is also a type of attack used in professional wrestling. Tristain Lynn Frye was sentenced to 13 years, nine months for second-degree murder.   Scotty James Butters and David Nikos Pillatos pled to first-degree murder, accepted a plea agreement and testified against Monschke in exchange for being able to request that their imprisonment be no more than approximately 30 years. in June 2004, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled "a sentence longer than the standard range could not be ordered by a judge without action by a jury, meaning Butters and Pillatos could face no more than 31 years in prison."   Kurtis William Monschke was convicted of aggravated first degree murder and sentenced to life in prison without possibility of parole. The incident has been described as a hate crime.  On the American television series "Big Brother" 2018 season 20 episode 21, Houseguest Sam Bledsoe defines for fellow Houseguest J.C. Mounduix a "curb stomp" and terrifies him in the process. In the film American History X (1998), white power skinhead Derek Vinyard curb-stomps Lawrence, an African American burglar who had tried to steal his truck.   New Jersey mafia boss Tony Soprano curb stomps New York mobster Salvatore "Coco" Cogliano for making lewd comments to his daughter in The Sopranos episode "The Second Coming" (2007). WWE professional wrestler Seth Rollins previously used a Curb Stomp as his finishing move. Rollins said that he stopped using the move as "from a PR standpoint... it was too perceptually violent... I never hurt anyone with it. It was just something we didn't want kids trying on each other".  On the January 15, 2018, edition of Monday Night Raw, Rollins used the move once again to win a match against Finn Bálor, with announcer Corey Graves referring to it as the "Blackout". In the Bollywood movie Shootout at Lokhandwala, a scene is depicted where Vivek Oberoi curb stomps a local resident who informs the police about Aslam (Oberoi's friend) who is encountered by the police. 