Linguistic purism or linguistic protectionism is the practice of defining or recognizing one variety of a language as being purer or of intrinsically higher quality than other varieties. Linguistic purism was institutionalized through language academies (of which the 1572 Accademia della Crusca set a model example in Europe), and their decisions often have the force of law.  The perceived or actual decline identified by the purists may take the form of change of vocabulary, syncretism of grammatical elements, or loanwords.  Linguistic purism is a form of prescriptive linguistics.  The unwanted similarity is often with a neighboring language whose speakers are culturally or politically dominant.  The abstract ideal may invoke logic, clarity, or the grammar of "classic" languages. It is often presented as conservative, as a "protection" of a language from the "aggression" of other languages or of "conservation" of the national Volksgeist, but is often innovative in defining a new standard. It is sometimes part of governmental language policy which is enforced in various ways. In one common case, two closely related languages or language varieties are in direct competition, one weaker, the other stronger.  Speakers of the stronger language may characterize the weaker language as a "dialect" of the strong language, with the implication that it has no independent existence.  In response, defenders of the other language will go to great lengths to prove that their language is equally autonomous. In this context, Yiddish and Dutch have in the past sometimes been considered dialects of German. In the case of Low German, spoken in eastern Netherlands and northern Germany, the debate is still current, as it could be considered a dialect of Dutch or German or a language of its own. An example of a related language that has only recently attained the status of an official national language is Luxembourgish. Since linguistic science offers no scholarly definition of a dialect, and linguists regard the distinction with scepticism – see A language is a dialect with an army and navy – the argument is really about subjective questions of identity politics, and at times it can invoke extreme emotions from the participants. Closely related languages often tend to mix. One way of preventing this is using different writing systems or different spelling systems. Examples of this include: Various scholars have devised classifications of purism. These classifications take different criteria as their starting point and are therefore partly independent of each other. This classification of puristic orientations made by George Thomas represents ideal forms. In practice, though, these orientations are often combined.                    