Internationalization of higher education in theory is "the process of integrating an international, intercultural, or global dimension into the purpose, functions or delivery of postsecondary education."   Internationalization of higher education in practice is "the process of commercializing research and postsecondary education, and international competition for the recruitment of foreign students from wealthy and privileged countries in order to generate revenue, secure national profile, and build international reputation."   The main components of internationalization of higher education are global competition for talents, recruitment of international students, development of international branch campuses, students, staff and scholars exchange programs, internationalization of the curriculum, and research and education partnerships between institutions regionally and internationally.  There are specific rationales which are driving the internationalisation and strategies which are being used in the internationalisation of the high education institutions (HEIs). There are three rationales of internationalization: idealism, instrumentalism and educationalism.   An idealist rationale of internationalization in higher education can generate a more democratic, fair and equal world with regard to international cooperation. The second rationale is consistent with its practical and economic goals. This rationale influences policy-makers on developing the level of transparency and mobilization between national educational systems, enabling and simplifying the mobility of people and integrating university degrees, grading systems etc. According to instrumentalists, higher education is a way of increasing profit, ensuring economic boost and sustainable development and transferring ideologies of governments, transnational corporations, stakeholders or supranational regimes. Furthermore, higher education is required to meet the demands of the capitalist and global world. In this respect, universities espousing internationalization are more likely to promote their country’s competitiveness in the global academic arena. Instrumentalism can be contrasted with idealism in terms of hidden ideocultural goals. Educationalists accept internationalization in higher education (HE) as a way of broadening the academic experiences of students and academic staff.  Globalisation leads to the challenges in HE systems of the world. These challenges can be figured out through the internationalisation strategies. ‘Strategies’ indicate the most concrete level and comprise the academic and organizational initiatives at the institutional level. Strategies at the institutional level imply both program and organizational initiatives. Strategies are divided into two groups at institutional level such as academic and organizational strategies.  Academic strategies focus on academic programmes, research and scholarly collaboration, external relations: domestic and cross-border and extra-curricular activities.  Organisational strategies include governance, operations, services and human resources. Governance mainly focuses on the active participation of faculty and staff, recognition of the international dimension in institutional mission/mandate statements and in planning, management. Additionally, it indicates the importance of operations which highlights appropriate organizational structures, systems for coordination, communication and cooperation, adequate financial support and resource allocation systems.  From a critical point of view, the story of internationalization in the real world of higher education institutions may differ from what is literally expressed in official policy documents like strategic plans of internationalization.  Considered to be a product of and response to globalization, internationalization is being critiqued for having an economic orientation.  The central criticism is that within the Anglo-American tradition of higher education internationalization is increasingly associated with commodification and commercialization of postsecondary education.     Internationalization of higher education has been criticized to be the process of international competition for recruitment of more foreign students from privileged countries in order to generate revenue, secure national profile, and build international reputation.  