 The F1 Sculpture Project was five weeks of installation, performance and video art held in Wellington, New Zealand in 1982. Art historian Tina Barton places the event within the history of post-object art in New Zealand, a movement that "extended sculpture into temporary, multi-part, mixed-media, largely ephemeral situations".  Designed to "address the lack of support and increase exposure for sculptors", the project was initiated by Ian Hunter, an Irish-born artist and gallery professional who lived in New Zealand between 1970 and 1984, and who "played an important role in fostering post-object art" in Wellington by setting up alternative exhibiting opportunities including the Artists' Co-op (1977–1979), the F1 Sculpture Project (1982) and ANZART, a New Zealand-Australian artist event held in Christchurch in 1981, Hobart in 1983 and Auckland in 1985.   F1 was implemented by a group of New Zealand artists, including David Mealing, Stuart Griffiths, Barbara Strathdee, Mary Louise Brown and Vivian Lynn.  The event took place in a disused factory space (hence "F1"), the Teal Lemonade Factory, on Tory Street in the central city.   The project had four parts: F1 ran from 8 November to 2 December 1982 and was supported by the New Zealand Sculpture Council,  QE II Arts Council and the National Art Gallery (now the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa).  In an account of New Zealand performance art between 1970 and 1985, art historian Jennifer Hay described F1 as "a major event and unqualified success in building a premise with which future artists could expand", by pooling resources and time.  Exhibiting artists included Greer Twiss, Don Driver, Pauline Rhodes, Stuart Griffiths, Jacqueline Fraser, Andrew Drummond, John Cousins, Jack Body, Chris Cree-Brown ,Colleen Anstey and Paul Butt    Hay also notes that the event "provided the opportunity to debate feminist issues in the arts and to address the problem of invisibility for women artists."  A two-day seminar was held on women's sculpture and a "discussion of feminist goals" saw the establishment of the National Women Artist's Association.  In an article in Art New Zealand, artist and event co-organiser Barbara Srathdee documented works presented at F1 by women artists including Kate Coolahan, Pauline Rhodes, Jacqueline Fraser, Di Ffrench, Mary Louise Brown, Colleen Anstey, and Vivian Lynn, and visiting Irish artist Rose Ann McCreery and Canadian artist Evelyn Roth.  The archives of the F1 Sculpture Project are held in the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa.  