The Sloan Fellows program is the world's first mid-career master's degree in general management and leadership. It was initially supported by a grant from Alfred P. Sloan, the late CEO of General Motors, to his alma mater, MIT. The program was established in 1930 in MIT Sloan School of Management. later, it was expanded to other leading two business schools of the Stanford Graduate School of Business, and the London Business School (LBS). Considered to be the most prestigious management training program, it targets experienced managers who have demonstrated success either within organizations or independently as entrepreneurs. The Sloan Fellows Program was created at the MIT Sloan School of Management in 1930, by Alfred P. Sloan, Chairman of General Motors from 1937 to 1956, who envisioned the Sloan Fellowship as a means of developing the "ideal manager".  The Sloan Fellows Program is the world's first management and leadership education program for mid-career experienced managers. In the following decades, the program was expanded to include the Sloan Master's at Stanford Graduate School of Business  (1957 ) and the Sloan Master's at London Business School  (1968  ). In 2013 Stanford changed the name of its Sloan Fellows Program to Stanford MSx (Master of Science in Management for Experienced Leaders), though participants in the program remain Stanford Sloan Fellows.  Sloan Fellows comprise a mix of company- and self-sponsored candidates. On all three schools, a significant degree of experience is required for admission. This is in keeping with Alfred P. Sloan's conviction that experienced managers would benefit best from the program. Alumni describe the program as "transformational", in keeping with the original vision of preparing successful managers for senior business leadership positions and increasingly, successful enterprise ventures. The Sloan Fellows program runs full-time over the course of 12–14 months, depending on electives. London Business School and MIT Sloan offer an optional research project/thesis.     The program recognizes the importance of developing leadership as well as management competency in Sloan Fellows. As such, in addition to the standard MBA curriculum of management courses, the Sloan program contains a strong personal-development component designed to develop the leadership and strategic thinking capabilities of Sloan Fellows. The London Business School Sloan Masters is a specialised programme emphasising Strategy, Leadership and an intensive personal development provision. Admission to Sloan Fellow Program is highly selective and goes through several steps of selection. In MIT Sloan School of Management, the prospective applicant needs to first register interest in the program website and upload resume. A valid GMAT or GRE score is also required before submitting the application. After initial screening, a member of the admission committee calls the screened registered applicant  for 30 minutes discussion. Number of screened and interviewed by telephone prospective applicants will be invited to visit the program in Cambridge, Massachusetts for class visit, sit with current students and meet the program officers. After this stage, the applicant to submit a formal application. The received applications are again screened and the selected files will be moved to the interview stage. The invited candidates will have to participate in a formal admission interview, usually held in MIT Sloan campus, or globally in selected places. Following the interview, the decisions letters of admission or rejection will be sent to the applicants. This process is repeated three times for three rounds of application deadlines. Following a successful shortlisting after applying, London Business School Sloan Fellows will have a personal interview with an alumnus or LBS representative.  There are four deadlines across the cycle. LBS  offers preliminary discussions,  CV reviews and class visits to support Sloan candidates’ research. The table below shows the main differences between the Sloan Fellows program and the traditional top MBA programs. Although the program in any of the three schools are very similar in nature, there are some key difference among them. The table below summarizes the differences: Sloan Fellows at MIT Sloan may opt for an MBA, Masters of Science in Management, or Masters of Science in Management of Technology. Sloan Fellows at London Business School and Stanford Graduate School of Business are both awarded a Master of Science degree. Notable Sloan Fellows of the MIT Sloan School of Management include: Notable Stanford MSx (Sloan Fellows) alumni include: Notable London Business School (Sloan Fellows) alumni include: 