A research statement is a summary of research achievements and a proposal for upcoming research. It often includes both current aims and findings, and future goals. Research statements are usually requested as part of a relevant job application process, and often assist in the identification of appropriate applicants.  A typical research statement follows a typical pattern in regard to layout, and often includes features of other research documents including an abstract, research background and goals. Often these reports are tailored towards specific audiences, and may be used to showcase job proficiency or underline particular areas of research within a program.  The purpose of a research statement is to let the viewers (e.g. an academic student or a research committee) know the essence of the research document, the main points of the research and where the research will lead to later on. The later paragraphs of a statement might highlight the benefits that the research report will provide to its relevant subject field. A research statement if done properly can be successful in answering the questions below: Academic researchers stress the point that a research statement cannot simply be answered by saying yes or no  but is supported by valid evidences. The content of a research statement is concerned with 3 main elements: The research statement of college students or recent graduates discusses the thesis required in college or university. Some of the main research statements for quantitative researches are Quantitative research statements are based on the logic of deduction and reasoning and are formed by identifying the variables of a general theory and observing a few selected variables.  Some of the main research statements for qualitative researches are Qualitative research statements are based on inductive reasoning and are restated several times during the collection of data. They explain what influence qualitative statements or variables have in decision making under uncertain conditions. Usually two types of research statements are formed for a research paper. Below are some of the reasons many research proposals are turned down by research committees. 