The Estates of Navarre (French: États de Navarre, États généraux de Navarre, Cortes de Navarre)  were created in 1317 under Philip II. The Estates of Lower Navarre (French: États de Basse-Navarre,  Cortes de la Basse-Navarre)  were first called into session on 28 August 1523     by Henry II after the definitive loss of Upper Navarre,  It was created in the model of the Estates General that already existed in the Court of Pamplona, the Estates General of France, and in Béarn and other provinces.  The last meeting of the Estates of Lower Navarre was on 15 June 1789. The Estates of Lower Navarre was composed of deputies from the three Estates: the First Estate (clergy), the Second Estate (nobility) and the Third Estate (commoners), each deputy having one vote.  The Estates of Navarre guaranteed that high-ranking officials of the Royal Council observed the requirements. On several occasions, the Estates filed complaints regarding the appointment of Royal Council and Chancery members. One complaint referred to the appointment of royal councillors and attorneys with no command of Basque.  A first breach of the regulations and its related grievance referred to the affaire Jean de Laforcade in 1590, following his appointment as attorney general. He hailed from Foix, so his appointment was appealed for failing to meet the birthplace and Basque language requirements. The General Courts (Estates) urged the king to remove him from office.   The Estates guaranteed up to 1624 that the language standards remained in place. The Parliament of Navarre with a seat in Pau was then established out of a merger of the Chancery and Council of Navarre with the sovereign Council of Béarn; they ceased to exist. The new Parliament was then composed of a chief chairman, designated by the King, seven presiding deputies, two knights of honour, 46 councillors, two solicitors, and a general attorney.  However, in the run-up to the 1624 dissolution of the Royal Council under Louis II (Louis XIII of France), a reform almost discarded the Basque language requirement citing certain edicts decreed by Henry III (Henry IV of France) which made any person of his choosing eligible for appointment to an office, "without difference of birth or religion", so that the preceptive Navarrese origin was never again mandatory either. The Three Estates accepted the new ruling, while at the same time demanding that Basque be mandatory for the councillors, except for one.   Despite the centralizing drive of the French crown, the Estates still kept significant legislating powers until 1748, when a decree by Louis XV of France  stripped them off.  The archives of the Estates of Navarre for the period 1317–1789 are held at the Archives Départementales des Pyrénées-Atlantiques.  