World War II  Leonard Roy Harmon (January 21, 1917–November 13, 1942) was a black American sailor who died in action during World War II and was posthumously awarded the Navy Cross for his valor.   Harmon was born in Cuero, Texas, was 22 years of age when he enlisted in the U. S. Navy in June 1939.   He reported for training in Norfolk, Virginia before reporting for duty on the USS San Francisco on October 28, 1939.  He trained as a Mess Attendant, one of the few jobs available to black men in the navy at that time.  The basic job description consisted of serving food to officers and crew aboard ship. However, like all members of a ship’s crew they were also trained in damage control and had stations to report to during general quarters.  During his service he became a Mess Attendant First Class and was serving aboard the USS San Francisco when on November 12, 1942 he was killed in action. During the course of the Naval Battle of Guadalcanal he was assigned to assist pharmacist's mate Lyndford Bondsteel in caring for the wounded.  While the ship was being raked by enemy gunfire, Harmon helped evacuate the wounded to a dressing station. While doing so he deliberately interposed himself between Bondsteel and enemy gunfire in order to protect his wounded shipmate.  This action resulted in his death.  Harmon was awarded the Navy Cross posthumously. Additionally, two ships were named in his honor. HMS Aylmer had been provisionally named USS Harmon (DE-72) but was transferred to the Royal Navy prior to completion.  The USS Harmon (DE-678) served from 1943 to 1947 and remained in the Reserve Fleet until 1967; it was the first US warship to be named for an African American.  Harmon's heroism was also commemorated by the naming and dedication of Harmon Hall, bachelor enlisted quarters at Naval Air Station North Island, on July 29, 1975, and with a state historical marker placed at the Cuero Municipal Park in 1977.  The President of the United States of America takes pride in presenting the Navy Cross (Posthumously) to Mess Attendant First Class Leonard Roy Harmon, United States Navy, for extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty in action against the enemy while serving on board the Heavy Cruiser U.S.S. SAN FRANCISCO (CA-38), during action against enemy Japanese naval forces near Savo Island in the Solomon Islands on the night of on 12–13 November 1942. With persistent disregard of his own personal safety, Mess Attendant First Class Harmon rendered invaluable assistance in caring for the wounded and assisting them to a dressing station. In addition to displaying unusual loyalty in behalf of the injured Executive Officer, he deliberately exposed himself to hostile gunfire in order to protect a shipmate and, as a result of this courageous deed, was killed in action. His heroic spirit of self-sacrifice, maintained above and beyond the call of duty, was in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service. He gallantly gave his life for his country. 