Portals:  Christianity  Bible The Descent from the Cross (Greek: Ἀποκαθήλωσις, Apokathelosis), or Deposition of Christ, is the scene, as depicted in art, from the Gospels' accounts of Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus taking Christ down from the cross after his crucifixion (John 19:38-42). In Byzantine art the topic became popular in the 9th century, and in the West from the 10th century. The Descent from the Cross is the 13th Station of the Cross. Other figures not mentioned in the Gospels who are often included in depictions of this subject include St. John the Evangelist, who is sometimes depicted supporting a fainting Mary (as in the work below by Rogier van der Weyden), and Mary Magdalene. The Gospels mention an undefined number of women as watching the crucifixion, including the Three Marys, (Mary Salome being mentioned in Mark 15:40), and also that the Virgin Mary and Mary Magdalene saw the burial (Mark 15:47). These and further women and unnamed male helpers are often shown.  Even in early depictions the details and posing of the composition, and especially the position of Christ's body, are varied. The scene was usually included in medieval cycles of the Life or the Passion of Christ, between the Crucifixion and the Entombment of Christ. The Lamentation of Christ, or Pietà, showing the body of Christ held by Mary, may intervene between these two, and is common as an individual image, especially in sculpture. The Bearing of the body, showing Christ's body being carried to his tomb, and the Anointing of Christ's body, showing the body laid flat on the top of the tomb or a similarly-shaped "anointing-stone" are other scenes that may be shown. This last is especially important in Orthodox art, where it is shown on the Epitaphios. With the Renaissance the subject became popular for altarpieces, partly because of the challenges of the composition, and the suitability of its vertical shape.  The Mannerist version of Rosso Fiorentino is usually regarded as his most important work, and Pontormo's altarpiece is perhaps his most ambitious work.  The subject was painted several times by both Rubens and Rembrandt, who repeated one of his paintings (now in Munich) in a large print, his only one to be mainly engraved, as well as making two other etchings of the subject. Benedetto Antelami.Deposition from the Cross (1178). Carved stone relief. Parma Cathedral Externsteine Relief (12th century). Natural sandstone.Teutoburger Wald, Germany Limbourg brothers. The Deposition, Les Très Riches Heures du duc de Berry, Folio 156v (c. 1410). Illuminated manuscript.Musée Condé, Chantilly Fra Angelico. Deposition of Christ, Fra Angelico (1437-1440). Tempera on wood, 176 x 185 cm.Museo di San Marco, Florence Anonymous.Deposition of the Cross Church of Our Lady, Bruges, Belgium The prayer Obsecro te (1470s), from the Book of Hours of AngersBodleian Library, University of Oxford Descent from the Cross (1495), from Ss. Johns' church in Toruń.Diocesan Museum in Pelplin Pietro Perugino. Deposition (1495)Galleria dell'Accademia, Florence Anonymous.Vilar de Donas stone altarpice (16th century)San Salvador de Vilar de Donas, Palas de Rei. Galicia. Guglielmo della Porta.Deposition (16th century). Marble.Museo d'arte antica, Castello Sforzesco, Milan Rosso Fiorentino. Deposition (1521). Oil on wood, 375 × 196 cm. Pinacoteca Comunale di Volterra Jacopo Pontormo. The Deposition from the Cross (1528). Oil on wood, 313 × 192 cm.Santa Felicità, Florence Agnolo di Cosimo ("Bronzino")Deposition of Christ (1540-1545) Oil on wood, 268 × 173 cmMusée des Beaux-Arts, Besançon Juan de Juni. Entombment (1541-1544)National Sculpture Museum (Valladolid) Caravaggio. The Entombment of Christ (1604).Pinacoteca Vaticana, Rome Simone Peterzano, Deposition of Christ, church of San Fedele, Milan Rembrandt van Rijn. Deposition (1633). Oil on wood. 89.4 × 65.2 cm.Alte Pinakothek, Munich Pedro Roldán"Deposition of Christ" (1666),Church of the Shrine, Seville Jean Jouvenet, The Descent from the Cross (1697). Musée du Louvre, Paris The Deposition from the Cross (18th century).  Clay statues.Sacro Monte di Belmonte (near Turin) Jean-Baptiste Regnault.Deposition (c. 1789). Oil on panel Stanford Museum, Stanford University, California Deposition. Carved and painted stone.Church of Santa Teresinha, Porto Alegre, Brazil frères AvondoDeposition. Fresco.Pont de Beauvoisin, Savoie, France Cluny AbbeyDeposition with Twelve Apostles (bishop's mitre). Ink on clothMusée national du Moyen, Paris Antonio Ciseri.The Deposition of Christ (c. 1883) Antimension (1890). Printed on silk. Oradea-Mare, Transylvania, Romania Viktor VasnetsovEntombment, (1896). Mural.St Volodymyr's Cathedral, Kiev Deposition: His body taken down from the cross (modern). Carved stone. Münster, Germany Ludvig Karsten. Nedtagelsen (Deposition) (1925). Oil on canvas. Jacek Andrzej Rossakiewicz. The Deposition (St John Passion - 7) (1990). Oil on canvas, 245 x 140 cm Titian, 1559 