This is a list of international presidential trips made by Petro Poroshenko, the 5th President of Ukraine. As of September 2018, Petro Poroshenko has visited 33 countries. Also, Petro Poroshenko has made two visits as a president-elect, before his inauguration. On 4 June 2014, Petro Poroshenko has traveled to Warsaw to celebrate 25th anniversary of Poland's liberation.  On 6 June 2014, Petro Poroshenko has traveled to France as a personal guest of President François Hollande at the ceremonies for the 70th anniversary of D-Day in Bénouville, Normandy.  The following international trips were made by President Petro Poroshenko in 2014: Consultations in the format EU-Ukraine-"Eurasian Troika" (Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan).  NATO summit. President Petro Poroshenko delivered a speech at the meeting of the Alliance's leaders,  attended the session of the Ukraine-NATO Commission,   took part in a joint press conference with NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen.  President Petro Poroshenko met with Prime Minister of Canada Stephen Harper and Governor General of Canada David Johnston,  took part in the joint session of the Parliament of Canada where he delivered a speech.  President Petro Poroshenko met with President of the United States Barack Obama,  US Secretary of State John Kerry,  had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden at the Naval Observatory and delivered a speech at the joint meeting of Congress.   Also President Petro Poroshenko received a Global Citizen Award from Atlantic Council.  Joint visit with President of Poland Bronisław Komorowski. President Petro Poroshenko met with President of Moldova Nicolae Timofti, Prime Minister of Moldova Iurie Leancă, President of the Moldovan Parliament Igor Corman.  Also President Petro Poroshenko visited Bălți and talked with the local community of Ukrainians.  President Petro Poroshenko met with President of Poland Bronisław Komorowski, Speaker of the Polish Senate Bogdan Borusewicz and Marshal of the Sejm Radosław Sikorski, Prime Minister of Poland Ewa Kopacz, delivered a speech at the joint session of the Polish Sejm and Senate.    The following international trips were made by President Petro Poroshenko in 2015: President Petro Poroshenko took part in the funeral ceremony of King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al Saud.  Meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President François Hollande hosted by Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko.   President Petro Poroshenko met with Ukrainians in Germany, President of the Bundestag Norbert Lammert, President Joachim Gauck and Chancellor Angela Merkel.    President Petro Poroshenko met with Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel, President of France François Hollande, President of the European Council Donald Tusk, President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker, other European leaders, attended The Charlemagne Prize award ceremony.    President Petro Poroshenko attended the Eastern Partnership biennial summit.   President Petro Poroshenko met with Federal Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel and President of France François Hollande to discuss implementation of Minsk agreement.   President Petro Poroshenko addressed the United Nations General Assembly during general debates, attended other events both within the UN and beyond, met with various world leaders.    President Petro Poroshenko met with President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Karim Massimov, participated in the Kazakh-Ukrainian business forum.    President Petro Poroshenko attended UN Climate Change Conference, met with several heads of state.   President Petro Poroshenko met with President of Israel Reuven Rivlin, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, delivered a speech at the Knesset.    The following international trips were made by President Petro Poroshenko in 2016: President Petro Poroshenko met with Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel to discuss implementation of Minsk agreement.    President Petro Poroshenko met with President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan during Turkey-Ukraine High Level Strategic Council meeting. Also Poroshenko met with Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu, Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople Bartholomew I.    President Petro Poroshenko met with President of the European Council Donald Tusk, President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker to disscuss the perspectives of EU visa liberalisation for Ukrainian citizens. Also Poroshenko met with Chancellor Angela Merkel and President of France François Hollande, visited the headquarters of the European People's Party.     President Petro Poroshenko attended the Nuclear Security Summit.    President Petro Poroshenko met with Prime Minister of Japan Shinzō Abe, Emperor of Japan Akihito, visited Miraikan Museum, Isogo Thermal power station.     President Petro Poroshenko met with President of Romania Klaus Iohannis, Prime Minister Dacian Cioloș, Patriarch Daniel of Romania.     President Petro Poroshenko attended the United Nations World Humanitarian Summit.    State visit.   President Petro Poroshenko attended NATO summit, visited Memorial to victims of Volhynia Massacre.    State visit.    Belgium Brussels The following international trips were made by President Petro Poroshenko in 2017: 