This is a list of presidential visits to foreign countries made by Joachim Gauck, the former President of Germany. Gauck was elected and assumed the office for a five-year term on 18 March 2012, following the resignation of Christian Wulff and served until 18 March 2017. In Colombia, Gauck was received by President Juan Manuel Santos and gave a speech about Vergangenheitsbewältigung and reconciliation at the University of the Andes on the occasion of recent peace talks between the Colombian government and the FARC rebels. Also, he met with members of human rights organizations at Biblioteca España in Medellín.  In Brazil, he was received by President Dilma Rousseff. Among other appointments, Gauck visited the Volkswagen factory near São Paulo, met with Governor of Rio de Janeiro Sérgio Cabral Filho as well as members of the National Truth Commission, and visited the "model favela" of Dona Marta.   Following him attending the opening performance of the annual Savonlinna Opera Festival together with President of Finland Sauli Niinistö and being formally received at the President's summer residence near Turku on the next day, Gauck paid State visits to the Baltic states. In Riga, he was received by President of Latvia Andris Bērziņš at the House of the Blackheads on 7 July, which was followed by a visit of the Museum of the Occupation of Latvia. Also, Gauck had talks with Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis and Solvita Āboltiņa, the Speaker of the Saeima.  In Estonia, he met with President Toomas Hendrik Ilves at his summer residence and was formally received at Kadriorg Palace in Tallinn on the following day (9 July), which was followed by a memorial ceremony at the War of Independence Victory Column and a visit of the Museum of Occupations. The day concluded with a state dinner at the Estonian Maritime Museum. The next day, Gauck met with Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and visited St Mary's Cathedral. Lithuania marked the final destination on the German President's route. On 11 July, he was received by head of state Dalia Grybauskaitė at the Presidential Palace and met members of the Lithuanian parliament; also, Gauck attended a ceremony at the Independence Memorial. The next day, he had a talk with Prime Minister Algirdas Butkevičius and attended discussions on the future development of Europe and the Soviet/German Occupations of Lithuania. Gauck's journey concluded with visits to the site of the planned reconstruction of St. John's Church in Klaipėda and the Thomas Mann Cultural Centre in Nida. Gauck continued his journey with an official visit to Burma due to the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries. He was received by President Thein Sein, met with Nobel Peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi and delivered a speech addressing the Union of Myanmar Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry. On the next day, the centenary of the German invasion of Belgium and the British entry into the war, the two presidents attended a memorial ceremony near Liège, together with dignitaries from more than 50 countries. They both delivered a speech, as did King Philippe of Belgium and the Duke of Cambridge. Together with the King and Queen of Belgium, Gauck held further memorial services in Leuven, which included him delivering a speech at the library of the Catholic University, that was destroyed by German troops in 1914. On the invitation of British Prime Minister David Cameron, Gauck concluded the day attending a memorial ceremony at St Symphorien military cemetery, which contains the graves of World War I servicemen of Germany and the Commonwealth.  During his trip to Mongolia from 14 to 16 October the Gauck held political talks with President Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj and the Chairman of Parliament. He also met business representatives, religious leaders and representatives of civil society and academia in Ulaanbaatar. At the German Mongolian University of Applied Sciences for Raw Materials and Technology he met students and staff. In Jordan he talked to students and lecturers at the German-Jordanian University in Amman. Afterwards he was welcomed with military honours by King Abdullah II of Jordan of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan at the Husseiniya Palace. The last day he visited a refugee camp for Syrian refugees run by the UNHCR in Azraq. In Bamako, Gauck was welcomed with military honours by Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, President of the Republic of Mali. He also visited the EUTM headquarters, where he talked with German members of EUTM, EUCAP Sahel, MINUSMA and UNPOL. He visited Camp Gecko as well, where he talked with German soldiers.  In Bulgaria, he met with President Rosen Plevneliev, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov the President of the Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria Tsetska Tsacheva and attended the opening of the German-Bulgarian Economic Forum.  In Slovenia, he met with President Borut Pahor and attended the celebrations for the 25th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. In Uruguay, he met with President Tabaré Vázquez. 