This is a list of international presidential trips made by François Hollande, the 24th President of France. During his presidency, which began with his inauguration on 15 May 2012 and ended with the inauguration of Emmanuel Macron on 14 May 2017, François Hollande made 183 presidential trips to 83 states internationally. The number of visits per country where he travelled are: In his first year in office, President François Hollande made 25 international trips to 18 different countries. The following were the international trips made by the President in 2012: In 2013, President François Hollande made 34 international trips to 28 different countries. The following were the international trips made by President Hollande during the year: On 14 February, in New Delhi, President Hollande visited the Rashtrapati Bhavan and the Raj Ghat, before meeting with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and External Affairs Minister Salman Khurshid. The following day, he delivered a lecture at the Nehru Memorial Museum & Library in the Teen Murti Bhavan, the former residence of Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Indian Prime Minister. President Hollande also awarded economist and philosopher Amartya Sen with the Legion of Honour. Afterwards, President Hollande travelled to Mumbai where he met with Governor Kateekal Sankaranarayanan and attended a business conference.    On his second day, President Hollande met with Deputy President Kgalema Motlanthe. He also visited a Sanofi production plant in Mamelodi, visited HIV/AIDS organizations, and visited the Hector Pieterson Museum and the Mandela House in Soweto, upon travelling to Johannesburg. President Hollande also visited the Nelson Mandela Foundation, where he met with Graça Machel, the wife of former President Nelson Mandela. Before flying home, President Hollande met with a French community.  On 18 November, President Hollande visited St Anne's Church, before visiting the Palestinian city of Ramallah in the West Bank. In Ramallah, he laid a wreath at the burial site of former Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, then met with President Mahmoud Abbas, before returning to Jerusalem.  In Jerusalem, President Hollande addressed the Knesset at a special session, then attended a state dinner hosted by President Peres. On 19 November, President Hollande visited the graves of the victims of the Toulouse and Montauban shootings in March 2012. He then toured an Israeli innovation exhibit, before returning to France.  In 2014, President François Hollande made 30 international trips to 27 different countries. The following were the international trips made by President Hollande during the year: In Sydney, President Hollande, along with President Édouard Fritch of the French Polynesia and President Harold Martin of New Caledonia, were welcomed by Governor-General Peter Cosgrove at the Admiralty House. He later visited the Thales Group in Rydalmere and delivered speeches to New South Wales Premier Mike Baird and the Business Council of Australia in Westpac.  In Canberra, President Hollande held bilateral talks with Prime Minister Tony Abbott, which mainly focused on the relationship between Australia and France in World War I. President Hollande and Prime Minister Abbott also discussed intelligence cooperation and security issues, which included the 2013–14 Ukrainian Crisis, the territorial disputes in the South China Sea, and the Syrian Civil War. The two later visited the Australian War Memorial, where an oak tree was planted with soil coming from the Villers–Bretonneux Australian National Memorial.      President Hollande paid an official visit to Conakry to devote France's proposition against the Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa.  In 2015, President François Hollande made 45 international trips to 34 different countries. The following were the international trips made by President Hollande during the year: The president and his delegation, consisting of French actresses Marion Cotillard and Mélanie Laurent, English actor Jeremy Irons, Executive Secretary Christiana Figueres of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, and Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I of Constantinople,  attended a forum at the National Museum of the Philippines to address global efforts against climate change, before attending a similar business forum in Makati, hosted by business leaders of the Makati Business Club and the Philippines-France Business Council.   Later that afternoon, President Hollande met with President Benigno Aquino III at the Malacañang Palace to discuss climate change and other global and regional issues, including terrorism, in light of the Charlie Hebdo shooting, during an expanded bilateral meeting,  before launching an agreement, entitled "Manila Call to Action on Climate Change."  In the evening, President Aquino hosted a state dinner for President Hollande.  On Friday, 27 February, President Hollande paid a short visit to Guiuan, Eastern Samar, a municipality devastated by Typhoon Haiyan in November 2013. In Guiuan, the president and his delegation met with local fishermen who were victimized by the typhoon, toured the ruins of a local church, and delivered a speech at the Guiuan East Central School.  President Hollande also announced a €1.5 million aid to help communities prone to typhoon devastation through the Agency for Technical Cooperation and Development.  Upon returning to Manila, Hollande met with the French community at the French School of Manila,  before leaving the country later that afternoon.  In 2016, President François Hollande made 37 international trips to 30 different countries. The following were the international trips already made by President Hollande during the year: During their meeting at Casa Rosada in Buenos Aires, the two presidents discussed the Syrian refugee crisis, with Hollande suggesting to Macri that Argentina could assist in dealing with the crisis after commending the country's history with Lebanese and Syrian immigration.  Hollande also paid tribute to the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo, whose children disappeared during Argentina's Dirty War between the late 1970s and early 80s, by throwing flowers onto the Río de la Plata, where he was joined by the Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo, the organization aimed to find the missing children, and mentioned France's victimization to Argentina's military dictatorship when "22" of the victims were French.  As a fan of football, he later toured the La Bombonera stadium with President Macri (a former chairman of Boca Juniors) and former footballers David Trezeguet and Omar da Fonseca.   In 2017, President François Hollande made thirteen international trips to thirteen different countries. The following are the trips made by President Hollande in 2017: President Hollande travelled to Iraq to reiterate France's support for the American-led intervention in Iraq supported by the Iraqi government against ISIL. He travelled to Baghdad to meet with Iraqi President Fuad Masum and Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, and to Erbil to meet with Iraqi Kurdistan President Masoud Barzani as well as French forces stationed in the area.  Hollande said that France's involvement in the intervention against ISIL "prevents acts of terrorism in France."  