Critical university studies (CUS) is a new field examining the role of higher education in contemporary society and its relation to culture, politics, and labor. Arising primarily from Cultural Studies, it takes a critical stance toward changes to the university since the 1970s, particularly the shift away from a strong public model of higher education to a neoliberal privatized model. Emerging largely in the United States, which has the most extensive system of higher education, the field has also seen significant work in the United Kingdom, as well as in other countries confronting neoliberalism. Key themes of CUS research are corporatization, academic labor, and student debt, among other issues.  Like those doing research under the banner of Critical Legal Studies (CLS), scholars of Critical University Studies often have an activist bent.  CLS and CUS both analyze powerful institutions in order to draw attention to structural inequalities and embedded practices of exploitation and marginalization. In addition, both fields seek to move beyond abstract theorizing, targeting institutional practices and making proposals for policy changes.  In contrast to CLS, which has roots in elite institutions like Harvard and Yale, CUS largely comes out of public colleges and universities. While CLS has tended to seek remedies in the legal system, CUS has gravitated toward student and labor union movements. Moreover, CUS has emphasized investigative reportage and exposés of current institutional policies and practices alongside academic work. Rather than a uniform group, CUS includes a range of scholars, critics, and activists, among them tenured professors, graduate students, and adjunct instructors. The term “Critical University Studies” was first defined in print by Jeffrey J. Williams in a 2012 article in The Chronicle of Higher Education.   The piece, “An Emerging Field Deconstructs Academe,” describes the “new wave of criticism of higher education” that came to the fore in the 1990s and has gained momentum in the ensuing decades. This new work has primarily come from literary and cultural critics, as well as those in education, history, sociology, and labor studies.  As Williams notes, criticism of higher education has a strong tradition, and scholars like Heather Steffen have traced CUS’s lineage at least to the early 20th century, for example to Thorstein Veblen’s The Higher Learning in America: A Memorandum on the Conduct of Universities by Business Men (1918) and Upton Sinclair’s The Goose-Step: A Study of American Education (1923), which criticize the influence of business principles and Gilded Age wealth on the emerging university system.     In addition, the 1960s saw a great deal of criticism of social institutions, and much focused on university campuses. Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) started with a strong statement about higher education, and anti-war and civil rights protests were a major presence on US campuses. The Critical Pedagogy movement, inspired by Paolo Freire and furthered by Henry Giroux and others, arose from this moment.  The feminist movement also played a role in criticism of the university during the ‘60s and ‘70s, with activists like Adrienne Rich calling for “a women-centered university.”  In 1980, the Bayh-Dole Act granted universities the right to patent their inventions, thereby encouraging them to conduct research with business aims in mind. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, critics began to address the new direction of higher education, often coming from the graduate student unionization movement.  Some met in conferences such as “Reworking/Rethinking the University” at the University of Minnesota (2008-11), or came out of groups such as Edu-factory, which was inspired by the Italian autonomist movement.    This first wave of CUS publications addressed the corporatization of higher education, along with the exploitation of academic labor and the rise of student debt. Key texts from this period include Sheila Slaughter and Larry Leslie’s Academic Capitalism: Politics, Policies, and the Entrepreneurial University (1997), David Noble’s Digital Diploma Mills: The Automation of Higher Education (2001), Marc Bousquet’s “The Waste Product of Graduate Education” (2002) and How the University Works: Higher Education and the Low-Wage Nation (2008).      In addition, Steal This University: The Rise of the Corporate University and the Academic Labor Movement, edited by Benjamin Johnson et al. (2003), Stefano Harney and Fred Moten’s “The University and the Undercommons" (2004), Williams’ “The Post-Welfare State University” (2006) and “Student Debt and the Spirit of Indenture” (2008), and Christopher Newfield’s Unmaking the Public University: The Forty-Year Assault on the Middle Class (2008).      More recently, a second wave of CUS scholars have widened the field’s scope to address issues including universities’ reliance on proprietorial technology, the dominance of entrepreneurial values, and globalization. Notable texts in this vein include Newfield’s The Great Mistake: How We Wrecked Public Universities and How We Can Fix Them (2016), Benjamin Ginsberg’s The Fall of the Faculty: The Rise of the All-Administrative University and Why It Matters (2011), Robert Samuels’ Why Public Higher Education Should Be Free: How to Decrease Cost and Increase Quality at American Universities (2013).    . In addition, Jacob Rooksby’s The Branding of the American Mind (2016), Avery Wiscomb’s “The Entrepreneurship Racket” (2016), and Heather Steffen’s "Inventing Our University: Student-Faculty Collaboration in Critical University Studies” (2017).    In addition, after Britain adopted neoliberal policies and raised tuitions from minor fees to major levels, critics such as Stefan Collini, in “Browne’s Gamble” (2010), and Andrew McGettigan, in The Great University Gamble: Money, Markets, and the Future of Higher Education (2013), focused on the United Kingdom. Meng-Hsuan Chou, Isaac Kamola, and Tamson Pietsch’s edited volume The Transnational Politics of Higher Education (2016) looks at globalization.    Although continually responding to new trends in higher education, Critical University Studies has so far concerned itself with several key themes:   Critical University Studies research has contributed to student and faculty movements across US campuses, including the aforementioned New Faculty Majority, the graduate student union movement, Oregon’s CORE faculty-student advocacy group, and the Occupy Student Debt Campaign (on which cultural critic Andrew Ross has worked).   CUS scholars often publish outside of traditional academic outlets, through blogs like Michael Meranze and Christopher Newfield’s Remaking the University, as well as through contributions to new media like Jacobin, the Los Angeles Review of Books (LARB), Salon and HuffPost.   Through such non-traditional outlets, as well as through book publications and academic journal articles, CUS has helped to bring issues like student debt into the mainstream political conversation.   Alongside CUS criticism and activism in the 1990s, U.S. campuses saw a rise in unionization efforts. This culminated in a 2000 decision by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) that graduate employees were protected by the National Labor Relations Act and could unionize.  Union efforts proliferated following this decision, with organizations like the United Automobile Workers (UAW) and the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) allying with graduate students and adjunct instructors in the fight for employee status and collective bargaining rights. Despite setbacks, including a 2004 reversal of the 2000 ruling, student and adjunct unions have made significant headway. In August 2016, the NLRB reversed itself again, ruling that graduate research and teaching assistants at private universities do have the right to unionize (UAW vs. Columbia).  The journal Workplace: A Journal for Academic Labor, co-founded by Bousquet, stemmed from early efforts in the field and continues to publish open-access issues around themes of academic labor and higher education activism.  In addition, 2015 saw the formation of Academic Labor: Research and Artistry, a journal devoted to issues of tenure and contingency in the university.  In book publishing, The Johns Hopkins University Press initiated a book series on Critical University Studies, edited by Jeffrey J. Williams and Christopher Newfield, and In the UK, Palgrave also launched a series on CUS, edited by John Smyth.   On the whole, the stance of CUS against the status quo of US universities puts it at odds with individuals and administrators who are in favor of the continued privatization, corporatization, and globalization of the university.  Scholars like Williams, Steffen, and others continue to call for the incorporation of CUS into the undergraduate curriculum, encouraging students to think critically about the institutions in which they find themselves.   