Integrative communication theory is a theory of cross-cultural adaptation proposed by Young Yun Kim. The first widely published version of Kim's theory is found in the last three chapters of a textbook authored by William Gudykunst with Young Yun Kim as second author.  See acculturation and assimilation.   Young Yun Kim's assimilation Theory of Cross-Cultural Adaptation maintains that human transformation takes only one path, assimilative.  Kim argues that all human beings experience conformity as they move into a new and culturally unfamiliar environment and that they do so by "unlearning" who they were originally. The concept, cross-cultural adaptation, refers to a process in and through which an individual achieves an increasing level of psychological and functional fitness with respect to the receiving environment. Kim's theory postulates a zero-sum process whereby assimilation or "adaptation" occurs only to the extent that the newcomer lose the characteristics of their original cultural identity, such as language, customs, beliefs and values.   Kim's theory however is self-contradictory for on one hand Kim argues that the newcomer "evolves" toward becoming exactly like the host majority by internalizing the majority's ways of thinking, feeling and behaving while unlearning their own.  But on the other hand Kim argues that out of this transformation emerges an intercultural identity, that somehow exists beyond all the contingencies of culture and language itself.  Kim claims that individuals that enter a new culture for varying lengths of time, and to include migrant workers, diplomats, and expatriates alike     Kim's research into cross-cultural adaptation began in the 1970s through a survey of Korean immigrants in the Chicago area.  It subsequently expanded to study other immigrant and refugee groups in the United States to include American Indians, Japanese and Mexican Americans, and Southeast Asian refugees.  In addition to studying groups of immigrants, Young Yun Kim researched groups of students studying abroad in the United States, as well as international students in Japan, Korean expatriates in the United States and American expatriates in South Korea. The first outline of her theory was found in an article titled, "Toward an Interactive Theory of Communication - Acculturation",  leading to a complete rendition of the theory in Communication and Cross-Cultural Adaptation:  An Integrative Theory,  which was further refined and updated with Becoming Intercultural:  An Integrative Theory of Communication and Cross-Cultural Adaptation.  Kim states that there are five key "missing links" in cross-cultural adaptation literature, which her theory attempts to cover:  All human beings are born into an unfamiliar environment and are brought up to become part of a culture.  This process is known as enculturation, and refers to the organization, integration, and maintenance of a home environment throughout the formative years along with the internal change that occurs with increasing interaction of the individual in its cultural environment.  The transition into a new culture can be shocking, and internal conflicts often arise.  The individual must learn to adapt and grow into the new environment, as they are often faced with situations that challenge their cultural norms and worldview.  This is the process known as acculturation as described by Shibutani and Kwan in 1965.  According to Kim, as new learning occurs, deculturation or unlearning of some of the old cultural elements has to occur, at least in the sense that new responses are adopted in situations that previously would have evoked old ones.  The individual is forced to develop new habits, which may come in conflict with the old ones. Kim states that the ultimate theoretical directionality of adaptive change is toward assimilation, a state of the maximum possible convergence of strangers' internal and external conditions to those of the natives.  Assimilation is an ongoing process and is not usually fully attained, regardless of the amount of time spent in the new culture. Integrative communication theory suggests that these varying levels of integration within a culture directly impact the individual's experience in the new culture, which other research suggests.  According to Don C. Locke, one major difference among members of various cultural groups within America is the degree to which they have immersed themselves into the culture of the United States.  He states that members of culturally diverse groups can be placed into several categories.  Bicultural individuals are able to function as competently in the dominant culture as their own while holding on to manifestations of their own culture.  Traditional individuals hold on to a majority of cultural traits from the culture of origin and reject many traits of the dominant culture.  A third type of individual will acculturate and give up most cultural traits of the culture of origin and traits of the dominant culture.  Finally, a marginal individual does not fit into the culture of origin nor into the dominant culture.  Kim has developed an integrative communication theory of cross-cultural adaptation which conceives adaptation as a dialectic process of the "stress-adaptation-growth" dynamic that gradually leads to greater functional fitness and psychological health with regards to the host environment.  This portion of Kim's theory focuses on the stress that inevitably accompanies a cross-cultural move, as the individual strives to retain aspects of their old culture while also attempting to integrate into the new one.  The internal conflict that arises results in a state of disequilibrium of emotional "lows" of uncertainty confusion, and anxiety.  People handle this change in various ways, to include avoidance, denial, and withdrawal, as well as regression into pre-existing habits in order to eliminate discomfort in the new environment. Others develop new habits and begin the process of adaptation, allowing them to become better suited to their environment.  Once this occurs, a period of growth often accompanies.  The stress adaptation growth dynamic, therefore, is not a linear process but a back and forth endeavor that will entail periods of regression and subsequent progression. Assimilation can be defined as the process by which a person takes material into their mind from the environment, which may mean changing the evidence of their senses to make it fit, whereas accommodation is the difference made to one's mind or concepts by the process of assimilation.  Communication is a prerequisite for successful adaptation of individuals into a new environment.  This relies on decoding, or the capacity of strangers to receive and process information, as well as encoding, or the designing and executing mental plans in initiating or responding to messages. There are three commonly recognized categories: Participation in the interpersonal and mass communication activities of the host society is crucial. Host interpersonal communication helps strangers to secure vital information and insight into the mind-sets and behaviors of the local people, thereby providing strangers a reference point for their own behaviors,  while host mass communication relies on integrating the individual into the host society via media, radio, television, etc...and serves as an important source of cultural and language learning without relying heavily on individual participation and exposure.  In the initial phase of integration, ethnic communities serve to allow strangers to receive some of the comforts of their previous culture, and serve to facilitate adaptation.  After the initial phase, ethnic social communication allows individuals to maintain connectedness to their original culture.  Some cultures make it easier to assimilate than others, and the host environment has a direct impact on the nature of an individual's integration.  Some societies display more openness and warmth to outsiders than others.  The degree to which a given host environment exerts receptivity and conformity pressure on a stranger is closely influenced by the overall ethnic group strength, which is a measure of a given stranger's ethnic group's capacity to influence the surrounding host environment at large.  An individual can better prepare themselves to enter a new environment, both physically and emotionally, which will have a positive effect on their ability to transition.  This takes into account the mental, emotional, and motivational readiness to deal with the new environment, including understanding of the new language and culture.  Having an open mind helps to alleviate some of the culture shock that is associated with assimilation into the new environment. 