 Mikhail Naumovich Epstein (Russian: Михаи́л Нау́мович Эпште́йн; or Epshtein, born April 21, 1950) is a Russian-American literary theorist and critical thinker. Mikhail Epstein is Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of Cultural Theory and Russian Literature at Emory University, USA. He worked as Professor of Russian and Cultural Theory at Durham University, UK, in 2012–2015. He moved from the USSR (Moscow) to the USA (Atlanta) in 1990 and from the USA to England (Durham) in 2012 and then back to Atlanta, to resume teaching at Emory, in 2015. He was founder and director of Centre for Humanities Innovation at Durham University   (2012–2015). His areas of specialization include postmodernism, cultural and literary theory; the history of Russian literature  (particularly Pushkin, Gogol, Dostoevsky, Platonov and 20th century poetry) and intellectual history; contemporary philosophical and religious thought;  new methods and interdisciplinary approaches in the humanities; semiotics, language evolution and neologisms; and ideas and electronic media. Professor Epstein is also an expert on Russian philosophy of the 19th and 20th century and on thinkers like Nikolai Berdyaev. He writes essays on cultural, social, ethical and international issues. Epstein was born in Moscow, of Jewish heritage. He graduated from the philological faculty of Moscow State University in 1972. He was a member of Soviet Writers Union since 1978 and the founder and director of the Laboratory of Contemporary Culture in Moscow (1988–89). He moved to the USA in 1990 and was fellow of Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars (Washington D.C.) in 1990–1991. He joined Emory faculty in 1990. In 1992–1994 he received grant from National Council for Soviet and East European Research to work on the history of Russian thought of the late Soviet period. He has authored InteLnet (Intellectual network, 1995)   and a number of other interdisciplinary web sites in the humanities. One of his major continuing  projects is "On the Future of the Humanities: Paradigmatic Shifts and Emerging Concepts" on which he worked as an inaugural senior fellow at the Center for Humanistic Inquiry (Emory University, 2002–03)and as a fellow at the Institute of Advanced Study at Durham University (2011). He had visiting professor appointments at Wesleyan University (1990) and University of Oregon at  Eugene (2002). Mikhail Epstein has won national and international prizes, including Andrei Bely prize (St. Petersburg, 1991); The Social Innovations Award 1995 from the Institute for Social Inventions (London) for his electronic Bank of New Ideas; the International Essay Contest set up by Lettre International and Weimar – Cultural City of Europe 1999; and Liberty Prize, awarded for his outstanding contribution in the development of Russian-American cultural connections (New York, 2000). Epstein maintains blogs on "Facebook", "Snob" and "Live Journal" networks, where, in particular, since 2007 he conducts and reports "СЛОВО ГОДА" – a Russian-language "Word of the Year".  In the realm of aesthetics, Epstein (together with poet and conceptual artist Dmitry Prigov) is credited with introducing the concept of "new sincerity" (novaia iskrennost) as a response to the dominant sense of absurdity in late Soviet and post-Soviet culture.  In Epstein's words, "Postconceptualism, or the New Sincerity, is an experiment in resuscitating "fallen," dead languages with a renewed pathos of love, sentimentality and enthusiasm."  In his exploration of contemporary spirituality, Epstein focuses on the concept of "post-atheism," or "minimal [or poor] religion," discussed in particular in his correspondence with the Protestant thinker Thomas Altizer and extensively examined in Charles Taylor's book "The Secular Age" (2007) that refers to Epstein's innovative work. Mikhail Epstein has coined a number of new concepts and terms (in English and in Russian) that now circulate on tens of thousands of websites in various branches of the humanities.  In library catalogs, publications are listed under the names: Mikhail Epstein, Mikhail Epshtein, Michail Epstein. 37 books published in English and Russian, and 19 books translated into German, Serbo-Croatian, Slovenian, Hungarian, Lithuanian, Ukrainian, and Korean. Articles and essays have been translated and published in 23 languages. Full list of publications includes more than 700 items. 