Aeronautical Radio, Incorporated (ARINC), established in 1929, is a major provider of transport communications and systems engineering solutions for eight industries: aviation, airports, defense, government, healthcare, networks, security, and transportation. ARINC has installed computer data networks in police cars and railroad cars and also maintains the standards for line-replaceable units.  ARINC was formerly headquartered in Annapolis, Maryland, and has two regional headquarters in London, established in 1999 to serve the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region, and Singapore, established in 2003 for the Asia Pacific region.  ARINC has more than 3,200 employees at over 120 locations worldwide. The sale of the company by Carlyle Group to Rockwell Collins was completed on December 23, 2013. ARINC was incorporated in 1929 as Aeronautical Radio, Incorporated. It was chartered by the Federal Radio Commission (which later became the Federal Communications Commission) in order to serve as the airline industry’s single licensee and coordinator of radio communication outside of the government. The corporation's stock was held by four major airlines of the day. Through most of its history, ARINC was owned by airlines and other aviation-related companies such as Boeing until the sale to The Carlyle Group in October 2007. Not much later ARINC took on the responsibility for all ground-based, aeronautical radio stations and for ensuring station compliance with Federal Radio Commission (FRC) rules and regulations. Using this as a base technology, ARINC expanded its contributions to transport communications as well as continuing to support the commercial aviation industry and U.S. military. ARINC also developed the standards for the trays and boxes used to hold standard line-replaceable units (like radios) in aircraft. These permit electronics to be rapidly replaced without complex fasteners or test equipment. In 1978 ARINC introduced ACARS (Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System), a datalink system that enables ground stations (airports, aircraft maintenance bases, etc.) to upload data (such as flight plans) and download data (such as fuel quantity, weight on wheels, flight management system (FMS) data), via an onboard Communications Management Unit (CMU). ARINC has expanded its business in aerospace and defense through its ARINC Engineering Services subsidiary.  With the sale of the company to Rockwell Collins, the ARINC Engineering Services subsidiary split into Commercial Aerospace and Defense Services.  The Defense Services branch was then purchased by Booz Allen Hamilton, remaining part of the Carlyle group.  Though known for publishing "ARINC Standards", this role is independent of ARINC commercial activities. ARINC Industry Activities involve three aviation committees:   ARINC services include: The ARINC Standards are prepared by the Airlines Electronic Engineering Committee (AEEC) where Rockwell Collins and other aviation suppliers serve as a contributor in support of their airline customer base. An abbreviated list follows. The 400 Series describes guidelines for installation, wiring, data buses, and databases. The 500 Series describes older analog avionics equipment used on early jet aircraft such as the Boeing 727, Douglas DC-9, DC-10, Boeing 737 and 747, and Airbus A300. The 600 Series are reference standards for avionics equipment specified by the ARINC 700 Series The 700 Series describes the form, fit, and function of avionics equipment installed predominately on transport category aircraft.  The 800 Series comprises a set of aviation standards for aircraft, including fiber optics used in high-speed data buses.  