Rome2rio is an online multimodal transport search engine that launched in April 2011.   Rome2rio is a worldwide covering platform capable of long-distance (inter-city) trip planning as well as local (intra-city) journey planning. Users can input any address, town or landmark as the origin and destination and Rome2rio searches a database of flight, train, ferry, bus and driving routes to present route and price options for travelling to that destination.   Rome2rio also offers results for hotels, rental cars and attractions. In 2016 the company moved to a hybrid search and booking model and introduced onsite ticketing for selected operators including UK Rail , Amtrak  and  Renfe . The company is based in Melbourne, Australia. The transport data searched by Rome2rio includes:  plus driving directions for most countries worldwide. Rome2rio was founded by Bernhard Tschirren and Dr Michael Cameron, two ex-Microsoft software engineers. The site was born out of their frustrations with the lack of a fast, easy-to-use, and comprehensive multi-modal search engine with global coverage.  The two co-founders began work on the product in September 2010 and won the Melbourne Azure Bizspark Camp Award in February 2011.  The beta version of Rome2rio was officially launched on 7 April 2011.  Rod Cuthbert, founder of Viator, joined the team as CEO in 2012.   Rome2rio won the People's Choice Award at Phocuswright 2012,  the TRAVELtech GlobalCollect Website of the Year in 2013,  the Data Specialist Award at the 2015 WITovation Awards and the Best Metasearch Award at the 2016 Travolution Awards.  The company has raised $2.8 million in funding including a 2014 grant of $1.2 million from Commercialisation Australia.  In 2017 the company made changes to the executive team. Rod Cuthbert was made Executive Chairman, Michael Cameron became CEO and Bernie Tschirren was made Chief Architect. The team added Kirsteene Phelan as COO.  Rome2rio opened their new Melbourne head office in November 2017.  The company initially offered both white label and API options for partners wishing to integrate its multi-modal results into web sites and mobile apps.  In July 2015 it announced that support for its white label product would cease in January 2016, citing pressure on development resources brought on by rapid growth in its consumer business.  