Ádám Anderle (Hungarian: [ˈaːdaːm ˈɒndɛrlɛ]; February 25, 1943 – November 19, 2016) was a Hungarian historian, hispanist, full (university) professor, professor emeritus of Faculty of Arts, University of Szeged (SZTE). He was active in research of the relationship between Latin America and Hungary for decades. He was fluent in Hungarian and Spanish. He took M. A. degrees at the Attila József University (JATE), Faculty of Arts in Hungarian and History in 1966. During his academic years he also learned Spanish language because he was interested in the history of Cuba, Latin America and Spain. Tibor Wittman raised Anderle's interest in the Hispanic world.  Ádám Anderle received his dr. univ. (doctor universitatis) degree in 1967. In 1969 he became an educator and a research fellow in the Department of Medieval Universal History and History of Latin America, at the Faculty of Arts, JATE.  He took candidate (C.Sc.) of History degree in 1977 and was awarded Doctor of Science (D.Sc.) degree in History in 1988.  In 1977 he became an associate professor (docent, reader). He was appointed to the head of the department, and he acted as a head from 1983 until 1992. In 1989 he received the title of university (full) professor. In 1993 he founded the Department of Hispanic Studies, and he headed it until 2008.   From 1997 until 2013 he acted as a subprogram leader of Modern history in the Doctoral School of History at the University of Szeged, and he was a member of the Council of the Doctoral School of History and a VIP member of the doctoral school. In 2013 the honorific title of professor emeritus was conferred upon him. He was a notable and respected scientist both in Hungary and around the world and developed significant research and professional relationships. Ádám Anderle lectured as a visiting professor at several universities of Latin America: Santa María University in Caracas, National University of San Marcos in Lima, University of Havana in Cuba, and at the universities of Europe: University of Alcalá in Alcalá de Henares, Spain and University of Göttingen in Germany. His working papers were issued in both national and international prestigious professional research scientific journals, and 20 books and 200 scientific articles were published.   Media related to Ádám Anderle at Wikimedia Commons 