The GreenScreen List Translator is a procedure for assessing chemical hazard used to identify chemicals of concern to prioritize for removal from product formulations. The List Translator assesses substances based on their presence on lists of chemicals associated with human and environmental health hazards issued by a global set of governmental and professional scientific bodies, such as the European Union’s GHS hazard statements and California's Proposition 65.  The List Translator procedure is defined in the GreenScreen for Safer Chemicals, a transparent, open standard for chemical hazard assessment that supports alternatives assessment for toxics use reduction through identifying chemicals of concern and safer alternatives.  The GreenScreen protocol is published in a Guidance document that is reviewed and updated regularly. This description of the List Translator is based upon the Hazard Assessment Guidance Version 1.4  The List Translator identifies the hazard endpoints for which a substance has been listed on each of a defined set of published hazard lists and the level of hazard. It prioritizes for avoidance those substances listed with a high hazard of any of the following endpoints: This parallels the prioritization schemes underlying various international governmental regulatory programs such as the Substance of very high concern definition within the REACH Regulation of the European Union. The central tools of the List Translator are the GreenScreen Specified Lists and the GreenScreen List Translator Map.  Scoring a substance is a three part procedure:  An LT-Unk, No GSLT or NoGS score is not an indication of low hazard or safety for a substance, only that the substance has not been listed for the priority health endpoints. A full GreenScreen Assessment must be undertaken to determine if the substance qualifies as an affirmatively safer substance.  Any person can use the GreenScreen List Translator protocol to score a substance. The research required to look up the substance in each of the hazard lists is, however,  substantial. Several Licensed GreenScreen List Translator™ Automators aggregate the lists and provide free online lookup services for determining List Translator scores. The GreenScreen List Translator is the first step in a GreenScreen Assessment. It is also used as a stand alone screening protocol by health and sustainability screening and certification programs. It is widely referenced in standards and certifications related to green building products, including the Health Product Declaration, Portico and the US Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED. 