 DisruptJ20 (also Disrupt J20) is a Washington, D.C.-based political organization founded in July 2016 and publicly launched on November 11 of the same year. Its initial aim was protesting and disrupting events of the presidential inauguration of the 45th U.S. President, Donald Trump, which occurred on January 20, 2017. The protests organized and encouraged by the DisruptJ20 group were a part of a wider array of protests initiated by a variety of individuals and groups, in Washington, DC and nationwide; from a more extensive initial plan, deployments by DisruptJ20 at the inauguration eventually included efforts, at least, to blockade one bridge, and to attempt to shut down security checkpoints. Reports immediately prior to and following the event indicated success by James O'Keefe and Project Veritas to infiltrate DisruptJ20's planned inauguration efforts.  A Washington, D.C.-based political organization, DisruptJ20 (also appearing with an inserted space before "J20") had the initial stated aim of protesting and disrupting events of the inauguration of Donald Trump as 45th President of The United States.  One organizer of the DisruptJ20 protests, Alli McCracken, stated that the group is protesting Trump's views on women, undocumented immigrants and Muslims. Al Jazeera described the members of the organization as "liberal activists".  Steven Nelson of the U.S. News & World Report, after interviews with organizers and representatives, described it in December 2016 as the "more radical protest-organizing network DisruptJ20, which has more than 1,700 Facebook group members."  A representative of the organization[who?] has stated that it would also have demonstrated had Hillary Clinton won the 2016 presidential election.   DisruptJ20 was founded around July 2016, about six months before Trump's inauguration.  "J20" was chosen to stand for January 20, the scheduled day of the 2017 inauguration.  DisruptJ20 was publicly launched on November 11, 2016 with a YouTube video and social media accounts.  It and its aims were described in an interview with Legba Carrefour, "an organizer with DisruptJ20,"    as an umbrella coalition of groups with a core of local organizers who have a lot of activist experience. Washington, D.C. organizers… most of whom are anarchists. … The idea… is we want to undermine Trump’s presidency from the get-go. There has been a lot of talk of peaceful transition of power as being a core element in a democracy and we want to reject that entirely and really undermine the peaceful transition.   According to Nelson of the U.S. News, the DisruptJ20s website in December 2016 associated the organisation with the "DC Welcoming Committee [DCWC] collective" (describing it as "being assisted by" the DCWC) and Nelson reports that DisruptJ20, at this time, involved individuals from an array of progressive groups (as individuals, rather than representing their groups).  Nelson quotes Carrefour, who he describes as "a local anarchist handling press" for DisruptJ20, as indicating that "more than 200 people attended an organizing meeting at a local church… on short notice" and that photographs "show[ed] supporters representing a range of ages and interests."  Regarding intent, Carrefour stated to Nelson,We are planning to shut down the inauguration, that’s the short of it… We’re pretty literal about that, we are trying to create citywide paralysis on a level that I don’t think has been seen in D.C. before. We’re trying to shut down pretty much every ingress into the city as well as every checkpoint around the actual inauguration parade route.    On January 14, 2017, about a hundred demonstrators met at the American University to plan and prepare their protests.   Carrefour described their plans for inauguration week, beginning the weekend of January 14–15, 2017 ("MLK weekend"), indicating that DisruptJ20 was: After the January 14 meetings, James O'Keefe of Project Veritas posted a video shot at pizzeria Comet Ping Pong in the capital showing members of the DC Antifascist Coalition, a part of DisruptJ20, planning to disrupt the DeploraBall at the National Press Building on January 19—through use of stink bombs (of butyric acid) and activation of the building's sprinkler system.    DisruptJ20 countered that it had caught on to the Veritas operation and had thus fed its operative a false plot;   however, based on the video, the DC police arrested a man associated with the group[clarification needed] on January 19, 2017 for his alleged planning to disrupt the DeploraBall.    Veritas released a second part to the video showing DisruptJ20 participants discussing their plans to create blockades for bridges and trains; as a result of the latter video, a DisruptJ20 organizer[who?] announced that the group would scale back on their blockade efforts, and only shut down one bridge.   DisruptJ20's efforts in Washington, D.C. were a part of a wider array of nationwide protests, ranging from peaceful to anarchic.  Events included nationwide rallies such as Our First Stand: Save Our Health Care (organized by congressional Democrats and health care activists) and Poets Protest Against Trump (by such artists, on local city hall steps), both the weekend before the inauguration; the celebrity Love-a-thon (a Facebook-broadcast fund-raiser for liberal causes, featuring a number of film actors) on inauguration day, and the Women’s March on Washington [D.C.] and hundreds of sister marches nationwide, the day following the inauguration.  The DisruptJ20 protests were specific actions, organized in Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, Maryland in particular.  A number of their protest activities occurred throughout Washington on January 19–20, 2017.[where?]  Protests involving DisruptJ20 members from a variety of groups[clarification needed] occurred at the National Press Building during the day and into the evening, on the January 19.  On January 20, DisruptJ20 participants linked arms at security checkpoints,[where?] attempting to shut down flow into the inauguration through these checkpoints. [verification needed] A post-event press release from DisuruptJ20, reported on by The Washington Post, state that “climate justice activists” numbering ca. 400 participated in physically blocking the inauguration security checkpoints, including a four-hour block of the checkpoint at 3rd and D Streets NW.   The statement indicated, "[our] work is done."  In addition, DisruptJ20-associated attempts to block traffic through a sit-in occurred at the intersection of 12th and K Streets NW.  Comments both supportive and judgmental have appeared around the DisruptJ20 inauguration activities. Activist filmmaker Michael Moore indicated support for their efforts in the two cities, via Twitter.  Publications ranged in opinion from support to criticism. The presentation from The Huffington Post took the form of an information article directing interested readers to the DisruptJ20 web page, and to various protests in which they could participate.  As of the first week of February 2017, the organization was reporting efforts to support individuals arrested for January 20 activities, in particular, fund-raising and legal support activities. [better source needed] Those arrested on Inauguration Day were charged with rioting, and were released pending a court date.   A class action lawsuit was filed for false arrest, and excessive force.     On April 3, 2017, the Metropolitan Police Department raided the house of a DisruptJ20 activist as part of its "investigation into the conspiracy to riot."   In late November 2017, six people charged with rioting went on trial. Prosecutors alleged that these six people were taking part in DisruptJ20 protests and vandalism.  A jury trial found the six defendants not guilty on all counts in December 2017.  On January 18, 2018, the U.S. Justice Department dropped charges against 129 people, leaving 59 defendants to face charges related to the DisruptJ20 protest.  By early July 2018, federal prosecutors had dropped all charges against all defendants in the case.  On 17 July 2017, the US Department of Justice served DreamHost, the company hosting the DisruptJ20 website, with a search warrant  for all information held about the site.  The information requested in the warrant included the IP addresses of 1.3 million people who visited the site, as well as the date and time of their visit and information about the browser and operating system.  In addition to this, the contact information, email content and photos of thousands of people was requested.  DreamHost announced on August 14, 2017, that they would challenge the warrant in court, stating that "Chris Ghazarian, our General Counsel, has taken issue with this particular search warrant for being a highly untargeted demand that chills free association and the right of free speech afforded by the Constitution."  The Electronic Frontier Foundation said that the warrant was "unconstitutional" and "a fishing expedition".  On October 10, 2017, Chief Judge Morin of the Washington, D.C. Superior Court issued the court’s final order, with what Dreamhost blog calls "significant changes that will protect the constitutional rights of innocent internet users worldwide." As for the prospect for an appeal, Dreamhost has said, "There’s really no need. Any sweeping requests for data that could personally identify website visitors not directly related to an ongoing criminal investigation are now off the table. It's sort of a moot point!"  