Pristine is a VC funded startup that develops software for hands-free smartglasses and smart mobile devices, enabling video collaboration and remote support in industrial and manufacturing environments, field service management and healthcare.  Pristine is based in Austin, Texas. Pristine was founded by Kyle Samani and Patrick Kolencherry May 2013, shortly after Google announced the Google Glass program. It raised initial funding through angel investors  and began piloting in a major academic medical center. In the months following, Pristine raised over $5 million in venture capital investment from S3 Ventures,   Capital Factory, Healthfundr, and others. Pristine took second place at HATCH Pitch 2013,  a start up pitch competition that was held at the George R. Brown Convention Center. At the 2013 DEMO conference, Pristine CEO Kyle Samani demonstrated on stage how an emergency room surgeon would use Google Glass to request support from another physician. University of California, Irvine participated in a smartglasses pilot in October 2013, and announced in February the following year that they would roll out the technology to outpatient programs and wound care.  Pristine launched the first Google Glass pilot in an emergency room at Rhode Island Hospital in April 2014.    It resulted in a peer-reviewed study published in JAMA Dermatology on the use of smartglasses in a healthcare environment.     In May 2014, the CEO spoke at TedXYouth@Austin about rural healthcare and how telemedicine could help those affected by the 2010 Haiti earthquake. In December 2014, Pristine CTO Patrick Kolencharry spoke at AWS re:Invent conference keynote about how Pristine used AWS and Docker to build a high-availability platform on AWS. In April 2015, Pristine attended HIMSS15 conference in Chicago and showcased a smartglasses technology with the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center with Intel. Pristine is one of the ten official partners of Google’s Glass at Work   program. The company also has formal partnerships with Vuzix, as well as Epson. Pristine develops software for smartglasses to enable hands free video collaboration, and supports mobile-to-mobile capabilities on web browsers, Android and iOS platforms. Built on WebRTC, MongoDB, Redis, AngularJS, the technology supports secure two-way audio and video, messaging, annotations, and high resolution snapshots. 