Push Doctor is an online medical consultation service headquartered in Manchester, United Kingdom. The service currently has over 7,000 General Medical Council-registered general practitioners available and connects users to a GP for a secure online video consultation for a fee of £30.  The service is accessed via computer or a number of mobile or tablet apps. Following a consultation, users can be referred, provided with a "fit note" or issued with a prescription for medication.   Push Doctor is a HIPAA-compliant NHS-commissioned technology provider.  The service was founded in July 2013 by Eren Ozagir and Matt Elcock. The idea came to Ozagir after falling ill on a business trip to Baltimore in the United States.   Push Doctor initially received $1.2 million in seed funding and in mid-2015 a nationwide television campaign aired to promote the service to new users. In January 2016 Push Doctor raised $8.2m Series A funding lead by Oxford Capital, Draper Esprit and Partech Ventures.  Reports suggest the investment would be used to "strengthen brand position, carry out further product innovations, expand the management structure, including making key marketing and product hires".  In September 2016 the service underwent a rebrand that included a new logo, revamped website, an updated iOS app and a new Android app.  In October 2016 SuperGroup chief operating officer Susanne Given joined the company as the non-executive chair.  In July 2017 Push Doctor raised a further $26.1m in Series B funding, taking the company's total funding to $37.5m.  In August 2017 Push Doctor introduced a £500 medical student grant, which is open to medical students at any UK university from their second year onwards. Ozagir said the move would "help the next generation of home-grown doctors get off to the best possible start."  In August 2018 Eren Ozagir stepped down as CEO of Push Doctor but remains a shareholder. A study commissioned by the company found that 11% of the UK population resorted to searching the internet to diagnose health issues when unable to see a National Health Service GP.  A survey commissioned by the company in March 2016 was reported as showing that 62% of respondents had used a smartphone or computer for GP services including ordering repeat prescriptions, accessing medical records and even Skype-style video appointments with a doctor; 29% had ordered repeat prescriptions online, while nearly a fifth have had a video appointment with a GP. A further 25% were said to be prepared to consider a video consultation if they could have a same-day appointment.  In June 2017 it was condemned by the Care Quality Commission (CQC) as it was found not to be safe, effective or well-led. The inspectors found it was prescribing high-risk medicines to patients without performing proper checks, and in at least one case was prescribing drugs for uses beyond their licenses. However, the inspection did also note that Push Doctor was providing a caring and responsive service, "in accordance with the relevant regulations". Push Doctor CEO Eren Ozagir claimed that there were factual inaccuracies in the reports and that guidelines against which they were inspected against were completely new.  Push Doctor failed a CQC inspection in November 2017 due to inadequate checks of users' ages and identities.  The Advertising Standards Authority condemned a number of advertisements in April 2018 because they "misleadingly implied the advertised service was provided by the NHS and, as a result, that it was misleading because it did not make clear a cost was associated with the service." The ASA also said that the company practice of putting reviews on its website but omitting any that were unfavourable was misleading.  In July 2018 it was reported that Nicola Blackwood, the former minister for public health and innovation, had joined Push Doctor's advisory board. On reviewing the former MP's new role, the Advisory Committee on Business Appointments stated there was "some risk around the potential for [Blackwood] offering the company an unfair advantage as a result of her time in office".  