World of Guns: Gun Disassembly is a cross-genre simulation and puzzle video game that allows the player to operate and disassemble various firearms, as well as other mechanisms like automobiles, AFVs and aircraft. It was released in 2014 for Windows  and Facebook, and has been subsequently ported to VK.com social network, as well as OS X, iOS and Android platforms. The game is a follow-up on the same developer's Gun Disassembly series, first released in 2010,  expanding on the latter's feature set and library of interactive models. The software can be used as both an interactive firearms reference source and encyclopedia,  and a casual puzzle game with a goal of disassembling and assembling models in the correct sequence and in the least possible time. The player is presented with an interactive model of a real-world firearm (or other mechanism) in a 3D environment. Player has complete control of the camera, along with additional viewing options allowing them to explore the inner mechanical design of the piece. These include a multi-layered X-ray view, "trainer cutaway" mode and several slow-motion settings. Depending on the game mode, the player is required to either learn the correct operation of the weapon, or perform its disassembly or assembly. Game modes are arranged in the order of increasing complexity, including field-stripping the weapon, complete disassembly of the mechanism, and finally disassembly and assembly against the clock and/or with penalties for incorrect moves. Every model has local and global leaderboards and a set of in-game achievements. The game includes interactive shooting ranges with timed objectives,  as well as additional features like gun quizzes and a weapon skin editor. World of Guns: Gun Disassembly is offered as a free-to-play title. To unlock the initially unavailable models, a player can either spend in-game credits earned through gameplay, or use microtransactions. Bulk DLC packs are available, including a lifetime access bundle which gives the user access to all current and future models in the library.  One of the game's principal features is a constantly expanding catalog of animated 3D models that dates back to 2010 (the date of initial Gun Disassembly app's release). On average, developer Noble Empire has been releasing one to two new models monthly.  According to developers, 3D models are drawn and animated using actual weapons, original technical documentation and photographic sources.  At this time, the World of Guns library consists of 192 models, with over 23,200 individual animated parts total.  This includes historical and modern firearms, as well as several artillery pieces, motorcycles, automobiles (including Humvee and DeLorean DMC-12), an armored vehicle (BMP-3) and a warbird (F4U Corsair). Another set of "bonus" models includes dinosaur and mammal skeletons. The game has received generally positive reviews. Notably, Steve Johnson, the founder of a popular gun enthusiast online publication The Firearm Blog, described World of Guns as "my favorite gun app, without a doubt". Johnson noted his use of the game as a reference guide and learning aid: "I have even used it to figure out how to fit some old mil-surplus guns I own".  Rock, Paper, Shotgun praised World of Guns and its earlier iterations on multiple occasions,   at one point comparing it favorably to Car Mechanic Simulator.  RPS reviewers described the game as "disarmingly obsessive and up-front", "mesmerizing", "a pleasing almost ritualistic act",  and noted that "[previously, we] called its gameplay "almost philosophical", which is partly a joke but I think very true".  TouchArcade's review of the early version of the Gun Disassembly game was lukewarm (2.5/5 stars), commending it as a "technical app with an extraordinary amount of detail", and "a singular experience", but noting its "limited appeal" and expressing doubts if it qualifies to be called a game.  Launch Party Gaming reviewer criticized the "pay-to-win" model used by the game, but praised it as a "must have for gun enthusiasts" and a "great simulator" (6.5/10).  The review by firearms blog Guns.Com has pointed out that World of Guns is "a bit rough", but called its core functionality "outstanding" and a "unique resource", described the microtransactions model as "reasonable", and underlined its utility as reference for servicing actual firearms. The reviewer went on to say that "...when I buy a gun I usually check to see if WoG has a model of it, and if there is one, I’ll buy it" . The game was also covered in Russian-language gaming press,     including a segment on the Ot Vinta! TV show about videogames. . According to SteamSpy, 2.2 million Steam users own the game (average rating 82%, "Very Positive").  The World of Guns app for the VK.com social network has 810,000 installs;  the Facebook app lists 10,000 monthly active users and 130,000 subscribers.  The earlier Gun Disassembly app has "1 to 5 million installs" and 4/5 average rating listed on its Google Play Store page.  It has a 4/5 rating on Apple AppStore.  