The Journal of Philosophy is a monthly peer-reviewed academic journal on philosophy, founded in 1904 at Columbia University. Its stated purpose is "To publish philosophical articles of current interest and encourage the interchange of ideas, especially the exploration of the borderline between philosophy and other disciplines."  Subscriptions and online access are managed by the Philosophy Documentation Center.  The Journal was ranked the second highest-quality philosophy journal in a poll conducted on the popular philosophy blog Leiter Reports,  and is widely regarded as one of the most prestigious journals in the field.  The journal also publishes the Dewey, Woodbridge, and Nagel Lectures series held at Columbia University. The journal was founded at Columbia University in 1904 as The Journal of Philosophy, Psychology and Scientific Methods, under the editorship of Professor J. E. Woodbridge and Professor James McKeen Cattell.  Wendell T. Bush became co-editor of the journal in 1906 and provided it with its endowment.  The inaugural issue announced that the journal was founded with the intent of "covering the whole field of scientific philosophy, psychology, ethics and logic" so that "the relations between philosophy and psychology should remain intimate".  In 1921 the name of the journal was shortened to The Journal of Philosophy. From 1954 to 1985, the President of the journal was Albert G. Redpath. After Redpath's death, Corliss Lamont was President for a short period. Arthur C. Danto was President from 1985 to 2010, followed by Akeel Bilgrami, the current President. The journal is published from Columbia University. From its founding until 1998, the journal was printed by the Lancaster Press in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.  Today the journal is printed by the Sheridan Press in Hanover, Pennsylvania. Past contributors to the journal include: Theodor W. Adorno, G.E.M. Anscombe, D. M. Armstrong, A. J. Ayer, Jonathan Bennett, Henri Bergson, Ned Block, Tyler Burge, Rudolf Carnap, Stanley Cavell, David Chalmers, Roderick Chisholm, Noam Chomsky, Paul Churchland, Arthur Danto, Donald Davidson, Daniel Dennett, John Dewey, Fred Dretske, W.E.B. Du Bois, Michael Dummett, Ronald Dworkin, Kit Fine, Jerry Fodor, Harry Frankfurt, Peter Geach, Alvin Goldman, Nelson Goodman, Jürgen Habermas, Ian Hacking, Gilbert Harman, Carl Hempel, Jaakko Hintikka, Frank Jackson, William James, Jaegwon Kim, David Lewis, Walter Kaufmann, Christine Korsgaard, Saul Kripke, Alasdair MacIntyre, J. L. Mackie, John McDowell, George Herbert Mead, Sidney Morgenbesser, Ernest Nagel, Thomas Nagel, Robert Nozick, Martha Nussbaum, Derek Parfit, Charles Sanders Peirce, Alvin Plantinga, Hilary Putnam, W.V.O. Quine, John Rawls, Hans Reichenbach, Richard Rorty, Bertrand Russell, George Santayana, T. M. Scanlon, Wilfrid Sellars, Amartya Sen, Elliot Sober, Robert Stalnaker, P. F. Strawson, Charles Taylor, Tim van Gelder, and Peter van Inwagen. According to the Thomson Reuters Journal Citation Reports, the most cited articles published by the journal include: 