City, University of London is a public research university in London, United Kingdom. Until 2016, it was known as City University, London.  It was founded in 1894 as the Northampton Institute and became a university when The City University was created by royal charter in 1966.  The Inns of Court School of Law, which merged with City in 2001, was established in 1852, making it the former City University's oldest constituent part.  On 1 September 2016, City joined the federal University of London, becoming part of the 18 Colleges and ten research institutes that make up the University.  The university has strong links with the City of London, and the Lord Mayor of London serves as the University's Rector.   City, University of London, has its main campus in central London in the Islington borough, with additional campuses in Islington and across the City of London, the West End and East End of London. It is organised into seven schools, within which there are around 40 academic departments and centres, including: the Department of Journalism, the Cass Business School, and City Law School which incorporates the Inns of Court School of Law.  The annual income of the institution for 2016–17 was £227.0 million of which £11.6 million was from research grants and contracts, with an expenditure of £221.4 million.  Cass Business School is ranked 5th in the UK and top 40 in the world in the Financial Times' 2017 Global MBA Rankings.  City, University of London, is a member of the Association of MBAs, EQUIS and Universities UK. City University traces its origin to the Northampton Institute, established in 1852 and named after the Marquess of Northampton who donated the land on which the institute was built, between Northampton Square and St John Street in Islington. The institute was established to provide for the education and welfare of the local population. It was constituted under the City of London Parochial Charities Act (1883), with the objective of "the promotion of the industrial skill, general knowledge, health and well-being of young men and women belonging to the poorer classes".  Northampton Polytechnic Institute was an institute of technology in Clerkenwell, London, founded in 1894. Alumni include Colin Cherry, Stuart Davies and Anthony Hunt.  Arthur George Cocksedge, a British gymnast who competed in the 1920 Summer Olympics, was a member of the Northampton Polytechnic Institute's Gymnastics Club and was Champion of the United Kingdom in 1920. In 1937 Maurice Dennis of the (Northampton Polytechnic ABC) was the 1937 ABA Middleweight Champion. Frederick Handley Page was a lecturer in aeronautics at the institute. The Handley Page Type A, the first powered aircraft designed and built by him, ended up as an instructional airframe at the school. The novelist Eric Ambler studied engineering at the institute. The six original departments at the institute were Applied Physics and Electrical Engineering; Artistic Crafts; Domestic Economy and Women's Trades; Electro-Chemistry; Horology (the science of time and art of clock-making); and Mechanical Engineering and Metal Trades. In 1903–04 a separate technical optics department was established. In 1909 the first students qualified for University of London BSc degrees in engineering as internal students.  Since 1909 the institute had been involved in aeronautics education, and in 2009 the School of Engineering and Mathematical Sciences celebrated the centenary of aeronautics at City.  In 1908 the Institute was used for the Olympic Games.   Boxing took place at the Institute.  The institute was designated a "College of Advanced Technology" in 1957.  In 1961 the institute's involvement in information science began with the introduction of a course on "Collecting and Communicating Scientific Knowledge". In 1966 City received its royal charter, becoming "The City University" to reflect the institution's close links with the City of London.  In 1971 the Apollo 15 astronauts visited City and presented the Vice-Chancellor, Tait, with a piece of heat shield from the Apollo 15 rocket.  In October 1995 it was announced that City University would merge with both the St Bartholomew School of Nursing & Midwifery and the Charterhouse College of Radiography, doubling the number of students in City's Institute of Health Sciences to around 2,500.  The University formed a strategic alliance with Queen Mary, University of London, in April 2001.  In May 2001, a fire in the college building gutted the fourth floor offices and roof.  In August 2001 City and the Inns of Court School of Law agreed to merge.  Following a donation from Sir John Cass's Foundation, a multimillion-pound building was built at 106 Bunhill Row for the Cass Business School.  A new £23 million building to house the School of Social Sciences and the Department of Language and Communication Science was opened in 2004. The reconstruction and redevelopment of the university's Grade II listed college building (following the fire in 2001) was completed in July 2006. In 2007 the School of Arts received a £10m building refurbishment. A new students' union venue opened in October 2008 called "TEN squared", which provides a hub for students to socialise in during the day and hosts a wide range of evening entertainment including club nights, society events and quiz nights. In January 2010, premises were shared with the University of East Anglia (UEA) London, following City's partnership with INTO University Partnerships. Since then City has resumed its own International Foundation Programme to prepare students for their pre-university year. In April 2011, it was announced that the current halls of residence and Saddler's Sports Centre will be closed and demolished for rebuilding in June 2011. The new student halls and sports facility, now known as CitySport, opened in 2015. In September 2016 City University, London became a member institution of the federal University of London  and changed its name to City, University of London. City has sites throughout London,  with the main campus located at Northampton Square in the Finsbury area of Islington. The Rhind Building which houses the School of Arts and Social Sciences is directly west of Northampton Square. A few buildings of the main campus are located in nearby Goswell Road in Clerkenwell. Other academic sites are: The Rector of City, University of London, is the Lord Mayor of the City of London ex officio. The day-to-day running of the university is the responsibility of the President. The current President is Professor Sir Paul Curran. City, University of London is organised into five schools: In the financial year ended 31 July 2011, City had a total income (including share of joint ventures) of £178.6 million (2008/09 – £174.4 million) and total expenditure of £183.62 million (2008/09 – £178.82 million).  Key sources of income included £39.58 million from Funding Council grants (2008/09 – £39.52 million), £116.91 million from tuition fees and education contracts (2008/09 – £104.39 million), £7.86 million from research grants and contracts (2008/09 – £9.29 million), £1.04 from endowment and investment income (2008/09 – £1.83 million) and £15.05 million from other income (2008/09 – £19.37 million).  During the 2010/11 financial year, City had a capital expenditure of £9.77 million (2008/09 – £16.13 million).  At year end, City had reserves and endowments of £112.89 million (2009/10 – £110.05 million) and total net assets of £147.64 million (2008/09 – £147.27 million).  City, University of London, offers Bachelor's, Master's, and Doctoral degrees as well as certificates and diplomas at both undergraduate and postgraduate level. More than two thirds of City's programmes are recognised by the appropriate professional bodies such as the BCS, BPS, CILIP, ICE, RICS, HPC etc. in recognition of the high standards of relevance to the professions. The University also has an online careers network where over 2,000 former students offer practical help to current students.  The City Law School offers courses for undergraduates, postgraduates, master graduates and professional courses leading to qualification as a solicitor or barrister, as well as continuing professional development. Its Legal Practice Course has the highest quality rating from the Solicitors Regulation Authority.  The Department of Radiography (part of the School of Community and Health Sciences) offers two radiography degrees, the BSc (Hons) Radiography (Diagnostic Imaging) and BSc (Hons) Radiography (Radiotherapy and Oncology), both of which are recognised by the Health Professions Council (HPC). Queen Mary, University of London, and City, University of London, were jointly awarded Centre for Excellence in Teaching and Learning (CETL) status by the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE) in recognition of their work in skills training for 3,000 students across six healthcare professions.  City, University of London, has links with businesses in the City of London.  City has also joined forces with other universities such as Queen Mary and the Institute of Education (both part of the University of London) with which it jointly delivers several leading degree programmes. London Centre for Arts and Cultural Exchange is a consortium of nine universities. It was established in 2004 to foster collaboration and to promote and support the exchange of knowledge between the consortium's partners and London's arts and cultural sectors. The nine institutions involved are: University of the Arts London; Birkbeck, University of London; City, University of London;  The Courtauld Institute of Art; Goldsmiths, University of London; Guildhall School of Music & Drama; King's College London; Queen Mary, University of London, and Royal Holloway, University of London. Simfonec is a collaborative Science Enterprise Centre (SEC) for the exploitation and transfer of knowledge, ideas and resources among three key sectors – academic, financial and Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). Simfonec encourages the development of an entrepreneurial outlook amongst researchers in science and technology and orchestrates the delivery of science ideas to the commercial marketplace. It is a partnership between four of London universities (Royal Veterinary College, King's College London, Queen Mary, University of London, and City, University of London). It was launched in March 2003 by the Department of Trade and Industry. In September 2006, City joined the Willis Towers Watson Research Network (WTWRN), a major, long-term partnership between leading international scientific institutions (including the universities of Bristol, Cambridge, Durham and Imperial College London) and the global insurance broker Willis Towers Watson. The purpose of the network is to evaluate the frequency, severity and impact of catastrophes such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and terrorism. City is a founding member of the WC2 University Network, a network of universities developed with the goal of bringing together leading universities located in the heart of major world cities in order to address cultural, environmental and political issues of common interest to world cities and their universities.  In addition to City, University of London, the founding members of WC2 members are: City University of New York, Technische Universität Berlin, Universidade de São Paulo, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Universidad Autonoma Metropolitana, Saint Petersburg State Polytechnical University, Politecnico di Milano, University of Delhi, Northeastern University Boston and Tongji University. City was selected as the sole British university to take part in the selective Erasmus Mundus MULTI programme, funded by the European Commission to promote scientific exchange between Europe and the industrialised countries of South-East Asia. It is the first Erasmus program to involve universities outside of Europe. In addition to City, the partner universities are: Aix-Marseille University (France), Univerzita Karlova v Praze (Czech Republic), Freie Universität Berlin (Germany), Universität des Saarlandes (Germany), Università di Pisa (Italy), Universidad de Sevilla (Spain), The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (Hong Kong, SAR China), Universiti Brunei Darussalam (Brunei), University of Macau (Macau, SAR China), Nanyang Technological University (Singapore), and National Taiwan University (Taiwan). City has joined the executive group of UCL Partners, one of five accredited academic health science groups in the UK. City was invited to join the partnership in recognition of its expertise in nursing, allied health, health services research and evaluation and health management.  City is the birthplace of City Technology plc, which is the world's leading manufacturer of fuel-cell gas sensors used in worker safety, automotive, medical and emissions monitoring applications. City Technology plc was previously listed on the London Stock Exchange but was acquired by Honeywell in March 2006. The City Students' Union is run primarily by students through three elected Sabbatical Officers, an Executive Committee and a Union Council, with oversight by a Trustee Board. The Students Union provides support, representation, facilities, services, entertainment and activities for its members. It is run for students by students.  City currently has two student media outlets. Both student are student run including Carrot Radio, which currently records weekday podcasts. The second is the student led online magazine, The Howl. They recently released their first print magazine in December 2017. For a number of years, City students have taken part in the annual Lord Mayor's Show, representing the university in one of the country's largest and liveliest parades. City ranked 7th out of the 168 universities surveyed in the 2016 People & Planet league table of the most sustainable UK universities. It was the highest ranking University of London institution, and one of only two in the top twenty (LSE being 14th).   The league table's Fossil Free Scorecard report, drawn from Freedom of Information requests, found that £800,000 (6.4%) of City's £12.5m endowment was invested in fossil fuels, and that the institution had not made a public commitment to fossil fuel divestment. It also noted nearly £1m of research funding into renewables since 2001 with just £64k of total funding from fossil fuel companies; and no honorary degrees or board positions held by fossil fuel executives.  City University's Bastwick Street Halls of Residence in Islington was the first home of the MasterChef kitchen following its 2005 revival.    