Robert E. (Bob) Griswold (born January 1, 1935, Chicago, Illinois) is an American author, educator, composer and business leader, and a long-time leader in the field of human potential development. He is the founder of Effective Learning Systems, Inc. and has authored over one hundred self-help audio programs. He is best known for his audio series The Love Tapes and While-U-Drive and his book Attract Money and More.  Bob was born in Chicago on January 1, 1935.  He was the third son of parents William & Esther Griswold, both born in Burlington, Iowa. He attended Smyser Elementary school 1940 - 1948, Steinmetz High School, 1948–1952, Wright Junior College 1952 - 1954, and graduated from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1957. He married his wife Deirdre in 1963.  They have four children, Kimberly, Kevin, Robert and Jeffrey. In 1972, he moved his family to Edina Minnesota Edina, Minnesota where he founded Effective Learning Systems, Inc.   He claims to have personally taught over 50,000 people techniques for relaxation, memory, stress management, controlling habits, goal achievement and self-esteem through seminars conducted for corporations, government agencies, and the general public.  Griswold has presented many conferences and workshops at the University of Minnesota and other colleges featuring world-renowned speakers such as Norman Cousins, Bernie Siegel, R. Buckminster Fuller, Karl Menninger, O. Carl Simonton, Wayne Dyer, Joyce Brothers, and others. Many of these prominent professionals have become members of Effective Learning Systems' board of advisors and have contributed a great deal in their knowledge and friendship.  Griswold's work soon evolved into the most popular series of individual self-help audios in the industry. These have become the top-selling line of self-help audio programs in North American retail bookstores-including over 15 years on the Barnes & Noble Bestsellers list, and have reached millions via mail order and the internet. His books and audios are available at Amazon.com, Barnes & Noble, Borders, and other retailers. Distribution of his books and audios has been primarily within the United States, but his programs are available throughout the world.  The same principles of improving self-esteem, which have been so effective for adults attending his seminars and listening to his tapes and CDs are now available for children on Songs for Self-Esteem for which he wrote all of the music and lyrics for this album series. He enlisted the assistance of some of the top producers, arrangers, vocalists, musicians, and studio facilities available to help realize his dream to help children make a better future for themselves and the world.   Griswold also served as a consultant to the Science Museum of Minnesota as Vice-President of the Minnesota Futurists and was appointed by Gov. Arne Carlson to the Minnesota Early Childhood Care and Education Council. Griswold wrote How To Attract Money (published by Hachette Book Group,  formerly Warner Books), which deals with the relationship between self-esteem and financial success. It is based on one of his most popular self-help audio titles and has been printed in seven languages.   He has recently updated and expanded that work with his new book Attract Money and More.  Bob Griswold pioneered techniques for using the concepts of self-esteem, positive thinking, and the power of love to live a better life. Among the strategies and techniques that Bob has developed, copyrighted, and/or incorporated in his teaching are: a unique approach to meditative success known as Productive Meditation, Guided Imagery, Success Statements,  Mental Movie Visualization, 10 Minute Goal Setting, Whole-Brain Learning, and Music Affirmations, which are well-researched positive statements arranged and blended with carefully selected up-beat music and are featured in his While-U-Drive series of audios.  