Jérôme Lefèvre is an independent art curator and art critic. In the late 1990s Lefèvre curated a series of cinema programs with films by Marcel Duchamp, Marie Menken, Tony Conrad, Robert Whitaker, Richard Kern and Henry Hills. At the same time he curated the exhibition "Sound Games"   with artists Frédéric Le Junter, Pierre Bastien and Arnaud Labelle-Rojoux as well as contemporary music composers.  In 2004, Lefèvre co-organized "Meanwhile in the real world" at the Sorbonne Chapell where he curated works by Franz West, Olaf Breuning, Jean-Michel Othoniel, Fabrice Gygi and Alex McQuilkin.  He curated two successive exhibitions at the Palais d'Iéna in Paris : "Pearls Of The North" (with artists Marcel Broodthaers, Atelier Van Lieshout, Joris van de Moortel, Kelly Schacht, The Plug, Anne Wenzel and Scarlett Hooft Graafland) and "Unlimited Bodies" (with Marnie Weber, Tony Oursler, Steven Claydon, Don Brown, Edward Lipski, Stephan Balkenhol, Damien Deroubaix as well as Lucy+Jorge Orta. Lefèvre's work as a curator and a writer focuses on the links between contemporary art and music cultures.  A grindcore musician himself, he is particularly interested in the imbrications between contemporary art and heavy metal music and culture. He founded C.S. (Conservative Shithead) Journal with artist Damien Deroubaix (Marcel Duchamp Prize 2009 nominee). C.S. Journal is a monographic publication each time dedicated to a visual artist in regards with its musical references in extreme metal music. The first C.S. Journal issue (with Damien Deroubaix) sorted out for the FIAC, Contemporary Art Fair in Paris in 2009 and contained contributions by legendary Mick Harris (Napalm Death, Scorn) and Jeffrey Walker (Carcass). The second issue  had been conceived by artist Elodie Lesourd and feature contributions by Fenriz (Darkthrone) and Hunter Hunt-Hendrix (Liturgy). The third issue is the work of Steven Shearer with Dieter Roelstraete (MCA Chicago) and Marky Marquis (Coroner) had been published for the 54th Venice Biennale where Steven Shearer represented Canada. Lefèvre regularly contributes to magazines and books on the topic. He is the author of an essay on this generation of artists in the book "Black-Metal : Beyond the Darkness" together with Nick Richardson and Brandon Stosuy. He also exhibited in 2009 the work of photographer Seldon Hunt (artist and author of art covers for Sunn O))), Earth (American band) and The Melvins) at Galerie du Jour - agnès b. in Paris. 