Shafi Aqeel (1930 -  September 6, 2013) was a Pakistani journalist, writer, poet, art critic and translator. He has edited and co-edited a number of magazines, and contributed columns on art and literature to the national Urdu language newspaper Daily Jang. Aqeel was born in 1930, close to Sadar Bazaar.  Aqeel did not have formal education, learning to read the Quran at mosque.  About his early life, he said, "Poverty is nothing to abhor or be ashamed of. Rather, it may work as a stimulus. I think if I hadn't been poor, I wouldn't have achieved what I have."   Aqeel served in the National Guard of Pakistan.  Whilst working for the guards, Aqeel was witness to extreme scenes of poverty including the spread of cholera amongst migrants.  Aqeel received no pay and even had to bring food from home. In later years he passed the munshi-fazil and adeeb-fazil exams.  His first article appeared in the Zamindar in 1947, and he became from Mohammad Shafi to Shafi Aqeel. It was the result of his outpouring on the then raging issue of Illam Deen Shaheed. He did not have a traditional teacher for poetry, which he initiated in 1948 but began composing in earnest in 1957. "I think anybody with 'mauzoon tabiyat' — a particular bent of mind for poetry — can judge for himself whether the metre and rhyme of his lines is correct" he said. Aqeel migrated to Karachi in January 1950 in search of a living. He worked as a sign-painter and for various magazines and newspapers in different capacities, including Majeed Lahori's Namakdan, where he worked as an assistant editor.Later he got the job of a magazine editor with a salary of Rs60 per month.   He also wrote short stories and a novel. His first collection of short stories, published in 1952, titled Bhookay (Hungry), landed him in trouble with the authorities, who declared it obscene and put the author on trial under Obscenity Law (Section 292) in Lahore while he lived in Karachi. He called the newspaper editor Maulana Abdul Majeed Salik, scholar Shorash Kaashmiri and writer and playwright Saadat Hasan Manto as his defense witnesses. The trial took two and a half years.  in 1951, Aqeel become editor of the newly published children's magazine Bhaijaan.  He was also an art critic and said to be friends with artists including Sadequain and Ahmed Pervaiz, his insght into the world of art was called "exemplary" by poet and drama director Ayub Khawar.  He edited and co-edited a number of magazines, and contributed columns on art and literature to the national Urdu-language newspaper Jang.  Aqeel wrote 30 books in Urdu and Punjabi, two of which were collections of his poetry written in Punjabi.  He wrote book reviews for the Daily Jang right up until his death, which were described by art critic Quddus Mirza writing in artnow as "frank, candid and cruel to some extent".  Aqeel received a number of awards for his work including the Dawood Literary Prize by the Pakistan Writers' Guild in 1968; the Habib Literary Prize, Pakistan Writers' Guild, 1976; the Pakistan Book council Best Book Award, 1977; The Khushal Khan Khattak Award, Govt of The Punjab, 1990; the Sir Abdul Qadir Award, International Urdu Conference, India, 1990; the Award of Services to the Cause of Freedom of the Press, Karachi Union of Journalists, 1995; the Best Book award by the Government of Punjab for Sassi Punoon-Hashim Shah, 2002; the Tamgha-e-Imtiaz, 2004; and the Lifetime Achievement Award by the Press Club, Karachi, 2005. Aqueel lived a life of celibacy, about which he said; "The charm of words, though they sit in black on paper, was so absorbing that I did not find time to look elsewhere hard enough".  Aqeel passed away at the age of 83 on September 7, 2013. He worked with The Jang newspaper for almost sixty years, and was in charge of its literary magazine.  He was buried in the cemetery in Paposhnagar.  Poet and researcher Aqeel Abbas Jafri said of Aqeel "[he] was an amiable man. He admired people with intellect. The fact that he remained associated with one organisation [Jang] for 63 years is a feat in itself. He was a selfless individual too, which is why after his brother-in-law died he decided not to get married in order to support his sister."  