Vlado Goreski – Rafik (Macedonian: Владо Ѓорески – Рафик) (born 21 April 1958, in Bitola) is a scenographer, graphic artist and designer of theatre posters. He finished secondary school in Bitola, and he graduated at the Faculty of Philosophy – Skopje, Department History of Art at 1981. He has studied at the International Centre of Graphic Arts in Ljubljana, Slovenia. In 1980 he began to volunteer, and in 1981 he was employed as painter-artist at the National Theatre Bitola. In 1982 he was employed in Institute, Museum and Gallery in Bitola as curator of contemporary art. He had his first solo exhibition in 1981, and since then he is permanently present with solo and collective exhibitions in the country and abroad. On the field of art critics he is present primarily in the graphics art, but he does not neglect the other art parts.  His artistic affirmation turns internationally as well, as jury member, selector and expert consultant: He is member of the international jury of the Graphic Biennial in Varna, Bulgaria.  He was member of the International Jury of Gallery of World Drawing in Skopje, Republic of Macedonia.  He was selector of authors, representatives of the country of Macedonia, and presenter of the collection of the International Graphic Triennial - Bitola at the Graphic Triennial in Chamalières, France.  In addition, he presents artists from other countries at this triennial.  He was expert consultant and participated in organizing the 2nd International Graphic Biennial, Čačak, Serbia, 2014. Vlado Goreski is Art Director of International Triennial of Graphic Art in Bitola, Republic of Macedonia,  and he is employed as curator of contemporary arts at the national Institute, Museum and Gallery Bitola. As painter and graphic artist he had solo exhibitions and he participated at many collective exhibitions in the country and abroad: Vlado Goreski is present on the theatre stage for many years and had many awards and positive critics for his scenographies.     His scenographies are present in many theatres in the country and abroad. Drama Theatre in Skopje  Theatre of Turkey, Skopje Macedonian National Theatre National Theatre Strumica National Theatre Prilep National Theatre Bitola Rodopa Drama Theatre, Smolyan City Theatre "Marin Drzic", Dubrovnik, Croatia His critic essays start from the local, artistic Bitola milieu, and through the Balkan space they broaden worldwide. Vlado Goreski is the author of many theatre posters for which he received numerous awards. He prepared the posters for the following theatre productions: He is rewarded with numerous awards for scenography and theatre poster design: 