Cindi Katz (born 1954 in New York City), a geographer, is Professor in Environmental Psychology, Earth and Environmental Sciences, American Studies, and Women's Studies at the CUNY Graduate Center. Her work concerns social reproduction and the production of space, place and nature; children and the environment; the consequences of global economic restructuring for everyday life; and the intertwined spatialities of homeland and home-based security. She is a member of the Children's Environmental Research Group at the Center for Human Environments and sits on the Advisory Boards of the Center for Place, Culture and Politics and the Women's Studies Certificate Program, both at the CUNY Graduate Center. She is a member of the Solidarity Board of Community Voices Heard in New York City. Katz received her BA, MA, and PhD from Clark University. She is known for her work on social reproduction and everyday life, research on children's geographies, her intervention on "minor theory", and the notion of counter-topography, which is a means of recognizing the historical and geographical specificities of particular places while inferring their analytic connections to specific material social practices.   She has published widely on these themes as well as on social theory and the politics of knowledge in edited collections and in journals such as Environment and Planning D: Society and Space, Social Text, Signs, Feminist Studies, Annals of the Association of American Geographers, Social Justice, Gender, Place, and Culture, Cultural Geographies, Antipode, and Public Culture. Katz was co–general editor of WSQ: Women's Studies Quarterly with Nancy K. Miller from 2004 to 2008. Katz and Miller were awarded the Council of Editors of Learned Journals (CELJ) 2007 Phoenix Award for Significant Editorial Achievement. This award is given to the most-improved journal that has launched an overall effort of revitalization or transformation within the previous three years. She was a founding editor of Social and Cultural Geography and the first book review editor of Gender, Place, and Culture, and has served on the editorial boards of Annals of the Association of American Geographers, Environment and Planning D: Society and Space, Social Text, Professional Geographer, and Antipode. Katz is the editor (with Janice Monk) of Full Circles: Geographies of Gender over the Life Course (Routledge 1993), Life's Work: Geographies of Social Reproduction (with Sallie A. Marston and Katharyne Mitchell) (Blackwell 2004), and The People, Space, and Space Reader (with Jen Jack Gieseking, William Mangold, Setha Low, and Susan Saegert) (Routledge 2014). Her 2004 book, Growing up Global: Economic Restructuring and Children's Everyday Lives (University of Minnesota Press), received the 2004 Meridian Book Award for Outstanding Scholarly Work in Geography from the Association of American Geographers.  In 2003–4, Katz was a fellow at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study at Harvard University, where she conducted research on US childhood as spectacle.  In 2011–12 she was the Diane Middlebrook and Carl Djerassi Visiting Professor of Gender Studies at Cambridge University and Helen Cam Visiting Fellow at Girton College.  