Gillian Rose FBA (born 1962) is a British geographer and  geographic author. She is a professor and Associate Dean at the Open University. She is best known for her 1993 book, Feminism & Geography: The Limits of Geographical Knowledge. Rose earned her BA from Cambridge and her PhD from University of London.  She taught at the University of Edinburgh before joining the faculty at the Open University. In 2017 Rose moved to the University of Oxford, where she is a professor in the School of Geography and the Environment.  Rose's current research interests lie broadly within the field of visual culture. She is interested in the ways social subjectivities and relations are pictured or made invisible in a range of media, and how those processes are embedded in power relations. She also has long-standing interest in feminist film theory and in Michel Foucault's and feminist accounts of photography in particular. This work has formed a crucial link between feminist geography and geography of media and communication. Written from a Marxist and radical feminist perspective, Feminism & Geography stimulated a series of debates within geography about the nature of how geographic knowledge is constructed.  Rose is known for defining identity as "how we make sense of ourselves" and explained how we each have different identities on different scales, for example, someone's local identity is probably different from their global identity.  She also describes sense of place as the process of infusing a place with "meaning and feeling." In recent years she has written three books that have proven less controversial: Visual Methodologies: An Introduction to Interpreting Visual Materials (2001), Deterritorialisations: Revisioning Landscape and Politics (2003), and Doing Family Photography: The Domestic, The Public and The Politics of Sentiment (Ashgate, 2012). Rose received the 2012 Murchison Award from the Royal Geographical Society for "publications on visual culture and geographic methodologies".  In 2015, she was elected a fellow of the British Academy.  