Janice Jones Monk (born Sydney, Australia, March 13, 1937) is an Australian-American feminist geographer and researcher in the South West United States, and an Emeritus Professor at the University of Arizona.  Monk was raised in Sydney, Australia and holds a B.A. (Honors) in Geography from the University of Sydney (1957).  She moved to the United States on a scholarship, taking an MA and PhD from the University of Illinois (1963, 1972). The topic of her PhD was pioneering: the social conditions of Aboriginal People in rural New South Wales, Australia, living in white majority communities (Socio-Economic Characteristics of Six Aboriginal Communities in Australia: A Comparative Ecological Study). She restudied these communities in the 2000s. Monk continued working at Illinois as Assistant Professor of Geography from 1972–1980. She moved to Tucson, AZ to join the Southwest Institute for Research on Women (SIROW) at the University of Arizona in the same year, serving as its Executive Director from 1983–2004. On retiring in 2004 she became Research Professor of Geography and Development, and then Emeritus Professor. She served as President of the Association of American Geographers, 2001–2002. Monk has made significant contributions to social and cultural geography, with a particular focus on women and minority groups in the US and Mexico and their livelihoods and health. Her work at SIROW involved several large research grants for cross-border and regional support to women's groups and minority communities, totaling $6,500,000. Her The Desert Is No Lady project charted the unwritten history of women pioneers in the US West, resulting in an award-winning book and film.     Her contributions to the  discipline of geography have included more than 100 articles in scholarly journals on the development and history of feminist geography, where she is regarded as a pioneer . Her article in 1982 with  Susan Hanson was an argument to recognize the substantial contributions of women to the male-dominated discipline, and has been cited 250 times (Feb 2018). . She has contributed more broadly to the importance of recognizing women in higher education, and the mentoring of women faculty members. The Janice Monk Service Award is awarded annually by the Geographic Perspectives on Women group of the  Association of American Geographers. A Janice Monk Lecture in Feminist Geography is also held, and published in the journal Gender, Place and Culture.  