The Contemporary Art Society is an Australian organisation formed in 1938 to promote non-representative forms of art. It has autonomous branches in each State of the Commonwealth. The Contemporary Art Society was established on 13 July 1938, by George Bell, in protest at the perceived conservatism of the dominant Australian Academy of Art, with primary and paramount objectives being the fostering and promotion of contemporary art, to further the understanding of it, and to encourage and stimulate artists. George Bell was President from 1938 to 1940. Its first exhibition was held in the National Gallery, Victoria, in June 1939, with work from all states. After disagreement over the direction of the Society, George Bell and 83 other members seceded in 1940, and John Reed was elected president. Membership of the Contemporary Art Society brought together some of Melbourne's young radical artists – Arthur Boyd, John Perceval, Harry de Hartog, Albert Tucker, Sidney Nolan, Vic O'Connor, Yosl Bergner and Noel Counihan. In 1947, after personal and political differences, C.A.S. suspended activities. John Reed revived C.A.S. in 1954, and in 1956 established the Gallery of Contemporary Art (later the Museum of Modern Art and Design of Australia), as the C.A.S. head office. In 1955 the annual subscription of ten shillings was increased to one pound. In 1956, Georges Mora was elected President. Artists donated paintings towards an inaugural fundraising exhibition in 1957, and the Victorian Government made available a grant. In 1960 Edwin Tanner was elected vice-president, 1961 David Boyd as president and John Perceval as vice-president. In 1963 C.A.S. rented premises at 9 Collins Street, Melbourne, then 1 Fitzroy St, St Kilda in 1967. From 1967 to 1987, presidents elected were: 1967 – Robert Grieve, 1972 – Heather Johnson, 1975 – Joan Gough, 1980 – Sue McDougall, 1982 – Louise Foletta, 1984 – Anthony Syndicas, 1985 – Marek Dobieki and 1987 – Jan Delaney. From 1972, members were able to rent exhibition space at Joan Gough's studio in Kew, and later her studio in South Yarra, until early 1989. In a change of direction, the Society's July 1989 Annual Exhibition, judged by Erica McGilchrist, was held in the "Old Court House Gallery" in Seymour, Victoria. In June 1989, Robert Lee became President. The C.A.S. held its Council and Members' meetings at members' homes, and local hotels. In October 1989, the Members' Exhibition was held in the "Sky" Gallery in Collingwood. In February 1990, the C.A.S. gained use of the Ola Cohn Centre in East Melbourne, as a base for its activities. Many successful artists' evenings and discussion nights were held over the next seven years. 1990 also saw exhibitions held at the State Bank Galleria and AMP Square, Melbourne.  1991: exhibitions were held at Seymour's "Old Court House Gallery" and the State Bank Galleria in Melbourne. In the same year, the C.A.S. became an incorporated body. In December, the first monthly displays of Members' works was held in the Budgeon's Case at Carringbush Library in Richmond (later renamed Richmond Library). 1992: C.A.S. Inc. revisited the AMP Square for its Annual Exhibition. It also took part in the winter Richmond Off Peak Arts Festival, with an exhibition at Café Richmond, and a 12-minute televised segment about the Society and members' works on Richmond Access Television (RAT). The 1992 CAS Inc. Members' Exhibition was held at historic Coolart, Balnarring, for five weeks. There were 12 displays of Members' works in the Budgeon's Case at the Library in Richmond. 1993: C.A.S. Inc. Annual Exhibition was held at the State Craft Collection Gallery at the Meat Market Craft Centre, North Melbourne. 1993 also saw the first 9" x 12" show (a touring exhibition of small works), which was held at the "CUB Malthouse", South Melbourne, and later at "Arts Post" in Ballarat, Vic. The 1993 Members' Exhibition was held at the Doncaster Gallery. At this show, the C.A.S. Inc. "Works on Paper" folio was introduced. Mark Burt was elected President in July, and opened the "Arts Post" exhibition. 1993 also saw the introduction of "Friends of C.A.S. Inc." for people interested in the society and the arts.There were 12 displays of Members' works in the Budgeon's Case at the Library in Richmond. 1994: C.A.S. Inc. Annual Exhibition was again held at the State Craft Collection Gallery at the Meat Market Craft Centre. A second touring small works show, the "City to City 9" x 12" Board Show", was shown at the "CUB Malthouse" Gallery, South Melbourne, and the Seymour Theatre Centre, Sydney. The 1994 Members' Exhibition travelled to Cowwarr Art Space, Cowwarr, in Gippsland. 1994 saw the implementation of CASspace, a programme for displaying contemporary art in non-traditional public venues, and the first CASspace venue for displaying members works was "Suits Cafe, Bar & Lounge", Melbourne. There were 12 displays of Members' works in the Budgeon's Case at the Library in Richmond. 1995: A second CASspace venue was found – two huge shopfronts at 546-564 Collins St – and CAS had its first exhibition in March. CASspace Collins St, and CASspace at "Suits", had regularly changing exhibitions up to July 1997. The C.A.S. Inc. Annual Exhibition was held at the Meat Market Craft Centre, and the Members' exhibition at AMP Square. The 3rd touring C.A.S. Inc. 9" x 12" exhibition, "Bridge the Gap", showed at Malthouse Theatre, then CASspace Collins St. Displays of Members' works in the Budgeon's Case at the Library in Richmond became bi-monthly, with seven displays. 1996: C.A.S. Inc. Annual Exhibition, Meat Market Craft Centre. Members' exhibition, Colonial Bank Gallery & Mully's Café, Bendigo. The 4th C.A.S. Inc. 9" x 12" exhibition, "The Shanghai Boomerang Board Show", showed at Malthouse Theatre, CASspace Collins St, and the Seymour Theatre Centre in Sydney. Six displays of Members' works were held in the Budgeon's Case at Richmond Library. 1997: C.A.S. Inc. Annual Exhibition, Meat Market Craft Centre. Members' exhibition, Chapel Gallery, Prahran. The 5th C.A.S. Inc. 9" x 12" Exhibition 1997 was the first one to be opened to non- members. It travelled from Melbourne to Sydney, Tennant Creek, Darwin, Adelaide and Hobart. six displays of Members' works were held in the Budgeon's Case at Richmond Library. 1998: Mandy Hopkins was elected President. Exhibitions for this year were: the Annual Exhibition, Meat Market, and the Members' Exhibition at "The Haven" Gallery, Williamstown. From September 1998, this venue was also a new C.A.S. Inc. exhibition space – C.A.S. Inc. at "The Haven" – from 1998 to 1999. CASspace 546-564 Collins St also became available again, from October 1998 to December 2001. There were six displays of Members' works in the Budgeon's Case at Richmond Library. 1999: Robert Lee was elected President. Exhibitions were: Annual Exhibition, "Windows 99", May, and Members' Exhibition, November–December, both at CASspace 546-564 Collins St, Melbourne. The C.A.S. Inc. 9" x 12" National Touring Exhibition of Contemporary Art 1999–2000 was launched at Steps Gallery, Carlton, July 1999, then began its travels around Australia to Perth, Adelaide, Hobart, Gippsland, Sydney, Grafton, Cairns and Tennant Creek (NT), returning to Melbourne in July 2000 for a final showing at CASspace 546-564 Collins St. There were six displays of Members' works in the Budgeon's Case at Richmond Library. 2000: Annual Exhibition, May–June, at Artistcare Gallery, South Melbourne; Members' Exhibition, November–December, at CASspace 546-564 Collins St, Melbourne; and "I said Pet ... Show!" also at CASspace 546-564 Collins St, Melbourne. A new venue for regularly changing CAS group shows was found: Commercial Bedding Supplies in Church St, Richmond, from December 2000 to August 2004. There were six displays of Members' works in the Budgeon's Case at Richmond Library. 2001: Annual Exhibition in March at Eckersley's Open Space Gallery, Melbourne, and Members' Exhibition, November–December, at CASspace 546-564 Collins St, Melbourne, followed by "I said Pet ... Show!", December, at the same venue. There were also regular changing CAS group shows at Commercial Bedding Supplies in Richmond, and six displays of Members' works in the Budgeon's Case at Richmond Library. 2002: C.A.S. Inc. Annual Exhibition, June, at Eckersley's Open Space Gallery, Melbourne; C.A.S. Inc. Members; Exhibition, November, at Artistcare Gallery, South Melbourne; and The Collectors' Exhibition, December, at Steps Gallery, Carlton. There were also regularly changing CAS group shows at Commercial Bedding Supplies in Richmond. There were six displays of Members' works in the Budgeon's Case at Richmond Library. 2003: Annual Exhibition, March–April, at Eckersley's Open Space Gallery, Melbourne; and Members' Exhibition, October, at Clifton Creative Arts Centre, Richmond. There were also regularly changing CAS group shows at Commercial Bedding Supplies in Richmond. There were six displays of Members' works in the Budgeon's Case at Richmond Library. 2004: The Collectors' Exhibition at Steps Gallery, Carlton in February; Annual Exhibition, May, at Eckersley's Open Space Gallery, Melbourne; Members' Exhibition, October, at Clifton Creative Arts Centre, Church Street, Richmond, and the inaugural outdoor art show on the banks of the Yarra river, "Art At Burnley Harbour", December, at Burnley Harbour in Richmond. There were also regular changing CAS group shows at Commercial Bedding Supplies in Richmond, ending in the 10th and final show in August. There were five displays of Members' works in the Budgeon's Case at Richmond Library. In January, the first bi-monthly display of Members' works was held at Fitzroy Library, on wall spaces and in wall mounted display cases. 2005: the 3rd Collectors' Exhibition (February) at Steps Gallery, Carlton; the Annual Members' Exhibition at Eckersley's Open Space Gallery in Melbourne's CBD (August); a CAS exhibition in October as part of the Melbourne Affordable Art Fair in April; and "Art At Burnley Harbour" on the Yarra River in Richmond in December. A new venue for regularly changing CAS group shows was found: Moorwood Contemporary Furniture showrooms, Johnston St, Fitzroy; the first show was held September 2005 – January 2006. There were six displays of Members' works in the Budgeon's Case at Richmond Library, and five at Fitzroy Library. 2006: a CAS exhibition with the theme "A Contemporary Interpretation of Nature" held in February – March, as part of the first Herring Island Summer Arts Festival, Herring Island, in collaboration with Parks Victoria; The Collectors' Exhibition, May, at Steps Gallery, Carlton; Annual Exhibition, September, at Eckersley's Open Space Gallery, Melbourne; a CAS exhibition in October as part of the Kyneton Contemporary Art Fair 2006; and Art At Burnley Harbour, December, in Richmond. There were also three group shows of members' works at Moorwood Contemporary Furniture showrooms, Fitzroy. There were six displays of Members' works in the Budgeon's Case at Richmond Library, and six at Fitzroy Library. 2007: "Contemporary by Nature" in March, the 2nd CAS exhibition as part of the Herring Island Summer Arts Festival, Herring Island; The Collectors' Exhibition, May, at Steps Gallery, Carlton; the first exhibition of wearable art "Brooch – the Subject" held at the Fitzroy Library; C.A.S. Inc. Annual Exhibition 2007, September, at Eckersley's Open Space Gallery, Melbourne; and "Art At Burnley Harbour", December, at Richmond. There were also three group shows of members' works at Moorwood Contemporary Furniture showrooms, Fitzroy. There were six displays of Members' works in the Budgeon's Case at Richmond Library, and CAS was also allowed wall space in the main library. There were four displays of Members' works at Fitzroy Library. 2008: "Contemporary by Nature" in March, the 3rd CAS exhibition as part of the Herring Island Summer Arts Festival, Herring Island; the 6th Collectors' Exhibition, May, at Steps Gallery, Carlton; the second exhibition of wearable art "Brooch – The Subject" held at the Fitzroy Library; the Society's 70th Anniversary C.A.S. Inc. Annual Exhibition 2008, September, at Fortyfivedownstairs, Melbourne; "Art At Burnley Harbour", December, in Richmond. There was also the final exhibition of CAS members' works at Moorwood Contemporary Furniture showrooms, Fitzroy, ending in May. There were five displays of Members' works at Richmond Library, and five at Fitzroy Library. 2009: "Contemporary by Nature" in March, the 4th CAS exhibition as part of the Herring Island Summer Arts Festival, Herring Island; The Collectors' Exhibition, May, at Steps Gallery, Carlton; "Brooch – The Subject ... III", the 3rd special exhibition of Wearable Art and the first to be opened to artists Australia wide; August – October at Fitzroy Library, Fitzroy; C.A.S. Inc. Annual Exhibition 2009, September, at Eckersleys Open Space Gallery, Melbourne; and Art At Burnley Harbour, December, in Richmond. There were six displays of Members' works at Richmond Library, and three at Fitzroy Library. 2010: "Contemporary by Nature" in February – March, the 5th CAS exhibition as part of the Herring Island Summer Arts Festival, Herring Island; CAS @ Toorak – South Yarra Library, Toorak Rd, South Yarra in April; "Brooch – The Subject ... IV", the 4th special exhibition of Wearable Art and the 2nd to be opened to artists Australia wide, August – October at Fitzroy Library, Fitzroy; the C.A.S. Inc. Annual Exhibition 2010, September, at Gallery 314, 314 Church St, Richmond, Melbourne; and its 7th "Art At Burnley Harbour", December, Burnley Harbour, Richmond. There were five displays of Members' works at Richmond Library, and four at Fitzroy Library. 2011: A new venue was found for displaying Members' works – Decoy Café Bar Gallery, 303 Exhibition St, Melbourne – with bi- monthly changing solo and group exhibitions. The first exhibition at Decoy was a solo show in February – March, followed alternately by three group shows (CAS Contemporary Showcases), and two solo shows. 2011 exhibitions were: "Contemporary by Nature" in February – March, as part of the Herring Island Summer Arts Festival, Herring Island; C.A.S. Inc. Annual Exhibition 2011, June – July, at Glen Eira City Council Gallery, Caulfield; The Collectors' Exhibition, September, at Gallery 314, Richmond; and "Art At Burnley Harbour", December, in Richmond. There were seven displays of Members; works at Richmond Library, and three at Fitzroy Library. 2012: "Contemporary by Nature" in February – March, the 7th CAS exhibition as part of the Herring Island Summer Arts Festival, Herring Island, followed by "The Brooch Show 2012", May – June at Fitzroy Library, then July – August at Toorak – South Yarra Library. From July, there was a new venue for displaying Members' works: CAS was invited by Beau Monde International, a boutique hotel in Doncaster East, to display Members' works in their restaurant, foyer and hotel suites; the CAS Inc. Annual Exhibition 2012, September, at Gallery 314, 314 Church St, Richmond; and its 9th "Art At Burnley Harbour", November – December, in Richmond. At Decoy Café Bar Gallery in Melbourne, there were six bi-monthly changing solo and group exhibitions. There were six displays of Members' works at Richmond Library, and two at Fitzroy Library. 2013: "Contemporary by Nature" in February – March, the 8th CAS exhibition as part of the Herring Island Summer Arts Festival, Herring Island, followed by "The Brooch Show 2013", May – June at Fitzroy Library, then July – August at Toorak – South Yarra Library. Members' works were displayed at Beau Monde International Hotel in Doncaster East: the CAS Inc. Annual Exhibition 2013, September, at Gallery 314, 314 Church St, Richmond. Decoy Café Bar Gallery in Melbourne, continued to exhibit the work of CAS members, including one solo and three group exhibitions – with the shows changing quarterly. There were five displays of Members' works at Richmond Library (including the use of the wall in the main library up to 31 December), and two at Fitzroy Library (the last one held in November – December). 2014: "Contemporary by Nature" in February – March, and the "A4 Art Australia" in April were part of the 9th year of CAS's participation in the Herring Island Summer Arts Festival, Herring Island, followed by "The National Australian Brooch Show 2014", April – May at the Fitzroy Library, then June – July at the Toorak – South Yarra Library. Members' works continued to be displayed at Beau Monde International Hotel in Doncaster East. The CAS Inc. Annual Exhibition 2014 – September, at Gallery 314, 314 Church St, Richmond. Decoy Café Bar Gallery, Melbourne, continues to exhibit the work of CAS members, including one solo and three group exhibitions – CAS Contemporary Showcase – with the shows changing quarterly. "Art At Burnley Harbour" is planned for later in 2014. CAS members continue to exhibit in the Budgeon's Case at Richmond Library. The Contemporary Art Society of Victoria Inc. holds at least two major exhibitions each year, also occasional special exhibitions. CAS also provides additional exhibition opportunities, such as displays of Members' works at Decoy Café Bar Gallery, and Beau Monde International Hotel. The Society holds occasional activities, including dinners and social events. It is a non-profit organisation, run by artists, for artists and those interested in the arts.  Founded 1939 with Rah Fizelle president and Peter Bellew secretary. The NSW CAS's founding members promoted abstraction as a revolutionary art form and positioned the Society as an oppositional artist's group dedicated to the production of experimental art, attacking the values of the mainstream artist's groups such as the Society of Artists. The NSW branch had its first exhibition in Sydney in 1940. The Society purportedly differed from other local societies, in that it "concentrates on unconventional and experimental work".  In 1954, as a protest against the Archibald Prize, which it regarded as being biased, boring and of a low standard, the Contemporary Art Society initiated its own awards, with Michael Kmit the first nominated winner.  Founded 1942  with Max Harris as president and secretary, and Ivor Francis as vice-president. Its first exhibition was held in the South Australian Society of Arts gallery in October 1943,  though an anti-Fascist exhibition had been held in Adelaide by the older branches in January that year.   Dorrit Black, Ivor Francis, Lizette Kahlhagen, Victor Alolffsen, Shirley Adams, Jacqueline Hick, Ruby Henty, and Douglas Roberts were charter members. Founded 1963 with Dr. Bernard Schaffer president and Ian Still secretary. Founded 1963 with Barclay Erskine president and Rosamund McCulloch secretary. Founded 1966 with Guy Grey-Smith as President. 