The puquios are an old system of subterranean aqueducts near the city of Nazca, Peru. Out of 36 puquios, most are still functioning and even relied upon to bring fresh water into the arid desert.  The puquios have never been fully mapped, nor have any been excavated.  Research regarding when the aqueducts were actually built has led to conflicting results, in part due to a general lack of historical references both before and after the time of the Spanish Empire. Some archaeologists contend that they were built by Pre-Columbian Nazca architects around 540 CE in response to two prolonged droughts during that time, while others doubt that. The first historical writing of their existence was in 1605 by Reginaldo de Lizárraga, which some have contended could indicate that they were built by the Spanish.  The available Spanish texts, however, do not mention a project to build the puquios,  nor do the early Spanish texts describe water systems having already been in place when they conquered the territory.  In their book Irrigation and Society in the Peruvian Desert, Katharina Schreiber and Josue Lancho Rojas explore puquios and show evidence that puquios were constructed by a pre-Hispanic civilization. Monica Barnes and David Fleming on the other hand, argue that Schreiber and Rojas misinterpreted evidence, presumably ignoring easier explanations for a construction in colonial times.  Some investigations  have been performed to determine the age of puquios by using radiocarbon dating of organic materials (Bonn-1972) and accelerator mass spectrometer to date rock varnishes. With this technique, some puquios were dated to around the 6th or 7th century CE.  Rosa Lasaponara, Nicola Masini, and their team of the Italian CNR (National Research Council), in cooperation with the archaeologist Giuseppe Orefici, studied the puquios using satellite imaging.  They found clear evidence that the puquio system must previously have been much more developed than it appears today. A series of canals was used to bring to the surface  water from underground aquifers  and channel it to the areas where it was needed. Any excess was stored in surface reservoirs. To help keep the water flowing, chimneys were excavated above the canals in the shape of corkscrewing funnels. These funnels admitted wind into the canals, and the difference in atmospheric pressure along the canal length forced the water through the system and eventually to the desired destination. Satellite imagery also revealed additional previously unknown puquios in the Nasca drainage basin.   Coordinates: 14°49′36″S 74°54′35″W﻿ / ﻿14.826618°S 74.909607°W﻿ / -14.826618; -74.909607﻿ (Aqueductos de Cantayoc) 