This is a list of cities and towns whose names were officially changed at one or more points in history. It does not include gradual changes in spelling that took place over long periods of time. see also: Geographical renaming and Names of European cities in different languages. See List of renamed cities in Armenia See List of renamed cities in Azerbaijan See List of renamed cities in Belarus On January 1, 2002, surrounding towns were incorporated into the existing city. The "New Quebec city" includes 11 former municipalities: Sainte-Foy, Beauport, Charlesbourg, Sillery, Loretteville, Val-Bélair, Cap-Rouge, Saint-Émile, Vanier, and Lac-Saint-Charles, in addition to the original Quebec City. †Name change in English due to replacement of outdated methods such as the postal romanization with the pinyin method. The Chinese name is unchanged. †Name change in  English due to replacement of outdated romanization methods with the Pinyin Romanization Method. Chinese name unchanged. A number of places became towns/cities under a Belgian colonial name, or rather two: in Dutch (often ending in -stad) and French (often ending in -ville, also meaning 'town') (the Belgian official languages), but were later renamed in native languages, such as : Many cities had Ancient Egyptian, Greek, and Latin names See List of renamed cities in Estonia Most cities had an ancient name, usually in Latin, often of older Celtic origin See List of renamed cities in Georgia From history, most Italian cities have Latin names, some have Greek or Etruscan names. See List of renamed cities in Kazakhstan See List of renamed cities in Kyrgyzstan See List of renamed cities in Latvia See also List of cities and towns in East Prussia See List of renamed cities in Lithuania See List of renamed cities in Moldova Villages CHARSADDA Pushkalavati †Name change in English due to replacement of outdated romanization methods with the Pinyin Romanization Method. Chinese name unchanged. Although many name changes have taken place officially since 1994, the previous names are still common in use, especially by the white communities (* means that all or some road signs still print the former name). This list doesn't include unofficially or proposed name changes such as Pretoria to Tshwane. See List of renamed cities in Tajikistan Many cities were founded by the Ancient Anatolians and Greeks or their contemporaries, and renamed as Latinized by the Romans, and later again by Muslim Turks (in most cases Turkified speech) See List of renamed cities in Turkmenistan See List of renamed cities in Ukraine Brighton(town) and Hove (town) to (the city of) Brighton and Hove (2001) Torrington   See List of renamed cities in Uzbekistan (incomplete)  