 This article is a list of major pharmacies (also known as chemists and drugstores) by country. Pharmacies in Australia are mostly independently owned by pharmacists, often operated as franchises of retail brands offered by the three major pharmaceutical wholesalers in Australia: Australian Pharmaceutical Industries (API) and Sigma Pharmaceuticals. A minority of pharmacies are owned by friendly societies, particularly in Victoria and South Australia. The key players in the drugstore industry in China are: In Denmark, all pharmacies are owned by the Association of Danish Pharmacies and controlled by the state. There are two pharmaceutically trained groups with a higher education in the Danish pharmacies: pharmaconomists (Danish: farmakonomer) and pharmacists (farmaceuter). There are also pharmacy technicians (defektricer) who have a vocational training and unskilled laborers/workers (servicemedarbejdere) who perform manual labour. Germany is the biggest pharmacy market in Europe with €35 billion, or $46 billion, of revenue each year. In Germany, pharmacies are known as "apotheken". Like France, they are all independently-owned by pharmacists, and like France, there are no pharmacy chains. In hindsight to consumer protection, German law bans chains of apotheken, but generally allows self-employed pharmacists to individually operate a maximum of four outlets, all of which must be in close proximity. Other types of retailing are strongly opposed to offering the same types of services as an apotheke. These retailers would not have the necessary expertise to provide proper patient care and this has been upheld by the European Court of Justice in its ruling of May 2009. Traditionally in Germany, drugs were not discountable and the entire trade with pharmaceuticals was limited to the single channel of the Apotheke. In 2004 however, the health care reform law GMG (de:GKV-Modernisierungsgesetz) allowed free pricing of OTC products. This led to a significant decrease of OTC prices in competitive areas. Internet and mail-order purchasing of drugs has also become an alternative, but only accounts for about 5% of German pharmaceutical trade. Online pharmacy DocMorris has been introducing the first licence based chain pharmacy model in Germany in 2007 (as opposed to the current independent pharmacy model). Alongside their brand, they are offering standardized services in their pharmacies, whilst they do not operate or own them. They also offer discounted OTC products. Besides this model, German pharmacies are for the most part organized in wholesaler-based cooperations like LINDA, gesund leben-Apotheken (de), meine apotheke (de) or vivesco. These cooperations are offering discounts in purchasing and support e.g. in marketing. Pharmacies in the Netherlands are mostly independently owned by pharmacists. In 2011, 31% of all pharmacies were part of one of the following chains:  Many pharmacy chains in the United States are owned and operated by regional supermarket brands, or national big-box store brands such as Walmart. These pharmacies are located within their larger chain stores. The three largest free-standing pharmacy chains in the United States are Walgreens, CVS, and Rite Aid. Although not a pharmacy chain, many of the fairly ubiquitous Costco stores include a pharmacy and - in California at least - the pharmacy is available to non-members. 