In the majority of nations, including all industrialised nations except the United States, advances in employee relations have seen the introduction of statutory agreements for minimum employee leave from work—that is the amount of entitlement to paid vacation and public holidays. Several companies will offer contractually more time, depending on the sector. Companies and the law may also differ as to whether public holidays are counted as part of the minimum leave. Disparities in national minimums are still subject of debate regarding work-life balance and perceived differences between nations. These numbers usually refer to full-time employment, part-time workers may get a reduced number of days. In most countries, public holidays are paid and usually not considered part of the annual leave. Also, in most countries there are additional paid leave benefits such as parental leave and sick leave that are not listed here. For the purpose of comparison, the paid vacation column has been normalised to a five-day workweek. For instance, a calendar day is divided by seven and multiplied by five, while a six-day workweek day is divided by six and multiplied by five. The paid vacation column gives the minimum mandatory vacation days for an employee who has one year of service with the same employer. In some countries, the public holidays are strictly bound to the calendar dates, so if they happen on Saturday or Sunday, they are "lost" for the particular year. As a result, the average number of paid extra free days can be lower than the table specifies. For example, in the Czech Republic, where the official number of paid public holidays is 13, the average number of public holidays during working days in the years 2000–2016 was only 8.9 days. In other countries, the public holidays which happen on Saturday or Sunday are moved to the nearest Monday or Friday such as in the United Kingdom or the United States. (five-day workweek) Both Republic of Srpska and Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina have minimum of 20 working days while number of additional days varies. In District Brčko workers have 18 days. In Republic of Srpska workers have additional 1 day for every 5 years of work at same employee and additional 2 days for religious holidays. In Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina workers have 2 paid days for religious holidays and, optionally, 2 unpaid days for religious holidays. Number of public holidays also varies in all 3 autonomous parts. In Republic of Srpska around 11, in Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina around 10 and in Brčko District around 9. Number of public holidays varies based on predominant religious group in entity. Note that Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of 10 cantons of which any can have their own laws that can affect number of public holidays. 