This list is of heritage registers, inventories of cultural properties, natural and man-made, tangible and intangible, movable and immovable, that are deemed to be of sufficient heritage value to be separately identified and recorded. In many instances the pages linked below have as their primary focus the registered assets rather than the registers themselves. Where a particular article or set of articles on a foreign-language Wikipedia provides fuller coverage, a link is provided.  Albania: List of Religious Cultural Monuments of Albania  Andorra: Bé d'interès cultural, as maintained by Patrimoni Cultural = Cultural Heritage of Andorra; (in Catalan) Llista de monuments d'Andorra  Argentina: National Historic Monuments of Argentina; (in French) Monument historique national (Argentine)  Australia: Heritage registers in Australia  Austria: Denkmalgeschütztes Objekt, as maintained by the Bundesdenkmalamt  Belarus: Cultural Properties of Belarus  Belgium: National Heritage Site (Belgium); (in Dutch) Lijsten van cultureel erfgoed  Bosnia: List of National Monuments of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as maintained by the Commission to preserve national monuments of Bosnia and Herzegovina;   Brazil: List of National Historic Heritage of Brazil, as maintained by the National Institute of Historic and Artistic Heritage;  (in Portuguese) Listas de patrimônio do Brasil  Burma: Yangon City Heritage List   Chile: National Monuments of Chile, as maintained by the Consejo de Monumentos Nacionales   China: Major Historical and Cultural Site Protected at the National Level (全国重点文物保护单位), designated by State Administration of Cultural Heritage Sites Protected at the City Level of Hangzhou are districts, artifacts or buildings legally declared to be "protected". According to the "Regularations of historic districts and historic buildings in Hangzhou" effectivated from 1 January 2005, historic buildings are those artifacts or districts that have lasted more than 50 years, and of significant values for history, science, and art study. In Hangzhou, declaring a historic house requires consulting the urban planning administration bureau, and the real estate administration bureau. As of 31 June 2011, there are 287 declared historic houses in Hangzhou, proclaimed as 5 batches.  In the near future, it is going to issue the sixth batch which includes 51 historic houses.  Colombia: National Monuments of Colombia; (in Spanish) Monumentos Nacionales de Colombia  Indonesia: Cultural Properties of Indonesia  Ireland: In the Republic of Ireland, some registers are maintained by sections of the Department of Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht (The National Monuments Service and National Inventory of Architectural Heritage). Others are maintained by the "planning authority": the local council for the county, city, borough, or town where the monument or building is sited.  Japan: Cultural Properties of Japan, as maintained by the Agency for Cultural Affairs; see also National Treasures of Japan  North Korea: National Treasures of North Korea, Cultural assets of North Korea  South Korea: National Treasures of South Korea, Important Intangible Cultural Properties of Korea, as maintained by Cultural Heritage Administration The list is maintained by Service des sites et monuments nationaux, a Government agency. The latest version is available here  . See Lëscht vun de klasséierte Monumenter on lb-wiki and commons:Category:Cultural heritage monuments in Luxembourg  Macedonia: (in French) Patrimoine culturel de la République de Macédoine  Malta: National Inventory of the Cultural Property of the Maltese Islands   Mexico: National Monuments of Mexico   Morocco: Historic Monuments and Sites of Morocco  Mozambique: Cultural Properties of Mozambique  Namibia: National Monuments, as maintained by the National Heritage Council of Namibia;  (in German) Liste der Nationalen Denkmäler in Namibia  Paraguay: El Inventario Nacional de Bienes Culturales, under creation by the Dirección de Catalogación del Patrimonio Cultural   Philippines: Cultural Properties of the Philippines  Poland: A list of objects of cultural heritage in Poland (zabytki) is maintained by the National Heritage Board of Poland. It is primarily composed of objects in the register of objects of cultural heritage (rejestr zabytków), objects with the status of Historical Monument (pomnik historii), objects classified as a cultural park (park kulturowy).   Portugal: National Monuments, as maintained by IGESPAR; (in Portuguese) Lista de património edificado em Portugal  Russia: Russian cultural heritage register; (in Russian) Списки объектов культурного наследия России; Historical Cities of Russia  Senegal: Sites et Monuments historiques;  (in French) Liste des monuments et sites historiques au Sénégal Cultural Heritage of Serbia (see also: World Heritage Sites in Serbia) The register is divided into twelve categories:  Sierra Leone: National Monuments of Sierra Leone, as maintained by the Ancient Monuments and Relics Commission   Slovakia: Cultural Heritage Monuments of Slovakia; (in German) Liste (Kulturdenkmale in der Slowakei)  United Kingdom Heritage, culture, planning and conservation are devolved issues in the United Kingdom, and are dealt with by the governments of the constituent countries. England, which does not have its own devolved government, is covered by an agency of the United Kingdom government. See also Historic Environment Record (HERs) and Sites and Monuments Record (SMRs) maintained usually at a local government level (archaeological trusts in Wales). In the United States, a site is only listed on the National Register of Historic Places on recommendation from the state historic preservation offices in the relevant state. Some states maintain their own state-level historic registers, although in some U.S. states all properties on the state register duplicate the National Register listing. The National Register listing in itself confers no protection to a historic property but may qualify the site for matching grants for historic restoration. Local historic designations in many municipalities provide some limited protection against demolition of historic landmarks.  Venezuela: Inventario de monumentos, as maintained by the Instituto de Patrimonio Cultural   Zambia: Monuments and Historic Sites of Zambia  Zimbabwe: National Monuments of Zimbabwe 