This page is a list of Christmas dishes as eaten around the world. These food items are traditionally eaten at or associated with the Christmas season. Panettone (known locally as pan dulce) and turrón are the most popular Christmas sweets in Argentina regardless of socioeconomic status, with 76% of Argentines choosing the former and 59% the latter in 2015.  Mantecol, a typical peanut dessert, is also popular, being favored by 49% of Argentines in the same survey.  Sparkling wines, ciders and frizzantes concentrate most of their sales during Christmas season; sparkling wine is mostly consumed by small families with high and medium socioeconomic status living in Greater Buenos Aires and the country's largest cities, while cider and frizzantes are popular among lower classes and large families.  Colombian Christmas dishes are mostly sweets and desserts. Some of the most popular dishes include: The traditional meal (served as dinner on Christmas Eve) consists of either fish soup, mushroom soup, cabbage soup, lentil soup, pea soup and fried fish (traditionally carp) served with potato salad. Cabbage soup almost always contains mushrooms and may contain smoked meat or sausage. The recipe for potato salad differs slightly among every Czech or Slovak family. The main ingredients are: potato cooked with jacket, canned peas, onions, cooked carrots, parsley and celery, pickled gherkins, cooked eggs and mayonnaise. Some families may add grated apples or salami. The best potato salad is prepared a day before Christmas Eve so that all the ingredients can "mellow" for a day. The Christmas dinner should be the first food consumed that day. Those who do not break the Christmas shrove are believed to be able to see a golden pig. Before the Christmas holidays, many kinds of sweet biscuits are prepared. The Christmas cookies are then served during the whole Christmas period and exchanged among friends and neighbours. Very popular is also a preparation of small ginger breads garnished by sugar icing. Drinks: Desserts: Christmas smorgasbord from Finland, "Joulupöytä", (translated "Yule table"), a traditional display of Christmas food  served at Christmas in Finland, similar to the Swedish smörgåsbord, including: Other meat dishes could be: Desserts: Drinks: Christianity is not a major religion of India, but Christians in India celebrate Christmas by enjoying several dishes, such as Allahabadi cake, Candy canes,Plum cakes etc. Some of the popular dishes eaten during Christmas in India are: Church services are also held in churches throughout India, in which Christmas dinners are held which include dishes such as Allahabadi cake, candy canes, christmas cookies 12 dishes are served as a reminder of the 12 Apostles on Christmas Eve, 24 December. Polish people don't eat meat on this day, instead they choose from variety of fish and vegetable dishes. The meal begins when the first star is seen. Drinks: Dessert: In Trinidad and Tobago traditional meals consists of generous helpings of baked ham, pastelles, black fruit cake, sweet breads, along with traditional drinks such as sorrel, ginger beer, and ponche de crème. The ham is the main item on the Christmas menu with sorrel to accompany it.   Christmas ham  Sorrel  Pastelles also known as Hallacas  Ponche de crème a version of eggnog Black Cake  Sweetbread Orthodox and Roman Catholic Christians in Ukraine traditionally have 2 Christmas dinners. The first one is a Lent Dinner, it is held on the January 6 and should consist of meatless dishes. The second one is a Christmas Festive dinner held on January 7, when the meat dishes and alcohol are already allowed on the table. The dinner normally has 12 dishes which represent Jesus's 12 disciples. Both Christmas dinners traditionally include a number of authentic Ukrainian dishes, which have over thousand-year history and date back to pagan times. In the United Kingdom, what is now regarded as the traditional meal consists of roast turkey with cranberry sauce, served with roast potatoes and parsnips and other vegetables, followed by Christmas pudding, a heavy steamed pudding made with dried fruit, suet, and very little flour.  Other roast meats may be served, and in the nineteenth century the traditional roast was goose.  The same carries over to Ireland with some variations. See also: Thanksgiving (the dishes tend to be similar) 