This is a list of fighter aces in World War II, ordered by national origin. For a shorter list with rank and kill count see List of top World War II aces. By nationality: There were 103 air aces from Australia during the Second World War.  For more information, see List of World War II aces from Australia. There were 51 air aces from Austria during the Second World War.  For more information, see List of World War II aces from Austria. There were 14 air aces from Belgium during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from Belgium. There were 2 air aces from Bulgaria during the Second World War.  For more information, see List of World War II aces from Bulgaria. There were 152 air aces from Canada during the Second World War.  For more information, see List of World War II aces from Canada. There were more than 25 fighter aces from the China during the Second World War, although not all flew for the Allies. For more information, see List of World War II aces from China. From 1941–45, the portion of Yugoslavia occupied by the Axis powers existed as the Independent State of Croatia, a puppet state of Nazi Germany. There were 25 fighter aces from the Independent State of Croatia during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from Croatia. There were more than 30 aces from Czechoslovakia during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from Czechoslovakia There were 3 fighter aces from Denmark during the Second World War. For further information, see List of World War II aces from Denmark. There were 96 fighter aces from Finland during the Second World War.  For further information, see List of World War II aces from Finland There were more than 180 aces from France during the Second World War.  See List of World War II aces from France and List of Vichy France flying aces. There were over 2,500 aces from Germany during the Second World War.  For a detailed list of 890 (updated as of October 2017) of these aces, see List of World War II aces from Germany There were 7 air aces from Greece during the Second World War. There were 39 air aces from Hungary during the Second World War. For further information, see List of World War II aces from Hungary. There were more than 13 aces from Ireland during the Second World War.   For more information, see List of World War II aces from Ireland. There were more than 166 aces from Italy during the Second World War.  For further information, see List of World War II aces from Italy There were approximately 335 aces from Japan during the Second World War.  For a complete list, see List of World War II aces from Japan There were more than 80 aces from New Zealand during the Second World War.  For a complete list, see List of World War II aces from New Zealand. There were 20 aces from Norway during the Second World War. For a complete list, see List of World War II aces from Norway. There were only two known aces of the Philippines during the Second World War. They are Jesús A. Villamor and César Basa. There were 91 air aces from Poland during the Second World War. For further information, see List of World War II aces from Poland. There were 11 air aces from Rhodesia during the Second World War. For further information, see List of World War II aces from Rhodesia. There were 51 aces from Romania during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II flying aces from Romania. There were 19 air aces from Slovakia during the Second World War. For further information, see List of World War II aces from Slovakia. See also List of World War II aces from Czechoslovakia There were 59 aces from South Africa during the Second World War.  For more information, see List of World War II aces from South Africa Soviet Union produced the highest scoring allied aces during the Second World War.  For more information, see List of World War II aces from the Soviet Union There were 20 air aces from Spain during the Second World War.  For more information, see List of World War II aces from Spain. There were several hundred aces from the United Kingdom during the Second World War. There were 1297 aces from the United States during the Second World War. For more information, see List of World War II aces from the United States 