The Quality of Nationality Index (QNI) ranks the quality of nationalities based on internal and external factors.  Each nationality receives an aggregated score based on their economic strength, human development, ease of travel, political stability and overseas employment opportunities for their citizens. The data is collected from various sources with quantifiable data.  The QNI was created Dimitry Kochenov, an expert in citizenship, nationality and immigration law and constitutional law of the European Union at the University of Groningen and Christian Kälin, chairman of Henley & Partners. Being a national of any country is a random consequence of birth, showing no correlation with a person’s achievements, ideas, feelings, and desires.  This phenomenon has also been described as ‘a birthright lottery’ by Professor of Law, Political Science, and Global Affairs Ayelet Shachar at the University of Toronto.  At the same time, the QNI shows that nationalities diverge greatly in their practical value which often does not run parallel with the characteristics of the countries with which nationalities are associated, such as the economic power or the level of human development of the countries. Applying the methodology of the QNI, some economically strong countries have relatively unattractive nationalities. For example, the nationality of India shares the 106th place with the nationality of Senegal (2017 data). By contrast, some small countries have nationalities of larger value, such as those of Lithuania and Romania, which are ranked 22nd and 25th respectively in the QNI 2017. The QNI is frequently cited in media such as Forbes, Bloomberg, The Enquirer and Business Standard.     The QNI takes a quantitative approach to determine the value of a nationality based on seven parameters, comprising both internal value (40%) and external value (60%). Three parameters reflect the internal value of a nationality: human development (15%), economic strength (15%), and peace and stability (10%). Four parameters reflect the external value of a nationality: diversity of travel freedom (15%), weight of travel freedom (15%), diversity of settlement freedom (15%), and weight of settlement freedom (15%).  Virtually all nationalities of the world as well as EU citizenship are included in the ranking. Not included are fantasy passports and nationalities of non-recognized states such as Abkhazia, South-Ossetia, and Somaliland.  All nationalities receive a score from 0% to 100%.  The data is aggregated from various objective sources. The internal factors present the quality of life and opportunities for personal growth within the country of origin of the holder of nationality.  Human Development is measured using the United Nations Development Programme Human Development Index (Human Development Index). The HDI was developed by Pakistani economist Mahbub ul Haq and Indian economist Amartya Sen which was further used to measure the country's development by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). The index is based on the human development approach, developed by Ul Haq, often framed in terms of whether people are able to "be" and "do" desirable things in life. Examples include—Being: well fed, sheltered, healthy; Doings: work, education, voting, participating in community life. Consequently, this index centres on three different human development areas: life expectancy at birth, expected years of education, and standard of living. The QNI normalizes the HDI scores of the countries with which a particular nationality is associated to a 0-15% scale. The nationality of the highest-scoring country on the HDI gets the full 15% score, with the other nationalities being ranked proportionately.   Economic Strength of a nationality is based on the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) at Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) of the country with which the nationality is associated. It is calculated from the data that is provided by the International Monetary Fund. If there is no reliable Purchasing Power Parity data available, non-PPP data from the World Bank   are used.  GDP at PPP scores are normalized to a 0-15% scale, the largest economy receiving the full 15% score. Peace and Stability are calculated using data by the annual Global Peace Index (GPI). The index is published by the Institute for Economics and Peace.  Peace and Stability accounts for 10% of the total QNI General Ranking scale. Also here the nationality which is associated with the most peaceful country receives the full 10%. The other nationalities are ranked proportionately on the basis of the ranking scale used by the GPI.  External factors identify the quality of opportunities and diversity the holder of a nationality can pursue outside the country of origin.  Diversity of Travel Freedom is based on how many destinations the holder of a particular nationality can visit without a visa or with a visa-on-arrival   for short-term tourist or business purposes. The data is sourced from the International Air Transport Association IATA. The diversity of Travel Freedom accounts for 15% of the total QNI General Ranking scale. Weight of Travel Freedom evaluates the quality of the travel freedom the holder of a nationality has without a visa or with a visa-on-arrival for short term visits. Unlike Diversity of Travel Freedom, which looks only at the number of destinations, Weight of Travel Freedom looks at the value of having visa-free or visa-on-arrival travel access to a particular country. This value is based on the Human Development (50%) and Economic Strength (50%) of each country destination.  This is based on the presumption that for most people, having visa-free access to the United States of America is of higher value than having visa-free access to Sudan, for example. Weight of Travel Freedom accounts for 15% of the total QNI General Ranking scale.  Diversity of Settlement Freedom is based on the number of foreign countries in which the holder of a nationality can freely settle for at least 360 days with automatic access to work there.  Diversity of Settlement Freedom accounts for 15% of the total QNI General Ranking scale. The most advanced example of a regional organization which allows nationals of its Member States to freely settle in each of the other Member States is the European Union. However, similar regional organizations which include free settlement among Member States are MERCOSUR, the Gulf Cooperation Council, and Economic Community of Western African States. Outside such regional organizations, Georgia is the only country that allows almost all foreigners to freely settle and work in its country.  After a ‘Hard Brexit’, British citizens will lose their settlement and working rights to more than 30 of the world’s leading countries, seriously affecting the quality of the British nationality.   Weight of Settlement Freedom evaluates the quality of the settlement freedom of the holder of a nationality. It does so by looking at the Human Development (50%) and Economic Strength (50%) of the countries to which the nationality holder has settlement access. Weight of Settlement Freedom accounts for 15% of the total QNI General Ranking scale. As of 2017, France’s quality of nationality is ranked the best in the world, according to the latest edition of the Quality of Nationality Index (QNI).    The French nationality earned a score of 81.7% out of a possible 100%, fractionally ahead of Germany.  While the difference between France’s and Germany’s results is relatively small, France’s comparative advantage lies in its greater settlement freedom (attributable mainly to the country’s former colonial empire ). France’s quality of nationality is ranked the best in the world, according to the latest edition of the Quality of Nationality Index (2017 data).   The French nationality earned a score of 81.7% out of a possible 100%, fractionally ahead of Germany. While the difference between France’s and Germany’s result is relatively small, France’s comparative advantage lies in its greater settlement freedom (attributable mainly to the country’s former colonial empire ). ! References !   |} 