Demi the Demoness is a fictional, humorous, erotic comics character whose fantasy adventures have been published since 1992. Demi was created by SS Crompton. Demi has appeared in numerous comics crossovers with other characters, including Shaundra, Captain Fortune, Mauvette, Vampirooni, Cassiopeia the Witch, Djustine, Crimson Gash, and adult film stars Tracey Adams, Tabitha Stevens, Deja Sin, and Bonnie Michaels. Over 35 different Demi the Demoness comics have been published. Numerous artists and authors have worked on Demi comics over the years, including Frank Brunner, Tim Vigil, Seppo Makinen, Philo, Ryan Vella, Gus Norman, Enrico Teodorani, Silvano, Diego Simone, Jay Allen Sanford, and many others.  Demi has also been the subject of T-shirts, dice, a trading card set, a resin model kit, and a movie. Demi the Demoness first appeared in Demi the Demoness #1 by Revolutionary Comics' Carnal Comics imprint in 1992. After the publisher, Todd Loren was murdered, the series moved to underground comic publisher Rip Off Press from 1993 to 1997, where eight more Demi comics were published, including a trade paperback collection and a choose-your-own-adventure book. Demi was then published by Revisionary Press, the company that took over the Carnal Comics imprint.  Revisionary published six more Demi titles from 1997 to 2000.  Demi's ribald adventures were also published in full-color in Oui magazine from 1996-1998. Carnal spun off from Revisionary in 2000 and Demi has been published in more than ten more comics by Carnal since then. Demi has also appeared in comics published by Eros Comix, MU Press, and several smaller publishing ventures. Demi stories have been translated into Swedish and Italian.  Raised in one of the few "sanctuaries" in Hell, the Rookery was a hidden, safe place to be compared to the more gruesome inner areas of Hell.  Demi was raised there, so she never experienced the cruelty that almost all demons possess.  Thus her personality is charming and naïve. After a Demon army attacked the Rookery, Demi escaped and found the pyramid of Kit-Ra, a banished cat goddess.  Kit-Ra took Demi in and she has lived there ever since. She regularly uses Kit-Ra’s mystical transport mirrors to visit other worlds and times outside of Hell. A Demi the Demoness movie was released on DVD in May 2008. The film was co-written by SS Crompton and Steve Steele, and directed by Steele. The film stars Ellie Idol as Demi, Sinn Sage as Vampirooni, and Audrey Elson as Lyssa the Witch. 