The Snoid, occasionally referred to as Mr. Snoid, is an American underground comix character created by Robert Crumb in the mid-1960s. A diminutive sex fiend and irritating presence, the Snoid often appears with other Crumb characters, particularly Angelfood McSpade, Mr. Natural, and Crumb's own self-caricature. Crumb created the Snoid in his sketchbook in the winter of 1965/1966;  the character first appeared in print in the Philadelphia underground newspaper Yarrowstalks #2 (July 1967). After more strips published in underground papers the East Village Other and the Chicago Seed, the Snoid's first true comics appearance was in Snatch Comics #2 (Apex Novelties, Jan. 1969), and from 1969 until 1973 he appeared in many Crumb comics, including Zap Comix, Motor City Comics, Home Grown Funnies, Your Hytone Comics, Big Ass Comics, Mr. Natural, and Black and White Comics. The character was satirized by cartoonist Daniel Clyne as "Doctor Frigmund Snoid" in Bijou Funnies #4 (The Print Mint, 1970), in the story "Dr. Lum Bago" (where he appeared alongside the "shared" underground character Projunior). The character finally appeared in his own title in Snoid Comics (Kitchen Sink Press, [Dec.] 1979), which featured six new stories; it was also his last major appearance. Many of the Snoid's adventures were collected in April 1998 in The Complete Crumb Comics #13 - "The Season of the Snoid," published by Fantagraphics. His stories have been translated into German, French, Dutch, and Swedish. According to an early strip, the Snoid is from Sheboygan, Wisconsin.  Other stories portray multiple Snoids in existence. In one story, a "certain mountain" in Tibet is filled with numerous Snoids who sexually assault "Horny Harriet Hotpants"; she later ends up marrying Jesus.  Another story portrays Mr. Snoid happily living inside a woman's rectum, but ends with a plea to help the other Snoids "walking the streets, cold and lonely."  In a story that appeared in Mr. Natural #2, Mr. Snoid has inspired a cult called The Snoidians, who cart him around on the shoulders of the "Giant Daughter of the Snoidvoid." The Snoidians battle with the "Mr. Naturalists," destroying the Snoid's conveyance and forcing him and Mr. Natural to escape the violence together.  Underground comix authority M. Steven Fox wrote about the Snoid... The . . . character is, bottom line, a short-statured asshole, and many people believe that Snoid, with his fetishes, sex cravings and disdain for materialism, is little more than an alter ego for Crumb. One of those people is Crumb's own brother Maxon, who wrote about the Snoid's purpose in The Complete Crumb #13, "It was like with Carl Barks and his character Scrooge McDuck: Robert and the Snoid. With Barks it was money, with Robert it was sex.   