Chile's food labelling and advertising law, formally titled Ley 20.606, sobre la composición de los alimentos y su publicidad (“Law 20.606, on the nutritional composition of foods and their advertising”) establishes a regulatory framework on food security and healthy food with the intention of guiding consumers towards behaviour patterns that promote public health. After the 2012 law was enacted, its accompanying regulations came into full force on June 27, 2016. Andrew Jacobs, writing for The New York Times, has characterized this measure as "the world’s most ambitious attempt to remake a country’s food culture" and suggests it "could be a model for how to turn the tide on a global obesity epidemic that researchers say contributes to four million premature deaths a year."  In Chile, the law — often referred to by less cumbersome names such as ley de etiquetado de alimentos (“food labelling law”), ley del Súper Ocho (“Super Eight law”), or simply ley de alimentos (“food law”) — specifically regulates the delivery of nutritional information on foods high in sodium, saturated fats, sugars or calories. The standard also prohibits the sale of such foods in educational institutions, and limits the advertising of these products to children under fourteen. According to a 2010 national health survey, more than 60 percent of Chile’s population suffers from excessive weight. The problem begins early in childhood, with more than 10 percent of children under six, more than 15 percent of preschoolers and more than 25 percent of first-grade children presenting with obesity. When the overweight and the obese children are considered as a group, more than 50 percent of them, according to the Chilean Ministry of Health, are found to suffer from malnutrition, which is considered the main public health problem in the country.  The law has eleven articles; its stipulations establish:  Health ministry decree No. 13 (April 16, 2015), amended the government's processed foods regulation to adapt it to the provisions of Law 20.606 and specifying maximum calories, sodium, sugars and saturated fats in food; the values were set to diminish by progressive stages after the regulation's entry into force.  The limits stipulated by law are: The regulation also detailed the foods that are exempted from the labelling obligation, which includes foods without added sugars, honey or syrups; without added sodium and without saturated fats; those sold in bulk or portioned out, divided and prepared at the request of the public (even if they are packaged at the time of sale); infant formula; commercially prepared minced baby food, unless they contain added sugar; food prepared for medical use; food for weight control regimens; dietary supplements and certain foods for athletes; and table-top sugar substitutes.  Several countries have expressed interest in the Chilean standards and have considered their content in developing their own countries' labelling regulations, including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras, Israel, Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, El Salvador and Uruguay. In addition, international organizations — including the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), the Pan American Health Organization,  the UN's Food and Agriculture Organization and World Health Organization, the Union of South American Nations and the OECD — have expressed support for the Chilean food labelling and advertising law and regulations and have facilitated bilateral cooperation, memoranda of understanding and the establishment of international networks. Codex Alimentarius has urged member countries to revise regulations on labelling, while the World Trade Organization has established international discussion panels on food labelling, at which Chile has been a prominent speaker.  In addition, during North American Free Trade Agreement negotiations, the governments of Mexico and Canada have advocated for nutritional warnings on foods, inspired by the Chilean experience, but the current United States government has supported efforts of the commercial food and beverage industry to prevent the adoption of laws similar to Chile's by demanding NAFTA clauses forbidding the enactment of such consumer safety laws in Canada, Mexico and the United States.” Lora Verheecke, a researcher at the Corporate Europe Observatory, a non-profit group tracking corporate lobbying, has declared that once such pro-industry and anti-consumer rules are enshrined into international trade agreements, it becomes extremely difficult to overturn them in the laws of trade-pact member states: “It kind of kills a law before it can be written, and once you put it into one trade agreement, it can become the precedent for all future deals with future countries.”  