The American String Teachers Association (ASTA) is a professional organization for music teachers based in the United States. It is the largest organization in the U.S. for string teachers.  ASTA provides access to fine string playing and teaching and promotes values of community, excellence, teaching and learning, passion, integrity and diversity and inclusion. ASTA serves teachers and students in all areas of bowed stringed instruments from kindergarten to the collegiate level, private teachers, performers, institutions of higher learning and business partners serving all instruments, accessories, sheet music and more for the teachers, students and players of stringed instruments.   Another key goal of the association is providing learning opportunities to play string instruments for the next generation of American students and to place those students into orchestras as they grow more proficient.  Originally two separate groups, ASTA and NSOA (National School Orchestra Association),  the whole organization is now referred to as "ASTA". The organization is currently led by Dr. Brenda Brenner from Indiana University, Jacobs School of Music.  The immediate past president is cellist Stephen Benham from Duquesne University, Mary Pappert School of Music.  ASTA provides professional development, online and print resources for pedagogical content, scholarly publications, music advocate resources, student-level competitions and evaluation programs, a career center, community connections through state chapters, and other resources. In 2011, ASTA published its first national model curriculum intended to be used as one of the standards and benchmarks for K–12 strings and orchestra programs. The curriculum can be used as a reference by teachers and can be presented to administrators and parents. It includes the teachings of Shinichi Suzuki, Paul Rolland, Kató Havas, and others, and is available in both print and electronic formats.  The following awards are given by ASTA: Each year, ASTA holds its national conference, the only national conference focused solely on strings and the string community. The String Projects began in 1948 to provide programs in universities for string-instrument instruction for young children. The first project was started at the University of Texas. Former ASTA President Robert Jesselson led an expansion to other universities, based on the model at the University of South Carolina, which included undergraduate students. These projects continued for decades and gained national attention. The National String Project Consortium (NSPC) was formed in 1998 to address the shortage of string-instrument teachers in public schools in the United States.  By 2007, NSPC, having expanded to 24 sites, became independent from ASTA. It currently includes 35 string projects at universities around the United States.  