Kindermusik International, Inc. is a corporation headquartered in Greensboro, North Carolina.  Kindermusik is a method of early childhood education and is one of the most widely recognized music and movement programs for young children. In the 1960s in West Germany, a group of teachers developed a program they called "Musikalische Früherziehung" (early musical instruction). The goal of the program was to teach children about music before they were old enough to begin formal music instruction. This program was eventually adapted for use in the United States and was renamed Kindermusik. In the 1980s the Kindermusik program was rolled out to countries around the world. In 2002, the company's employees purchased the company from its 96 investors.  Today, there are over 5,000 licensed Kindermusik instructors teaching classes around the world.  Kindermusik offers classes structured around singing, games, movement to music, and listening activities for all age groups (and their parents) between birth and 7 years.  The philosophy of Kindermusik education involves parents as the most important teachers and the home environment as the most important place to learn.  The following classes are typically offered: Winter, spring, and summer sessions are usually offered.  A theme is chosen for each session and home materials are provided.  Typically, home materials include a music CD, books, an instrument, and a carrying case. In 2003, Kindermusik International awarded a grant to two professors in Applied Developmental Psychology at George Mason University (Fairfax, VA).  The professors conducted a study titled "The Role of Music in the Development of Self-Regulation in Preschool Children."  The study concluded that children that were currently enrolled in Kindermusik exhibited more self-control than those not currently enrolled.  Musical exposure seemed to increase self-control in the four-year-olds included in the study when compared to those with less music exposure. The study also tested the effect of "clean-up" music which was played while the children were putting toys away, concluding that the music had no impact on the children's willingness to clean (or lack thereof), but did make things easier for parents.  