Magister Musicae is an internet portal which hosts a digital catalogue of more than 3,000 hours of music classes, given by more than 200 of the world’s most renowned musicians. The project is promoted by the president of the Albéniz Foundation, Paloma O'Shea. The aim is to preserve the classes that take place each day at the Queen Sofía College of Music and make them accessible to a wider audience. In the year 2000, the Spanish Ministry for Science and Technology supported the project with a considerable donation under the aegis of the PROFIT programme. The resulting three years of research and development, which focused on the digitization, cataloguing, compression and high-quality broadcasting of the videos on the internet, gave rise to HTCMedia, a tool which manages large quantities of video information. This has been the cornerstone of the creation of Magister Musicae. The master classes are recorded in the music schools. These lessons are scrupulously analyzed by music specialists, catalogued by work and by movement, then broken down into teaching units of no more than six minutes’ duration. This system of classification allows the visitor to the site to go directly to the section of the class that is of interest, and to be able to link with a number of classes given by various teachers. The scale and ambition of the project led, in 2004, to six of the principal conservatoires and music schools joining Magister Musicae, through the European Harmos project. It offered access to their teachers and enhanced Magister Musicae’s international profile.  The project received the financial backing of the European Commission, who called it “the model project which impacts on the policies of the Union”. The following are amongst the more notable participants in the project: Only the first 5 minutes are free. Videos are accessible by paying per time periods, not per videos. Videos can only be seen using the Microsoft Internet Explorer browser. Media is stored in Microsoft Windows Media. 