The Pierino Ambrosoli Foundation is dedicated to Daniela Ambrosoli’s father, Pierino Ambrosoli, a successful Italian/Swiss industrialist and her mother, Sonja Bragowa, a former dancer in the 1920s. The foundation is not due to the testamentary will of Pierino Ambrosoli. Rather, it arose by the desire of Daniela Ambrosoli, who decided to use a substantial portion of her inherited fortune from the father, to support young artists on their way to the stage. Thus, the Pierino Ambrosoli Foundation was founded on May 10, 1990 in Zurich.  The Pierino Ambrosoli Foundation supports very young talented dancers and musicians on their way to the stage for the promotion of dance and music at a professional level through scholarships all over the world at recognized vocational institutions. Ballet school graduates can obtain a scholarship as a trainee at theatres and dance companies. The foundation collaborates with other organizations, schools and theatres. A careful investigation of the talent and the need for a scholarship is a prerequisite for the scholarship grants.    On request, the foundation offers also technical information and advice. The personal care and regular contact with the foundation’s scholarship holders distinguishes the foundation's work. The Pierino Ambrosoli Foundation is member of the International Organization for the Transition of Professional Dancers (IOTPD). Daniela Ambrosoli has been among others member of the patronage committee of the Prix de Lausanne, the Swiss Dance Prize and she is a member of the board Montecinemaverità Foundation. The Pierino Ambrosoli Foundation is a private non-profit foundation. Today it consists of a board of trustees, the founder and president Daniela Ambrosoli as well as a professional advisory board for the areas of music and dance. Mrs Ruth Suter worked as General Secretary since the foundation of the Pierino Ambrosoli Foundation in 1990 until December 1996. Since 1998 Mr Michael Jürgens works as General Manager and adviser in the field of dance for the foundation. The Pierino Ambrosoli Foundation organizes auditions:  Since the foundation some of the most successful scholarship holders of the Pierino Ambrosoli Foundation should be mentioned such as: First Soloists/Principals Soloists The Pierino Ambrosoli Foundation is supporting promising companies to promote their creations and work: The Pierino Ambrosoli Foundation is active in the field of dance competitions: The Pierino Ambrosoli Foundation is organizing and supporting performances in the field of dance and music: The Pierino Ambrosoli Foundation was participating and supporting the International Organization for the Transition of Professional Dancers: The Pierino Ambrosoli Foundation is active in supporting exhibitions related to dance to promote dance in the public: 