  The debut season of One in a Million premiered on 26 May 2006 and was aired on 8TV. It was aired until the grand finale held on 22 September 2006. The inaugural season was won by Suki Low Sook Yee with Faizal Tahir coming in as first runner-up and Muhammad Alif bin Mohd Satar coming in third place. Auditions were held in April 2006 at: Participants performed before two judges, Paul Moss and Syafinaz Selamat. Contestants who impressed the judges made it through the next round. Contestants whom the judges were unsure of were placed under the 'maybe' category where they performed again for the judges. The contestants who got through to the next round, the Central Eliminations, were split into groups of guys and girls. The girls went first. The contestants were split to five groups with eight in each group and only four from every group moved on. The same rule applied to the guys and only forty contestants moved on to the next round. Then, the Top 40 contestants went through two more rounds of elimination called the 'Blind Test' and 'Style/Presentation' Test. In the 'Blind Test', the contestants had to perform behind a screen. In the 'Style/Presentation' round, two guest judges also judged the style & presentation of each contestant. Only 20 contestants moved on to the knock-out stage. The Top 20 contestants were then ranked according to their past performances. The contestants who were ranked in the Top 10 got the opportunity to pick one of the Bottom 10 contestants to sing against. No.1 contestant Suki Low Sook Yee was cut after she chose No.11 Alif to sing against and No.3 Zai got cut after she chose to compete against No.20 Ameen. In The Second Chance Show, the 10 contestants who got cut in the knock-out stage performed for 2 final spots in the Top 12. Suki was Malaysia's choice through viewers' votes and Zai was the judges' pick. A special episode titled "Circle of 12" was aired. No eliminations were made. The viewers got to know a lot about the top 12 and why should they vote for them. It also showed the contestant in flashbacks scenes. In the finals, the Top 12 would have to select a song which they had to sing in front a live audience. In the first top 12 eliminations, two contestants were eliminated. Each show that followed eliminated one contestant each week. The grand finale was held on 22 September 2006 at Putra World Trade Centre, Kuala Lumpur. Suki emerged as the winner of the One Million Ringgit while Faizal and Alif came in second and third place respectively. Earlier at the beginning of the grand finale show, hosts Marion Caunter and Awal Ashaari announced that Faizal has the lowest number of votes for that week, but he was given a chance to perform for the grand prize as it was part of the pre-planned non-elimination. For the full list that also include performances from other seasons, see Performances on One in a Million. Suki is the winner of the 2006 season. She was a favourite to win, ranking higher than professional singer Dayang Nurfaizah after the tests. She was eliminated during the knock out round but returned by popular vote during the Second Chance stage. Throughout the competition, Suki sang: Throughout the competition, Faizal sang: Throughout the competition, Alif sang: Throughout the competition, Dayang sang: Throughout the entire competition, Farah sang: Throughout the entire competition, Azfar sang: Throughout the entire competition, Lokman sang: Throughout the entire competition, Zai sang: Throughout the entire competition, Alia sang: Throughout the entire competition, Ameen sang: Fantasia Bulan Madu (Search ) (Top 12) Biarlah Rahsia (Siti Nurhaliza ) (Top 12) 