← → Events from the year 1950 in South Korea. Korean War 1.	Synopsis The Korean War happened because the North Koreans invaded South Korea on 25 June 1950 in Korean peninsula. The fighting ended in a truce on 27 July 1953.    2.	Involved Nations a.	Victor side: United Nations, Republic of Korea, United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Belgium, Canada, Colombia, Ethiopia, France, Greece, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Philippines, South Africa, Thailand, and Turkey b.	Opposition side: Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, People’s Republic of China, and the Soviet Union  3.	Outbreak The Korean War took place on 25 June 1950 in the whole of Korea. The Korean War happened because the North Korean forces surprised the South Korean army and the small U.S. force stationed in the country, and quickly headed toward the capital of South Korea. The trigger for the war was when, in 1950, Syngman Rhee, who was the South Korean president those days, boasted that he was going to attack North Korea. It was a good enough excuse, so the North Koreans invaded South Korea. This started the actual fighting. On 26 June 1950, U.S. President Harry S. Truman directs General Douglas MacArthur to evacuate American dependents from Korean and to assist the Republic of Korean Army (ROKA). The war lasted for about 3 years.   4.	Cessation of Hostilities On 23 June 1951, Jacob Malik, a Soviet delegate to the UN, proposes a cease-fire. Truce talks began at Kaesong and moved to Panmunjom. On 27 November 1951, both sides agreed the existing battle lines would be the final dividing line between North and South Korea. However, truce talks were deadlocked over voluntary repatriation. So, truce talks were adjourned on 8 October 1952. Then, truce talks were resumed, and the Communists agreed to voluntary repatriation on 26 April 1953. Finally, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Chinese People’s Volunteers, and the UN signed an armistice agreement. The Republic of Korea refused to sign. However, hostilities ceased within 12 hours. Terms of the armistice included creation of the demilitarized zone, the DMZ on 27 July 1953.       