Liu Qiangdong (Chinese: 刘强东; born 10 March 1973),    also known as Richard Liu, is a Chinese Internet entrepreneur. He is the founder of JD.com or Jingdong Mall, one of the leading e-commerce industry leaders in China. As of January 2018, Liu's net worth rose to US$12.7 billion with JD.com surging in its stock price.  Liu was arrested on August 31, 2018 in Minneapolis, Minnesota on suspect of "criminal sexual conduct", and was released pending a formal complaint.  Liu's attorney and JD.com have denied any wrongdoing by Liu. The case is still under investigation.   Liu Qiangdong was born in 1973 in Suqian, Jiangsu province. His parents are in the business of shipping coal from north China to the south.  As a young man, Liu Qiangdong had an interest in politics. Liu enrolled in department of sociology in the People's University of China, known for its connection to China's political elites. However, finding the degree will not guarantee good job opportunity, Liu spent all his spare time learning computer programming. He graduated with bachelor's degree in sociology in 1996.  Liu later earned an EMBA from the China Europe International Business School. As a college student, Liu invested his income earned from programming work and family loans into a restaurant venture. The business failed in a few months and left him in debt.  After graduation, Liu was employed by Japan Life, a Japanese health product enterprise, and successively served as the director for computers, the director for business, and the logistics supervisor. Two years later, in June 1998, he started his own business Jingdong in Zhongguancun High-tech Industrial Park in Beijing as a distributor of magneto-optical products. By 2003, he had opened 12 stores. The SARS outbreak in 2003 kept staff and clients of Jingdong at home and forced Liu to rethink the business model and divert to online business. Liu launched his first online retail website in 2004, and founded JD.com (short form for Jingdong) later that year. In 2005, Liu closed off all brick-and-mortar stores and become an e-commerce business. The company has become one of the leading e-commerce businesses in China. JD.com applied to go public in the US in January 2014. On 22 May 2014, the date of JD.com's IPO, the stock price rose about 15%  Liu is married and has two children.  His romances, especially his romance and marriage in 2015, have been well publicized in China. Liu married in August 2015 with Zhang Zetian, 19 years his junior. Zhang is an internet celebrity better known as "Sister Milk Tea" for her photo holding milk tea that went viral on Weibo.  Their relationship started in early 2014 when Zhang was an exchange student at Barnard College, which is affiliated with Columbia University.  Their early romance was spotted in New York City and when intimate pictures were posted online.   The uncommon gap in their age and difference in life experience drew public attention and speculation. On April 10, 2014, Liu confirmed this relationship to the public through his Weibo account.  On August 8, 2015, Liu Qiangdong and Zhang Zetian registered for marriage in Beijing.  They held their wedding ceremony on October 1, 2015 in Sydney, Australia.  Their daughter was born in March 2016.  On 23 July 2018 Liu Qiangdong was named as the billionaire host of a private dinner party in Sydney that was the focus of a rape trial. Party guest Xu Longwei was found guilty in a New South Wales District Court of indecent assault, assault and having non-consensual sex with a woman he met at Liu's apartment on 26 December 2015.  According to the New York Times, Liu was not charged with a crime or accused of any wrongdoing in that case but he tried to get an Australian court to prevent the release of his name in connection with the case by citing potential damage to his marriage and business, court documents show.  In July, a judge in Australia rejected his request for a suppression order.    On August 31, 2018, Liu was arrested in Minneapolis, Minnesota on suspicion of rape.  The original charge is described as "criminal sexual conduct".  A spokesman for the Minneapolis Police Department declined to provide details about the allegations but said authorities were not overly concerned about Liu leaving the country.   Liu was released pending a formal complaint and the spokesman said the police could have held Liu in custody through Tuesday, but did not feel that was necessary while they conducted their investigation.  Liu returned to Beijing after his release.  Liu was enrolled in the Doctor of Business Administration program at the Carlson School of Management at the University of Minnesota.  Participants were on campus for part of their residency from August 26 to September 1. According to the Wall Street Journal, the complainant is a Chinese student who also attends the University of Minnesota, and who attended a dinner together with Liu on the night of August 30.  On September 2, 2018, JD.com issued a statement that "During a business trip to the United States, Mr Liu was questioned by police in Minnesota in relation to an unsubstantiated accusation. The local police quickly determined there was no substance to the claim against Mr. Liu, and he was subsequently able to resume his business activities as originally planned, We will take the necessary legal action against false reporting or rumors."      Three American law firms alleged that this statement was misleading or "failed to disclose information pertinent to investors" and announced class-action lawsuits in response.   Liu's attorney denied any wrongdoing by Liu.  On September 20, 2018, Hennepin County Attorney Michael O. Freeman announced that the police had completed their initial investigation and turned the case over to the prosecutors, who would review the evidence and make a decision on whether to bring charges.   