Sense-for-sense translation is the oldest norm for translating. It fundamentally means translating the meaning of each whole sentence before moving on to the next, and stands in normative opposition to word-for-word translation (also known as literal translation), which means translating the meaning of each lexical item in sequence. The coiner of the term "sense-for-sense" was Jerome in his "Letter to Pammachius", where he said that, "except of course in the case of Holy Scripture, where even the syntax contains a mystery," he translates non verbum e verbo sed sensum de sensu: not word for word but sense for sense.  However, arguably Jerome is here not inventing the concept of sense-for-sense translation, which most scholars believe was invented by Cicero in De optimo genere oratorum ("The Best Kind of Orator"), when he said that in translating from Greek to Latin "I did not think I ought to count them out to the reader like coins, but to pay them by weight, as it were."  And he is certainly not even coining the term "word-for-word," but borrowing it from Cicero as well, or possibly from Horace, who warned the writer interested in retelling ancient tales in an original way Nec verbo verbum curabit reddere / fidus interpretes: "not to try to render them word for word [like some] faithful translator."  Some have read that passage in Horace differently: In John Dryden’s 1680 preface to his translation of Ovid's Epistles, he proposed dividing translation into three parts called: metaphrase, paraphrase and imitation.  Metaphrase is word-for-word and line by line translation from one language into another.  Paraphrase is sense-for-sense translation where the message of the author is kept but his words are not so strictly followed as his sense, which too can be altered or amplified.  Imitation is the use of either metaphrase or paraphrase but the translator has the liberty to choose which is appropriate and how the message will be conveyed.  In 1813, during his “Über die Verschiedenen Methoden des Übersetzens” lecture,  Friedrich Schleiermacher proposed the idea where “[E]ither the translator leaves the author in peace, as much as possible, and moves the reader towards him, or he leaves the reader in peace, as much as possible, and he moves the author towards him”.  In 1964,  Eugene Nida described translation as having two different types of equivalence: formal and dynamic equivalence.  Formal equivalence is when there is focus on the message itself, in both form and content.  The message in the target language should match the message in the source language as closely as possible.  In contrast, there is less concern with matching the message in the target language with the message in the source language in dynamic equivalence.  The goal is, however, to produce the same relationship between target text and target audience, as there was with the original source text and its audience.  In 1981, Peter Newmark referred to translation as either semantic (word-for-word) or communicative (sense-for-sense).  He stated that semantic translation is one that is source language bias, literal and faithful to the source text and communicative translation is target language bias, free and idiomatic.  A semantic translation’s goal is to stay as close as possible to the semantic and syntactic structures of the source language, allowing the exact contextual meaning of the original.  A communicative translation’s goal is to produce on the readers an effect as close as possible to that produced upon the readers of the original.  In addition to these concepts, in 1990, Brian Mossop presented his concept of idiomatic and unidiomatic translation.  Idiomatic translation is when the message of the source text is conveyed the way a target language writer would convey it, rather than staying to the way in which it was conveyed in the source text.  Unidiomatic translation is innovative and translates individual words.  In 1994, also in modern Translation Studies, Lawrence Venuti introduced the concepts of domestication and foreignization, which are based on concepts from Friedrich Schleiermacher's 1813 lecture.  Domestication is the adaption of culture-specific terms or cultural context, where as foreignization is the preservation of the original cultural context of the source text (in terms of settings, names, etc.).  Venuti also described domestication as being fluent and transparent strategies that result in acculturation,  where “a cultural other is domesticated, made intelligible”.  Schleiermacher's distinction between "bringing the author to the reader" (domestication) and "taking the reader to the author"  (foreignization), dealt with a social concern and Venuti’s distinction between domestication and foreignization deals with ethical principles.  