 Society portals:  Arts ·  Anthropology ·  Community ·  Culture ·  Economics ·  Education ·  Geography ·  Gender studies ·  Globalization ·  History ·  Human rights ·  Internet ·  Law ·  Philosophy ·  Social movements ·  Social sciences ·  Sociology Positivist social scientists use methods resembling those of the natural sciences as tools for understanding society, and so define science in its stricter modern sense. Interpretivist social scientists, by contrast, may use social critique or symbolic interpretation rather than constructing empirically falsifiable theories, and thus treat science in its broader sense. In modern academic practice, researchers are often eclectic, using multiple methodologies (for instance, by combining both quantitative and qualitative research). The term "social research" has also acquired a degree of autonomy as practitioners from various disciplines share in its aims and methods. Michel Foucault (French pronunciation: ​[miʃɛl fuko]) (October 15, 1926–June 25, 1984) was a French philosopher, historian, critic and sociologist. He held a chair at the Collège de France, giving it the title "History of Systems of Thought," and taught at the University of California, Berkeley. Michel Foucault is best known for his critical studies of  social institutions, most notably psychiatry, medicine, the human sciences, and the prison system, as well as for his work on the history of human sexuality. Foucault's work on power, and the relationships among power, knowledge, and discourse, has been widely discussed and applied. Sometimes described as postmodernist or post-structuralist, in the 1960s he was more often associated with the structuralist movement. Foucault later distanced himself from structuralism and always rejected the post-structuralist and postmodernist labels. Read more... Law — Max Weber — Michel Foucault — Society of the Song Dynasty — List of autonomous areas by country — List of unrecognized countries African American culture — African Americans in Omaha, Nebraska — Anarchism in Cuba — Anarchy in Somalia — Community — Culture — Est and The Forum in popular culture — Fair trade — Ferdinand Tönnies — Gender — Homosexuality — Long hair — Mork Goes Erk — On the Internet, nobody knows you're a dog — Politics — Smoking — Social class in the United States — Technological singularity — Tony Boles American middle class — Average Joe — Civilization — Income inequality in the United States — Liberalism The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database All Portals Overview Glossaries Indices Lists Outlines Categories   Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology   