Prometric, also known as Prometric Testing, is a U.S. company in the test administration industry. Prometric operates a test center network composed of thousands of sites in 160 countries. Many examinations are administered at Prometric sites, including those from Nationwide Mortgage and Licensing System (NMLS), the European Personnel Selection Office, the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE), USMLE, the Diplomate of National Board, the India-Common Entrance Test and some National Eligibility and Entrance Tests , Architect Registration Examination, the USPTO registration examination, and American Petroleum Institute. Prometric's corporate headquarters are located in Canton (Baltimore, Maryland) in the United States. Prometric's computerized testing centers were founded by Drake International in 1990 under the name Drake Prometric.  In 1995, Drake Prometric L.P. was sold to Sylvan Learning in a cash and stock deal worth approximately $44.5 million.  The acquired business was renamed Sylvan Prometric, then sold to Thomson Corporation in 2000.  The Thomson Corporation announced its desire to sell Prometric in the fall of 2006, and Educational Testing Service announced plans to acquire it.  On Monday, October 15, 2007, Educational Testing Service (ETS) closed its acquisition of Prometric from the Thomson Corporation.  Prometric is currently a wholly owned, independently operated subsidiary of ETS, allowing ETS to maintain non-profit status. Prometric sells a range of services, including test development, test delivery, and data management capabilities. Prometric delivers and administers tests to approximately 500 clients in the academic, professional, government, corporate and information technology markets. While there are 3000 Prometric test centers across the world,  including every U.S. state and territory (except Wake Island), whether a particular test can be taken outside the U.S. depends on the testing provider. For example, despite the fact that Prometric test centers exist worldwide, some exams are only offered in the country where the client program exists. The locations where a test is offered, as well as specific testing procedures for the day of the exam, are dictated by the client. In the Republic of Ireland, Prometric's local subsidiary is responsible for administering the Driver Theory Test.  In 2009, the company faced a hurdle due to widespread technical problems on one of India's MBA entrance exams, the Common Admission Test. Over 8000 test takers were affected.  In 2014, Prometric lost the bid for conducting it second time to an Indian tech firm.  In 2014, a latency issue affected one Prometric-administered test, namely the AIPGMEE.  In 2014, Microsoft ended its exam partnership with Prometric.  In 2017, Prometric lost the contract for conducting the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) exam. They were replaced with Pearson VUE.  That same year, Charles Kernan was appointed as the new President and CEO of Prometric, replacing Michael Brannick.  Brannick had held the position since 2001.  