Cambridge University Climate science Climate modeling Kate Marvel is a climate scientist and science writer based in New York City. She is an Associate Research Scientist at NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies and Columbia Engineering's Department of Applied Physics and Mathematics, and writes regularly for Scientific American in her column "Hot Planet."   Marvel attended the University of California at Berkeley, where she received her Bachelor of Arts degree in physics and astronomy in 2003. She received her PhD in 2008 in theoretical physics from University of Cambridge as a Gates Scholar and member of Trinity College. Following her PhD, she shifted her focus to climate science and energy as a Postdoctoral Science Fellow at the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University and at the Carnegie Institution for Science in the Department of Global Ecology.   She continued that trajectory as a postdoctoral fellow at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory before joining the research faulty at NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies and Columbia University.    Marvel's current research centers on climate modeling to better predict how much the Earth's temperature will rise rise in the future.    This work led Marvel to investigate the effects of cloud cover on modeling rising temperatures, which has proved an important variable in climate models.   Clouds can play a double-edged role in mitigating or amplifying the rate of global warming. On one hand, clouds reflect solar energy back into space, serving to cool the planet; on the other, clouds can trap the planet's heat and radiate back onto Earth's surface. While computer models have difficulty simulating the changing patterns of cloud cover, improved satellite data can begin to fill in the gaps.   Marvel has also studied practical limitations in renewable energy as a Postdoctoral Scholar at the Carnegie Institution for Science.   At the 2017 TED conference, following computer theorist Danny Hillis's talk proposing geoengineering strategies to mitigate global warming, Marvel was brought on stage to share why she believes geoengineering may cause more harm than good in the long run.  Marvel is a science communicator whose efforts center on communicating about the impacts of climate change. She has been a guest on popular science shows like Star Talk Radio and BRIC Arts Media TV, speaking about her expertise in climate change and the need to act on climate.   She has also spoken about her path to becoming a scientist as a story for the science-inspired storytelling series, The Story Collider.  Marvel has also appeared on the TED Main Stage, giving a talk at the 2017 TED conference about the double-edged effect clouds can have on global warming.  Marvel's writing has been featured in On Being and Nautilus, and she's a regular contributor to Scientific American with her "Hot Planet".    The column launched in June 2018 and focuses on climate change, covering the science behind global warming, policies, and human efforts in advocacy.  