Mandë Holford is an Associate Professor in Chemistry at Hunter College with scientific appointments at the American Museum of Natural History and Weill Cornell Medical College.   Holford received her BS in mathematics and chemistry from York College, City University of New York and her PhD from The Rockefeller University.  She did her postdoctoral research at The University of Utah in the lab of Baldomero Olivera.  She was also a Science & Technology Policy Fellow through the American Association for the Advancement of Science.  During her fellowship she worked under Kerri-Ann Jones in the National Science Foundation's Office of International Science and Engineering. Holford summarizes her research interests as moving "from mollusks to medicine" for drug discovery and delivery.   She and her research team extract peptides from venomous snails to identify possible treatments for pain and cancer.  Her work takes an interdisciplinary approach, leveraging biochemistry, genomics, proteomics, evolution, and cell biology to isolate, identify, and characterize novel venomous peptides and devise drug delivery strategies.   Holford was first trained in science diplomacy as an AAAS Science & Technology Policy fellow at the National Science Foundation.   Since that time, she has worked on several projects and initiatives to encourage early career scientists to think globally about their research impacts. These efforts include the Hurford Science Diplomacy Initiative, which is a six-week long program taught at The Rockefeller University by Jesse H. Ausubel, Rod Nichols, and Dr. Holford.   She has also worked with the AAAS Center for Science Diplomacy on their programs to train scientists for global leadership and advocacy.  Her writing on the importance of training young scientists to leverage their expertise to build global connections has been featured in the World Science Forum and Scientific American.   She has also written about the role scientists played in re-establishing connections with Cuba in 2015 for Science magazine.  Holford is a life member of the Council on Foreign Relations.  Holford is actively involved in science education and is the co-founder of KillerSnails.com, a learning games company supported by the National Science Foundation and the Small Business Innovation Research Fund.   They have produced games like Killer Snails: Assassins of the Sea and Biome Builder, which won the International Serious Play Gold Medal.  She has also appeared on The Moth, Science Friday, NBC Learn, and You're the Expert, speaking about her research expertise and her experiences as a scientist.     