Mika McKinnon is a Canadian field geophysicist, disaster researcher, and science communicator. She is currently a co-investigator of the SETI Institute's Project ESPRESSO and science adviser to the science fiction television series Stargate Atlantis and Stargate Universe.  McKinnon received her Bachelor of Science in Physics from the University of California, Santa Barbara in 2005, attending the College of Creative Studies. There, she re-launched the Society of Physics Students chapter and led a student colloquia on science in fiction.  She received her Master of Science in Geophysics from the University of British Columbia in 2010.  Her graduate work centered on assessing and managing risk of landslides using statistical models to map their physical characteristics to better predict landslide runout and reduce the number of casualties and the extent of the damage.   McKinnon's research interests center on disaster management, preparedness, and communication, working at the intersection of scientific research, advocacy and policy. In the policy arena, she resolved to apply her expertise in both science and communication to teach science to disaster managers, revising Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) science curriculum for emergency managers as a contractor and working on several projects with Natural Resources Canada.     McKinnon is currently a co-investigator of Project ESPRESSO, lending her expertise in terrestrial landslides and hazard mapping towards the project's goal of characterizing extraterrestrial target surfaces—asteroids, comets, and moons—and reducing other operational risks for robots and humans in space exploration.  The project, which represents a consortium of seven partner institutions, was proposed in response to NASA's 2016 call for Solar System Exploration Research Virtual Institute nodes, and is one of thirteen selected projects resulting from that call.  She holds a joint appointment at the SETI Institute, one of ESPRESSO's partner institutions.   McKinnon's science communication efforts range from popular science writing to consulting on the hit television show Stargate.   In a profile with her alma mater, UCSB, she notes that her interest in communication stemmed from the media's misrepresentation of a major landslide in the Pacific Northwest.  She was a contributing editor for Gawker Media, providing coverage on popular science topics for io9 and later became a science writer for Gizmodo.  Her bylines cover a range of topics including space exploration, dinosaur discovery, the convergence of science and art, and disaster preparedness. Her writing appearing outlets like in Wired UK, Smithsonian Magazine, Ars Technica, and Astronomy.     She currently volunteers for the National Academy of Sciences Science & Entertainment Exchange, providing subject matter expertise to the entertainment industry for more accurate depictions of science in the media.   