Traditions associated with the childbirth in Uzbekistan are based on merging of the traditions of various ethnic groups which contributed to the creation of the Uzbek people.  The birth of a child is usually accompanied with “Aqiqah”. Based on the means of the family they are slaughtering one sheep during the birth of a girl and two- for the birth of a boy. After 9, 10, or 11 days after the birth of the boy they carried the rite of laying baby into the Beshik (cradle), and after 21 or 40 days (Chilla – 40 days after the birth) as a rule they arranged “Beshik Tuyi” ("cradle celebration").  If the first child is a girl, it is believed that the seven generations of this family will live in prosperity, and “Beshik Tuyi” is carried out after 7 days from the birth. When the child begins to walk by himself they arranged “Oyek turi”. In Bausun, Sherabad, Altynsay, Denau, Sariasiya regions this ceremony is called “Tushov Kesdi”. They prepare it in advance and fix the date. A child is dressed in new clothes, from the cotton yarn they twist a thin thread (“Toshov”) and tie a child’s feet with it, but so that this thread does not interfere with child’ movement. In the presence of the guests a child begins to walk and with the words “tushov kesildi, tushov kesildi” this thread should be cut with scissors by any of elders. Baby is showered with coins, sweets, what is called “sachala”- “sochki”. A traditional rite of sunnat (khatna) tuyi was also called “Sunnat tuyi” – in Obodon, Tula villages of hurchinskiy region; chokborron- in Chakar, Eshon villages of Uzunskiyn region. Sunnat tui  is carried when a child is in an odd number of years, i.e. in 3, 5, 7, in some cases – 9, 11 years. Depending on the capabilities kurash and kupkari with the prizes were held on the Sunnat tuys. A close relatives ascended to the roof of the house and showered the boy with money and sweets from there.  There were songs, melodies, epics, the men sang “Heyr”, women- “Lo-o-lo”. In some villages in Northern Surkhan, “Utin yigar” (it is like to collect some woods for housekeeping) events are carried before, the rite in which the boys dividing into the groups and go to the mountains and gather wood. The one, who will pick more firewood, is awarded with the prize. Men responsible for the activity assigned a close friends and relatives for various services. In order to make the event successful and to honor the memory of ancestors they read “Khatmi Kuran” first. Uzbek people have a saying: “Tuyga tuyona bilan”. (It means to come to the wedding with a gift). Wedding expenses are generally significant and tuyona  (wedding gift) – is the material support from the friends and relatives. 