Personal boundaries are guidelines, rules or limits that a person creates to identify reasonable, safe and permissible ways for other people to behave towards them and how they will respond when someone passes those limits.  They are built out of a mix of conclusions, beliefs, opinions, attitudes, past experiences and social learning.   This concept or life skill has been widely referenced in self-help books and used in the counseling profession since the mid-1980s.  According to some counselors, personal boundaries help to define an individual by outlining likes and dislikes, and setting the distances one allows others to approach.  They include physical, mental, psychological and spiritual boundaries, involving beliefs, emotions, intuitions and self-esteem.  Jacques Lacan considered such boundaries to be layered in a hierarchy, reflecting "all the successive envelopes of the biological and social status of the person".  Personal boundaries operate in two directions, affecting both the incoming and outgoing interactions between people.  These are sometimes referred to as the "protection" and "containment" functions.  The three most commonly mentioned categories of values and boundaries are: Some authors have expanded this list with additional or specialized categories such as "spirituality",   "truth",  and "time/punctuality".  Nina Brown proposed four boundary types:  The personal boundaries concept is particularly pertinent in environments with controlling people or people not taking responsibility for their own life.  Co-Dependents Anonymous recommends setting limits on what members will do to and for people and on what members will allow people to do to and for them, as part of their efforts to establish autonomy from being controlled by other people’s thoughts, feelings and problems.  The National Alliance on Mental Illness tells its members that establishing and maintaining values and boundaries will improve the sense of security, stability, predictability and order, in a family even when some members of the family resist. NAMI contends that boundaries encourage a more relaxed, nonjudgmental atmosphere and that the presence of boundaries need not conflict with the need for maintaining an understanding atmosphere.  In Families and How to Survive Them, Robin Skynner MD explains methods for how family therapists can effectively help family members to develop clearer values and boundaries by when treating them, drawing lines, and treating different generations in different compartments  – something especially pertinent in families where unhealthy enmeshment overrides normal personal values.  However, the establishment of personal values and boundaries in such instances may produce a negative fall-out,  if the pathological state of enmeshment had been a central attraction or element of the relationship.  This is especially true if the establishment of healthy boundaries results in unilateral limit setting which did not occur previously. It is important to distinguish between unilateral limits and collaborative solutions in these settings.  Anger is a normal emotion that involves a strong uncomfortable and emotional response to a perceived provocation. Often, it indicates when one's personal boundaries are violated. Anger may be utilized effectively by setting boundaries or escaping from dangerous situations.  Addicts often believe that being in control of others is how to achieve success and happiness in life. People who follow this rule use it as a survival skill, having usually learned it in childhood. As long as they make the rules, no one can back them into a corner with their feelings.  People with certain mental conditions are predisposed to controlling behavior including those with obsessive compulsive disorder, paranoid personality disorder,  borderline personality disorder,  and narcissistic personality disorder,  attention deficit disorder,  and the manic state of bipolar disorder.  Codependency often involves placing a lower priority on one's own needs, while being excessively preoccupied with the needs of others. Codependency can occur in any type of relationship, including family, work, friendship, and also romantic, peer or community relationships.  While a healthy relationship depends on the emotional space provided by personal boundaries,  codependent personalities have difficulties in setting such limits, so that defining and protecting boundaries efficiently may be for them a vital part of regaining mental health.  In a codependent relationship, the codependent's sense of purpose is based on making extreme sacrifices to satisfy their partner's needs. Codependent relationships signify a degree of unhealthy clinginess, where one person doesn't have self-sufficiency or autonomy. One or both parties depend on the other for fulfillment.  There is usually an unconscious reason for continuing to put another person's life first, often for the mistaken notion that self-worth comes from other people. Freud described the loss of conscious boundaries that may occur when an individual is in a unified, fast-moving crowd.  Almost a century later, Steven Pinker took up the theme of the loss of personal boundaries in a communal experience, noting that such occurrences could be triggered by intense shared ordeals like hunger, fear or pain, and that such methods were traditionally used to create liminal conditions in initiation rites.  Jung had described this as the absorption of identity into the collective unconscious.  Rave culture has also been said to involve a dissolution of personal boundaries, and a merger into a binding sense of communality.  Also unequal relations of political and social power influence the possibilities for marking cultural boundaries and more generally the quality of life of individuals.  Unequal power in personal relationships, including abusive relationships, can make it difficult for individuals to mark boundaries. 