Blyth Education is a private company based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, that runs a chain of private secondary schools and academic credit programs in Canada and abroad. Primarily located throughout Ontario, Blyth Academy also has schools in the United States, Florence and Qatar, in addition to an online program and study abroad programs that offer academic credit. Blyth Academy is a private company based in Toronto, Ontario that runs a chain of private secondary schools with campuses throughout Ontario. The school also has several international campuses and runs academic credit programs in the summer that travel to over 30 countries around the world. Founded in 1977 by Sam Blyth, Blyth Academy describes its schools as experiential learning programs with small class sizes.  Blyth Academy in Ontario consists of fourteen campuses throughout the province.  A U.S. campus opened in 2015 in Washington, D.C.  and a Qatar campus opened in 2016.  Blyth also offers an online program and study abroad options for academic credit.  The Blyth Cambridge Commonwealth Trust Scholarship is an annual undergraduate scholarship awarded to Canadian high school graduates to attend Cambridge University in England.  Blyth Academy is a private, co-ed, preparatory school for higher education that provides full-time, part-time, summer, and private courses for grades 6-12 (dependent on campus). The academy has fourteen campuses in Ontario: Yorkville, Thornhill, Mississauga, Etobicoke, Waterloo, Downsview Park, Lawrence Park, Burlington, Ottawa, London, and Whitby. The academy operates on a four-term academic year, in which students take two courses per term with three two-hour periods per day. Class sizes are typically small; an average of seven students. Educational partners include the Art Gallery of Ontario, Royal Ontario Museum, Gardiner Museum, Toronto International Film Festival, Outward Bound Canada, and Don Valley Brick Works. Scholarships and bursaries are available for full-time students who are in need of financial aid. In September 2016, Blyth Academy opened its first campus in Qatar.  The school has received complete and formal accreditation from Alberta Education of Canada in January 2015 with formal accreditation from the Qatar Ministry of Education in March 2016. The school was established after the approval from Her Highness' Office for the School Board, School, and the adoption of the Canadian curriculum to be funded by the State of Qatar. Blyth-Templeton Academy is a private, co-ed, experiential learning high school in Washington, D.C. serving grades 9-12.  Founded in 2015, it is the first Blyth Academy program in the United States.  Blyth Academy partnered with Templeton Learning to bring the Blyth private school model to the United States. Templeton Learning, LLC. invests in educational programs for students in grades K-12, currently Blyth-Templeton in Washington, D.C. and WonderLab based in Austin, Texas.  It was co-founded by the Keller family, who also co-founded Keller Graduate School of Management (now part of Devry University) in 1973.  Blyth Academy Florence is a private, co-ed, experiential learning high school in Florence, Italy serving grades 9-12. Founded in 2017, it is the first Blyth Academy in Europe. Blyth Academy International Summers gives high school students the chance to study abroad earning accredited high school courses during the summer. Programs are structured to include program managers, teachers and support staff. On-site learning is encouraged on all international programs. Blyth Academy International Summers offers over 20 different programs, to over 30 countries on six continents:  Needs-based scholarships provide partial to full funding. Through Blyth Academy Global High School, Grade 11 and 12 students travel around the world, studying and earning high school credits. Students can enroll for as little as a ten-week term or for the full four terms of their academic year. Students earn two credits per term. The Blyth Cambridge Commonwealth Trust Scholarships are offered annually to Canadian high school graduates who wish to take their undergraduate degree at Cambridge University in England.  The successful candidates will be granted admission to the College of their choice at Cambridge University, full tuition for three years of undergraduate study, travel costs and a full living allowance. The awards are also open to current Canadian undergraduates wishing to pursue an undergraduate degree at Cambridge University. The scholarships are awarded to students who for financial reasons would not otherwise be able to attend the University. Students who do have financial means are still encouraged to apply to the University and College of their choice and good candidates will be invited to interview in Toronto in late November/early December. 