 The Student Police Cadet (SPC) Project is a school-based initiative by Kerala Police, implemented jointly by the Departments of Home and Education, and supported by Departments of Transport, Forest, Excise and Local Self-Government. The project trains high school students to respect the law, practice discipline and civic sense, and develop empathy for vulnerable sections of society. It also strengthens commitment towards family, community, and the environment, enabling them to resist negative tendencies such as substance abuse, deviant behavior, intolerance, and other social evils. The Project was launched on 2 August 2010 in 127 high schools/higher secondary schools across Kerala,  with 11176 students, both boys and girls, enrolled as Cadets and 254 teachers trained as school-level Community Police Officers (CPOs).  In 2012, the project was expanded to cover a total of 249 high schools across Kerala,  with a combined strength of nearly 16,000 SPCs and 500 CPOs. The program has its roots in Janakeeyam, a community-level initiative by Kochi City police, in 2006. During the event, more than 400 high school students from 30 local schools interacted with police officers, engaging in wide-ranging discussions on community issues and visiting police stations. During these discussions, the students expressed a desire to have a permanent arrangement for ongoing communication with the police. Accordingly, a pilot Student-Police project was launched on an experimental basis in a few selected schools .  Subsequently, at Kozhikode in January 2010, a squad of specially trained high school students was entrusted with the responsibility of crowd management at Kerala School Youth Festival, Asia's largest youth-focused cultural festival involving more than 10,000 participants. Following the successful execution of this task by the cadets, and in light of the success stories from project-implemented schools, a detailed proposal for a statewide school-based training programme was prepared under the guidance of Sri Jacob Punnoose IPS (DGP-Kerala) and submitted to the Government of Kerala. On the basis of this report, Government of Kerala issued GO (P)121/2010/Home dated 29 May 2010, with the stated objective of moulding a generation of law-abiding, socially committed and service-oriented youth. A state-level Advisory Committee was constituted with Sri. Jacob Punnoose IPS (DGP-Kerala) as chairman, senior Government officials as members, and Sri P Vijayan IPS as State Nodal Officer for the SPC Project. The SPC project seeks to deepen the social democratic fabric of communities by evolving young minds into enlightened citizens who obey laws not by enforcement but rather as a natural and rational act. The Student Police Cadet Project does not create more policemen, instead it seeks to grow the policeman within each young member of their communities. The SPC project can be expected to generate significant long-term benefits such as greater internal security, healthier and safer communities, and responsible future citizens of a stable democracy. A humane and just society where citizens respect and follow laws willingly, practice responsible behavior towards others, demonstrate empathy for weaker sections of society, participate in tackling community issues and resist threats to the natural environment. To unlock the potential of youth by systematic training and make them capable of becoming social leaders with global vision guided by humanitarian values. The objectives of the Student Police Cadet project are synchronous with the goals of the National Youth Policy of India which seeks to involve youth in the noble work of nation-building. SPC training consists of a two-year programme with a focus on developing health and physical fitness, instilling social values, exploring inner capability and inculcating community living skills within students. There are five components of the programme, viz. Physical (Outdoor) Training, Indoor Training (Study Classes), Field Visits, Practical Training Projects, and Camps. Leadership capabilities of SPCs are strengthened through awareness classes and self-development workshops, and through community activities targeting issues such as road safety,   drug and substance abuse, environmental protection,  and aspects of law and crime.   SPC Project implementation machinery is made up of a three-tier structure of specially designated officials at State, District and School-levels. The highest ranking executive official of the project is the State Nodal Officer – SPC Project. P Vijayan IPS, a senior police officer of the 1999 Kerala cadre, is the first (and current) State Nodal Officer of the SPC Project. In each District, a police officer of suitable rank appointed as District Nodal Officer. Wherever there are SPC schools, the local Police Inspector with jurisdiction is designated as Police Student Liaison Officer (PSLO), with field-level responsibility of project implementation in the school(s) falling in that jurisdiction. PSLO reports to DNO on project implementation on a regular basis. Project administration is carried out by Committees at the State, District and School levels. The State-level Advisory Committee is the highest policy-making body in the SPC hierarchy, with authority to approve selection of schools, formulate guidelines for project implementation, issue directions to SPC programme officials, and ensure adherence to project guidelines by all stakeholders. The Committee consists of senior Government officials from the various associating Departments, and is chaired by the State Police Chief. There are also district-level Advisory Committees, and school-level Advisory Committee The recommendation by the All India Police Science Congress (Dehra Dun, 2011) that all states implement the SPC project,  led to a team of police officers from Rajasthan visiting Kerala to study the project.  Subsequently, Government of Rajasthan decided to launch the project in selected schools as a pilot project.  Several other states in India have also expressed interest in rolling out the scheme. It has also been reported that a nationwide rollout of the SPC project is being considered at the level of the Union Home Ministry.       On July 21, 2018 Rajnath Singh Minister of Home Affairs of India, rolled out the SPC programme, under which high school students across the country will be taught to become much more responsible citizens.    In the year 2012 Gujarat police also replicated this program in the state the project was initiated by Mr.Hasmukh Patel an Indian Police services officer of the rank of Inspector general it stated in 4 districts of Surat Police Range which are made up of districts of Surat,Valsad.Tapi and Dang. Today this project is operation in all the districts of gujarat with total school participating in the project is numbered 1105. in the year 2018 government of india launched this programme across india the launch was done my Home Minister Mr.Rajnath Singh 