Peoplesafe is a UK-based lone worker safety brand, operated by Rocksure Systems Ltd.  Founded in 2004,  Rocksure Systems Ltd launched the Peoplesafe brand from its offices based in Dinnington, near Sheffield. The company has provided a number of specialised personal safety devices and smartphone apps over the years, which connects to an Alarm Receiving Centre and an online portal - the Customer Service Centre.   In May 2017, Rocksure Systems was acquired by the Send for Help Group    – which operates two other lone worker subsidiaries; Skyguard Ltd and Guardian24. In December 2017, Send For Help was announced as one of Britain’s fastest growing companies for a second consecutive year.  The Fast Track 100 list, which is published annually in The Sunday Times, ranks Britain’s top 100 private companies with the fastest growing sales over their latest three years. The company ranks at no. 47 in 2016 and no. 80 in the 2017 league table.   Peoplesafe’s lone worker protection service consists of a diverse portfolio which includes discreet safety alarms, smartphone applications and satellite devices.  Peoplesafe’s service also features their own Alarm Receiving Centre where all calls are monitored by trained controllers 24/7. Peoplesafe are certified in National Security (NSI) Guarding Gold.  This certifies that the company has met the requirements of BS 8484:2016, BS 7858 and ISO 9001 standards. Peoplesafe were also awarded Secure by Design   the official UK Police initiative that supports 'designing out crime' through the use of high quality products and processes. The company is a principal and committee member of the British Security Industry Association’s  lone worker section. Peoplesafe provide a range of personal safety alarms and mobile applications for lone workers. Peoplesafe’s portfolio consists of the following products: Peoplesafe have a number of clients who use their service to protect their lone workers, who operate in a number of different sectors and markets. Peoplesafe clients include Yorkshire Water,  Q Park,  and Danone Nutricia, who use the service for lone worker protection. A partnership with the UK mobile network operator Everything Everywhere (EE) allows Peoplesafe’s products to be purchased via EE.  