Archive is a publishing and research platform based in Berlin. It consists of a publishing house, an exhibition space and a magazine. Its activities are focused on the publishing field and experimentation with editorial formats and concepts. Archive investigates art practices in the context of a larger cultural and social sphere. Its concern is to explore distribution possibilities and to provide a critical discussion about the functions of an exhibition. Archive translates, organizes, and circulates critically invested materials. It was founded in 2009 by Chiara Figone. Archive Kabinett is an exhibition space dedicated to the publishing field and it functions as headquarters for the publishing house Archive Books and magazine Archive Journal. Archive Kabinett works as exhibition space, library and venue for conferences and lectures. Its spaces are designed by nOffice, an architectural practice based in Berlin and London. Noffice explores the intersection of critical architecture, urban intervention and the art world.  Events organized at Archive Kabinett: Archive Books explores and conveys art publications as a method to inspire art practices into the public discussion. Its program includes artists’ books, monographs and magazines. In 2010 Archive Books launched The Exhibitionist: A Journal for Exhibition Making, a bi-annual magazine focused on curatorial practice and exhibition making. The founding editors are Jens Hoffmann and Chiara Figone. Members of the editorial board are: Carolyn Christov-Bakargiev, Okwui Enwezor, Kate Fowle, Mary Jane Jacob, Constance Lewallen, Maria Lind, Chus Martínez, Jessica Morgan, Julian Myers, Hans Ulrich Obrist, Paul O’Neill, Adriano Pedrosa, Dieter Roelstraete, Dorothea von Hantelmann.  List of Archive Book's releases: Archive Journal is a cross-disciplinary magazine published twice a year. The journal features letters, essays, interviews and transcripts focused on contemporary art, architecture and politics. Archive’s Journal editors are Markus Miessen and Chiara Figone. Issues: 