The Maldives Pavilion represents the Republic of the Maldives at the International Art Exhibition - la Biennale di Venezia among the National Pavilions. The inaugural Pavilion was introduced in 2013  for the 55th Venice Biennale, curated by Massimiliano Gioni. The Commissioner of the Pavilion is The Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture of Republic of the Maldives. The inaugural pavilion explored the themes of ecological romanticism and climate crisis. Portable Nation:  Disappearance as Work in Progress – Approaches to Ecological Romanticism,  The first presentation of the National Pavilion of the Maldives, was presented from June 1 through to November 24 of 2013. Presented as an international exhibition devoted to the topic of climate change and eco-aesthetics, the Pavilion combined the dual focuses of the beauty of the nation's landscapes with the rich visual history of this Republic. The exhibition provided an "aesthetical experience and extensive knowledge of the concept of Contemporary Environmental Romanticism  through the works of the Official Artists and the Collateral Events. The Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture, and the Republic of the Maldives serve as the Commissioner of the Pavilion and appointed the Curators of this exhibition, the international collective CPS – Chamber of Public Secrets (Alfredo Cramerotti, Aida Eltorie, Khaled Ramadan). As part of the curatorial background, CPS notes that "A 60 cm raise in sea levels would see the entirety of the Maldives smothered by the ocean and make the Maldivian population probably the first refugees of global warming."  Considered as being one of the most endangered Countries by the current sea level rise associated with climatological effects of human influences, nature as a culturally defined etymology is used as a point of departure for explorations of the ethics of climate change contingencies such as the possibility of climate refugees The subtitle of the Pavilion, Disappearance as work in progress – approaches to Ecological Romanticism, conceived the Maldives Pavilion as a platform for artists, environmental campaigners, and thinkers.   The venue of the Pavilion was the Gervasuti Foundation on via Garibaldi, a former Wood-shop since converted into a foundation.  During the time of the Exhibition, the foundation operated as an exhibition space, a bookstore, as well as a terrace cafe with weekly curated events presented by Curator-in-Residence Mike Watson of Joan of Art: Towards a Free Education, through the Collateral Events programming.  As part of the preview program of the Biennale, the Pavilion realized an ephemeral outdoor installation: The Ice Monolith. Participating artist Stefano Cagol placed a block of ice from the Italian Alps on the shore of Venice in Riva Cà di Dio and symbolically left it melting, shooting the entire 60 hours process.   The exhibition catalogue was published in 2014 by Maretti Editore and is entitled: Portable Nation. Maldives Pavilion, edited by Dorian Batycka, Camilla Boemio, Alfredo Cramerotti, Aida Eltoire, Maretti Editore, 2013 ISBN 978-88-89477-519 Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture, Republic of the Maldives      