Teatr Tworzenia, or The Theater of Creation, Polish avant-garde theater, founded by Jarosław Pijarowski. According to the author's definition it is: "Uninstitutionalized form of realization of creative ideas, consisting on intuitive-improvisational thematic activities; Have on the goal of integration and promotion of creative thought (word, music, theater, paintings) in audio-visual forms.  The Theater of Creation does not have a permanent place, which is related to the idea -Live Act - live creation according to a previously accepted scenario, for the audience with no time, space or space constraints, more than once with the audience.  In the years 2006-2010 - the productions of The Theater of Creation were based on the basis of monographs and performative activities of Pijarowski (Scream Nudity, Di Logos Moon Di, Frozen in Monitoring) Warsaw, London and Prague.  The turning point has become monumental a theatrical-musical spectacle entitled "Sound Castle" from the series:"Castles of Sound"; Realized at Golub-Dobrzyń Castle in 2011.  Participants included: Jorgos Skolias - initiator "The Sound of Peace", drummer Sławomir Ciesielski, Boguslaw Raatz, Timothy Sanford, visual artist: Xavier Bayle, Lukasz Wodyński and others. Another great form was the first Polish avant-garde Oratorio "Terrarium" realized with Józef Skrzek   in Saint Andrew Bobola's Church in Bydgoszcz.  In 2013, in connection with the 80th birthday of Krzysztof Penderecki. The musical and theater project entitled:The dream Off Penderecki.  In 2014 the first spectacle from the series "Czasoprzestrzeń - Live Forever " - based on J. Pijarowski's play: "Space-time", describing cases of the precursor life of Polish magic - Pan Twardowski. On the way back from the premiere of the show as the final show of the Bydgoszcz Festival "Ster on Bydgoszcz" there was a tragic accident,  which was the suspension of the performance of The Theater of Creations.  Pijarowski is the author of almost all texts by The Theater of Creation. Music is a result of creator and artist activities cooperating. 