Virtual Portal for Impaired Groups Interaction (ViPi) is a project partially funded  by the European Union (EU) under the Lifelong Learning Programme 2007–2013, subprogramme KA3 ICT. The project commenced on 1 January 2011 and has 36 months duration (until 31 December 2013). The main vision of the project is to provide alternative and creative solutions for the employment of People with Disabilities (PwD)  by delivering a "one-stop-shop"  interactive portal and learning environment comprising: 1) a multilingual platform, 2) an embedded social community, 3) accessible content (WCAG 2.0) for PwD and trainers, etc. The project will bring together key stakeholders and gatekeepers (VET, target groups, umbrella organizations) in order to address the lack of specific training support or material for PwD and their trainers by providing a set of applications and services that will be available via a complete educational framework, taking into account interaction possibilities offered by web 2.0 and localised, tested and assessed with different end-user communities (GR, BE, LT, UK and CY ). ViPi  envisages filling the gap of accessible and flexible basic ICT skills training,  designed to meet the specific needs of people with disabilities,  as well as the special education trainers themselves.  To cope with this, a multilingual platform will be designed and developed that will consist of an interactive portal with a semantically enriched (compliant with Web 3.0) repository of learning objects (LOs) accompanied by a social community area and a dedicated online learning environment to host training courses.  The platform will be developed based on open source software and will fully embrace the WCAG 2.0 accessibility guidelines (level AA). Furthermore, the platform will embed functionalities based on ARIA. The project will deliver an online ICT learning environment for people with disabilities and their trainers. The expected results and achievements within the project lifetime are summarized in the following: More information for the project achievements and results can be found in the project web site.  The partners involved in the development of ViPi are: 