Joyee (Bengali: জয়ী); is a popular Bengali television Soap Opera that premiered on October 9, 2017 from Monday to Sunday, everyday at 6:00 pm and airs on Zee Bangla. It is produced by Tent Cinema and it stars Debadrita Basu and Dibjyoti Dutta in lead roles. It also stars Sanchari Mondal, Mimi Dutta, Tanuka Chatterjee,and  Dwaipayan Das in Supporting roles. The show replaced zee bangla's Most popular show Raadha (TV series)    . The show stars Joy Bhattacharya in a negative role as the main Antagonist.  Joyee is the story of a fun-loving, full of innocence, orphan village girl. She lives with her maternal uncle and aunt, and is an die-hart football lover. Her dream is to become a Footballer. To break the barriers of social taboos she often disguises as a boy to get to play ball. As destiny plans differently, she has to give in to her family's demands and get married. Thereon starts a different game of life. Totally unaware about what is in store she proceeds towards another destination as her family gets her married off. Her in-laws are extremely conservative and believes that a woman's only job is to run a household and look after her husband. Her husband, Ribhu extremely studious, almost a nerd of sorts is absolutely clueless about his wife's liking for sport.To top it all the family has an aversion towards. Here enters another antagonist,Sukumar, who is in love with Irabati (Ribhu's sister-in-law) and always tries to harm Joyee .Football as a sport for an unknown reason. Joyee a sportsman at heart starts to use her football skills to dribble and dodge in reaching her destination as a wife and a family member in her new home. But once a lover of the game is always a lover. She brews within her, the craze to be a successful footballer someday. Apart from football, a sad story of Agni (Ribhu's Sejdavai) also prevails the story. He has been kidnapped by Sagar Dutta, a football coach who used to take money from innocent foot ballers. Agni wanted to catch Sagar Dutta red hand. But circumstances prevailed to struck within Sagar Dutta's place. Joyee's another aim is to find her Sejdavai and to punish Sagar Dutta. After 6 Month, Joyee is back as Jessica who is a look-alike of joyee and Joyee is Back To Take Revenge From Sukumar. 