Paul Sandford McGlothin (born 1948 in Tennessee, currently in New York City) is most well-known as an author and consultant on calorie restriction (CR) and CR research. Paul McGlothin performed the clarinet with scholarships to Interlochen Arts Academy* and Oberlin Conservatory of Music as well as fellowships at the Tanglewood Music Center  and the National Orchestral Association* – followed by principal clarinet positions in symphony orchestras at Carnegie Hall and Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts. He organized events to honor the traditional music and dance of ethnicities in the United States and Puerto Rico – most notable being the Latin Dance Spectacular, the National Gospel Choir Competition, and the New York Hispanic Heritage Month Celebration. Paul McGlothin has attempted to bridge the gap between calorie restriction research and calorie restriction tools available to non-experts.  He has attempted to integrate calorie restriction research with calorie restriction application in the following ways: a) The CR Way,  co-authored with his wife, Meredith Averill, and launched on Barbara Walters’ longevity special, "Living to 150: Can You Do It?" It presents an approach to CR that recognizes the special challenges and opportunities that human beings experience in applying CR, as compared to the lab animals that thrive on it; b) The CR Way to Happy Dieting,  an online resource that takes advantage of research in neurochemistry to support healthful weight-loss efforts by starting people on a diet that first deals biochemically with their food-related emotions; and c) the Web site, LivingTheCRWay.com, maintained to provide new research results as they develop and are evaluated. The CR Way "diet" is based on decades of research.  Before the UCSF project, McGlothin and Averill helped assemble the CR cohort for human studies by Drs. Luigi Fontana and John Holloszy and their colleagues at the Washington University School of Medicine  This work has grown into the first longitudinal study of the effects of human calorie restriction with a focus on optimal nutrition      In the late 1990s and early 2000s McGlothin collaborated with a variety of labs on several projects, including testing the beneficial effects of maintaining low circulating blood glucose, studying the effect on the lipid profile, produced by various dietary fats, and creating a pilot study on resveratrol that was reported at the 2004 CR Society Intl. Conference  in Charleston. McGlothin’s work in testing and reporting CR results and helping create calorie restriction research projects led to his being named Research VP* of the CR Society, where he works with scientists to plan studies. He also serves on the Society’s Board of Directors.* In 2009, A. Janet Tomiyama, Ph.D., representing the laboratories of Elizabeth Blackburn (Biophysics and Biochemistry, UCSF) and Elissa Epel (Psychiatry, UCSF), invited McGlothin and Averill to collaborate in developing a human CR research project: Calorie Restriction with Optimal Nutrition and Aging (CRONA), including researchers in several related fields: Anne Brunet (Genetics, Stanford), Pankaj Kapahi (Buck Institute for Age Research), Cynthia Kenyon, (Biophysics and Biochemistry, UCSF), Jue Lin (Biochemistry & Biophysics, UCSF). Eric Verdin (Gladstone Institute of Virology and Immunology* and UCSF). By early 2011 much of the data gathering had been accomplished. 