An all-star (also stylized as All-Star) team is a group of people all having a high level of performance in their field.  Originating in sports, it has since drifted into vernacular and been borrowed heavily by the entertainment industry. "All-star" as a sports term refers to individual players named to an "all-star" roster or team representing the top performers (members of such a team were all stars from other teams) during and before the end of a season in a given sport, or to a list of top participants who played in individual sports such as golf and bowling. Events limited to such honorees are referred to as "all-star games" or events. In American team sports the premier all-star games are the Major League Baseball All-Star Game, NBA All-Star Game, Pro Bowl, NHL All-Star Game, and the MLS All-Star Game. Many all-star teams, such as collegiate "all-conference" and All-America squads, are recognitions of performance only, without the connotation of those selected ever being teammates in a game. In gaelic games, the term "all-stars" refers to the GAA GPA All Stars Awards. These awards involve picking a fantasy team consisting of the top players in each position in the various sports (Gaelic football, Ladies' Gaelic football, hurling, rounders and camogie). The term all-star also used in films,  often used as a form of publicity gimmick to promote the cast of a movie in which a number of high-profile actors appear, sometimes merely in cameo roles. An archetype is the 1956 version of Around the World in 80 Days. In television, there are a number of groups who could be considered all-stars. Many reality competition shows produce All-Stars editions, which feature notable and particularly talented contestants of past regular seasons of the show. For example, the reality game show franchise, Survivor, has had several editions where some or all of the cast featured are "All Stars". There have been three All-Stars editions of the American reality game show The Amazing Race. Other all-stars editions of U.S. shows include Bad Girls All-Star Battle, America's Next Top Model 17, and Charm School. RuPaul's Drag Race has also had three seasons of an All Stars spin-off. The ninth series of the British television show Dancing on Ice was an All-Stars edition. Another use for all-star contestants is to appear on other reality competition programs (especially if the shows are on the same network). This is especially prevalent on CBS's three reality competition programs, The Amazing Race, Survivor and Big Brother. The term "all-stars" has recently been used to describe/title video games that feature large casts of iconic characters in a crossover-type setting. Notable examples include PlayStation All-Stars Battle Royale and Warriors All-Stars. 