This article provides a list of notable awards for webcomics and some of the winners from each year.  Many webcomics artists have received honors for their work. In 2006, Gene Luen Yang's graphic novel American Born Chinese, originally published as a webcomic on Modern Tales, was the first graphic novel to be nominated for a National Book Award.  Don Hertzfeldt's animated film based on his webcomics, Everything Will Be OK, won the 2007 Sundance Film Festival Jury Award in Short Filmmaking, a prize rarely bestowed on an animated film.  Webcomic artists have also won comic awards from organizations that generally honor print comics, such as the Ignatz Awards and Eisner Awards, and there are awards, such as the Web Cartoonists' Choice Awards, which are given only to webcomics.  From 2001 until 2008, the Web Cartoonists' Choice Awards were given out, with voting rights granted only to online cartoonists. Because of the large number of categories, such as "Best Art", "Best Writing", "Best Gag Comic" and "Best Newcomer", only the winners of the main category "Best Comic" are listed here. The following articles provide complete listings of all nominees and winners in each year: In 2009 and 2010, users of internet forum The Webcomic List held an amateur award ceremony, where winners of its various categories were selected through a panel of judges. The ceremony itself was presented in the form of a webcomic, allowing it to spoof televised award shows as well as exhibit sample portions of the awardees.   The Eagle Award is a series of awards for comic book titles and creators. They are awarded by UK fan voting for work produced during the previous year. The awards featured a "favourite web-based comic" category from 2001 until its discontinuation in 2012. The Will Eisner Comic Industry Award, commonly shortened to the Eisner Award, is a prize given for creative achievement in American comic books. In 2003, Justine Shaw's Nowhere Girl received a nomination for an Eisner award in the "best new series" category, while Shaw was nominated for "talent deserving of wider recognition", making her the first webcomic artist to be nominated for an Eisner.  Paste Magazine noted in 2016 that the Eisner's conflation of "digital comic" and "webcomic" may cause independent works to be overshadowed by online services such as Marvel Unlimited and DC Comics' "Digital First".  In 2017, it was split into "Best Digital Comic" and "Best Webcomic". The Harvey Awards, named for writer-artist Harvey Kurtzman (1924-1993) and coordinated by the publisher Fantagraphics, are given for achievement in comic books. The Harveys were created as part of a successor to the Kirby Awards which were discontinued after 1987. Following the revamp in 2018 after the awards moved to New York Comic Con, the "Best Online Comics Work" has been renamed "Digital Book of the Year".  The Ignatz Awards are intended to recognize outstanding achievements in comics and cartooning by small press creators or creator-owned projects published by larger publishers. They have been awarded each year since 1997, but skipped a year in 2001 due to the show's cancellation after the September 11, 2001 attacks. Recipients of the award are determined by the votes of the attendees of the annual Small Press Expo. The award for webcomics was first awarded in 2012 for work produced during the previous year. It was divided the following year into two separate categories, "On-Line Comics – Short Form" and "On-Line Comics – Long Form". Presented by the Slate Book Review and the Center for Cartoon Studies, the Cartoonist Studio Prize was first awarded in 2013 for work produced during the previous year. The award has two categories, "Best Print Comic" and "Best Web Comic". The Weblog Awards were held from 2003 to 2008 and featured a "best comic strip" category starting in 2006. 