This article is a list of winners of Troféu HQ Mix, sorted by category. Until 2007, this category was called "Best Specialized Journalist". The award considers the Brazilian edition of their works. The award considers the Brazilian edition of their works. Until 2010, this category was called "Revelation Penciller". Until 2010, this category was called "Revelation Writer". This category was merged from "Best Adventure Album", "Best Adventure Comic Book", "Best Adventure and Fiction Comic Book", "Best Fiction Album", "Best Fiction, Adventure and Horror Album", "Best Horror Album", "Best Horror Comic Book" and "Best Horror Publication"; and, until 2015, this category was called "Best Adventure/Horror/Fiction Publication". Until 2003, this category was called "Best Caricatures Book". Until 2003, this category was called "Best Cartoons Book". This category was merged from "Best Children's Album" and "Best Children's Comic Book"; and, between 2009 and 2015, this category was called "Best Child and Youth Publication". This category was merged from "Best Classic Album" and "Best Classic Comic Book". Until 2003, this category was called "Best Editorial Cartoons Book". Until 2001, this category was called "Best Erotic Album". The award considers the Brazilian edition of the works. The award considers the Brazilian edition of the works. The award considers the Brazilian edition of the works. The award considers the Brazilian edition of the works. This category was merged from "	Best Caricatures Publication", "Best Cartoons Publication" and "Best Editorial Cartoons Publication". This category was merged from "Best Humor Album" and "Best Humor Comic Book". Until 2003, this category was called "Best Independent Comic Book"; and, from 2008, this category was splitted into "Best Independent Group Publication", "Best Independent Pocket Publication", "Best Independent Single Edition Publication" and "Best Independent Sole Publication". Until 2010, this category was called "Best Independent Special Publication". This category was merged from "Best National Miniseries" and "Best Foreign Miniseries"; and, until 2016, this category was called "Best Miniseries". Until 2003, this category was called "Best Mix Comic Book". From 2014, this category was splitted into National and Foreign Special Editions. Until 2007, this category was called "Best Comics' Website". From 2007 this category was splitted into "Best Doctoral Thesis", "Best Graduation Academic Work" and "Best Masters Dissertation". This category was merged from "Best Blog About Comics", "Best Publication About Comics" and "Best Website About Comics". This category was also called: "Best Adaptation to Another Vehicle" (1989-2010), "Best Production in Other Languages" (2011-2015) and "Best Adaptation to Another Language" (2016). Until 2003, this category was called "Best Magazine About Comics". Until 2015, this category was called "Special Homage". This category awards Brazilian artists who had his works published internationally. 