Autistic art is art created by autistic artists or art which captures or conveys a variety of autistic experiences or demeanor. Art by autistic artists has long been shown in separate venues from artists without disabilities.  and the art of those with autism has often been considered part of Outsider Art  The works of some autistic artists have featured in art publications, documentaries and been exhibited in mainstream galleries. Stephen Wiltshire is one of the most famous autistic artists.  His works are largely architectural or of cityscapes, monuments and buildings. Other autistic artists producing representational art include Richard Wawro,  Jessica Hillary Park  and Ping Lian Yeak.   Dutch artist Roy Wenzel (born 1959) was diagnosed at age 11. His art is that of excess, with highly assertive and gestural images.  Christophe Pillault  and Donna Williams focus on figurative works with an emphasis on movement.  Both artists feature in the award-winning book ARTism  by Bernice Pelletier and Karen Simmons and published by Autism Today.  Christophe Pillault paints with his hands.  His works were featured in the book Art of the Mind published by the M.I.N.D Institute.  Mark Rimland is a self-taught American whose drawings and paintings are often figurative and feature people and cats.  The son of autism pioneer Bernard Rimland, Mark was featured in the documentary Lifting The Fog; A Look Into The Mysteries of Autism, in ARTism  and illustrated the book  The Secret Night World Of Cats.  Larry Bissonnette  and Henriett Seth F.  make abstract, highly patterned works. Roibeard Catnip Tull, Sarah Daisey Van Diesel, Karen Johnson, Silke Heyer, and Kristina Teskey also make abstract works. Gilles Trehin and George Widener  do detailed imaginary worlds.  Gilles is a self-taught French artist who works in pencil, largely architectural. He represents an imaginary world called Urville through his sketches.  He was featured in the BBC4 documentary Art Savant: The City Inside My Head.  