 Pro-Pakistan sentiment is fondness and love of aspects of Pakistani culture, Pakistani history, Pakistani cuisine, Pakistani traditions and the people of Pakistan. The Pakistani diaspora has contributed to the country's exposure throughout Europe and the West. The like or interest of Pakistan is the opposite of Pakophobia,  Pakistanophobia  or Anti-Pakistan sentiment, which is the fear and dislike of things concerning Pakistan. During the Pakistan Movement in the 1940s, Rohingya Muslims in western Burma and in kashmir had an ambition to annex and merge their region into East Pakistan.  Before the independence of Burma, in May 1946, some Muslim leaders from Arakan addressed themselves to Mohammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, and asked his assistance in annexing of the Mayu region to Pakistan which was about to be formed.  Two months later, North Arakan Muslim League was founded in Akyab (modern: Sittwe, capital of Arakan State), it, too demanding annexation to Pakistan.  However, the proposal never materialised. Pro-Pakistan sentiment in Kashmir is present among Kashmiri people who are opposed to Indian rule in Jammu and Kashmir.  According to Robert Wirsing, among the Kashmiri Muslims who reject Indian rule, there are those who favour a complete union with Pakistan over independence.  Pro-Pakistan sentiment in Kashmir is regarded to be present among Kashmiris due to cultural and religious connections, as well as Kashmiri bitterness over state oppression by local authorities.  The sentiment was further augmented by government of India's refusal to let Muslim United Front, participate in elections in 1987.  Pro-Pakistan sentiment is also found notably among Kashmiri leaders of the All Parties Hurriyat Conference concerning the legal status of the Vale of Kashmir, and other Kashmiris who favour a union with Pakistan.  In a statement to the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, Sumantra Bose remarked that a large segment of the population of the Poonch district, India, which is in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir, have pro-Pakistan sentiments.  The Pakistan national cricket team enjoys large fan following in Jammu and Kashmir. During the 2011 ICC World Cup semi-final between Pakistan and India, a Times of India article observed that Srinagar was "shut down" for the clash, children missed their school and that instead of India, Kashmiri cricket fans showed their support for the Pakistani team.  This support was observed across all castes and classes. India's fall of wickets was cheered with firecrackers. While during Pakistan's run chase, every run was applauded.  The slogan, Pakistan Zindabad, has been used by Kashmiris, who support Kashmir's accession to Pakistan, in the Indian-administered Kashmir.   Supporters are also detained by local police for raising such slogans.  On 13 October 1983, during a limited over cricket match between West Indies and India at Sher-i-Kashmir Stadium, Srinagar, the crowd cheered India's defeat with Pakistan Zindabad cries.  On Accession Day in 2015, thousands of protestors in Srinagar staged pro-Pakistan demonstrations, and unfurled Pakistani flags.  