Gujranwala Division which includes following districts The Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Gujranwala (BISE Gujranwala) is a body corporate under section 3(2) of Punjab Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Act 1976.  The Gujranwala city is located on the famous GT road 68 km on north side from Lahore and 220 km on southern side from the capital city of Islamabad & Rawalpindi.The campus of Board is 1 km away from Lohianwala Bypass, GT road. This Board conducted its first examination in 1976. Board started functioning by obtaining buildings on rent. These building were actually residential  houses in the area of Satellite Town, Gujranwala. First building acquired on rent was 162-D satellite town Gujranwala. Then during the tenure of Qari Ghulam Sadiq Chairman with his devoted team Ch. Nisar Ahmad Secretary and Mr. Abdul Sattar Rashid Security Officer acquired a piece of land comprising 231 kanals or 28.8 acres near sialkot bypass, Lohianwala under Punjab Land Acquisition Act 1894 and started construction of its own campus. The boundary wall was completed during the tenure of Prof. Muhammad Amin, Chairman and under his supervision a team composed of Ch. Muhammad Ahsan, Secretary, Mr. Fazal Karim Engineer and Mr. Abdul Sattar Rashid Security Officer completed the task to take over the area with construction of a boundary wall around the campus. Then services of a famous consultant M/s Elire H.N. Murat Khan and Associates were hired for supervision of construction of the campus. The main office building was constructed by M/s Alicon (Pvt) Limited under the technical supervision of the consultant during the tenure of Dr. Sardar Muhammad Mian and Dr. Abdul Qayyum Khan Lodhi, Chairman with the help of their team composed of Ch. Muhammad Sharif Abid, Secretary, Mr. Najeeb Ashraf Warraich, Estate Officer, Mr. Abdul Sattar Rashid, Security Officer and Mr. Fazal Karim Engineer. The offices were shifted during December 1992 to March 1993.    The jurisdiction of the Gujranwala Board includes following districts: The Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education conducts Matriculation and Intermediate Exams every year within its jurisdiction. Matriculation and Intermediate Exams are mostly held in March and April respectively and the result of both exams is mostly announced in July and August or in the start of September. 