   The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is a national level board of education in India for public and private schools, controlled and managed by Union Government of India. CBSE has asked all schools affiliated to follow only NCERT curriculum.  There are approximately 19,316 schools in India and 211 schools in 25 foreign countries affiliated to the CBSE.  The first education board to be set up in India was the Uttar Pradesh Board of High School and Intermediate Education in 1921, which was under jurisdiction of Rajputana, Central India and Gwalior.  In 1929, the government of India  set up a joint Board named "Board of High School and Intermediate Education, Rajputana". This included Ajmer, Merwara, Central India and Gwalior. Later it was confined to Ajmer, Bhopal and Vindhya Pradesh.  In 1952, it became the "Central Board of Secondary Education". CBSE affiliates all Kendriya Vidyalayas, all Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas, private schools and most of the schools approved by central government of India. CBSE conducts the final examinations for Class 10 and Class 12 every year in the month of March. The results are announced by the end of May.  The board earlier conducted the AIEEE Examination for admission to undergraduate courses in engineering and architecture in colleges across India. However the AIEEE exam was merged with the IIT-Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) in 2013. The common examination is now called JEE(Main).  CBSE also conducts AIPMT (All India Pre Medical Test) for admission to major medical colleges in India. In 2014, the conduct of the National Eligibility Test for grant of junior research fellowship and eligibility for assistant professor in institutions of higher learning was outsourced to CBSE.  Apart from these tests, CBSE also conducts the central teachers eligibility test and the Class X optional proficiency test.  With the addition of NET in 2014, the CBSE has become the largest exam conducting body in the world.   On 10 November 2017, Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, cleared a proposal for creation of a National Testing Agency (NTA) which will conduct various entrance examinations. Currently, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) conducts Joint Engineering Entrance (JEE) Exam, National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), Central Teacher Eligibility Test (twice a year) UGC’s National Eligibility Test (twice a year) and the entrance test for Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas. For promotion from Secondary (Class 10) to Senior Secondary (Class 11-12), a student must obtain, for all subjects (or best 5 if 6 subjects are taken), 33% (23/80) in both theory and internal assessment (6/20 min), with an overall minimum of 33%. For 2018 only: 33% overall, without the minimum theory mark requirement.   For a student who does not manage to pass up to two subjects, he/she can write the compartment in those subjects in July. For those who fail the compartment, or those who fail in three subjects or more, he/she must rewrite all the subjects taken in the next year. 33% overall, with 33% in both theory and practical components (if available). For a student who does not manage to pass in exactly one subject, he/she can write the compartment for that subject in July. For those who fail the compartment, or those who fail in two subjects or more, he/she must rewrite all the subjects taken in the next year. For the Class 10 and Class 12 exams, CBSE (along with the marks obtained) includes the positional grade obtained by the student, which is dependent on the average performance of the students in that subject. Consequently, the cutoffs required to obtain a particular grade vary every year. The cutoffs required to obtain a particular grade in 2018 are listed below:   During 2010-2017, when CBSE implemented a CCE (Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation) for grade 10 students, only the grades obtained by the student were mentioned in the report card in a 9-point grading scale, which translates as below: It is the practice adopted by CBSE of 'tweaking' candidates' marks to account for paper difficulties and variations. This has been criticized in the past for inflating students' marks in a hyper-competitive society where even one mark counts , and CBSE is in the process of ending it. In 2017, CBSE informed that it would end moderation entirely, but was hit with a court case and the Delhi High Court ruled that moderation should continue for that year  . Till 2018, moderation was applied to account for variations in region sets (as then students in different regions would be answering different question papers). Since 2018, when everyone around the world answers the same questions, this practice was renamed as standardisation, with the CBSE gradually phasing out the practice with the reduction on subjects which were given the offset. In 2018, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry and Accountancy were given offset of +9, Business Studies given +6, and English given a +3 offset.  The total mark obtained by a student through moderation cannot exceed 95; if so, it is capped at 95 unless the student's actual mark is 96 or more. This is the reason a mark of 95 is relatively common for such subjects, and why it is much tougher to get 96 than to get a 95. Moderation was also applied in the infamous CBSE Class 12 mathematics papers of 2015 and 2016, wherein the paper created a huge furore as students and teachers complained that the paper was too tough  . Despite a reportedly heavy offset of +16 (+15 for Delhi)  , students' marks reduced (especially for 2016), as while the A1 cutoff was stable (90), the A2 cutoff reduced to 77, with other grades also experiencing a dip in cutoff. Moderation can also take the form of giving grace marks to enable students who have scored near the pass mark to pass. This is the reason marks between 25 and 33 are unheard of in subjects like Mathematics, and also explains why the difference between D1 and D2 cutoff is sometimes very small. In March 2018, there were reports that CBSE Class 10 mathematics and Class 12 economics question papers were leaked.  In response, CBSE announced that these exams will be cancelled and re-exams will be conducted.  However, CBSE later announced that there will be no re-exam for Class 10 mathematics paper because the paper leak may have been confined to a few alleged beneficiaries.  On 7 April 2018, Rakesh Kumar (an economics teacher) and two other employees of a private school in Una, Himachal Pradesh were arrested for leaking the Class 12 economics paper.  According to the police, Rakesh Kumar had gone inside the strong room of a bank to pick up packets of computer science question papers but also picked up a packet of economics question paper.  He asked a student to make a handwritten copy of the question paper (to avoid being traced from the handwriting).  He then sent photos of the handwritten copy of the paper on WhatsApp to a relative in Punjab.  This relative shared the photos with her son and nephew, who shared them with their friends on WhatsApp groups, from where it was forwarded to other Whatsapp groups.  On 12 April 2018, the police said that Rakesh Kumar, who leaked the class 12 economics paper, had leaked class 10 mathematics paper also.  Consequently, the Central Board of Secondary Education has put in place a system of “encrypted” question papers, which are supposed to be printed by the schools half an hour before the exam starts.  Presently CBSE has 10 regional offices: 