Florida Teacher Certification Examinations (FTCE) are standardized tests used to assess the competencies of prospective teachers according to Florida's Sunshine State Standards. FTCE refers to 47 different exams: four General Knowledge sub-tests, one Professional Education exam, and 42 Subject Area examinations. Passing the appropriate FTCE exam is considered one part of the requirements for becoming a licensed teacher in Florida. Prospective teachers go through the Bureau of Educator Certification at the Department of Education to become certified. The Bureau advises that teacher candidates should submit an application for certification before applying to take certification examinations. Note: All teachers must have either professional or temporary certification by the Bureau of Educator Certification. Paper and pencil tests are offered 6 times per Calendar Year, with 2 additional supplemental administrations. Supplemental administrations cost considerably more than regular testing dates. As an alternative to paper-and-pencil tests, many tests are now offered on the computer during the week at 36 locations throughout the state. The computer-based tests are equivalent to the paper-and-pencil tests in length and difficulty.  The federal No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 (NCLB) requires that, in order for states to receive federal funding, all teachers must be "highly qualified" as defined in the law by the end of the 2006-07 school year.  The Florida Department of Education has defined a highly qualified teacher to be one who has (1) fulfilled the state's certification and licensing requirements, (2) obtained at least a bachelor's degree, and (3) demonstrated subject matter expertise.  The procedure for demonstrating subject matter knowledge depends on a teacher's tenure and level of instruction. As a result, the FTCE began in 2002 to replace the College Level Academic Skills Test (CLAST). The test satisfies Florida Statutes 1012.56.2 (g), (h), and (i) to be certified as a teacher. The specific implementation is according to the Florida Administrative Code  6A-4.0021 The general knowledge test is meant to test general education. There are four parts: English Language Skills, Readings, mathematics, and an Essay. Percent correct needed to pass on the easiest version: 73% Time allotted: 40 minutes Time allotted: 50 minutes A 4 function calculator is provided for this portion of the test. Percent correct needed to pass on the easiest version: 60% Time allotted: 100 minutes The reference sheet provided includes: Percent correct needed to pass on the easiest version: 73% Time allotted: 40 minutes The profession education test is meant to test education specific to pedagogy and professional practices. Percent correct needed to pass on the easiest version: 73% Time allotted: 150 minutes of subject matter learning   The subject area tests are meant to test the various subjects prospective teachers in Florida will be teaching.  Passing rates for various test are shown in the tables below.   The tables list the percentage of first time test takers passing each exam, it then lists the percentage of all test takers passing for that year. Results for the 4 sections of the general knowledge exam (GK) and the professional education exam are shown below. Results of subject area exams are shown below 