Goddard College is a low-residency college with three locations in the United States: Plainfield, Vermont; Port Townsend, Washington; and Seattle, Washington. The college offers undergraduate and graduate degree programs. With predecessor institutions dating to 1863, Goddard College was founded in 1938 as an experimental and non-traditional educational institution based on the ideas of John Dewey: that experience and education are intricately linked.  Goddard College operates on an intensive low-residency model. Each student designs his or her own curriculum and the college uses a student self-directed, mentored system in which faculty issue narrative evaluations of student's progress instead of grades. The intensive low-residency model requires students to come to campus every six months for approximately eight days when students engage in a variety of activities and lectures from early morning until late in the evening and create detailed study plans. During the semester, students study independently, sending in "packets" to their faculty mentors every few weeks. When low-residency education began at Goddard, packets were actual packets of paper sent via the mail, but with the advancement of the internet, most packets are sent electronically and may contain artwork, audio files, photography, video and web pages in addition to writing. The schedule and format of these packets differ from program to program, and content varies with each student-faculty correspondence, but almost always focuses on research, writing, and reflection related to each student's individualized study plan. Goddard offers a Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA), Master of Arts (MA), Master of Fine Arts (MFA), along with several concentrations and Licensures. It enrolls approximately 700 students, 30% of whom are undergraduates. It employs 110 faculty and 90 staff. Goddard’s mission is to advance cultures of rigorous inquiry, collaboration, and lifelong learning, where individuals take imaginative and responsible action in the world. Goddard College began in 1863 in Barre, Vermont, as the Green Mountain Central Institute.  In 1870, it was renamed as Goddard Seminary in honor of Thomas A. Goddard (1811-1868) and his wife Mary (1816-1889).   Goddard was a prominent merchant in Boston, and was one of the school's earliest and most generous benefactors.  Founded by Universalists, Goddard Seminary was a four-year preparatory high school, primarily for Tufts College. For many years the Seminary prospered. But the opening of many good public high schools in the 20th century made many of the New England academies obsolete. To attempt a rescue, the trustees added a Junior College to the Seminary in 1935, with a Seminary graduate, Royce S. "Tim" Pitkin, as President.  Royce S. "Tim" Pitkin was a progressive educator and follower of John Dewey, William Heard Kilpatrick and other, similar proponents of educational democracy. In 1936, under his leadership, the Seminary concluded that in order for Goddard to survive, an entirely new institution would need to be created. A number of prominent educators and laymen agreed with him. Pitkin was supported by Stanley C. Wilson, ex-governor of Vermont and chairman of the Goddard Seminary Board of Trustees; Senators George Aiken and Ralph Flanders and Dorothy Canfield Fisher.  Pitkin was able to persuade the Board of Trustees to embrace a new style of education, one that substituted individual attention, democracy, and informality for the traditionally austere and autocratic educational model. On March 13, 1938, Goddard College was chartered. In July 1938 the newly formed Goddard College moved to Greatwood Farm in Plainfield, Vermont. The new Goddard was an experimental and progressive college. For its first 21 years of operation, Goddard was unaccredited and small, but built a reputation as one of the most innovative colleges in the country.  Especially noted were Goddard’s use of discussion as the basic method in classroom teaching; its emphasis on the whole lives of students in determining personal curricula; its incorporation of practical work into the life of every student; and its development of the college as a self-governing learning community in which everyone had a voice.   In 1959 Goddard College was accredited. As of 2015 it is accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges.  One of the founding principles upon which Goddard was founded was that the College should provide educational opportunities for adults.  It became clear that there was a great need for a program through which adults who had not completed college could obtain degrees without disrupting their family lives or careers. The Adult Degree Program (ADP), created by Evalyn Bates, was established in 1963. It was the first low-residency adult education program in the country.  Over the years many experimental programs were designed at Goddard. These programs included the Goddard Experimental Program for Further Education, Design Build Program, Goddard Cambridge Program for Social Change, Third World Studies Program, Institute for Social Ecology, Single Parent Program and many others. Having narrative transcripts instead of traditional letter grades, as well as learner-designed curricula, Goddard was one of the founding members of the Union for Experimenting Colleges and Universities, which also included Franconia, Nasson, Antioch, and others. In 2002, after 54 years, the college terminated its traditional age residential undergraduate degree program and became an exclusively low-residency college.  Three years later, the college expanded to the West Coast and established a residency site in Port Townsend, Washington. In July 2011 Goddard began to offer their education program (non-licensure only) in Seattle, Washington. In 2014, the graduating class of the college's undergraduate program selected convicted murderer and Goddard alumnus Mumia Abu-Jamal as commencement speaker.  Abu-Jamal, who had attended Goddard as an undergraduate in the 1970s, completed his Goddard degree from prison via mail while serving his sentence for the 1982 murder of Philadelphia police officer Daniel Faulkner.  The decision to invite Abu-Jamal to speak was criticized by Faulkner's widow,  US Senator Pat Toomey, the Vermont Troopers Association, the Vermont Police Chiefs Association, the Fraternal Order of Police, and the Pennsylvania Department of Corrections.     The college's interim President, Bob Kenny, supported the right of students to select a commencement speaker of their choosing.  On October 5, the school released his commencement speech. The pre-recorded speech did not mention Mumia's murder conviction.   The campus in Plainfield was founded in 1938 on the grounds of a late 19th-century model farm: The Greatwood Farm & Estate consists of shingle style buildings and gardens designed by Arthur Shurcliff. The Village of Learning, consisting of eleven dormitory buildings, was constructed adjacent to the ensemble of renovated farm buildings in 1963 to accommodate an increasing student population. The Pratt Center & Library, sited to be at the heart of a larger campus, was constructed in 1968. No other significant new construction has been added to the campus since that time. On March 7, 1996 the Greatwood campus was recognized for its historic and architectural significance with its inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places.  A US Army post from 1902 to 1953,  much of the fort has been renovated and turned into a year-round, multi-use facility dedicated to lifelong learning which houses several organizations that comprise  Fort Worden State Park. The fort sits on a bluff overlooking the Strait of Juan de Fuca and Admiralty Inlet near Port Townsend, Washington. The MA in Education program, originally held in the Plainfield-based low-residency program, expanded into Columbia City, one of Seattle’s most ethnically and racially diverse neighborhoods, in 2011. The program is unique in that it trains students in bilingual preschool education. Students can focus on such areas as intercultural studies, dual language, early childhood, cultural arts, and community education, and then create their plan of studies for each semester. The program is also different in that it is designed to serve students who cannot leave their families and communities for the residency. The “community campus” is housed in different buildings in the area. The Eliot D. Pratt Center and Library, located in Plainfield, Vermont serves the entire Goddard College community, and is open to the public. Its holdings contain over 70,000 physical items and access to over 20 electronic databases. The building also houses several administrative offices, an Archives room with artifacts from the 1800s to present, an Art Gallery, and WGDR (91.1 FM), a college/community radio station serving Central Vermont since 1973. Goddard is home to Goddard College Community Radio, a community-based, non-commercial, listener-supported educational radio station with nearly 70 volunteer programmers who live and work in central and northern Vermont and who range in age from 12 to 78 years. WGDR, 91.1 FM, is licensed to Plainfield, Vermont. Its sister station, WGDH, 91.7 FM, is licensed to Hardwick, Vermont. Goddard College Community Radio is the largest non-commercial community radio station in Vermont and is the only non-commercial station in the state other than the statewide Vermont Public Radio network that receives funding from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. The Haybarn Theatre was built in 1868 by the Martin Family and was one of the largest barns in Central Vermont. The Haybarn was originally used to store hay, grain and livestock. In 1938 when Goddard College purchased Greatwood Farm they began the process of turning the farm buildings into academic and student spaces. The Haybarn was renovated in order to provide a space for the performing arts. For almost 75 years the Haybarn Theatre has been a place where the local community and the College come together to enjoy and appreciate the arts. This long tradition continues to this day as the Haybarn hosts educational conferences, student and community performances and the ongoing Goddard College Concert Series. Coordinates: 44°16′44″N 72°26′22″W﻿ / ﻿44.2789°N 72.4394°W﻿ / 44.2789; -72.4394 