Canadian primary and secondary examinations are examinations taken by large portions of primary and secondary students in some provinces and territories in Canada. Provincially developed examinations are individual to each respective province and their considerate adjacent territories as education in Canada is the responsibility of the governments of the provinces and territories. Such exams in courses can be important factors in the determination of final grades and therefore scholarships and college and university admissions. However, policies of post-secondary institutions in Canada vary concerning whether the blended exam and class grade are used.  Nationally and internationally developed examinations are generally consistent across provinces and territories.  A unique situation of primary and secondary examinations is that of Canada's territories. The territories primarily, but not entirely, elect to follow the curriculum of their most closely related adjacent provinces. This includes adopting the related provinces examination policy. The Yukon primarily follows the British Columbian Curriculum.  Meanwhile, the Northwest Territories and Nunavut primarily follow the Alberta curriculum.   Therefore, exams in these territories are developed and adjudicated by the aforementioned adjacent province but are administered by the territorial educational ministry. For the purposes of the list, the 'course grade' is defined as the grade assigned by the teacher during classroom instruction. 'Final grade' or 'blended grade' are defined as the combined examination and course grade. Some universities choose to raise Albertan students marks because of their provincially required exams. For example, the University of British Columbia automatically raise Albertan students average by 2%.  In Ontario, province wide assessment is administered by the crown corporation called the Education Quality and Accountability Office (EQAO).  The EQAO administers tests in: Provincial examinations are known as Provincial Assessments in Prince Edward Island.  Examinations prior to the IMA is not included in grade submission. 