This is a timeline of formal declarations of War during World War II. A declaration of war is a formal act by which one nation goes to war against another.  The declaration is usually an act of delivering a performative speech (not to be confused with a mere speech) or the presentation of a signed document by an authorized party of a national government in order to create a state of war between two or more sovereign states.  The official international protocol for declaring war was defined in The Hague Peace Conference of 1907 (or Hague II).   For the diplomatic maneuvering behind these events, which led to hostilities between nations during World War II, see the article entitled Diplomatic history of World War II. Below is a table showing the outbreak of wars between nations which occurred during World War II.  Indicated are the dates (during the immediate build-up to, or during the course of, World War II), from which a de facto state of war existed between nations.  The table shows both the "Initiator Nation(s)" and the nation at which the aggression was aimed, or "Targeted Nation(s)".  Events listed include those in which there were simple diplomatic breaking of relations that did not involve any physical attack, as well as those involving overt declarations or acts of aggression. In rare cases, war between two nations occurred twice, with an intermittent period of peace. The list here does not include peace treaties or periods of any armistice  Table Legend: Concerning Declaration of War:  A = Attack without prior, formal declaration of war; U = State of war arrived at through use of ultimatum; W = Formal declaration of war made. Declaration Australia New Zealand Declaration Declaration Declaration Belgium Netherlands South Africa Australia New Zealand Declaration Attack on Pearl Harbor Invasion of Malaya Attack on Singapore Invasion of Hong Kong Canada Australia New Zealand Australian declaration Cost Rican declaration Dominican Republic's declaration Salvadorian declaration Haitian declaration Honduran declaration Dutch declaration New Zealand's declaration Nicaraguan declaration Philippine declaration Declaration Mongolian declaration Australian declaration New Zealand's declaration German declaration Italian declaration Italy Romanian declaration Bulgarian declaration Invasion British declaration New Zealand's declaration South African declaration British declaration New Zealand's declaration South African declaration  Declaration   Argentinean declaration Paraguayan declaration Venezuelan declaration Uruguayan declaration Soviet Invasion of Manchuria Mongolia in World War II German ambassador, Hans-Adolf von Moltke, Polish leader Józef Piłsudski, German propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels and Józef Beck, Polish Foreign minister meeting in Warsaw on June 15, 1934, five months after signing the Polish-German Non-Aggression Pact.]] British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain, landing at Heston aerodrome on 30 September 1938 after his meeting with Hitler at Munich. In his hand he holds the peace agreement between Britain and Germany. Common parade of German Wehrmacht and Soviet Red Army on September 23, 1939 in Brest, Eastern Poland at the end of the Poland Campaign.  In the center is Major General Heinz Guderian; and on the right is Brigadier General Semyon Krivoshein. Counsellor of state J.K. Paasikivi and his team arriving from Moscow for the first round of negotiations on 16 October 1939. From left, minister Aarno Yrjö-Koskinen, J.K. Paasikivi, chief of staff Johan Nykopp and colonel Aladár Paasonen. German paratroopers taking the Greek island of Crete, May 1941. Photograph from a Japanese plane of Battleship Row at the beginning of the surprise Attack on Pearl Harbor. The explosion in the center is a torpedo strike on the USS Oklahoma. Two attacking Japanese planes can be seen: one over the USS Neosho and one over the Naval Yard. 