Joel-Peter Witkin (born September 13, 1939) is an American photographer who lives in Albuquerque, New Mexico. His work often deals with  themes such as death, corpses (and sometimes dismembered portions thereof), and various outsiders such as dwarfs, transsexual and intersex persons, as well as physically deformed people. Witkin's complex tableaux often recall religious episodes or classical paintings.  Witkin was born to a Jewish father and Roman Catholic mother. His twin brother, Jerome Witkin,  and son Kersen Witkin, are also painters. Witkin's parents divorced when he was young because they were unable to overcome their religious differences . He attended grammar school at Saint Cecelia's in Brooklyn and went on to Grover Cleveland High School. In 1961 Witkin enlisted in the United States Army with the intention of capturing war photography during the Vietnam war. However, due to scheduling conflicts, Witkin never saw combat in Vietnam. Witkin spent his military time at Fort Hood, Texas, and was mostly in charge of Public Information and classified photos.  In 1967, he became the official photographer for City Walls Inc. He attended Cooper Union in New York, where he studied sculpture, attaining a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1974.  Columbia University granted him a scholarship for graduate school, but his Master of Fine Arts degree is from the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque .  Witkin claims that his vision and sensibility spring from an episode he witnessed as a young child, an automobile accident in front of his house in which a little girl was decapitated.  It happened on a Sunday when my mother was escorting my twin brother and me down the steps of the tenement where we lived. We were going to church. While walking down the hallway to the entrance of the building, we heard an incredible crash mixed with screaming and cries for help. The accident involved three cars, all with families in them. Somehow, in the confusion, I was no longer holding my mother's hand. At the place where I stood at the curb, I could see something rolling from one of the overturned cars. It stopped at the curb where I stood. It was the head of a little girl. I bent down to touch the face, to speak to it -- but before I could touch it someone carried me away"  He says his family's difficulties also influenced his work. His favorite artist is Giotto. His photographic techniques draw on early Daguerreotypes and on the work of E. J. Bellocq.  Those of Witkin's works which use corpses have had to be created in Mexico in order to get around restrictive US laws. Because of the transgressive nature of the contents of his images, his works have been labelled exploitative and have sometimes shocked public opinion.  His techniques include scratching the negative, bleaching or toning the print, and using a hands-in-the-chemicals printing technique. This experimentation began after seeing a 19th-century ambrotype of a woman and her ex-lover who had been scratched from the frame.  Joel-Peter Witkin's photograph "Sanitarium" inspired the final presentation of Alexander McQueen's Spring/Summer 2001 collection based on avian imagery, the walls of another box within the faux psychiatric ward collapsed to reveal a startling tableau vivant: a reclining, masked nude breathing through a tube and surrounded by fluttering moths. In July 2011, filming began on the feature-length documentary, Joel-Peter Witkin: An Objective Eye.  The film, directed by Thomas Marino, examines Witkin's life and photographs.  Along with interviews with Joel-Peter Witkin, the film features interviews from gallery owners, prominent artists, photographers, and scholars who share insight into the impact of Witkin's work and influence on modern culture.  Filming took place in Albuquerque, Los Angeles, New York, and Paris.  The film was released on July 6, 2013 for digital download and streaming/rental.  The film will be part of the permanent collections at the Bibliothèque nationale de France in Paris, France, and the Biblioteca Nacional de Chile in Santiago, Chile.   "Joel-Peter Witkin: An Objective Eye" was first publicly shown in Santiago, Chile at the Biblioteca Nacional de Chile on July 31, 2013, as part of the opening of the exhibition, "Vanitas: Joel-Peter Witkin en Chile".  Those in attendance of this premiere included Joel-Peter Witkin, his wife Barbara, and gallery owner Baudoin Lebon. 