John Trobaugh (born 1968) in Lansing, Michigan is an American artist specializing in photography and based in Birmingham, Alabama. Trobaugh received his BFA in 1996 with honors from University of Alabama at Birmingham and went on to study photography at the School of Visual Arts. In 2003 he received his Masters in Fine Art from the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. His photography has been published in Art Papers, selected as the cover artist. He has also been published in The Chronicle of Higher Education, NY Arts Magazine, The Washington Post and The Advocate as well as The Birmingham News and World of Wonder, among many others. While teaching at Sheldon State in Tuscaloosa Alabama, Trobaugh's work was censored before a planned exhibition.  The case has yet to be resolved but gained national attention due to censorship issues. He was  forbidden to discuss this censorship as part of his art appreciation class. Trobaugh later resigned his post. Richard Meyer, Chair of the Art Department at The University of Southern California in Los Angeles, California, spoke about Trobaugh's work at various national conferences about censorship. Trobaugh was also presented in The Smithsonian National Gallery and is the author of several articles including Art Papers. In 2005, Space One Eleven exhibited Trobaugh's work alongside Karen Graffeo for"In This Place". M. K. Matalon organized this exhibition to investigate place and location in relationship to contemporary Southern issues.  Trobaugh's work was selected to be part of Patterns of Nature in Denver, Colorado.  Trobaugh was included in "Politics, Politics: Nine Artists Explore the Political Landscape" curated by Anne Arrasmith and Peter Prinz of Space One Eleven. This exhibition was funded by the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts and included Pinky Bass, Clayton Colvin, Peggy Dobbins, Randy Gachet, binx Newton, Arthur Price, Paul Ware, and Stan Woodard.  Trobaugh was a presenter for Photography in the Digital Age by The Society For Photographic Education South Central Regional Conference, 2003. This meeting took place at the University of Alabama at Birmingham and Birmingham Museum of Art in Birmingham, Alabama   