Underground culture, or simply underground, is a term to describe various alternative cultures which either consider themselves different from the mainstream of society and culture, or are considered so by others. The word "underground" is used because there is a history of resistance movements under harsh regimes where the term underground was employed to refer to the necessary secrecy of the resisters. For example, the Underground Railroad was a network of clandestine routes by which African slaves in the 19th century United States attempted to escape to freedom. The phrase "underground railroad" was resurrected and applied in the 1960s to the extensive network of draft counseling groups and houses used to help Vietnam-era draft dodgers escape to Canada (References:  ), and was also applied in the 1970s to the clandestine movement of people and goods by the American Indian Movement in and out of occupied Native American reservation lands. (See Wounded Knee).  Since then, the term has come to designate various subcultures such as mod culture, hippie culture, punk rock culture, techno music/rave culture and underground hip hop. The unmodified term "The underground" was a common name for World War II resistance movements.  It was later applied to counter-cultural movement(s) many of which sprang up during the 1960s. For the first time the printed term "underground"  used art-critic Manny Farber(1957). A way to define it is a quote by Frank Zappa: Applied to the arts, the term underground typically means artists who are not corporately sponsored and generally do not want to be. With the advent of the world wide web (or internet), many experts argue that there is no underground since so much art and so many political ideas, especially music, are far easier to locate. It provides artists and activists a means to promote their work and ideas without large, established corporate interests. Even the concept of obscurity is questionable, given 21st-Century access to information about past or current artistic trends. Nonetheless, some artists have found in the vast expanses of the net a new place for escape and dreams, sites such as hell.com are a good example of cutting edge artists who thrive in the anonymity of the net. The 1960s and 1970s underground cultural movements had some connections to the "beat generation" which had, in turn, been inspired by the philosophers, artists and poets of the Paris Existentialist movement which gathered around Jean-Paul Sartre and Albert Camus in the years after World War II. Sartre and Camus were members of Combat, a French resistance group formed in 1942 by Henri Frenay. Frenay, Sarte and Camus were all involved in publishing Underground newspapers for the resistance. The French underground culture which inspired Jack Kerouac and Allen Ginsberg in America in the 1940s was steeped in socialist thinking before the cold war began. This, however, was not the monolithic socialism of the totalitarian Soviet state, but rather the free-thinking and expressive socialism of artists and dreamers attempting to re-think society.  Jack Kerouac (In Esquire magazine in 1958)   said:   