Teuvo Peltoniemi (born 1950) is a Finnish writer, journalist, researcher, educator, and eHealth developer specialized on addictions. Since the 1970s he has been contributing by research and journalism to increase public awareness in Finland for many taboo societal problems,   like general speed limits, family violence, sexual abuse of children, situation of children of alcohol abusing parents, and net addiction. After retirement he now writes about social issues in his blog at Iltalehti  evening paper, and in science journals and books as well as maintains a site on the Finnish Utopian Communities.  Peltoniemi was born in Finnish Lapland. He has higher academic degrees in Sociology and Mass Communication from Universities of Tampere and Helsinki. His M.A. dissertation is about the change of drinking habits of students in Kemi   and his Licentiate dissertation about the Helsinki Alcohol Treatment Agency ("PAVI").  As journalist he has been producing for the Finnish Broadcasting Company news as well as radio and TV documentaries about social, scientific and emigration history topics. He has worked also at the University of Tampere and at various academic and government research institutes. In 1979 he had a research scholarship at the Addiction Research Foundation in Toronto, Ontario. Until retirement (2010) Mr. Peltoniemi was the Communications director of the A-Clinic Foundation,  a Finnish addiction treatment organisation, as well as Editor-in-chief of the Finnish journal on addictions, Tiimi,  and of a Finnish web and mobile portal on addictions, AddictionLink.  He was also developing Finnish and European prevention projects, like in Finland the still continuing Lasinen lapsuus ("Fragile Childhood") activities  that started already in 1986. He is the founder and Honorary president of the EU network Prevnet  on addictions-related eHealth, and a founding member and past President of Encare Network   for children affected by risky environments within the family. He was also expert for many COE Pompidou group prevention projects of the Pompidou Group of the Council of Europe e.g. Exass.  Teuvo Peltoniemi has received a number of national and European awards related to his work, like (personal awards:) in 2011 the State of Finland Life Achievement Award   for "exemplary and unconventional public information work" referring to his role of early pioneer on many taboo social problems; the "2007 Science Journalist Award"   by the Finnish Association of Science Editors and Journalists; and the "2006 Press Officer of the Year"   award by ProCom - Finnish Association of Communications Professionals. Lasinen lapsuus ("Fragile Childhood") received in 1998 a Honorary Award of the First European Health Education Award   and its Varjomaailma ("Shadow World" site was the winner at the "2008 European e-Inclusion Awards at the Marginalised young people category".  Päihdelinkki ("AddictionLink") was EU eHealth2004 Awards finalist   in Cork 2004, and received the “Special Award” of the Prime Minister's Awards for Best Finnish Information Society Practices   in 2006. In addition to hundreds of articles and conference papers Peltoniemi has written, edited or translated 18 books. He has also published about one hundred foreign health educational videos in Finnish translations.  All his publications and books are listed at his home site  Here are the main books by topics: Alcohol, drugs, net addiction Family violence and sexual abuse of children Utopian emigration Mr. Peltoniemi still appears frequently in media as expert for addiction and prevention issues, mostly in Finland, but occasionally also abroad.  