A nontraditional student refers to a category of students at colleges and universities. The National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) notes that there are varying definitions of nontraditional student. The term is defined in a general way to refer to postsecondary students who are 25 years old and older. Nontraditional students are contrasted with traditional students, who enroll immediately after high school, are typically aged 18–22, attend full-time, live on campus, and do not have major work or family responsibilities.   The NCES categorized anyone who satisfies at least one of the following as a nontraditional student:  By this definition, the NCES determined that 73% of all undergraduates in 1999–2000 could be considered nontraditional, representing the newly "typical" undergraduate.  This remained consistent the following years: 72% in 2003–2004, 72% for 2007–2008, and 74% for 2011–2012.  The nontraditional student designation is also used in a specialized way to refer to socially or educationally disadvantaged students.   It is uncertain exactly how or when the term “nontraditional student” was first incorporated into educational language. However, it is thought that K. Patricia Cross is responsible for the phrase becoming the accepted and appropriate term to describe adult students.  The typical college student is not an 18-year-old, full-time student who enrolls immediately after high school, lives on-campus and who has limited family, work, and financial obligations.   Regarding the 2011-2012 demographics distribution of nontraditional undergraduate students in the United States, the following were identified by the National Center for Education Statistics:  In 1999–2000, the most common nontraditional characteristics included financial independence (51 percent),  part-time attendance (48 percent), and delayed enrollment (46 percent).  The NCES divides tertiary educational institutions into three categories: public, private-non-profit, and private-for-profit (PFP). With regard to the age demographic of students enrolled in these institutions, the NCES uses three age categories: under 25, between 25 and 34, and 35 and older. According to its most recent publication, in a section called The Condition of Education 2013,"most nontraditional students are enrolled in PFP’s. In fact, for the fall enrollment in 2011, in four-year PFP institutions 71% full-time and 78% part-time students were at least 25 years old or older. In two-year PFP institutions, 52% full-time and 61% part-time students were also included in this 'nontraditional' category."  Nontraditional students frequently have different characteristics than traditional students, experience different barriers, and have different instructional and campus support needs than traditional students.    While many institutions offer programs for nontraditional students and services in response to their specific needs,  it is frequently observed that traditional higher education programs and policies are geared toward, and the outcome of, the previous era when traditional students were the main market for higher education.  Institutional barriers most frequently identified in research include difficulty obtaining financial support, negative attitudes toward adult learners, a general lack of resources at times and places suitable to adult learners, and recognition of prior learning and academic credentials.   Situational barriers most frequently experienced by adult nontraditional students typically include managing multiple conflicting responsibilities in addition to their studies (e.g., life and work responsibilities and roles), financial problems and limited financial aid options for nontraditional students, lack of adequate and affordable childcare services, and lack of support from others.   Attitudinal barriers most frequently identified in research include low self-esteem and negative attitudes about being an adult learner.   Barriers related to academic skills most frequently discussed in the literature include a lack of knowledge and experience in literacy, numeracy, and computer-related skills, accessing and understanding information, critical and reflective thinking, essay writing, and writing examinations and tests.   