This list of social nudity places in Europe is a list of places where social nudity is practised for recreation in Europe. It includes free beaches (or clothing-optional beaches or nude beaches) and some resorts. In Vienna the following beaches can be found Topfree sunbathing is tolerated on all beaches.  Unlike the former East Germany, but like many other countries that were part of the Communist bloc Bulgaria's nudists were kept cordoned off behind tall fences.  There are however a number beaches on the Bulgarian Black Sea Coast where nudism is practised; there are no official nude beaches.   Croatia has a well developed naturist culture with camp sites and hotels specifically catering for naturists.  Naturism has been popular in Croatia ever since the future King Edward VIII and his then-mistress, Wallis Simpson, were allowed to swim nude at one of Rab's beaches in 1936.    On the Istria peninsula the following nude beaches and resorts can be found: In the Kvarner gulf the following nude beaches and resorts can be found: In Dalmatia gulf the following nude beaches and resorts can be found: There are no legal nudist beaches in Cyprus. A number of beaches, including the beach at Avdimou, have signs warning that nudism is not permitted. A community leader of Pissouri said that for decades there has been an "unspoken understanding" whereby nudism would be tolerated at an area away from the main beach at Pissouri, but not on the beach of Pissouri Bay. According to the community leader, nudists may visit the area which is on the eastern side of the bay, beyond the cliffs, as it offers some privacy.   Topfree is tolerated on all places.   Public nudity is not illegal in the Czech Republic, but it may be regulated by local authorities.  Since 1976 it is permissible to be nude at any beach in Denmark. There are more than 7,000 kilometres (4,300 mi) of coastline to choose from. A large number of clothing-optional beaches exist throughout the country.  The beach at the village of Husby in the Holstebro Municipality is being promoted as a FKK beach.  Naturist swims are held in the Blovstrød (Allerød Municipality) indoor swimming pool on Friday evenings in Autumn.  Estonian naturist beaches used to be overseen by the NGO Estnat (which closed in 2012 ). No tickets are necessary. Naturist venues in Alsace. Naturist venues in Aquitaine. Corsica is the fifth most popular naturist destination in France.  The following are nudist venues in the Languedoc-Roussillon region. Public nudity is not illegal in Germany but may be regulated by local authorities mostly because of safety and health issues, not morality. Apart from urban areas and public baths (some of which offer nude swimming days), nude bathing is common in Germany: unofficial clothing optional areas exist at most lakes and rivers and other sites, such as abandoned sand and rock quarries. Many designated Freikörperkultur (FKK – Free Body Culture) areas exist at the seaside, at lakes and in baths, especially in the former East Germany, where nudism remains more widespread than in the west. Many unregulated clothing optional (FKK) free beaches are available along the Nordsee and Baltic seashores, Rügen and other islands. The attitude is: all beaches are nude beaches until somebody complains. Families especially like to spend their leisure time in naturist areas; sauna bathing is generally practiced in the nude.  The list of social nudity places in Germany includes:  Naturism is practised widely in the Greek Islands although, strictly speaking, legal only in a relatively few designated locations but almost on all islands there are unofficial nudist beaches. Topfree is tolerated on almost all beaches.  Beaches and resorts in Crete include: Public nudity is not common, but occasionally practised, since there are natural thermal pools in remote areas. An example is Hellulaug geothermal pool in Vatnsfjörður fjord in the Westfjords of Iceland. Hellulaug pool is a geothermal pool which is located right by the beach. It is lovely sitting there with the view of the ocean and Vatnsfjörður fjord. Hellulaug cannot be seen from the road, but there is a parking lot above the pool and a good path down to the ocean. The pool is 60 centimetres (24 in) deep and the temperature of the water is about 38 °C (100 °F). The geothermal water comes from a borehole above the pool.  Beautiful beach with clear and clean water, protected by a rock wall in which there's a recess with natural shade.   Many beaches in Sicily are topless, and there are also naturist beaches.   Latvian naturist beaches are overseen by the "Latvian Naturist Association". Naturist beaches in Lithuania are overseen by local communities. Public saunas in the Netherlands are always mixed gender and nudity is the norm when using these. In the Netherlands tanning top free is legal on almost all beaches. Municipalities with a beach (usually including quiet parts) tend to have a nudist beach; even if the municipality does not like it, it designates a quiet part as such in order to be able to forbid nudity on the rest of the beach.  A pretty complete list of nude beaches in the Netherlands can be found on the Dutch language website naaktstrandje.nl. Here you can click on the province of your choice and get a list of beaches and other nudist activities. Nudist beaches are at Neptun, Costineşti, 2 Mai and Vama Veche sea resorts, and the beach between Eforie Nord and Eforie Sud on the Black Sea. Also on Sulina and Sfântu Gheorghe, Tulcea (Danube Delta) there are a few wild beaches used for nudism. Toplessness is tolerated on all Romanian beaches . Belgrade has several nudist beaches, including: Public nudity on the beach is, in general, not illegal in Spain, however some local municipalities do outlaw nudity on beaches that are within city limits. The city of Cadiz is one example.  For nudity lovers, Spain offers various options for nude sunbathing. In addition to the long sandy beaches in the vicinity of large cities, topless sunbathing is possible on all beaches, even in front of smaller villages. Following a request by the Association for the Development of Naturism (ADN) an email was sent by the city of Madrid's sports department to the 21 district heads explaining that municipal pools, if they see fit, have authorization to organize a "Bathing Suit-Free Day", or an "Optional Bathing Suit Day", some time in the 2016 summer.  There are hundreds of public nudist beaches in mainland Spain, all over the coast line, and some more inland. This is only a selection: Although nudism is not illegal, it is preferable to practice it on beaches meant for that specific purpose. This is a list of nudist beaches  Public nudity is generally legal in the entire country with the notable exception of the canton Appenzell Innerrhoden where public nudity, including naked hiking, carries a fine of up to 200 Swiss Francs. Nude hiking is mainly popular in the sparsely populated alpine regions among nudists, less so in the low lands.  Male and female toplessness tolerated on most beaches.  The following are beaches where naturism is practised. 