This is a list of social nudity places in Oceania for recreation. It includes free beaches (or clothing-optional beaches or nude beaches), swimming holes and lakes and some resorts.  In NSW the following are beaches used by naturists: The following beaches and resorts are legally nudist or clothing optional: There is no legal nude beach in Queensland.  This was restated in April 2016 following another petition to the Labor State Government who said they would not approve a nudist beach.  Police Minister Bill Byrne on May 2nd 2016 rejected two attempts - a paper petition with 527 signatures and an online petition bearing 946 names - to create a "clothing optional beach".  Petitioners wanted a beach "for the recreational use of those who wish to sunbathe or swim nude without the fear of prosecution".  Minister Byrne said the State's Public Safety Business Agency advised Queensland's wilful exposure laws were designed to protect citizens and keep them safe.. "As such, I can advise that the Queensland government has no plans to change the current legislation dealing with wilful exposure, therefore the designation of a clothing optional beach is not supported at this time." Queensland is the only mainland state in Australia that has no legal nude beaches. Current unofficial beaches are: The following resorts are naturist or clothing optional: The following beaches in South Australia are used by nudists: Tasmania Police in February 2016 said that it was illegal to swim or be in a public place without appropriate attire and patrols at Seven Mile Beach would be increased in response to the complaints.  Nudists use the following beaches:  Victoria has more than 2,000 kilometres (1,200 mi) of coastline with hundreds of beaches.  Three of those beaches are legal clothes-optional beaches:  Previously listed as clothes-optional beach: The following are not legal nudist beaches but are used by nudists: The following are legal nudist beaches in Western Australia:  The following resort is Naturist: The following beaches are used by naturists, but nude bathing may not be legally protected: Yap Island, natives there go topless.  There is no law prohibiting nakedness in public. In cases of ‘public nakedness’ the police go to the Summary Offences Act 1981 and consider, S27 Obscene/Indecent exposure; S4 Offensive behaviour; or S4 Disorderly behaviour. In 1991 an appeal to the High Court won and determined that the legal definition of 'offensive' was not met by mere nakedness, even in the presence of  children, in a place where nudity was 'not uncommon' or 'known to occur'.  There had to be 'intent to offend'.  Public nudity on beaches is generally not enforceable. There have been a number of successful legal challenges to being naked in a public area, including cycling and running, so long as there was no intent to offend.     