	 This is a list of places where social nudity is practised in North America for recreation. As a philosophy, this practice is commonly referred to as naturism; the International Naturist Federation has affiliates in over 30 countries.  However, most who indulge in this activity are likely not formal members of a naturist organization. This listing includes free beaches (clothing-optional beaches or nude beaches) and some private resorts. Nude bathing on beaches is illegal in Anguilla.   Though Belizeans don't particularly frown on nudity, there are no official nude beaches in Belize. However, there are dozens of deserted out islands with beaches perfect for sunbathing in the buff.  British Columbia has thousands of kilometres of coastline and thousands of lakes, as well as millions of hectares of natural parks and undeveloped land. The vast majority of these areas are mostly uninhabited and nude swimming and sunbathing can be done with little concern for disturbing others. In the populated areas, particularly the Lower Mainland, Greater Victoria, and the Okanagan, nudity is generally practiced only in certain established or isolated locations (usually beaches) and on private properties. CottonTail Corner Naturist Beach, located 20 minutes from the City of Edmonton near the Town of Devon.  A twenty-minute hike through the trees leads to the beach. There are no officially recognized nude beaches in the province, but there are six spots that have secluded areas where nudity is accepted.  The following beaches  on in the French Antilles. Topless is common on most beaches. Nudity is encountered at: Beach nudity in Playa Zipolite is legal.   Elsewhere, Mexican law condemns only "immorality" and thus the issue ends up being a matter of the judge's criteria.  On Aruba island, two beaches allow nudity, especially in late afternoon and dawn: Curaçao has no legal nude beaches at this time. The island of St Martin has a Dutch side, Sint Maarten, and a French side Saint Martin. Orient Bay on the French side has a nudist section. Club Orient, a family-friendly clothing-optional beach resort, is on Orient Bay.  Additional and up-to-date information on public and private locations may be obtained on the web sites of the American Association for Nude Recreation (AANR)  and The Naturist Society (TNS).  Bluff Creek Falls Campground Steele Alabama Public nudity is illegal in Alaska (no social places). Public nudity is illegal in Arizona. However, Verde Hot Springs (springs only – not the campground) is traditionally nude.   There are a few clothing-optional gay resorts and traditional clothing optional B&B's in Phoenix. Tucson's Upper Tanque Verde Creek is a popular social nudity spot.  The lower trail leads to a series of pools and waterfalls along Tanque Verde Creek. The Upper Trail is a quick, 10-minute hike to a well-liked swimming and sunning spot used by sunbathers of both sexes clothed and unclothed. 2017 : Recently opened last year in Phoenix, Arizona is the Arizona Sunburst Inn, which caters to males only and, unlike Royal Villa, does not offer a day pass. Rooms are on a strictly rental basis and nudity is accepted poolside. Also on, and/or inside the property. Public nudity is illegal in Arkansas in the presence of the opposite sex; however, same-sex nudity is legal in Arkansas.   There are no legal public nude parks, beaches or resorts in Iowa. Due to a 1992 Court of Appeals ruling (People v. Santorelli et al.) women may be topless anywhere in the state of New York for non-commercial purposes. (A concurring minority opinion reached the constitutional, i.e., equal rights issue, but the majority decision did not.) Public nudity is considered indecent exposure in North Carolina under * § 14-190.9 which states that Social nudity places in North Carolina include: Vermont state law prohibits disrobing in public but does not prohibit public nudity, so nudity is allowed anywhere that it has not been specifically prohibited by a city or town. The city of Burlington, for example, has prohibited nudity in public parks, but nudity is allowed anywhere else in the city.  Specific locations at which individuals practice social nudity include: While Seattle is known for its nude cyclists, clothing-optional activity in the city and out in public and out in private goes back much farther, with nude and top-free use of areas of Magnuson Park, the Washington Park Arboretum, Discovery Park, Denny-Blaine Park and Secret Beach (a name given to a park that local users wish to keep a secret). Parks spokeswoman Dewey Potter said the parks department does not consider simply being naked illegal, and she doesn't remember any complaints during the 13 years she's worked for the city about nudity in the parks. While there is nothing in the Seattle Municipal Code about nudity and expectations of behavior, Washington State does have a law protecting against obscene behavior while being fully or partially naked. The act of breastfeeding or expressing breast milk is not indecent exposure. 