A strip game is a party game, usually involving more than one player, where a player is required to remove clothes when they lose a card hand, points in a game, or otherwise fail to come out ahead. Most board games, card games, sports, or other games, can be adopted to create a stripping variant. A classic example is strip poker, the strip variant of poker. Strip games can be played by single-sex groups or by mixed groups and may be intended to generate an atmosphere of fun and lighten the social atmosphere, or to heighten the sexual atmosphere by creating sexual excitement. Like other adult or adolescent party games, activities besides removing clothing and playing cards might be involved. ("Truth or Dare?" type options are often included.) Strip games are comparable to drinking games, in which players are required to match game losses with the drinking of a certain amount of alcohol. In a strip variant of a game, players, in addition to losing points according to the normal rules of the game, are also required to incrementally remove their clothing. The number of garments removed depends on the particular rules being used, but typically one piece is removed per loss or per point lost. As there are many variants of each game, the rules which will be followed on each occasion will need to be made clear, especially if there are new players. A rule which will need to be clear is when a game is to stop. For example, players can agree for the game to stop when a player is in their underwear, has only one article left or is naked or for the game to continue until only one player is left with some clothes on; and if any player can pull out if they feel uncomfortable. Other rules which will be made clear is when a player must remove clothing, as well as what constitutes "clothing" (for example, whether a pair of shoes or socks is one article or two, and whether jewelry, sunglasses or other accessories are clothing). Generally, players will start wearing the same number of articles of clothing, though that is not necessary. It must be made clear as to what happens when a player has removed all their clothes. For example, the person may be permitted to put their clothes back on and continue playing, or the person may continue playing without clothes, until everybody has removed their clothing, or for the game to stop at that point, with the players either putting clothes back on, or remaining unclothed or semi-clothed for the rest of the evening. Unlike their traditional variants, strip games are usually not played until the last player is removed from the game by being outscored by other players, instead players are removed from the game when they have no further garments left to take off or refuse to take off further garments. These variations of rules are introduced in order to make game play more enticing, get more players involved, and keep guests entertained, especially during parties where alcohol is already being consumed. Unlike its traditional counterpart, the strip game becomes significantly more exciting the longer it progresses, as players are anticipating the losers to be fully or partially nude, depending on the rules of the game. As with drinking games, the strip game is usually not drawn out until the players are fully undressed or completely intoxicated, instead the players usually withdraw from the game voluntarily beforehand, depending on the degree of their personal inhibitions, as well as the general social atmosphere. The rules of many card and board games can be altered to produce a strip variant. Traditional casino games, such as blackjack and poker, as well as games often played at parties, such as Scrabble , Bullshit, Speed, chess, Yahtzee, Shithead, and many others can be varied to include a stripping aspect. Strip poker is played like regular varieties of poker, except that players remove an article of clothing when they lose a round. Any form of poker can be adapted to a strip form; however, it is usually played with simple variants with few betting rounds, like five-card draw. Based on that most simple of card games "snap" where two players simultaneously place a card face up on the table. If the cards are the same they must shout "snap". The winner is the one who shouts "snap" correctly first. A player also wins if the other player incorrectly shouts snap. As with standard snap, the winner takes all cards on the table. But in this case the loser also removes an item of clothing. A player loses either when they have removed all their clothes or the other player accumulates all the cards, at which point the loser must remove the last of their clothes.  Instead of shouting "Snap" the players can shout "strip" which some believe adds to the atmosphere.  Usually played between couples as a form of foreplay. In groups, played between pairs with winners playing winners until only one person remains wearing clothes. In group sessions winners may re-dress between games, if that is agreed beforehand, to extend gameplay. Otherwise getting dressed is unusual, being regarded as missing the point of the game and being prudish. The final winner is expected to remove the last of their clothes upon declaration as winner. Only at that point may everybody dress, if that has been agreed before the game. Usually people remain naked or leave. The gender mix in the group games and individual pairs is entirely a matter for the participants. In some games selecting pairs randomly from the group, or randomly within gender, such as by throwing dice, adds to the atmosphere and acts as an "ice breaker" which is the underlying purpose of the game. Like regular Blackjack, players try to get a higher card count than a dealer and not over 21. Each time a player wins a hand, the dealer takes off one article of clothing and if the dealer wins, the player/s take one off. Normal Scrabble rules apply except for the stripping rules, which can vary. For example, the players can agree to  remove an article of clothing if a player scores less than 5 points; or when another player gets a triple word score; or if a player did not score the highest score on a round. This game is a variant of pass the parcel or hot potato, and involves a group of people passing around a wind-up music box.  When the music stops playing, the person holding the box must remove an item of clothing.  The box is then wound up and passed around again. The same as rock-paper-scissors game. The most popular strip game in Japan,  possibly even in East Asia.  Standard Twister gameplay, with the additional penalty that every time a player falls, they must remove an article of clothing. Standard Uno gameplay, Normal Uno rules apply except for the stripping rules, every time a player loses a hand, the person must remove an item of clothing. Stripping games also often appear as plot devices or even themes in erotic or pornographic films. One example of such a case is the 2012 film Strip Mahjong: Battle Royale.  Partial or complete removal of clothing has formed a central role in numerous game shows broadcast in Europe, Asia and the US for some years.  These include: 