The International Musicological Society (IMS) is a membership-based learned society for musicology at the international level, with headquarters in Basel, Switzerland. It seeks the advancement of musicological research through international cooperation. The International Musicological Society was founded on September 30, 1927 on the initiative of Henry Prunières, during the celebration of the centenary of the death of Ludwig van Beethoven. His proposal aimed to resurrect the International Music Society, which had dissolved in 1914, and was met with great interest. The IMS organizes an international congress every five years, in years ending in 2 or 7. At these congresses, members elect the directorium. The most recent congress took place in Tokyo in 2017. The next congress will be in Athens in 2022. In between these congresses, they also sponsor international symposia on specialized subjects. The IMS collaborates closely with the International Association of Music Libraries, Archives and Documentation Centres to produce several directories: The IMS publishes a peer-reviewed journal twice a year, Acta Musicologica, printed in several languages addressing musicological research of international importance. Acta has been published by Bärenreiter since 1954. The current editors are Philip V. Bohlman and Federico Celestini. The IMS membership includes individuals, institutions, libraries, and organizations. Among its organizational members are: the American Musicological Society (AMS), the Royal Musical Association, the Schweizerische Musikforschende Gesellschaft, the Paul Sacher Stiftung, the Deutsches Musikgeschichtliches Archiv, the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Musikforschung, the Staatliches Institut für Musikforschung Berlin, the Internationale Stiftung Mozarteum, the Oesterreichische Akademie der Wissenschaften, the Società Italiana di Musicologia, and the Société française de musicologie, Société Belge de musicologie, the Danish Musicological Society, Vereniging van Nederlandse Muziekgeschiedenis, Societat Catalana de Musicologia, The Friends of Music Society, Greece, The Musicological Society of Japan, and the Musicological Society of Australia. 