The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) have presented their annual Academy Awards, commonly known as the Oscars, since 1929.  The Academy Awards for Best Actor and Best Actress have been presented since the 1st ceremony, while the awards for Best Supporting Actor and Best Supporting Actress have been presented since the 9th ceremony. Of the 919 Academy Award nominees in an acting category, a total of 338 have received two or more acting nominations (167 men, 171 women). Meryl Streep is the most nominated performer in the acting categories, with 21 nominations between 1979 and 2018.  As well as the record for total number of acting nominations, Streep holds the record for most Best Actress nominations with 17, ahead of Katharine Hepburn with 12 and Bette Davis with 10. Jack Nicholson is the most nominated male performer in the acting categories with 12 nominations.  The most Best Actor nominations is nine, for both Spencer Tracy and Laurence Olivier (Nicholson has eight). Thelma Ritter is the most nominated in the Best Supporting Actress category with six, while in the Best Supporting Actor category six actors have each received four nominations, they are Walter Brennan, Claude Rains, Arthur Kennedy, Jack Nicholson, Robert Duvall and Jeff Bridges. The record for most nominations in the acting categories without a win, is eight by Peter O'Toole, followed by Richard Burton with seven, and Deborah Kerr, Thelma Ritter and Glenn Close all with six. Both O'Toole and Kerr did receive the Academy's Honorary Oscar.  The 185 performers listed below are the 179 who have received three or more Academy Award nominations in the four acting categories plus the six performers who have two wins from two nominations.  Listed are the actors with three or more nominations plus those with two wins from two nominations.  A1 2 Bette Davis' performance in Of Human Bondage (1934) and Paul Muni's performance in Black Fury (1935) were not nominated for Oscars. As a result of Davis's failure to get a nomination, several influential people campaigned to have her name included on the list, so for that year, and the following year also, the Academy allowed a write-in vote. Technically this meant that any performance was eligible. At the 6th, 7th and 8th Academy Awards, the Academy publicly announced those that placed second and third in the vote. Davis placed third ahead of one official nominee and Muni placed second, ahead of three official nominees, and both Davis and Muni are listed on the Academy's official database as write-in nominees who placed in the final voting. From the 9th Academy Awards, the nominating committees were no longer used and the entire membership of each individual branch voted for the nominees in their respective categories. B1 Laurence Olivier received a total of 13 Oscar nominations, winning two. In addition to his 10 acting nominations (one win), he received two Best Picture nominations; for producing 1944 film Henry V (released in the US in 1946) and 1948 film Hamlet (for which he won), and received a Best Director nomination for Hamlet. Olivier also received two Honorary Oscars; one for bringing Henry V to the screen, and a second in 1979 for Lifetime Achievement. C1 2 2 3 Denzel Washington, Leonardo DiCaprio, Shirley MacLaine and Bradley Cooper have all received an additional nomination in a non-acting category. MacLaine received an additional nomination in the Best Documentary Feature category as co-director of the 1975 documentary The Other Half of the Sky: A China Memoir. Washington, DiCaprio and Cooper have received an additional nomination in the Best Picture category, Washington for co-producing Fences (2016), DiCaprio for co-producing The Wolf of Wall Street (2013), and Cooper for co-producing American Sniper (2014) D1 2 3 Rules at the time of the first three Academy Award ceremonies allowed for a performer to receive a single nomination for their work in more than one film. At the 1st ceremony, Emil Jannings won Best Actor for his work in two films and Janet Gaynor won Best Actress for her work in three films. Richard Barthelmess also received a nomination for two films at the 1st ceremony. At the 3rd ceremony, George Arliss, Maurice Chevalier, Ronald Colman, Greta Garbo and Norma Shearer all received a single nomination for their work in two films. This is why the Academy lists Colman and Garbo as three-time nominees and Shearer as a five-time nominee. Barthelmess, Arliss and Chevalier are one-time nominees, so do not feature in the above lists. No official reason was ever given as to why Arliss and Shearer were named Best Actor and Best Actress for only one of the two films for which they were listed. E1 2 At the 2nd Academy Awards only the Best Actor and Best Actress winners were announced. There was no announcement of nominations. The official Academy site states that "although not official nominations, the additional names in each category, according to in-house records, were under consideration by various boards of judges". Although unofficial, Ruth Chatterton's nomination at the 2nd ceremony (the first of her two) counts towards her total in the above lists, and Paul Muni's nomination at the 2nd ceremony, counts as one of his five nominations in the above lists (his write-in vote from 1935 is not counted).  F1 2 3 4 George Clooney, Emma Thompson, Brad Pitt and Matt Damon have all won Oscars in non-acting categories. Clooney has eight Oscar nominations (four for acting, two for writing, one for directing and one for producing) with two wins. In addition to his win for Best Supporting Actor, he won Best Picture for co-producing Argo (2012). Thompson is a five-time nominee with two wins. In addition to her Best Actress win, she won the Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay for Sense and Sensibility (1995). Pitt is a six-time Oscar nominee (three for acting, three for producing). He won an Oscar for co-producing Best Picture winner 12 Years a Slave (2013). Damon is a five-time nominee (three for acting, one for writing and one for co-producing 2016 Best Picture nominee Manchester by the Sea), winning the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay (shared with Ben Affleck) for Good Will Hunting (1997). G1 At the 1st Academy Award ceremony, Charlie Chaplin received four nominations (including Best Actor) for his film The Circus, before the Academy decided to remove his name from the competitive categories and instead honor him with a special award. A letter sent by the Academy to Chaplin told him that they had "Unanimously decided that your name should be removed from the competitive classes, and that a special award be conferred upon you for writing, acting, directing and producing The Circus. The collective accomplishments thus displayed place you in a class by yourself". Chaplin went on to receive nominations for Best Actor, Best Writing and Best Picture (the latter credited to Charlie Chaplin Productions) for the 1940 film The Great Dictator and a Best Writing nomination for the 1947 film Monsieur Verdoux. He received a second Honorary Oscar at the 44th Academy Awards in 1972, before winning his first competitive Oscar at the 45th Academy Awards in 1973 for Best Original Dramatic Score for his 1952 film Limelight, which was eligible for that years Oscars because it was not released in Los Angeles until 1972.  