The Top Ten Money Making Stars Poll as they became known, or the polls on determining the bankability of movie stars began quite early in the movie history. At first, they were popular polls and contests conducted in film magazines, where the readers would vote for their favorite stars, like the poll published in New York Morning Telegraph on 17 December 1911.  Magazines appeared and disappeared often and among the most consistent in those early days were to polls in the Motion Picture Magazine. Though this and numerous other magazines, like Photoplay, continued with this type of polls, the standards for the polling were set by the Quigley Publishing Company. They published a poll, which became known as the "Top Ten Money Making Stars Poll", from a questionnaire given to movie exhibitors every year between 1915  and 2013 by Quigley Publishing Company. The list was based on a poll of movie theater owners, who were asked to name who they felt were the previous year's top 10 moneymaking stars. The Top 10 Poll, which appeared annually in Quigley's Motion Picture Herald and The Motion Picture Almanac, was long regarded as one of the most reliable barometers of a movie star's box-office power, as film exhibitors base their decisions on one economic criterion: those stars who will bring patrons into their theaters. In addition to the top ten stars for that year, the Quigley Poll would commonly list the next 15 stars as well. A sample of these are below: For a number of years, there was also a poll for the top ten Western stars in the United States.			 The Motion Picture Herald published a similar list for the UK, listing the most popular stars at the British box office, including the most popular British stars. *Another poll by Sidney L. Bernstein of his theatre group listed these actors.  Various polls have been taken for the top stars in France too. In 1938 a list was published of stars who were considered "box office poison" by exhibitors. The list was from Harry Brandt of the Independent Theater Owners Association.  The stars included: In 1968 Variety magazine published a list of ten stars it considered overpriced. The stars charged at least $250,000 a film and had at least four flops in a row recently:  