Buddhism (Pali/Sanskrit: बौद्ध धर्म Buddha Dharma) is a religion and philosophy encompassing a variety of traditions, beliefs and practices, largely based on teachings attributed to Siddhartha Gautama, commonly known as the Buddha, "the awakened one". The following outline is provided as an overview of, and topical guide to, Buddhism. Gautama Buddha Schools of Buddhism Timeline: Development and propagation of Buddhist traditions  (ca. 450 BCE – ca. 1300 CE)  IndiaEarlySangha        Sri Lanka &Southeast Asia        Tibetan Buddhism Nyingma    East AsiaEarly Buddhist schoolsand Mahāyāna(via the silk roadto China, and oceancontact from India to Vietnam)TangmiNara (Rokushū)Shingon   NichirenJōdo-shū Central Asia & Tarim Basin Greco-Buddhism Silk Road Buddhism Theravada — literally, "the Teaching of the Elders" or "the Ancient Teaching", it is the oldest surviving Buddhist school. It was founded in India. It is relatively conservative, and generally closer to early Buddhism,  and for many centuries has been the predominant religion of Sri Lanka (now about 70% of the population ) and most of continental Southeast Asia. Mahayana — literally the "Great Vehicle", it is the largest school of Buddhism, and originated in India.  The term is also used for classification of Buddhist philosophies and practice. According to the teachings of Mahāyāna traditions, "Mahāyāna" also refers to the path of seeking complete enlightenment for the benefit of all sentient beings, also called "Bodhisattvayāna", or the "Bodhisattva Vehicle."   Vajrayana Early Buddhist schools Buddhist modernism Buddhism by country Buddhist texts Pali literature History of Buddhism Three Jewels Four Noble Truths Three marks of existence Skandha Describes how suffering arises. Describes the path out of suffering. Karma in Buddhism Buddhist cosmology Ayatana Indriya Abhijna Phala Buddhist devotion Threefold Training Upajjhatthana Sutta Satipatthana Four Right Exertions Iddhipada Indriya Five Strengths Seven Factors of Enlightenment Noble Eightfold Path Samatha Enlightenment in Buddhism Buddhist monasticism List of Buddhists Buddhist philosophy Buddhist pilgrimage Dhamma chart in English Dhamma chart in the Pali language 