Timeline: Development and propagation of Buddhist traditions  (ca. 450 BCE – ca. 1300 CE)  IndiaEarlySangha        Sri Lanka &Southeast Asia        Tibetan Buddhism Nyingma    East AsiaEarly Buddhist schoolsand Mahāyāna(via the silk roadto China, and oceancontact from India to Vietnam)TangmiNara (Rokushū)Shingon   NichirenJōdo-shū Central Asia & Tarim Basin Greco-Buddhism Silk Road Buddhism Template:Buddhist traditions timeline represents the origination and demise of Buddhism in India (ca. 450 BCE  to ca. 1200 CE ) along with the concurrent arising and development of the three major still extant Buddhist traditions: Theravada, Mahayana and Vajrayana. This template can be invoked as follows: The various colors used in this diagram are meant to suggest the monastic robes of the associated tradition: "Greco-Buddhism", "Silk Road Buddhism" and "Nara" represent regions and time periods when both Early Buddhist schools and Mahayana traditions co-existed and thus the associated color is a blend of the Early Buddhist schools and Mahayana colors. The diagram's bars are not meant to convey the population sizes of the associated tradition's adherents. If the "notes" option is used, then the endnote references will be included in the diagram and associated notes will be automatically placed in the article's associated "Notes" section.  In such a case, the notes' source material (identified below) should also be included in the article's "Sources" or "References" section. Associated with the diagram's endnote references (if there are no preceding notes then:  ,  ), this diagram's notes are: These notes will be automatically generated in an article (that is, these notes are embedded in this diagram) when this diagram is transcluded if the <references /> or {{reflist}} tags are used. The notes are based on the following sources/references:  If the notes are transcluded with this diagram, then it is recommended that these references be copy-and-pasted into the transcluding article's sources/bibliography section. 