 A video blog or video log, usually shortened to vlog  /vlɒɡ/, is a form of blog for which the medium is video,  and is a form of web television. Vlog entries often combine embedded video (or a video link) with supporting text, images, and other metadata. Entries can be recorded in one take or cut into multiple parts. Vlog category is popular on the video sharing platform YouTube. Video logs (vlogs) also often take advantage of web syndication to allow for the distribution of video over the Internet using either the RSS or Atom syndication formats, for automatic aggregation and playback on mobile devices and personal computers (See video podcast). New York artist Nelson Sullivan was known for recording videos around New York City and South Carolina, in a vlog-like style back in the 1980s. On January 2, 2000, Adam Kontras posted a video alongside a blog entry aimed at informing his friends and family of his cross-country move to Los Angeles in pursuit of show business, marking the first post on what would later become the longest-running video blog in history.    In November of that year, Adrian Miles posted a video of changing text on a still image, coining the term vog to refer to his video blog.   Filmmaker and musician Luuk Bouwman started in 2002 the now-defunct Tropisms.org site as a video diary of his post-college travels, one of the first sites to be called a vlog or videolog.   In 2004, Steve Garfield launched his own video blog and declared that year "the year of the video blog".   Vlogging saw a strong increase in popularity beginning in 2005. The Yahoo! Videoblogging Group saw its membership increase dramatically by August 2005.   The most popular video sharing site to date, YouTube, was founded in February 2005. The site's co-founder Jawed Karim uploaded the first YouTube vlog clip Me at the zoo on his channel "Jawed" in April 2005.  By July 2006, YouTube had become the fifth most popular web destination, with 100 million videos viewed daily and 65,000 new uploads per day.  Many open source content management systems have enabled the inclusion of video content, allowing bloggers to host and administer their own video blogging sites. In addition, the convergence of mobile phones with digital cameras allows publishing of video content to the Web almost as it is recorded.  Radio and television stations may use video blogging as a way to help interact more with listeners and viewers.  Charles Trippy, under the Internet Killed Television YouTube channel, currently holds the Guinness World Record for the “Most Consecutive Daily Personal Video Blogs Posted On YouTube,” with over 3,000 consecutive videos.  Hosted in Los Angeles, California, VidCon is an annual convention that allows YouTube content creators and viewers to come together in order to share content ideas and business contacts.  The first VidCon event was held on July 10 and 11, 2010, and has now become the largest in-person gathering of internet creators, viewers, and representatives.  This convention realizes that the ways in which society entertains, educates, shares, and communicates are being revolutionized, and chooses to highlight this fact via panels, meet and greets, and talks given to audiences at the convention.  The personal vlog is an online video which records an individual to deliver information that they intend to introduce to people. The audience is not as varied as one's from corporation or organization. YouTube announced a live broadcasting feature called YouTube Live in 2008. This feature was also established by other social platforms such as Instagram and Facebook. YouTube currently ranks among the top three most-visited sites on the web.  As a high traffic area for video bloggers, or vloggers, YouTube has created a platform for these participants to present their personal videos, which oftentimes are filmed using hand held point and shoot cameras.  The popularity of vlogs in the YouTube community has risen exponentially in the past few years;  out of the top 100 most subscribed YouTube channels, 17 provide vlogs as their primary style of footage.  Many of these vloggers are a part of the YouTube Partner Program, which professionalizes the industry and allows for monetary gain from video production.  This professionalization additionally helps increase exposure to various channels as well as creates a sense of stability within the field. Additionally, this professionalization allows content creators to be deemed a credible source by their viewers. Furthermore, many vloggers have been able to turn their channels into sustainable careers; in 2013, the highest paid vlogger brought in a minimum of $720,000 for the year.  Hollywood is taking notice of this rising medium, and has placed its value ranked over other entertainment companies such as Marvel, which was recently bought out by Disney as well.  I’m Vlogging Here is a 90-minute "vlogumentary" that focuses on documenting the world of video blogging and centers on YouTube vloggers that have found success in using this medium.   Starring YouTube personality Shay Carl and his family of ShayTards, this film, to be released in late 2016, follows a family whose lives have been drastically altered by vlogging, as their day-to-day lives are documented and uploaded for the world to see. Shay Carl is a co-founder of Maker Studios, a YouTube based video supplier bought out by The Walt Disney Company.  The involvement of larger corporations outside of the Internet industries is a primary example of the ever-increasing need for a strong front on the digital side of one’s company. This documentary is being created by a group with links to the YouTube community in hopes that it will spark interest and raise awareness of the impact that vlogging and the digital community are having on the entertainment industry. A video log created while riding a motorcycle is known as a motovlog (abbreviation of motorcycle video blog). 