A Doppler fetal monitor is a hand-held ultrasound transducer used to detect the fetal heartbeat for prenatal care.  It uses the Doppler effect to provide an audible simulation of the heart beat.  Some models also display the heart rate in beats per minute (BPM). Use of this monitor is sometimes known as Doppler auscultation. The Doppler fetal monitor is commonly referred to simply as a Doppler or fetal Doppler. It may be classified as a form of Doppler ultrasonography (although usually not technically -graphy but rather sound-generating). Doppler fetal monitors provide information about the fetus similar to that provided by a fetal stethoscope. One advantage of the Doppler fetal monitor over a (purely acoustic) fetal stethoscope is the electronic audio output, which allows people other than the user to hear the heartbeat. One disadvantage is the greater complexity and cost and the lower reliability of an electronic device.  The device was invented in 1958 by Dr. Edward H. Hon,  Originally intended for use by health care professionals, this device is becoming popular for personal use. Dopplers for home or hospital use differ in the following ways:  A major advantage of being able to record and share the recording is that it can be emailed to a healthcare professional to be checked if there are any concerns about whether or not it is the fetus's heart rate and whether or not is normal.  Typically, they work from about 12 weeks.   In response to increasing home usage of clinical fetal doppler systems, the FDA issued a formal statement recommending against at-home use.  Fetal dopplers using 2-3GHz ultrasound are prescription devices designed and developed for use by licensed and trained health care professionals. System misuse (duration, angulation) and systems operating outside of intended range can produce thermal and non-thermal effects on fetal tissue,  including the possibility for over-heating fetal tissue and introducing mechanical stress on the fetus due to cavitation, radiation force, and acoustic streaming.     The use of the word Sonicaid for Doppler fetal monitors comes from the products of the UK company Sonicaid Ltd. Sonicaid products included the D205/206 portable fetal Dopplers and FM2/3/4 series of fetal monitors. The company was acquired by Oxford Instruments in 1987 to form Oxford Sonicaid. It was recently demonstrated that continuous Doppler enables the auscultation of valvular movements and blood flow sounds that are undetected during cardiac examination with a stethoscope in adults. The Doppler auscultation presented a sensitivity of 84% for the detection of aortic regurgitations, while classic stethoscope auscultation presented a sensitivity of 58%. Moreover, Doppler auscultation was superior in the detection of impaired ventricular relaxation  Since the physics of Doppler auscultation and classic auscultation are different,  it has been suggested that both methods could complement each other.   