Roboexotica (sometimes spelled: Roböxotica) is an annual festival and conference where scientists, researchers, computer experts and artists from all over the world build cocktail robots and discuss technological innovation, futurology and science fiction. Roboexotica is also an ironic attempt to criticize techno-triumphalism and to dissect technological hypes. The festival is co-produced by Shifz and monochrom, two Vienna-based art collectives, and supported by the 'Bureau for Philosophy' (of the Department of Philosophy, University of Vienna). The festival is usually held in the end of November or early December. The annual international festival consists of an exhibition, a conference, social events, and the ACRA (Annual Cocktail Robot Award). The exhibition presents robots that can mix cocktails, serve cocktails, consume cocktails, have bar conversations, light or smoke cigarettes or manage to impress the jury with (Quote Roboexotica website) "other achievements in the sector of cocktail culture". In 1999, Magnus Wurzer and Chris Veigl (of Shifz) started to present a self-made cocktail robot at the small independent Viennese culture and art space VEKKS.  The group monochrom (Johannes Grenzfurthner, Günther Friesinger, Franz Ablinger) first participated with performances and presenting machines, but in 2002 monochrom teamed up with Shifz as organizers and the small event became a big international festival presented at Vienna's Museumsquartier and several other locations in the Vienna metro area. Roboexotica presents around 20 machines every year and draws around 3000 guests per event.  Roboexotica was presented at Cyberpipe (Ljubljana) in 2006, at Maker Faire (San Francisco) and RoboGames (San Francisco) in 2007. In 2008 a catalogue titled Roboexotica was published, celebrating the 10th anniversary of the festival. The book features reflections on the festival and presents statements by former participants including Cory Doctorow, Dorkbot's Doueglas Repetto, Bre Pettis, V. Vale, Karen Marcelo of Survival Research Laboratories or RoboGames' David Calkins and Simone Davalos. A smaller show called "Roboexotica USA" was held in San Francisco in 2008 and 2009. It was organized by monochrom and Shifz and was well received by the press. In 2010 it was decided to rename the San Francisco-based cocktail robot event  "Barbot," and Barbot events were held in San Franicsco in 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013. Roboexotica has been featured on Slashdot,  Wired News,  Reuters,  New York Times  and blogs like Boing Boing  and New Scientist.  