The Bachelor of Technology (Latin Baccalaureus Technologiae, commonly abbreviated as B.Tech.; with Honours as B.Tech. (Hons.); or BTech) is an undergraduate academic degree conferred after completion of a three-year, a four-year, or even a five-year (such as in Nigeria) program of studies at an accredited university or accredited university-level institution. B.Tech. is considered as skill-oriented course. The degree is conferred in the Commonwealth of Nations, the United States and elsewhere. In Australia, stand-alone Bachelor of Technology (BTech) programs are uncommon. Most of the Australian BTech degrees have engineering and/or information technology as their focus. In Canada, the Bachelor of Technology designation is used inconsistently. Both universities and community colleges award the degree after completion of four-year programs but have different entrance requirements. Care should be taken not to confuse the B.Tech. degree offered by university-level institutions with the Bachelor of Applied Technology (B.A.Tech.) or BAT offered by some community colleges in Canada. Community colleges are represented by the Association of Canadian Community Colleges (ACCC) and university-level institutions by the Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada (AUCC), the national accrediting body of universities in Canada. However, some community college engineering programs have recently been accredited by Engineers Canada following a thorough review by the Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board (CEAB), i.e., Conestoga College.  CEAB accreditation allows licensing as a "Professional Engineer (P.Eng.)" and ensures that graduates of these programs can continue with graduate engineering studies at traditional universities. Care should be taken not to confuse the B.Tech. degree with the P.Tech (Engineering) in Alberta designation used in Canada by the engineering technologists and technicians associations. P.Tech (Engineering) allow engineering practice independently same as professional engineer, which is attained by after completion of a 2-3 year Engineering Technology diploma program. In India,  BTech (Bachelor of Technology) and BE (Bachelor of Engineering) both are equivalent and offered in engineering disciplines. Degrees are regulated and set up under the aegis of University Grants Commission of India (UGC) and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). Bachelor of Technology or Bachelor of Engineering qualifications include the following: Admission is usually through an engineering entrance examination. The B.Tech. degree was recently introduced in Kenya and is consequently not a very common course, with only one or two schools offering it. Technical University of Kenya (TU-K), located in the country's capital, offers a B.Tech. in Engineering and Information Technology. The duration of study is usually 4 years with 11 semesters in total, with two academic semesters per year and an industrial Based Learning (IDBL) semester for years two through four.  In Nigeria, The B.Tech. degree is awarded by Universities of Technology or Science and Technology which can be Federal, State or Privately owned. The duration of study is usually five years of ten semesters. Nine of these semesters is spent in the university while one (usually the second semester of the fourth year) is spent on compulsory Industrial Training (IT) ranging from three to six months although it can extend for a whole session (usually the whole fourth year) for students of Agriculture related courses. At inception most of the universities offered core Science courses, but have now expanded their course offerings to include Social Sciences and even Medicine. There are five Federal universities of Technology in Nigeria located in Minna, Akure, Owerri, Yola and Bauchi with some state and privately owned ones around the country. In Pakistan, Bachelor of Technology - B.Tech. (old name) or Bachelor of Science in Technology/Engineering Technology - BSc/BS Technology/Engineering Technology (new name) is a four years undergraduate university level degree including engineering technology and applied science courses, supervised industrial & practical training and projects. The prerequisite for this program is a three years Diploma of Associate Engineering (DAE) in specific fields e.g. chemical engineering, electronics engineering, electrical engineering, mechanical engineering and civil engineering etc. or a two years HSSC/FSc (pre-engineering). Degree is awarded by public and private sector universities under the supervision of National Technology Council (Pakistan). B.Tech. degree holders are called engineering technologists in Pakistan. In South Africa, the B.Tech. is awarded by Universities of Technology and Comprehensive Universities - as distinct from Traditional Universities -  and is generally practice or career oriented, as opposed to academically oriented.  It is often offered in areas in which there is no corresponding  B.Sc. or BComm (e.g. B.Tech.: Forestry Management,  or B.Tech.: Explosives Management  ). The degree is obtained after 4 years of study, and is usually offered as a 1-year programme, following completion of a relevant three-year National Diploma. The B.Tech. carries the same points as other bachelor's degrees in terms of South Africa's National Qualifications Framework (both having an NQF level of 7) At the same time, however, due to its orientation, it does not usually grant admission to the corresponding M.Sc. or MComm program,  and students instead pursue the Master of Technology (M.Tech.) and Doctor of Technology (D.Tech.) degrees; it does grant admission to MBA programmes (see List of business schools in South Africa). In some cases, however, admission may be granted, once demonstrated that the student meets the necessary academic level to complete the requirements of the M.Sc or MComm. In Sri Lanka, The Open University of Sri Lanka (since 1980 under University Grants Commission) is the pioneer in offering the BTech Eng (Hons) which has a duration of minimum four years. Undergraduates can be specialised in Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Electronics and communication Engineering, Computer Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Automobile Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering, Mechatronics Engineering and Textile and Apparel Technology. university of sri jayawardenapura of sri lanka is offering Bachelor of Technology degrees in Engineering Technology ,Bio systems Technology and Information Communication Technology, as BET , BBST ,BICT .those all are four year honours degrees which are based on Sydney accord. BTech is offered by the recently established Uva Wellassa University (under University Grants Commission) which has a duration of four years. This is known to be a specialized degree where they are subjected to specialize in three fields, Food Engineering & Bioprocess Technology, Material science & technology and Mechatronics. The BTech is offered in Sri Lanka by the University of Vocational Technology in following fields of  Multimedia & Web, Network, Software, Building Services Technology, Manufacturing, Mechatronics, Food Process, Film & Television, Industrial Management and Quantity Surveying. The Faculty of Technology of the University of Colombo offers degrees in Bachelor of Technology (B. Tech), of a standard equivalent to Sri Lanka Qualification Framework (SLQF) Level 6.  At present, the following three degree programmes are available and the fourth, which is in the pipeline, will be offered with the next intake of students. Bachelor of Bio-Systems Technology in Agriculture Bachelor of Bio-systems Technology in Environmental Technology Bachelor of Engineering Technology in Instrumentation and Automation Bachelor of Information & Communication Technology In United States, the Bachelor of Technology degree is awarded after completion of a 4-year academic program. Many of the colleges and universities offering this degree are located in the states of Alaska (INDS)[clarification needed], Florida, New York (New York City College of Technology, State University College at Buffalo, SUNY Morrisville, SUNY Cobleskill, SUNY College Of Technology At Alfred), Illinois (Chicago), Mississippi (Mississippi University for Women), Missouri (Northwest Missouri State University), Nevada, South Carolina (Charleston Southern University), Oklahoma (Rogers State University, Northeastern State University, Oklahoma State University-Oklahoma City ), Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology - Okmulgee,  Virginia, Georgia (Southern Polytechnic State University), and Washington (Lake Washington Institute of Technology). 