Fedcap Rehabilitation Services, Inc., or Fedcap, is a Manhattan-based not-for-profit organization that provides vocational training and employment resources to those who face barriers to employment. Fedcap’s mission is to empower people with barriers to move towards economic independence as valued members of the workforce. Each year Fedcap’s evaluation, vocational training, job placement and counseling services, employment programs, and support and advocacy programs help more than 2,000 Americans overcome obstacles, rebuild their lives, and find and keep meaningful employment. Originally established in 1935 as the Federation of Crippled and Disabled, it then became the Federation of the Handicapped in 1946, ultimately switching to its current name in 1992.  It was one of the first vocational rehabilitation programs for the handicapped established in the United States.  The original goal of the organization was to provide support for the physically disabled, but it eventually expanded into helping people with all kinds of disabilities and employment-related barriers. Fedcap's programs and services are free of charge for the trainees and last for three to six months. Fedcap’s comprehensive approach includes thorough vocational evaluations to help determine appropriate career paths for clients followed by vocational training in a variety of fields including custodial, culinary arts, data entry/document imaging, office skills, hospitality, and mailroom/messenger services. Fedcap’s New York State licensed business and trade school offers small classes and individualized attention from highly qualified instructors. After graduation, all clients receive career counseling, job placement services, and ongoing on-the-job support. Fedcap graduates obtain jobs at private companies or with Fedcap in New York, New Jersey, and Washington, D.C. The majority of the jobs we are able to offer are made possible through the New York State Preferred Source Program, New Jersey ACCSES, and the federal AbilityOne Program. Fedcap also operates a licensed home health care agency; Chelton Loft, a clubhouse for adults with severe and persistent mental illness; a Partial Care Mental Health Program for adults with developmental disabilities and mental illness; a Youth Program for young adults transitioning in to the workforce; and a Veterans Program assisting returning veterans with their transition to civilian life. 