Obstetrics and gynecology or obstetrics and gynaecology (commonly abbreviated as OB-GYN, OBG or O&G in US English, and as obs and gynae in British English) is the medical specialty that encompasses the two subspecialties of obstetrics (covering pregnancy, childbirth, and the postpartum period) and gynecology (covering the health of the female reproductive systems  – vagina, uterus, and ovaries. Postgraduate training programs for both fields are usually combined, preparing the practicing obstetrician-gynecologist to be adept both at the care of female reproductive organs' health and at the management of pregnancy, although many doctors go on to develop subspecialty interests in one field or the other. After completing medical school, one must complete a four-year residency program to be eligible to sit for boards. For the ERAS match in 2017, there will be 238 participating programs accepting applicants.  In all, this adds up to 11–14 years of education and practical experience. The first 7–9 years are general medical training. Experienced OB-GYN professionals can seek certifications in sub-specialty areas, including maternal and fetal medicine. See Fellowship (medicine). Examples of subspecialty training available to physicians in the US are: Of these, only the first four are truly recognized sub-specialties by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) and the American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ABOG). The other subspecialties are recognized as informal concentrations of practice. To be recognized as a board-certified subspecialist by the American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology or the American Osteopathic Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology, a practitioner must have completed an ACGME or AOA-accredited residency and obtained a Certificate of Added Qualifications (CAQ) which requires an additional standardized examination.   Additionally, physicians of other specialties may become trained in Advanced Life Support in Obstetrics (ALSO), a short certification that equips them to better manage emergent OB/GYN situations. The salary of an obstetrician varies by country. In the United States, as of 2017, the average salary is $222,400–$315,277. 