The Quilligan Scholars award, named after one of the founding fathers of Maternal-Fetal Medicine, Dr. Edward J. Quilligan, is a prestigious title in the field of Maternal-Fetal Medicine granted by the Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine and The Pregnancy Foundation to a select group of promising residents   in Obstetrics and gynaecology who exhibit unparallaled potential to become future leaders   in the field of Perinatology. The purpose of the Quilligan Scholars Program is to identify future leaders in Perinatology early in their training and to offer them recognition, guidance, and educational opportunities to foster their careers. These individuals traditionally  exhibit leadership, commitment, and interest in teaching, research, or public policy. Some of the activities provided by the program include paid attendance to the SMFM annual meeting, the provision of special courses and experiences, and the granting of personal mentorship from current leaders in the field of Maternal-fetal Medicine.  The year 2013 marked the 40th anniversary of the formal establishment of Maternal-fetal medicine as a specialty, as 16 pioneers took the MFM boards for the first time in 1973. Amongst that group of pioneers was Dr. Edward J. Quilligan, who has gone on to dedicate decades of service to the advancement of women's health, through teaching, research, and leadership. To honour his legacy and his exemplary service to modern Obstetrics, the Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine and The Pregnancy Foundation created the Quilligan Scholars program, and the first class of 5 recipients was inaugurated in 2014 at the Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine annual meeting in New Orleans, LA.  Though the Quilligan Scholar title confers no monetary reward, the sponsored activities are covered by gracious donations from members of the medical community. The Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine has agreed to give matching funds to the amount raised by The Pregnancy Foundation up to $125,000 per year for three years.  The Quilligan Scholar title is traditionally granted to 5 recipients every year, and thus far 2 cohorts have been bestowed the honor. The 2014 recipients are:  The 2015 recipients are:  