BookCon is an annual fan convention established in 2014 in New York City. Taking the name format from other fan conventions such as Comic-Con, BookCon was established to combine pop culture and the book industry. Many authors, celebrities and publishing professionals attend BookCon.   BookCon is run by ReedPOP, which also organizes New York Comic Con, Chicago Comic & Entertainment Expo, Star Wars Celebration, and other events.  BookCon was created to boost the image and attendance of long-running book fair BookExpo America.  The first BookCon was held May 31, 2014, at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in New York City.  On May 30, a sneak preview event was held with the This Is Where I Leave You Q&A panel, featuring author Jonathan Tropper and stars of the film version,  Jason Bateman and Tina Fey.  The event featured a panel with best-selling novelist John Grisham. Other writers and stars there for Q&As and autograph signing included Amy Poehler (Yes Please), Martin Short (I Must Say: My Life as a Humble Comedy Legend), Jodi Picoult (Leaving Time), Kathy Reichs (Bones Never Lie), and Ruth Reichl (Delicious!).   Nickelodeon also organized a Dora and Friends storytime for children.  The second edition took place May 30–31 at the Javits Center in New York City.  Scheduled authors for the event included James Patterson, Candace Bushnell, Sherman Alexie, Julianne Moore,  Aziz Ansari,  Mindy Kaling and B.J. Novak.   John Hodgman of The Daily Show led a panel discussion with comedian Nick Offerman (Parks and Recreation), whose second book, Gumption: Relighting the Torch of Freedom with America's Gutsiest Troublemakers, was released May 26.  The third BookCon was held May 14, 2016 at McCormick Place in Chicago. The event was shortened to one day, which caused complaints from fans that it was too short. About 7,000 people attended the event. Authors at the event included Alexandra Bracken, Khloé Kardashian, Kate DiCamillo, Sherman Alexie and Meg Cabot.   The fourth BookCon was scheduled for June 3-4, 2017, at the Javits Center in New York City. Authors announced include Dan Brown, Margaret Atwood, Kwame Alexander, Cory Doctorow, Shea Serrano, Rainbow Rowell, Veronica Roth and Soman Chainani. Celebrities scheduled for the event include scientist Bill Nye and actors Jeffrey Tambor, Mayim Bialik, Krysten Ritter, Chad Michael Murray and Andrew McCarthy.  Coordinates: 40°45′29.4″N 74°00′09.0″W﻿ / ﻿40.758167°N 74.002500°W﻿ / 40.758167; -74.002500 