FINIDR s.r.o. is an offset and web-fed offset  printing house. FINIDR specializes on book-making and other printing production. FINIDR exports over 80% of its production to Western European markets, such as Germany, France, Austria, England, Belgium, Netherlands, and Scandinavia etc.  The history of FINIDR s.r.o., has started in 1994 in the city of Český Těšín where printing has more than 200-year tradition. Printing house was originally established by three owners but since 2009 FINIDR   is fully owned by Jaroslav Drahoš. FINIDR was built on greenfield and by the end of the first year had 22 employees.  In 1998 FINIDR bought a part of industrial complex and moved all production processes under one roof. Another milestone was the year of 2000, when FINIDR procured first printing machine, Heidelberg in B1 format.  In 2001 company adopted new information system, INFOR ERP Syte Line, which enables employees to react immediately on customers’ requirements. In 2006 new follow-up production plant was built offering more than 12 000m2 of storage and production space.  In 2008 FINIDR was certified with FSC.   In the same year, FINIDR helped to establish a polygraphic program at local vocational school in Český Těšín, Albrechtova střední škola.   FINIDR’s key employees teach at the school and students carry out their mandatory internship in FINIDR’s graphic studio, CTP, bindery etc. Since 2011 all production processes are doubled and in-house.  In 2011 FINIDR implemented new Code of Conduct for all its employees. In 2012 extensive investments into modern technologies were implemented and new internal training center, FINIDR Academy, was established.   In 2013 FINIDR purchased second printing machine, Heidelberg Speedmaster XL 106-8-P   which is the most modern printing machine today. FINIDR was also certified with Ugra’s PSO certificate.  By the end of 2013, FINIDR has produced its 200-million book.  In 2015 FINIDR obtained creditworthy certificate of “CrefoCert“.  FINIDR traditionally presents its printing and binding crafts on fairs such as Svět knihy Praha, Frankfurter Buchmesse,  Leipziger Buchmesse,   The London Book Fair   and IPG Conference London.  Each year printing house FINIDR supports and sponsors various activities for children from local elementary schools and high schools.   FINIDR also organize events for seniors in Český Těšín.   FINIDR is one of the sponsors of foundation Člověk v tísni   and supports their project “Let’s build a school in Africa”.  