A tribrach is an attachment plate used to attach a surveying instrument, for example a theodolite, total station, GNSS antenna or target to a tripod. A tribrach allows the survey instrument to be repeatedly placed in the  same position over a surveying marker point with sub-millimetre precision, by just loosening and re-tightening a locking handle or lever to adjust the instrument base in a horizontal plane. The device consists of two triangular metal plates connected at their corners by leveling thumbscrews, a bubble level, a locking mechanism and often an optical plummet. The centre of the bottom plate of the tribrach has a 5/8-11 UNC thread bolt hole which is used to attach the tribrach to the tripod. The top plate of the tribrach has three small holes or slots spaced at 120 degrees above leveling thumbscrews, and a locking mechanism which enables a survey instrument or target to be accurately placed on the tribrach and locked in place. The optical plummet has either a bullseye or cross hair sight for positioning the instrument over a survey marker or ground control point. The older tribrachs required a plumb line to allow them to be positioned vertically over a point and were slower to set up. Some modern total stations have an integral  laser plummet built in. The process is iterative between horizontal position and top plate level, because they are interactive. The following general process is followed: If the target over which the instrument is to be placed is roughly at the same elevation as the tripod feet, the preceding technique is applicable.  However, if there is a considerable difference between the elevation of the target and the elevation of the marker and the instrument bottom plate, such as when the target is in a deep hole, or on a Bilby tower  for instance, the target will appear to move laterally by a large distance in the optical plummet as the tribrach level is adjusted. Tribrachs are precision instruments and should be checked regularly to ensure they do not become a source of error. 