The Osler Library, a branch of the McGill University Library, is Canada's foremost scholarly resource in the history of medicine, and one of the most important libraries of its type in North America. The nucleus of the Library is the collection of 8,000 rare and historic works on the history of medicine and allied subjects presented to the Faculty of Medicine of McGill University by Sir William Osler (1849–1919). Sir William's original collection is described in the printed catalogue (also available as an e-book), Bibliotheca Osleriana, and information on the whole of the printed collection and much of the manuscript collections is listed in the McGill University online catalogue. Since the opening of the Library in 1929, the collection has continued to grow by purchase, gift, and transfer (particularly, in the latter case, of older health-related books from McGill's former Medical Library and Life Sciences Library.) In addition to the Osler Library's holdings of rare and old books, there is a strong circulating collection of current secondary works and modern editions of historic texts, as well as a reference collection, archives and manuscripts, portraits and artifacts. In particular, the Osler Library has a large collection of incunabula (over 150 volumes), an outstanding collection of editions of the works of Sir Thomas Browne (author of Religio Medici, the 17th century classic), and a collection of some 30,000 19th century French medical theses, primarily from Paris. The total number of works currently housed in the library is approximately 100,000, and includes books old and new, as well as "periodicals about the history of the health sciences and related areas".  The Osler Library has also a number of their collections and exhibitions digitized over the years.  Percy Erskine Nobbs designed the Osler library for the Strathcona Medical Building  (now the Strathcona Anatomy and Dentistry Building), and the library officially opened there in May 1929.  In 1965, both  the contents of the library and the interior oak paneling and shelving were moved to their present location within the newly built McIntyre Medical Sciences Building. At that time the "Wellcome Camera" was added to the library with the financial assistance of the Wellcome Trust.  Initially most of the windows on the first floor of the Camera were provided with stained-glass coats-of-arms; one for each of the twelve Canadian universities which then had medical faculties. In 1985 four additional coats-of-arms were added; only the coat-of-arms of the Northern Ontario School of Medicine is currently missing.  The Osler Library was further expanded and renovated in 2001-02 and in 2014. In the design of the Osler Library everything has been subordinated to the books themselves; those in the Osler Room are arranged in full view behind glazed doors. The fittings and furnishings of the Osler Library were designed by Nobbs & Hyde  The stained glass window in the Osler Room depicts the staff and serpent, symbols of healing associated with the Greek god Asclepius, and a held-out book representing the university. It was designed by architect Percy Nobbs.  After their deaths, the ashes of both Sir William and Lady Osler were placed in a niche within the library so that they continue to be surrounded by Sir William's favourite books. The McGill University Library is a member of the Association of Research Libraries, Canadian Association of Research Libraries, and is a contributor to the Open Content Alliance. Digitized content from the Osler Library is available in McGill Library catalogue and the Internet Archive. In January 2016, Osler Library of the History of Medicine started contributing material to the Medical Heritage Library Coordinates: 45°30′11″N 73°34′57″W﻿ / ﻿45.50315°N 73.58248°W﻿ / 45.50315; -73.58248 