The Lemma Senbet Fund is a student managed investments fund offered as a limited-enrollment   year-round experiential learning course to top tier  undergraduate students from the Robert H. Smith School of Business at the University of Maryland (UMD). The fund, named for Lemma Wolde Senbet, the William E. Mayer Chair Professor of Finance at the Smith School of the University of Maryland, was founded in 2006 with initial capital of $50,000 from the school's endowment fund.    The investment management team consists of 12 undergraduate students chosen through an interview and presentation process designed to simulate the hiring process of investment banking firms.  The team consists of 2 portfolio managers and 10 equity analysts each dedicated to a specific industry sector: consumer products (discretionary), consumer products (staples), energy, financial services, healthcare, industrials, information technology, materials, telecommunications, and utilities. Each sector analyst pitches approximately 4 stocks per year, and must persuade all 12 members (not just a majority) of the investment team to buy.  The student investment management team uses Bloomberg Professional Services running on Bloomberg Terminals to conduct in-depth financial analysis, manage the asset portfolio, and execute security trades.  The students are unpaid, and do not share in the fund gains nor receive distributions. The long-term performance goal of the Lemma Senbet Fund is to outpace appreciation of the S&P 500 Index on a risk-adjusted basis. Historically, the fund has adopted a top-down investment approach that is driven by Economic indicators, then Industry trends, and finally individual Company perfornance (EIC). Most asset instruments are long equity positions.  Specific stock selections are based on a combination of fundamental analysis and technical analysis valuation techniques under the Growth at a Reasonable Price (GARP) model.  Since founding in 2006, even after annual distributions the Lemma Senbet Fund has grown 18-fold from $50,000   to $911,032 (fiscal year ended March 31, 2017).  The Lemma Senbet fund pays a 5% distribution to the UMD Deans Office each year. In 2017, this distribution amounted to $37,729.  