 Bowling Green State University Department of Popular Culture is the first Popular Culture department in the United States.  The department was founded by Professor Ray Browne in 1973.  The Popular Culture department is unique as it is the only one in the US to offer both Bachelor's degrees and Master's degrees in Popular Culture.    The Department of Popular Culture at Bowling Green State University has been a leader in the scholarly movement to investigate popular culture since its inception in 1973. Dr. Ray Browne's early efforts in the Department of English led in 1973 to the establishment of the Department of Popular Culture as an M.A. program, followed with the establishment of the undergraduate major a year later. Previously, in 1967, Dr. Browne had founded the Journal of Popular Culture; and in 1969 he founded the scholarly association for the study of popular culture, the Popular Culture Association, which is now headquartered at Michigan State University. Through these innovative curricular and programmatic developments and the research and other professional activities of the faculty, the department has established an international reputation as the leader in the study of popular culture.  On July 21, 2012, Bowling Green State University announced their plans to demolish the Popular Culture building that housed the department.   The Popular Culture building was home to four former presidents of the university before the Popular Culture department moved in.  The building was purchased by the university in 1932,  and was formerly called Virgil House.  Over 2000 supporters protested the demolition plans of the Popular Culture building.   However the protests were unsuccessful and the university continued with plans to demolish the building.  The building was demolished on August 10, 2012, one week ahead of time.  The demolished Popular Culture house was replaced by a student health center.  The Popular Culture department moved into Shatzel Hall, alongside the Asian Studies department.  For the 2016/17 school year,  the faculty and staff are Retired or emeritus faculty include: Other Former Faculty 