Adaptive Physical Education (APE) is a physical education program that accommodates the needs of students with disabilities, that may include or be a combination of mobility or physical impairments, sensory impairments, intellectual disabilities, emotional or behavioural disorders.    Physical education is important for the health and wellbeing of everyone, regardless of disabilities or not. APE programs are vital in maintaining and enhancing the quality of life for people with disabilities. Australia’s physical education curriculum for adaptive students is currently the same as students without disabilities.  Australian education institutions are required by the Disability Discrimination Act 1992 and the Disability Standards for Education 2005 to instruct physical education to students with disabilities.   Adaptive physical education evolved from medical treatments that were designed to cope with disabilities. In 1838, Perkins School located in Boston, Massachusetts, an educational institute for visually impaired students, began introducing physical education programs for their students.  In the 1870s, the Ohio school for the Deaf instituted organised sports into the school for their students.  Pehr Henrik Ling, who founded the Swedish School of Sports and Health Sciences in 1813 in Stockholm, Sweden  developed medical gymnastic programs for people with disabilities in 1884. Special Olympian Diona Bell dashes by a group of U.S. Airmen to win the gold medal in the 100-meter run at the Mississippi Special Olympics Summer Games, hosted by Keesler Air Force Base (AFB) in Biloxi, Miss. 110514-F-BD983-011 The legislation for the APE in Australia is as follows: Impairments and disabilities for APE students can vary or may even coexist with more than one disability. A students physical capabilities in APE will depend on their impairment or disability. These impairments and/or disabilities need to be addressed in the design of the students APE curriculum by their teachers or instructors of APE to ensure that the student is receiving the most beneficial physical educational program. Students with intellectual disabilities need to have APE programs that are appropriately designed and take into consideration their academic, physical, motor, social and emotional skills.  Students with emotional and behavioural disorders can create instructional dilemmas for APE teachers. Ideas for managing and instructing APE to these students are to have interpersonal communication, active listening, verbal mediation and conflict resolution schemes incorporated into the students physical education program.  Disability Special Olympics Special Education Paralympics Games 