Physical literacy is a fundamental and valuable human capability that can be described as a disposition acquired by human individuals encompassing the motivation, confidence, physical competence, knowledge and understanding that establishes purposeful physical pursuits as an integral part of their lifestyle.  The fundamental and significant aspects of physical literacy   are: The concept of physical literacy has been developed over many years. It is seen, by a growing number of people, as the goal of the school subject, physical education. However, whilst this is extremely relevant, it is important to recognise that physical literacy is not restricted to the school years – it is relevant throughout the lifecourse.  In this respect, six phases of physical literacy have been identified: infancy, childhood, adolescence, young adulthood, adulthood and older adulthood.  Over the past few years there has been considerable interest, worldwide, in the concept of physical literacy. In Great Britain, a number of local authorities have adopted it as an overall guiding principle for their work in school-based physical education. In countries such as Northern Ireland and Canada, physical literacy has been the focus for considerable rethinking in respect of children’s physical development and has consequently been the inspiration behind the development of new programmes. In India this principle has been adapted by SportismTM for training the Indian kids on the basis of Physical literacy concepts.   However, there have been a number of interpretations of the concept that have moved away from the central tenets of physical literacy. For example, in some instances physical literacy has been the name given to a programme of fundamental movement skills, implying that the concept is solely about the acquisition of physical competence. Other interpretations have focused on knowledge and understanding, particularly in the games context. Both these scenarios include elements of physical literacy, but do not represent the whole story.  A physically literate individual will display the following attributes:  Physical literacy is the mastering of fundamental movement skills and fundamental sport skills that permit a child to read their environment and make appropriate decisions, allowing them to move confidently and with control in a wide range of physical activity situations. It is the foundation of long-term participation and performance to the best of one’s ability. Physical Literacy is the cornerstone of both participation and excellence in physical activity and sport. Ideally, physical literacy is developed prior to the adolescent growth spurt.  Fundamental Movement Skills and Fundamental Sport Skills To become physically literate children need to master the 13 fundamental movement skills:  The Locomotor and Body Skills: The Sending Skills The Receiving Skills Each skill will involve a series of developmental stages that the child will go through in order to master that particular skill. Fundamental Sport Skills involve using Fundamental Movement Skills in a sport specific setting (i.e. a child can kick a ball, this is a Fundamental Movement Skill; when she kicks a penalty kick in a soccer game, she has used this skill as a Fundamental Sport Skill, the skill of kicking a penalty kick).  The Four Environments To develop physical literacy children should learn fundamental movement skills and fundamental sport skills in each of the four basic environments: 