A living lab is a research concept. A living lab is a user-centered, open-innovation ecosystem,    often operating in a territorial context (e.g. city, agglomeration, region), integrating concurrent research and innovation processes  within a public-private-people partnership.  The concept is based on a systematic user co-creation approach integrating research and innovation processes. These are integrated through the co-creation, exploration, experimentation and evaluation of innovative ideas, scenarios, concepts and related technological artefacts in real life use cases. Such use cases involve user communities, not only as observed subjects but also as a source of creation. This approach allows all involved stakeholders to concurrently consider both the global performance of a product or service and its potential adoption by users. This consideration may be made at the earlier stage of research and development and through all elements of the product life-cycle, from design up to recycling.  See also: Concurrent engineering User centred research methods,  such as action research, community informatics, contextual design,  user-centered design, participatory design,  empathic design, emotional design,    and other usability methods, already exist but fail to sufficiently empower users for co-creating into open development environments. More recently, the Web 2.0 has demonstrated the positive impact of involving user communities in new product development (NPD) such as mass collaboration projects (e.g.  crowdsourcing, Wisdom of Crowds) in collectively creating new contents and applications. A living lab is not similar to a testbed as its philosophy is to turn users, from being traditionally considered as observed subjects for testing modules against requirements, into value creation in contributing to the co-creation and exploration of emerging ideas, breakthrough scenarios, innovative concepts and related artefacts. Hence, a living lab rather constitutes an experiential environment, which could be compared to the concept of experiential learning, where users are immersed in a creative social space for designing and experiencing their own future. Living labs could also be used by policy makers and users/citizens for designing, exploring, experiencing and refining new policies and regulations in real-life scenarios for evaluating their potential impacts before their implementations.  The term living lab has emerged in parallel from the ambient intelligence research communities  context and from the discussion on experience and application research (EAR).  The emergence of the term is based on the concept of user experience       and ambient intelligence (AmI).    William J. Mitchell, Kent Larson, and Alex (Sandy) Pentland at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology are credited with first exploring the concept of a Living Laboratory.  They argued that a living lab represents a user-centric research methodology for sensing, prototyping, validating and refining complex solutions in multiple and evolving real life contexts. Nowadays, several living lab descriptions and definitions are available from different sources.       In 2010, Mitchell, Larson and Pentland, formed the first US-based living labs research consortium. According to the consortium website:  The convergence of globalization, changing demographics, and urbanization is transforming almost every aspect of our lives.  We face new choices about where and how we work, live, travel, communicate, and maintain health.  Ultimately, our societies are being transformed.  MIT Living Labs brings together interdisciplinary experts to develop, deploy, and test - in actual living environments - new technologies and strategies for design that respond to this changing world.  Our work spans in scale from the personal to the urban, and addresses challenges related to health, energy, and creativity.The consortium has since been reorganized as the City Science Initiative at the MIT Media Lab.  The term "living lab" or "living laboratory" is also used for representing a residential home research facility where the behaviour of people living in this house is observed and usage patterns are collected by researchers that are investigating methods for merging new technologies with user-centered design. In this type of living lab, users are more observed subjects than engaged in the co-creation of ideas and breakthrough scenarios. There are examples of such research facilities like PlaceLab at MIT developed by Kent Larson and Stephen Intille and ExperienceLab at Philips Research. In the Netherlands, Utrecht University has created the Governance Lab Utrecht The living lab process,  which integrates both user-centred research and open innovation, is based on a maturity spiral concurrently involving a multidisciplinary team in the following four main activities: 