The concept of service Innovation was first discussed in Miles (1993)  and has been developed in the past two decades. It is used to refer to many things. These include but not limited to: The Finnish research agency TEKES defines service innovation as the following: "Service innovation is a new or significantly improved service concept that is taken into practice. It can be for example a new customer interaction channel, a distribution system or a technological concept or a combination of them. A service innovation always includes replicable elements that can be identified and systematically reproduced in other cases or environments. The replicable element can be the service outcome or the service process as such or a part of them. A service innovation benefits both the service producer and customers and it improves its developer’s competitive edge. A service innovation is a service product or service process that is based on some technology or systematic method. In services however, the innovation does not necessarily relate to the novelty of the technology itself but the innovation often lies in the non-technological areas. Service innovations can for instance be new solutions in the customer interface, new distribution methods, novel application of technology in the service process, new forms of operation with the supply chain or new ways to organize and manage services." A comprehensive definition of service innovation was proposed by Van Ark et al. (2003) : "A new or considerably changed service concept, client interaction channel, service delivery system or technological concept that individually, but most likely in combination, leads to one or more (re)new(ed) service functions that are new to the firm and do change the service/good offered on the market and do require structurally new technological, human or organizational capabilities of the service organization." This definition covers the notions of technological and non-technological innovation. Non-technological innovations in services mainly arise from investment in intangible inputs. Many literatures on what makes for successful innovations of this kind comes from the New Service Development research field (e.g. Johne and Storey, 1998;  Nijssen et al., 2006 ). Service design practitioners have also extensively discussed the features of effective service products and experiences. One of the key aspects of many service activities is the high involvement of the client/customer/user in the production of the final service. Without this co-production (i.e. interactivity of service production), the service would often not be created. This co-production, together with the intangibility of many service products, causes service innovation to often take forms rather different from those familiar through studies of innovation in manufacturing. Innovation researchers have, for this reason, stressed that much service innovation is hard to capture in traditional categories like product or process innovation. The co-production process, and the interactions between service provider and client, can also form the focus of innovation. A growing number of professional association have service sections that promote service innovation research, including INFORMS, ISSIP, and others. Thus den Hertog (2000)  who identifies four “dimensions” of service innovation, takes quite a different direction to much standard innovation theorizing. In practice, the majority of service innovations will almost certainly involve various combinations of these four dimensions. For instance: An elaboration of this model to suggest six dimensions of innovation was developed in the course of work on creative sectors, by Green, Miles and Rutter.   As well as Technology and Production process, four dimensions were specified whose linkages are very strong in creative sectors like videogames, advertising and design: Cultural Product, Cultural Concept, Delivery and User Interface. The service innovation literature is surprisingly poorly related to the literature on new product development, which has spawned a line of study on new service development. This often focuses on the managerially important issue of what makes for successful service innovation.  See for example Johne and Storey (1998),4 who reviewed numerous New Service Development studies. Ian Miles of the Manchester Institute of Innovation Research (MIoIR), The University of Manchester, is one of the scholars on the study of 'Service Innovation'. He coined the term in his 1993 article in the journal FUTURES, (Vol. 25, No. 6, pp. 653–672,)  . He listed a series of characteristic features of services, and associated these with particular types of innovation.  Such innovations are often aimed at overcoming problems associated with service characteristics like the difficulty in demonstrating the service to the client, or the problems in storing and building up stocks of the service. After Miles (1993), numerous studies were made, one of the more recent studies that reaches similar conclusions was from a qualitative survey of service organizations by Candi (2007). ) Note that the “product” related innovations below have a lot in common with new service development as discussed above.  In the following list, features of services are linked to innovation strategies by the symbol >>>. Additionally, a number of more general tendencies in the innovation process in services have been noted.  These include: There have been many methods for service innovation design and one of these is Dominant Innovation methodology which is a systematic approach to discover the gaps of service value delivery through a scenario-based mapping.  Dominant Innovation methodology is based on a visible/ and invisible matrix to map the growth gaps of product value and further develop an innovation ecosystem between evidence and supply sources.  Design and service innovation have also been combined in the context of business acceleration using the Minimum Valuable Service model.  The MVS is an open source methodology that integrates lean startup and Service Design and it has been largely adopted by startups and large organizations like Ge and Cisco in Silicon Valley. In the traditional product-service system (PSS) business model, industries develop product with value-added service instead of single product itself, and provide their customers services that are needed. In this relationship, the market goal of manufacturers is not one-time product selling, but continuous profit from customers by total service solution, which can satisfy unmet customers’ needs.   Most of PSS systems focus on ‘human-generated or human-related data’ instead of ‘machine-generated data or industrial data’, which may include machine controllers, sensors, manufacturing systems, etc.  Early work using web-based product monitoring for remote product services including GM OnStar Telematics, Otis Remote Elevator Maintenance (REM), and GE Medical InSite during 1990s.  Service innovation using web-based system was further developed for e-service applications.   Recently, more advanced approaches using predictive analytics and cyber physical systems (CPS) can harvest  large amounts of data of a variety of types to uncover hidden patterns, unknown correlations and other useful information from industrial and manufacturing systems and integrate with business automation software for improved productivity and innovation.   In recent years policy makers have begun to consider the potential for promoting services innovation as part of their economic development strategies. Such consideration has, in part, been driven by the growing contribution that services activities make to national and regional economies. It also reflects the emerging recognition that traditional policy measures such as R&D grants and technology transfer supports have been developed from a manufacturing perspective of the innovation process. The European Commission and the OECD has been particularly active in seeking to generate reflection on services innovation and its policy implications. This has resulted in studies such as the OECD’s reports into knowledge intensive services,  and the European Commission Expert Group report on services innovation – the report of the group, "Fostering Innovation in Services"  as well as various TrendChart studies.  The European Commission has also launched a number of Knowledge Intensive Services Platforms designed to act as laboratories for new public policies for services innovation. Few economic development agencies at the member state level, and fewer still at the regional level, have translated this new thinking on services innovation into policy action.  Finland is an exception, where knowledge intensive business services have been a focus of much regional work (esp. the Uusimaa region). Finland has been active in thinking about the policy implications of services innovation. This has seen TEKES – the Finnish Funding Agency for Technology and Innovation – launch the SERVE initiative, designed to support ‘Finnish companies and research organisations in the development of innovative service concepts that can be reproduced or replicated and where some technology or systematic method is applied .’a  Germany has also undertaken initiatives for services R&D, and Canada and Norway have programs as well. Ireland has been considering a services-focused innovation policy, with Forfás – its national policy and advisory board for enterprise, trade, science, technology and innovation – having undertaken a review of Ireland’s existing policy and support measures for innovation, and outlined options for a new policy and framework environment in support of service innovation activity.  At the regional level, limited information is available on how Europe’s regions are responding to the challenges presented by service innovation. [CM International] has recently published a European survey on services innovation and regional policy responses. The results of this suggest that very few regions in France, the UK and Ireland have an explicit focus on services and innovation. Many do, however, express a desire to address this issue in the coming future.  