A canvas print is the result of an image printed onto canvas which is stretched, or gallery-wrapped, onto a frame and displayed. Canvas prints are often used in interior design, with stock images, or customised with personal photographs.  Canvas prints are intended to reproduce the look of original oil or acrylic paintings on stretched canvas. Reproductions of original artwork have been printed on canvas for many decades using offset printing. Since the 1990s, canvas print has been associated with either dye sublimation or inkjet print processes (often referred to as repligraph or giclée  respectively). The canvas print material is generally cotton or plastic based poly canvas, often used for the reproduction of photographic images. Modern large format printers are capable of printing onto canvas rolls measuring 1.5 metres (59 in) or more. Modern examples of inkjet-based printers capable of printing directly onto canvas   are the HP Designjet z6100 and the Epson Ultra Chrome 11880. Printers such as these allow artists and photographers to print their works directly onto canvas media, with slow print speed settings available to ensure print quality is not diminished. Printed canvas for wall art is generally of a weight around 400 gsm and should be 100% pure white cotton for a more exact colour representation.  After the image is printed, the canvas is trimmed to size and glued, or stapled to traditional stretcher bars, or a wooden panel and displayed in a frame, or as a gallery wrap. The frames are usually constructed from solid pine and underpinned for added strength. A print that is designed to continue round the edges of a stretcher frame once gallery-wrapped is referred to as full-bleed. This can be used to enhance the three-dimensional effect of the mounted print. Canvas prints are commonly used in home decor, either chosen by professional interior designers, or by the homeowner. Canvas prints can be mass produced and available through high street retailers and home improvement stores, such as IKEA, or personalized one-off canvas prints produced from the individual's own photograph, or drawing, usually uploaded via the Internet, or ordered direct from social media websites. Canvas prints are often used as a cheaper alternative to framed artwork as there is no glazing required and the pine frame is not usually visible, so do not need to be varnished, or treated. 