'The Center for Contemporary Printmaking (CCP) is a nonprofit multimedia studio and gallery in Norwalk, Connecticut, dedicated to the art of the print, including traditional and innovative printmaking, papermaking, book arts, digital processes, and related disciplines. Its stated mission is to support, preserve, and advance the art of original prints. It was founded in 1995 by Michael Costello, Grace Shanley, and Andrew Stasik.  The only printmaking facility of its kind between New York City and Boston, CCP is located in Central Norwalk near South Norwalk. It is housed in an historic landmark 19th-century carriage house in Mathews Park, near the Lockwood-Mathews Mansion and the Stepping Stones Museum for Children. CCP offers about one hundred workshops each year, conducted by nationally recognized artists, on techniques such as monotype, intaglio, silkscreen, and lithography. Artists can also work independently in CCP’s studios, work with CCP’s master printers on special projects or specific techniques, and collaborate with CCP printers to create an edition of work. CCP offers a wide variety of educational and outreach programs to the Fairfield County community, including teacher education and workshops for students from area schools. CCP features a full schedule of exhibitions in its Grace Ross Shanley Gallery, ranging from solo shows by artists such as Jim Dine, Helen Frankenthaler, and Wolf Kahn to thematic group exhibitions. Two international competitions are held in alternating years: the International Miniature Print Competition, a juried exhibition limited to works no more than four square inches in size, and Footprint International, featuring works that are exactly one foot square. Adjacent to CCP’s main building is the Helen Frankenthaler Printmaking Cottage, site of the Artist-in-Residence Program. The cottage houses printmaking studios as well as a compact, furnished, two-bedroom living residential space. Artists can apply for residencies, for a week or up to a month, to pursue projects independently or in collaboration with CCP printers. Coordinates: 41°06′35″N 73°24′59″W﻿ / ﻿41.1097°N 73.4165°W﻿ / 41.1097; -73.4165﻿ (Center for Contemporary Printmaking) 