Medical Missions for Children is an independent, non-profit organization that works to improve health outcomes for our world's most critically ill children by providing individual telemedicine consultations and implementing education programs focused on narrowing the knowledge gap between healthcare providers in the United States and those in the developing world.  MMC focuses on "transferring medical knowledge from those who have it to those who need it" using a state-of-the-art communications infrastructure in order to touch the lives of more than one million critically ill children each year. Medical Missions for Children was founded in 1999 by Frank and Peg Brady.  Its Global Telemedicine and Teaching Network - GTTN - currently serves over 100 countries throughout Latin America/Caribbean, Africa, North America, Asia/Pacific, Eastern Europe/Central Asia and the Middle East. MMC is located on the campus of St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center in Paterson, New Jersey. It is a major stakeholder in The Hamiltonian,  a 14-story hotel and conference center projected to open in 2016.     The Global Telemedicine and Teaching Network (GTTN) comprises several programs: This Medical Missions for Children/Paterson, NJ (MMC) should not be confused with Medical Missions for Children (MMFC), a 501(3)(c) charity based in Woburn, MA that sends 13-15 surgical, medical and dental missions around the world each year to care for impoverished children who suffer from cleft deformities, microtia (absence of ear), head and neck abnormalities and severe, untreated burn injuries MMC currently produces four healthcare series, several of which have been broadcast on the New Jersey Network, the predecessor to NJTV, New Jersey's affiliate of PBS. Located at St. Joseph's Children's Hospital, the Giggles Children's Theater (Giggles) draws its curtains twice each week to bring the healing powers of laughter through the performing arts to hospitalized children in Paterson.  Each performance is broadcast live on the hospital's closed-circuit TV system so that no child is excluded due to sickness or incapacity. Each performance is also recorded and rebroadcast so that 10 shows per week are offered on the hospital's Giggles TV channel. In April 2007 a second Giggles theater opened at The Children's Inn located at the campus of the National Institutes of Health. 