The Health Sciences Center for Global Health (HSCGH) at The Ohio State University (OSU) is a collaborative program among the OSU Colleges of Dentistry, Medicine, Nursing, Optometry, Pharmacy, Public Health, School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences and Veterinary Medicine.  The HSCGH is led jointly by the Colleges of Medicine (COM) and Public Health (CPH). The HSCGH was created to increase student interest in global careers, prepare students for those careers and to promote, develop and coordinate interdisciplinary global health education and research throughout the health sciences colleges and the larger community.  The Board of Trustees approved the creation of the HSCGH in July 2007.  The National Institutes of Health (NIH) Fogarty Framework Grant  was awarded to OSU in September 2008.    The NIH John E. Fogarty International Center grant supports the creation of new, multidisciplinary educational programs as well as an administrative infrastructure to support activities.  The Graduate Interdisciplinary Specialization in Global Health (GISGH)  is a university-wide program that offers current OSU graduate and professional students advanced educational opportunities in the field of global health. The goal of the GISGH is to help prepare graduates to be active participants in the advancement of global health through academic enrichment, service-learning, and research pertaining to issues of global health. The specialization's core course, Introduction to Global Health, focuses on the basic components of population health, while the electives allow students to pursue topics across the other health sciences colleges for a truly interdisciplinary experience. Diane L. Gorgas, MD, a professor of Emergency Medicine at The Ohio State University’s Wexner Medical Center. She currently serves as the Executive Director of the Office of Global Health. and of OSU's Health Sciences Center for Global Health. She is nationally involved as an item writer and case developer and case administrator for the American Board of Emergency Medicine (ABEM) and sits on the Emergency Medicine Review Committee for the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).  She was the Residency Training Program Director in Emergency Medicine for many years, and has a long standing interest in and study of educational methods. Her other associated research interests include global health, emotional intelligence, competency assessment and learning styles. Dr. Gorgas currently directs the OSU Greif Neonatal Survival program, which works to improve the lives of mothers and infants in low-income countries through self-sustaining education and training programs to increase the in-country capacity of healthcare workers. Pamela Potter serves as the administrative director for the Health Sciences Center for Global Health at The Ohio State University and in that role provides oversight of the daily administration and operation of the center. She is also the associate director of the Office of Global Health in the College of Medicine. Prior to her role at OSU, she served as the Chief of Staff to the Executive Dean for the Georgetown University School of Medicine. 