Carol Es (born (1968-07-20)July 20, 1968) is a self-taught visual artist, writer, musician (drummer), and book artist who lives and works in Los Angeles, California. She has written articles for Coagula Art Journal  and the Huffington Post.  As a musician, she has played for 20 years as an R&B drummer touring and recording drums with various artists. She played drums on Rickie Lee Jones' Ghostyhead album in 1997. Her Artists' books are featured in the J. Paul Getty Trust Research Institute Library in Los Angeles,  National Museum of Women in the Arts, Brooklyn Museum, Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris, and also in prominent university collections such as the Arthur and Mata Jaffe Collection at Florida Atlantic University Library, UC Irvine, Otis College of Art & Design,  and the UCLA Library Special Collections. Es' mixed media paintings have exhibited at the Riverside Art Museum,  Torrance Art Museum in Torrance, California, and the Craft and Folk Art Museum.  Es is the recipient of a Pollock-Krasner Foundation Fellowship Award,  two Durfee Foundation ARC Grants, and was awarded the 2014 Wynn Newhouse Award.  As a visual artist, Es is known for creating personal narratives. She has used past experience as the fuel for her subject matter, transforming a broken history into a positive and spiritual resolve. Candid experiences are laid bare and forged directly into her paintings, drawings, soft sculptures, mixed media installations, and handmade books.  In 2015, Los Angeles Art Critic, Peter Frank wrote: "An autodidact, Es has long embodied her interests and her struggles - in painted and drawn and even sculpted and sewn imagery - darkly whimsical forms and figures whose deft fluidity have the eye "going for a walk with a line" (in the words of Paul Klee, who strongly influenced Es) but aggressively trouble the mind."  In 2010, Los Angeles art critic, A. Moret wrote: "The viewer activates the past as Es rewrites the story by mending a broken history and constructing a new narrative. Carol Es has transformed the past that once plagued her existence into her raison d’ être.  Es' artwork has been reviewed in LA Weekly,  Artillery Magazine,  Art LTD,  ArtScene Magazine,  Whitehot Magazine,  Jewish Journal,  and the Huffington Post.  She has been represented by Shulamit Gallery in Venice California and George Billis Gallery Los Angeles. She is currently working on an autobiography. 