 Food packaging is packaging for food. A package provides protection, tampering resistance, and special physical, chemical, or biological needs. It may bear a nutrition facts label and other information about food being offered for sale. Packaging and package labeling have several objectives  The above materials are fashioned into different types of food packages and containers such as:  Primary packaging is the main package that holds the food that is being processed. Secondary packaging combines the primary packages into one box being made. Tertiary packaging combines all of the secondary packages into one pallet. Aseptic packaging of soy milk Bagged cake mix Biscuit components: plastic bottles, paper bag Container for bulk vegetable oil Frozen processed food freezer in supermarket Bag in box; box wine Glass milk bottle and paperboard milk carton Silk tea bag Coffee beans in burlap bags, gunny sacks Bushel baskets of fruit Tea tin, can with removable cover Folding cartons of cereal Drink boxes Packaged apples Fresh fish in plastic shrink-wrapped tray Shrink-wrapped frozen pork Military MRE, bean and rice burrito in retort pouch Condiments and spices Aluminum can with an easy-open, full pull-out end A Dip & Squeeze ketchup container A choice of packaging machinery requires consideration of technical capabilities, labor requirements, worker safety, maintainability, serviceability, reliability, ability to integrate into the packaging line, capital cost, floorspace, flexibility (change-over, materials, etc.), energy usage, quality of outgoing packages, qualifications (for food, pharmaceuticals, etc.), throughput, efficiency, productivity, and ergonomics, at a minimum. Packaging machines may be of the following general types: Reduced packaging and sustainable packaging are becoming more frequent.  The motivations can be government regulations, consumer pressure, retailer pressure, and cost control. Reduced packaging often saves packaging costs. In the UK, a Local Government Association survey produced by the British Market Research Bureau compared a range of outlets to buy 29 common food items and found that small local retailers and market traders "produced less packaging and more that could be recycled than the larger supermarkets."  After use,  organic matter that is still in the food packaging needs to be separated from the packaging. This may also require rinsing of the food packaging.  It is critical to maintain food safety  during processing  , packaging, storage, logistics (including cold chain), sale,  and use. Conformance to applicable regulations is mandatory.  Some are country specific such as the US Food and Drug Administration and the US Department of Agriculture;  others are regional such as the European Food Safety Authority.  Certification programs such as the Global Food Safety Initiative are sometimes used.  Food packaging considerations may include: use of hazard analysis and critical control points, verification and validation protocols, Good manufacturing practices, use of an effective quality management system, track and trace systems, and requirements for label content.  Special food contact materials are used when the package is in direct contact with the food product. Depending on the packaging operation and the food, packaging machinery often needs specified daily wash-down and cleaning procedures.  Health risks of materials and chemicals used in food packaging need to be carefully controlled. Carcinogens, toxic chemicals, mutagens etc. need to be eliminated from food contact and potential migration into foods.   All aspects of food production, including packaging, are tightly controlled and have regulatory requirements. Uniformity, cleanliness and other requirements are needed to maintain Good Manufacturing Practices. Product safety management is vital. A complete Quality Management System must be in place. Hazard analysis and critical control points is one methodology which has been proven useful.  Verification and validation involves collecting documentary evidence of all aspects of compliance.  Quality assurance extends beyond the packaging operations through distribution and cold chain management. 