A tropical rainforest climate, also known as an equatorial climate, is a tropical climate usually (but not always) found along the equator. Regions with this climate typically feature tropical rainforests, and it is designated Af by the Köppen climate classification. A tropical rainforest climate is typically hot and wet. Places with this climate typically lie within 10º of the equator. Tropical rainforests have a type of tropical climate in which there is no dry season—all months have an average precipitation value of at least 60 mm (2.4 in). Tropical rainforests have no summer or winter; it is typically hot and wet throughout the year and rainfall is both heavy and frequent. One day in an equatorial climate can be very similar to the next, while the change in temperature between day and night may be larger than the average change in temperature during the year. Tropical rainforests are also usually found closer to the equator.    A tropical rainforest climate is usually found at latitudes within 10 degrees North and South of the equator, which are dominated by the Intertropical Convergence Zone. The climate is most commonly found in South America, Central Africa, Southeast Asia and Oceania. However, tropical rainforest microclimates are found in many other regions (e.g., far North Queensland), while not everywhere along the equatorial region feae these rainforests are indeed uniformly and monotonously wet throughout the year (e.g., the northwest Pacific coast of South and Central America, from Ecuador to Costa Rica, see for instance, Andagoya, Colombia), but in many cases the period of higher sun and longer days is distinctly wetter (as at Palembang, Indonesia). Additionally, while tropical rainforest climates are typically located near the equator (hence the alternate name “equatorial climate”), there are a number of instances where the climate is found some distance away from the equator. For instance, Santos, Brazil and Fort Lauderdale, United States are not only far removed from the equator, but are actually located just outside the tropics. Yet both of these cities feature a tropical rainforest climate, albeit with noticeably cooler and warmer periods of the year. Africa North America South America   Asia Oceania   