This is a page containing all available sales and awards from industrial rock and industrial metal artists. This list is far from complete. Many countries were excluded from it because their Industry Associations lacked a searchable, online database. Belgium, Iceland and Mexico are some of them.  Some European countries who do have it (Greece,  Hungary  and Spain ) were excluded anyway, because their databases showed no relevant sales pertaining industrial rock and metal groups.  Latin American countries with online databases (Argentina  and Brazil ) were excluded over the same principle. Below are the accreditations for the Australian Recording Industry Association, from 1997 onwards:      These are the certifications given by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand from January 10, 1999 onwards:  The following records landed on New Zealand's Top 50 chart but apparently failed to receive certifications:     These are the awards given by IFPI Austria:      Below are the IFPI Danmark awards given from 2004 to 2006:      The EMMA-GAALA Awards are the Finnish equivalent to the Grammy Awards.  Rammstein won an Emma trophy for "Best International Artist" in 2005.  This is IFPI Finland's awards from 2003 to 2007: Here are the SNEP certifications, from 1994 onwards: The ECHO Deutscher Musikpreis is Germany's traditional music industry award. Here are some Echo awards and nominations for NDH artists: Here are the available sales from the IFPI Germany database:      Here are the certifications given by the Nederlandse Vereniging van Producenten en Importeurs van beeld- en geluidsdragers:  The Edison Award is the Netherlands' premiere music award. Here are the trophies from IFPI Norsk, from 1993 onwards:  The Spellemannsprisen is the Norwegian equivalent to the Grammy Awards.  The Kovenant won an award in the "Hardrock" category for Nexus Polaris (1998).  Their third album, Animatronics (1999), won for the same category in the following year. Here are the awards of the Polish Society of the Phonographic Industry: The Grammis are the Swedish version of the Grammys. Misery Loves Company won the "HÅRDROCK" award for their 1997 album, Not Like Them.  Here are the certifications given by IFPI Sweden:  Here are the certifications available from the Swisscharts.com:      Here are the certifications given by the British Phonographic Industry:      Below are the online search results available from the Canadian Recording Industry Association database:      Here's some Nielsen Soundscan figures for Industrial rock artists in the United States. It is important to note that most of these sales figures aren't up-to-date. The Soundscans of Ministry's discography and the latest by NIN, Rammstein and Marilyn Manson were taken this year. In contrast, the Soundscan sale numbers from Broken are almost 14 years old.     The following list includes all the Recording Industry Association of America certifications for industrial rock artists:      All the Grammy nominees below were indicated for Best Metal / Hard Rock Performance: These below are the sales figures and certifications gathered from sources other than the official Music Industry Associations sites and Nielsen Soundscans. Sales based on IFPI-certificated albums only (no Soundscan):     This is a list of all IFPI-certificated bands featured in this page, arranged by number of awards:   The following list is composed by IFPI certificated albums only (no Soundscan):     