This page provides lists of best-selling comic book series to date. It includes Japanese manga, American comic books, and European comics. The series are listed according to the highest sales estimates as reported in reliable sources. This list includes comic books that have sold least 100 million copies. There are three separate lists, for three different comic book publication formats (collected comic book volumes, periodical floppy comic issues, and comic magazines). This list is for comics printed in a traditional book format (paperback or hardcover), typically with a similar number of pages as novels. The list includes graphic novels printed exclusively in this format, and trade paperback/hardcover books which compile periodical comic chapters/issues into larger collected volumes. This list includes Japanese manga tankōbon volumes, American trade paperbacks, graphic novels, and European comic albums. These comic series were originally serialized either as chapters (typically 15-30 pages each) in comic publications (such as comic magazines) or as single-page comic strips in non-comic publications (such as newspapers), before being collected into a larger comic book volume (which compiles either multiple comic chapters or numerous comic strips). For comic series originally serialized as chapters in comic magazines or manga magazines, their estimated circulation figures in those magazines are given in footnotes. This list is for floppy comics, also known as the American comic book format. Unlike the paperback book format, floppy comics are thinner periodicals and stapled together. Each floppy comic issue is typically 20-40 pages, and usually consists of a single chapter (as opposed to a larger comic book volume that typically includes multiple chapters). A floppy comic is comparable to a comic magazine, but is thinner in size and serializes a single comic series (whereas a comic magazine is thicker and serializes multiple series). Floppy comics are the most common publication format for American comics. This list also contains periodical publications from other countries that are similarly dedicated to a single character or group of characters. This list is for comic magazines, which are anthology magazines that serialize multiple different comic series. This list includes Japanese manga magazines, European comic magazines, and English-language comic magazines. 