The Macedonian Center for International Cooperation (MCIC) is a civil society organisation that promotes social change and innovative solutions to civic and social challenges. Instituted on 14 December 1993 in Skopje, the Republic of Macedonia, with support from the Dutch Interchurch Aid (DIA) and the World Council of Churches (WCC), MCIC was developed in response to social issues arising from the balkanization of Yugoslavia. MCIC has since developed as an independent, civic, non-profit organisation ready to face social challenges and create models or alternatives for resolving related problems. MCIC is awarded with the Democracy and Civil Society Award of United States and European Union (1998) among national and local awards and recognition. Since its establishment, MCIC has implemented more than 1,300 projects as part of 60 programs, amounting to over 45 million euros, in the following sectors: water supply and sanitation, rural development, health and education, employment and civil society, democratization, trust, immediate aid and activity in the Balkans. Following initial loan-based development, MCIC established the Macedonian Enterprise Development Foundation (MEDF), whose focus is the growth of minor enterprises through provided access to financial and non-financial services. MEDF has since supported over 3,500 entrepreneurs with loans as well as non-financial services. MCIC has further supported the development of rural communities by strengthening their capacity for internal problem resolution. As a result of this support, 250 villages in the Republic of Macedonia now have access to drinking water. MCIC undertook the role of mediator during the conflicts in Kosovo (1999) and Macedonia (2001), mobilizing civil society in providing humanitarian response to the crisis. This period directed MCIC to post-conflict activities and confidence building as well as activities outside of Macedonia. Regional cooperation peaked with the establishment of the Balkan Civil Society Development Network (BCSDN). MCIC`s vision is peace, harmony and prosperity for people in Macedonia, the Balkans and worldwide. MCIC based its vision on peace, harmony and prosperity, universal principles of the civil society and participatory democracy, the rule of law, equitable and sustainable socio-economic development, non-violence, respect, interdependence and cultural diversity. MCIC‟s mission is “MCIC leads changes with new and alternative solutions for resolving the societal problems, thus affecting the other mainstream actors”. MCIC‟s work is realized within the specific program and organizational methods. The program methods are: advocacy, developmental support (capacities and infrastructure) and socio-humanitarian assistance.  The organizational methods are management and implementation. The social cohesion and poverty reduction is realized by education, employment, entrepreneurship, access to public services, based on the principles of equal opportunities and rights based approach, and inclusion of the marginalized groups; The sustainable local and rural development should contribute to the social cohesion. But due to the wide regional and urban-rural developmental gap, MCIC is paying special attention to this goal. MCIC supports the capacity building of local governments and other forms of sustainable local and rural development by improving the public services for inhabitants of the local and rural communities, improved local and rural infrastructure and inter alia, by utilizing the available EU funds for this sphere. MCIC focuses on a significant segment of good governance - participation, which enables creating of people-based policies and policies closely related to this –transparency, accountability, responsibility. Namely, MCIC is urging for influence on public policies, budgeting process and accountability. MCIC supports the development of social responsibility of enterprises. Active citizens or socially responsible citizens, as factors, are the crucial part of MCIC`s approach, being included in all of its goals. Aside from the inclusion of the citizens in the mainstreams of the society, MCIC focuses on the institutional development for rooted and dynamic civil society, which has influence on the public policies. Accepting the diversity and understanding the need for dialogue, coexistence and fostering the interdependence are of crucial importance for peaceful and harmonious development of the Macedonian multicultural society. The dialogue, as a dimension of the human mind, is the key instrument for ironing the differences, lifting the barriers among people and free exchange of ideas. MCIC supports the development of long-lasting, good neighborly relations and membership in civil and other organizations in international (primarily European) institutions and networks. MCIC – independent and credible organization, capable of establishing strong and effectivepartnerships and alliances based on equality. MCIC maintains its independence, which has been its trade mark, by working with various stakeholders and interest groups on equal bases and no privileges, presenting clear and often confronting opinion on main social issues. MCIC is attractive, innovative and learning organization, with local roots and global view. MCIC is an attractive and innovative learning organization, with local roots and global view. People are not only in the focus of MCIC’s goals, they are also the vital resource of its success and main competitive advantage. Hence, the development of personnel is essential for the future progress. MCIC will keep supporting the development of human resources, characterized with personal and professional integrity and dedication. MCIC, since its foundation in 1993, has been active in the field of capacity development, on individual, organizational and institutional level. MCIC employs this approach in order to strengthen the capacities of the civil society organizations, local self-governments, state institutions, enterprises, schools and other organizations requiring capacity building. Part of the topics for which MCIC develops capacities encompasses: project cycle management, organizational management, institutional development and organizational strengthening, strategic planning, program/project management, human resources management, administrative and archive operations, financial management, public relations, communication skills, facilitation and presentation skills, training of  trainers, intercultural learning, etc. MCIC, on several occasions, has used its campaigns for raising awareness of citizens and facilitating their support to the topic or theme of a specific campaign, during its 23 years of existence. The first campaign which was implemented by MCIC is still one of the most famous ones. „Whole is when there is everything!“ (1999 and 2000). The campaign aimed to promote peace and human values. It communicated through simple messages pointing out to the values of life. Other campaigns followed: „I live here“ (2003); „Say Macedonia“ (2004); „Easter Campaign“ (2005 – continuation of Say Macedonia); „Say OK to MK“ (2005); „Next to Each Other – Different but Equal“ (2007) and „Both NATO and Macedonia“ (2008). One of the MCIC’ method of work is advocacy, understood as mutual intertwining and support of several activities: raising awareness and education, influence on the public policies and monitoring and requesting accountability. MCIC conducts its research by means of its own resources or by inclusion of external associates in form of primary or secondary research. Depending on the subject, the research use various instruments: questionnaires, in-depth interviews, contents analysis, case studies, statistical analyses, etc. MCIC publishes its research. Besides research, MCIC also publishes many other publications, predominantly related to the main topics in which it is active. 