The September 11 National Day of Service and Remembrance or 9/11 Day is a federally-recognized day of unity and charitable service, annually observed throughout the United States and in other countries around the world on the anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks. It has grown to become the largest annual day of charitable service in the United States. According to the nonprofit MyGoodDeed, which founded the September 11 National Day of Service and Remembrance ("9/11 Day") in 2002, the goal of "9/11 Day" is "to keep alive the spirit of unity and compassion that arose in the immediate aftermath of the September 11 attacks in tribute to the individuals lost and injured in the attacks, and the many who rose in service in response." The idea of making September 11 an annual day of service was first conceived in the winter of 2001 by David Paine, a former marketing executive from New York City. In the Spring of 2002 David was joined by his friend Jay Winuk, who had lost his brother Glenn Winuk in the attacks at the World Trade Center, and together they formed the nonprofit group called One Day's Pay. In 2007, the name of the organization was officially changed to MyGoodDeed. In 2009, MyGoodDeed successfully led an effort to designate September 11 under federal law as a National Day of Service and Remembrance, which occurred as part of passage of the bipartisan Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act by the United States Congress, and later, by an amendment to the Patriot Day Presidential Proclamation by President Barack Obama, which formally recognized and established September 11 as a National Day of Service and Remembrance. The Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act authorized the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), a federal agency, to assist the 9/11 community in building awareness of and support for "9/11 Day" through its national service programs. In 2011, on the 10th anniversary of the September 11 attacks, MyGoodDeed, CNCS and the Points of Light Institute/HandsOn Network joined together to organize the largest day of charitable service in U.S. history, with more than 32 million Americans participating, according to research conducted by Horizon Consumer Science on behalf of MyGoodDeed. Today, 9/11 Day continues to engage nearly 30 million Americans annually in various forms of charitable service, including volunteering, donations to charities, and simple good deeds.    Activities by volunteers on this federally-recognized National Day of Service and Remembrance happen all across the nation, and include lesson plans that engage tens of thousands of students of all ages in service activities; coast-to-coast blood drives; meal packing projects; painting and refurbishing homes; food drives; reclaiming neighborhoods; helping communities prepare for disasters; and countless other activities that support and honor those lost and injured on 9/11; veterans, soldiers, military families, and rescue and recovery workers, including first responders. Among the largest projects held annually are two large-scale hunger relief projects, one in New York City and another at the National Mall in Washington, DC, which mobilize a total of more than 7,000 volunteers who together pack over two million meals for individuals at risk of hunger. In Boston, thousands join together on 9/11 at the Rose Kennedy Greenway to assemble care packages for military personnel.  Participants are encouraged to use the hashtag #911Day when posting online about the day.    Official web site, http://911day.org 