World Kindness Day is an international observance on 13 November.  It was introduced in 1998 by the World Kindness Movement a coalition of nations kindness NGOs. It is observed in many countries, including Canada, Japan, Australia, Nigeria and United Arab Emirates.  In 2009, Singapore observed the day for the first time.  Italy and India also observed the day.  In the UK it is fronted by David Jamilly  co-founded Kindness Day UK.  In 2010 at the request of Michael Lloyd—White the NSW Federation Parents and Citizens Association wrote to the Minister of The NSW Department of Education to place World Kindness Day on the NSW School Calendar. In 2012 At the request of the Chairman of World Kindness Australia, World Kindness Day was placed on the Federal School Calendar and the then Minister of School Education, Early Childhood, and Youth The Hon Peter Garrett, provided a Declaration of Support for World Kindness Australia and placed World Kindness Day on the National School Calendar for over 9000 schools. Schools across the globe are now celebrating World Kindness Day and work with local NGOs such as the Be Kind People Project and Life Vest Inside In the USA. In 2012 Australia Her Excellency Prof Marie Bashir Governor of NSW hosted an event for the first time at Government House to celebrate World kindness Day and accepted a Cool To Be Kind Award from year 3&4 students. Australian Councils representing over 1.3 million residents have also signed Declarations of Support for World Kindness Australia placing World Kindness Day on the Council Calendar of Events. Events include THE BIG HUG, handing out Kindness Cards, Global Flashmob, which was coordinated by Orly Wahba from USA which was held in 15 countries and 33 cities with its images of the event making the big screens in New York City. Canada celebrates with The Kindness Concert and in Singapore in 2009, 45,000 yellow flowers were given away.  In 2017 World Kindness day was also celebrated in Slovenia, organised by volunteering organistaion Humanitarcek as part of their project Randomised kindess.  World Kindness Day is to highlight good deeds in the community focusing on the positive power and the common thread of kindness which binds us. Kindness is a fundamental part of the human condition which bridges the divides of race religion, politics, gender and zip codes. Kindness Cards are also an ongoing activity which can either be passed on to recognize an act of kindness and or ask that an act of kindness be done. Approaches are being made to the United Nations by the peak global body, The World Kindness Movement to have World Kindness Day officially recognized and its members unanimously sign a Declaration of Support for World Kindness. World Kindness Day is celebrated by Waves of Kindness Global Initiative at www.wavesofkindness.org - promoting Synchronized Global Waves of Unified Thoughts and Acts of Kindness for All Life According to Gulf News, "it is a day that encourages individuals to overlook boundaries, race and religion" 