Benjamin Wiker (born 1960) is a Roman Catholic ethicist. Benjamin Wiker obtained his PhD in ethics from Vanderbilt University then went on to teach at a variety of institutions including Marquette University, Saint Mary's University of Minnesota, Thomas Aquinas College, and the Franciscan University of Steubenville. He came to attention in 2002 with the publication of Moral Darwinism: How We Became Hedonists. In this book, Wiker aims to show how Darwinism by its very nature completely undermines the ethical foundations of Christianity, Judaism, and Islam because what he sees as its materialist cosmology is incompatible with any concept of natural law.  Wiker became a member of the Discovery Institute, a think tank supporting this idea and intelligent design, soon after the publication of the book. His next major book, Architects of the Culture of Death, co-written with veteran Catholic ethicist Donald DeMarco, looks at how the most influential thinkers of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries from Schopenhauer to Peter Singer have undermined the Christian value of "sanctity of life".  2008's 10 Books That Screwed Up the World looks at fifteen important books from The Prince to The Feminine Mystique and aims, following Paul Johnson and E. Michael Jones, to show how the actual lives of these thinkers led to fundamentally distorted views about human nature, morality, and sexuality. The Darwin Myth is a biography of Charles Darwin which portrays Darwin as a good husband and a kind, charitable person and claims that Darwin was involved in an ideological conspiracy by members of the late Enlightenment which aimed to remove God from science.  Wiker uses these claims to support his own belief in a supernaturally guided theistic evolution as an alternative to the naturalist view espoused by Darwin and modern biology.  John M. Lynch in a review for The Darwin Myth in the Journal of the History of Biology has dismissed Wiker's claims as irrational.  In a review, Sander Gliboff, a Professor of the History and Philosophy of Science at Indiana University, has written that Wiker's biographical interpretations of Darwin "verge on fantasy".  