 Brihans Natural Products Ltd. is an Indian natural cosmetics and consumer products company based in Shaniwar Peth, Pune, Maharashtra, India. The company manufactures skin care, hair care and health care products.  In 1998, Brihans Pharmaceuticals, under Mandar Agashe, set up a research and development center to develop Ayurvedic products. In August 1999, the company conducted test marketing of its products in Andhra Pradesh. By February 2000, it went national, setting up 19 branches across India,  with the formal formation of Brihans Natural Products on 20 April, 2000.  The company went international by 2001, exporting to the United Arab Emirates, Oman, Malaysia and the Maldives.   Between 2002 and 2004, the company launched Cleancomb, an anti-hair loss lotion and Oraheal, a mouth ulcer tablet, along with a Hibiscus based hair gel to its roster of products.     During this time, the company also planned to expand to the European and American markets.   In 2006, the company launched Aloe vera based health juices under the brand Brimune.   That same year, the company launched its Turmeric face wash and Aloe foot cream product lines under the Greenleaf brand.    By 2007, the company sold majority of its skincare and hair care products under the Greenleaf brand.  As of 2016, the company shipped its products across India, Réunion, Malaysia, the United Arab Emirates and Singapore,  and is headquartered in Shaniwar Peth, Pune.  In 2017, Business Insider reported that the company was a major manufacturer of Aloe vera products in India.    The company has been noted for using a variety of Aloe Barbadensis for its products; this allows for better standardization between batches, and reduces the use of potentially contaminated aloe in their products.  In April 2014, the company's advertisement of their product Cleancomb was complained against for being misleading, thus violating the Advertising Standard Council of India's Consumer Complaints Council's Code. It was one of 44 health care companies that were complained against at the time.  A similar complaint was upheld with the company’s advertisements in December 2017.   Official website  