Land Surveying in Kentucky is the practice of Land Surveying in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. It is a good idea to have a property survey:  Often a residential customer will request a Boundary Survey. A mortgage inspection is less expensive, but offers much less protection and value. ALTA/ACSM surveys in Kentucky are typically requested only for commercial activity. Most land surveying work is acquired through the personal recommendation of satisfied clients, lending institutions, attorneys, real estate companies and title companies who frequently handle real estate transactions.  Each of Kentucky's 120 counties elects a County Surveyor. However, a consumer can seek services from any licensed Kentucky Professional Land Surveyor. The status of a licensee or firm can be verified online, including checking for Disciplinary Actions in the past 5 years. Formal complaints against a Professional Land Surveyor should be made in writing to the Kentucky Board of Engineers and Land Surveyors. Residents should be aware of the right of entry on land of others by a land surveyor, which include persons such as employees that are under the supervision of a Professional Land Surveyor. A professional land surveyor shall not be liable to arrest or a civil action by reason of this entry. No owner or occupant of the land shall be liable for any injury or damage sustained by any person entering upon his or her land.  Land Surveying in Kentucky is regulated by the Commonwealth in KRS 322. The Standards of Practice are defined in 201 KAR 18:150. Compliance is maintained by the Kentucky Board of Engineers and Land Surveyors, which was established by an Act of the Kentucky General Assembly in 1938.  All chain of title in the Commonwealth traces back to Virginia land patents and Kentucky land patents. The Secretary of State maintains the security and preservation of these historical documents.  More recent Deed and Plat records are maintained by Kentucky's County Clerks. Most of the state utilizes the Metes and bounds land system, which is based on English Common Law and reflects the Commonwealth's original status as a part of Virginia until statehood in 1792. Parts of Western Kentucky, since it was acquired under the Jackson Purchase in 1818, utilizes a rectangular system based on the Public Land Survey System created by the Land Ordinance of 1785.  Common surveying measures in Kentucky include acre and the survey foot, which are both now referenced in decimal and historically in fraction. For example, a modern survey should list a distance of one-foot and six-inches as 1.50 feet. Historically lengths were also measured as chain (length) and rod (length). A rod is also known as a pole, both being 16.5 feet. A chain is most commonly 66 feet (4 poles) but can also be 33 feet (2 poles). Notable Surveyors in Kentucky History include Daniel Boone, Abraham Lincoln, Thomas Bullitt, George Rogers Clark, and Isaac Shelby. Modern technology used in surveying in Kentucky includes GPS, the Total station, and CAD. A popular CAD system with Kentucky Surveyors is Carlson Software, which is headquartered in Maysville, Kentucky. Surveying is also aided by the development of Geographic information systems, such as LOJIC. The Kentucky Association of Professional Surveys (KAPS) maintains and perpetuates an organization for members having common professional problems and interests. The organization provides effective forums for discussion and united action on the part of its members for the enhancement and betterment of professional recognition, status and conditions of employment. KAPS also addresses other matters which contribute to the welfare of the people of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, KAPS membership and State Government.  Johnson, E. Polk (1912). A history of Kentucky and Kentuckians, Lewis Publishing Company 