The OrthoGraph I is a building survey and floor plan creation application for iOS and Android, developed in Hungary. It handles both structured alphanumeric data, and measures and handles all drawings real time in 3D. It has built-in Cloud functionality so files can be shared on multiple tablets or phones.  The standard output of the system can be DXF (AutoCAD), PDF (Adobe) IFC (Industrial Foundation Classes), JPG and PNG and it can be exported to ArchiCAD with the help of a separate module.  During the measurement process, Leica, Bosch and Stabila laser distance meters are supported to use, the measured data is transferred to the software via Bluetooth.  OrthoGraph I has several features that are unique on the market of building surveying applications. The base of a floor plan needs to be drawn first and after measurements the created floor plans will adjust based on the calculations. Diagonal measurements also allow for mathematical accuracy. The application handles the sketched and measured building-model according to the BIM (Building Information Modeling) concept. It means that it handles a hierarchical location-structure, every placed object has several properties, doors and windows have opening directions, and additionally there is the opportunity to add unique parameter fields with optional information. The system is developed by the Hungarian Company named OrthoGraph. The story of OrthoGraph goes back to 2004 when the first version of the software was launched for PDA devices. In 2011, the iPad version of the app was released and this also meant that a new business model has been emerged. This new version was a major breakthrough both in technological and in business aspects. The company’s gathered experience had been a good background for developing the iPad application, so from the very first moment, the OrthoGraph became one of the top professional building surveying /CAD application on the market. In 2013, a cooperation agreement has been established between OrthoGraph and Leica, the result of this collaboration was that now several Leica laser distance meter is supported by OrthoGraph, the measurements can be transferred to the app via Bluetooth connection. In the second half of the year, the company decided to exploit the benefits of the mobile technology and the Internet and created their own cloud services. This new technology has made it possible that the first building surveying software that provides the opportunity of real teamwork was born.  In the same year, the Bluetooth support of the Bosch GLM 100 C laser distance meter for OrthoGraph became available. For 2014, the number of  OrthoGraph users reached 4,500. In August 2014, the OrthoGraph Architect App has been named the gold winner in App of the Year category and silver winner in the Most Innovative Product of the Year—SMB category in Best in Biz Awards 2014 International business awards program.  In 2015 the main goal for OrthoGraph was to be present on Android. After one and a half year on September 2016 the multiplatform version of the app was published, which was called OrthoGraph I. The completely changed UI was simpler, the features were more advanced to allow more accurate measurements and a faster work process. After 2 months of the release, OrthoGraph I won silver qualification in the "Best New Version of the Year" category of Best in Biz Awards 2016. 