The history of surveying in early America included the mapping of large, unknown territories and the layout of the District of Columbia. Several presidents were involved, including George Washington. George Washington was not only a founding political father of the U.S., he was a founding surveyor of Virginia, as well. At the age of eleven, he inherited Ferry Farm. When George reached school age, instead of a career in the Royal Navy, George went to school to study surveying and geometry. His first surveying tools were from his own storehouse on Ferry Farm.  At the age of 17, under the tutelage of Joshua Fry, he surveyed the northern neck of Virginia and became the county surveyor for Culpeper County, Virginia. By the time of the French and Indian War, he had laid out most of northern Virginia, and this knowledge would contribute to his success during the war. From 1747 to 1799, he surveyed 200 tracts of land, and due to his also being a land speculator, he amassed 65,000 acres (260 km2) of land.  During the Revolutionary War, he appointed the first geographer of the Continental Army, Robert Erskine. Surveying was not only for the wealthy plantation owners, but the entire new nation needed to be surveyed, and resurveyed. Most of all, the proposed new capital city, bearing Washington’s name, needed to be surveyed. A two-man team would survey what became the District of Columbia in 1791. The first was Benjamin Banneker, a free ex-slave, who learned to read, write, and do math from his grandmother. Banneker would go on to be a leading astronomer, mathematician, clock maker, and most of all, a surveyor. The second man was Andrew Ellicott. He would go on to do several prominent surveys of the area and assist Lewis and Clark in planning their expedition. Prior to independence, Peter Jefferson, along with his son Thomas Jefferson, were land surveyors for the crown. At this time, surveyors used a system known as the metes and bounds system, which used "monuments"; identifiable objects such as rocks, trees etc., as property markers. The surveyor would measure from monument to monument. The major problem with this system was the fact that these monuments were not necessarily permanent. As a result, Thomas Jefferson was involved in the creation the Public Land Survey System. A comparison of county boundaries in the various states graphically displays the difference between the systems, as counties in the Eastern states are irregularly shaped whereas counties in the Midwest tend to be square or rectangular. Needing money to pay the debts for the Revolutionary War, Jefferson began selling land in the Northwest Territory in plots of 160 acres (650,000 m2) for $2.50 an acre. Soon after, he sold the land in plots of 80 acres (320,000 m2) for 1.25 an acre. The NW Territory was surveyed using the Rectangular System. This system used a central point determined by a Principal North-South Meridian Line and an East-West Base line. Jefferson convinced Congress to accept the land deal with Napoleon. As a result of the Louisiana Purchase and Jefferson’s love for nature, Jefferson organized the Lewis and Clark expedition. Andrew Ellicott taught Lewis and Clark how to use a sextant to map their position. Lewis and Clark would leave from Wood River, Illinois and document the wilderness all the way to the Pacific Ocean. Abraham Lincoln came to New Salem in 1831, and shortly after in 1832, he lost in his bid to become a state representative. The Sangamon County Surveyor, John Calhoun, then offered Lincoln a job as Deputy Surveyor due to the high volume of resurveying. As Deputy Surveyor, Lincoln surveyed five towns, four roads, and thirty properties. The first was the plat for Huron, a proposed town 30 miles (48 km) North of Springfield that never came to be. The proposal was that county would build a canal to straighten the Sangamon River, but the canal was never built. The last town Lincoln laid out was New Boston, a town at the confluence of the Iowa River and the Mississippi River. Instead of payment for his work, Lincoln had his surveying equipment repossessed and sold. Unknown to Lincoln, Jimmy Short, a friend, bought all of his equipment, his horse, and his saddlebags. Short returned Lincoln’s surveying equipment and later, as president, Lincoln returned the favor by making Short the Indian Agent of the Round Lake Indian Reservation. 