A Student Learning Objectives (SLO) is an assessment tool that allows a teacher to quantify his/her impact on student achievement as measured within the parameters of a particular academic or elective standard.  In many cases, the standards that will be addressed will be drawn from the Common Core State Standards. Typically the SLO is developed between the teacher and his/her direct supervisor or principal.  A SLO is an assessment tool that allows a teacher to quantify his/her impact on student achievement as measured within the parameters of a particular academic or elective standard. In many cases, the standards that will be addressed will be drawn from the Common Core State Standards. Typically the SLO is developed between the teacher and his/her direct supervisor or principal. As the school year or pre-selected term of the SLO administration proceeds, the teacher will make frequent checks for understanding through various formative assessments. This will allow the teacher to determine the progression of learning for the student research group. At the conclusion of the school year, the teacher will collect the results and meet with his/her direct supervisor to discuss the data as it applies to the original goal statement.  It is important to remember that SLOs have to be content and course specific with outcomes that can be measured.  One of the main benefits of developing and implementing strong SLOs is the ability to increase student achievement at the classroom level.  SLOs are being used as a percentage in the overall teacher evaluation system because it can quantify the pedagogical impact a teacher has on a specific set of students.  One of the main benefits of developing and implementing strong SLOs is the ability to increase student achievement at the classroom level.  SLOs are being used as a percentage in the overall teacher evaluation system because it can quantify the pedagogical impact a teacher has on a specific set of students.  An objective is a small goal that needs to be met on the way to fulfilling the larger course outcome or goal.  A typical course will have four to five objectives that focus the various learning activities.  