The Seven Wonders of Ukraine (Ukrainian: Сім чудес України [ˈsʲim tʃuˈdɛs ukrɑˈjinɪ]) are the seven historical and cultural monuments of Ukraine, which were chosen in the Seven Wonders of Ukraine contest held in July, 2007. This was the first public contest of that kind which was followed by the Seven Natural Wonders of Ukraine, the Seven Wonderful Routes of Ukraine, and the Seven Wonderful Castles of Ukraine. All nominated  sites are publicly owned protected areas of at least regional level, available for tourism. The voting for all contests consisted of two parts: experts in Ukraine voted for their seven best sites, and internet users voted for their seven favorite sites on the official website. The initiative was started by (one of the) deputy chairman of Verkhovna Rada Mykola Tomenko under the motto "Piznai Ukrainu!" (Discover Ukraine). The initiative was a continuation of numerous preceding public actions that took place in various regions of Ukraine such as "Kupala's games at the native land of Gogol" (Poltava region), "Starry autumn in Kachanivka" (Chernihiv region), "Let's discover island Khortutsia" (Zaporizhia region), "Maslyana in Bukovyna" (Chernivtsi region), "Amber legends of Rivne region", "Day of Europe at the native land of Lesya Ukrainka" (Volyn region), and others. The next stage of the initiative was the organization of the Seven Natural Wonders of Ukraine in 2008. Among the other members of the organization committee were  Local and provincial (oblast) authorities composed a list of 1,000 possible candidates. An expert council consisting of 100 people, including culturologists, historians, and tourist specialists, chose a list of 21 candidates from which people on the internet could vote. Voting on the 21 possible candidates was opened on July 7, 2007.  A total of around 77,000 internet users voted in the campaign.  The voting was closed on August 21, 2007 and the results were officially announced on the same day.  The campaign was initiated in May 2007 by Mykola Tomenko a Ukrainian politician and the deputy of the Parliament of Ukraine of the fifth convocation. Each manager of a winning nomination was awarded a statue of their candidate made out of green marble, matte steel, and gold-mirror acrylic paint.  Three objects from the nomination list needed a special nomination: 