Among common folk the period from 1000 to 1300 experienced rapid population growth and even a pronatal movement.  Natural philosophers focused more on determining which partner was the cause of the inability to conceive rather than approaches to preventing a pregnancy. To understand contraception during the Middle Ages one must first free themselves of the stigmas attached to sex.  Sex was perceived as an act that was purely for procreation. The church deemed partaking in sexual activities for lust or pleasure sinful.  As such an ascetic view on sex actualized, the demand to establish or publicize contraceptive practices during this period was not as imperative. Women were also influenced by the church to live a chaste life in order to display a mastery of the body.  Women began to physically repent for their sins and distance themselves from sex which was considered an indulgence. Contraceptives and birth control agents were less pertinent to this time as the medieval church strengthened its stance against such practices.  Although the narrative of the Middle Ages portrays a condemnation of coitus, people still partook in sexual activities due to lust and pleasure. People began to explore methods of termination instead of prevention when it came to pregnancy.  Herbal remedies gained notoriety as an approach to terminating a pregnancy in the Middle Ages. Herbal plants such as hirtzswam and oleaster (Elacagnus angustifolia L.) were used as emmenagogues. However, these menstrual stimulators also had the capability of terminating a pregnancy. Knowledge of birth control agents during the Middle Ages not only continued but extended according to manuscript sources. Throughout the Middle Ages, methods of contraception fluctuated through generations. People at this time even studied Greek practices such as that from Soranus who believed that rue, a perennial herb, otherwise known as Ruta gravelens L., could be used as an oral contraceptive.  Pliny furthered this assumption with his belief that pregnant women should avoid this herb at all costs to keep their fetus alive.  The work of Soranus and Pliny influenced Gargilius Martialis to state that rue would kill the embryo in the womb.  A popular method throughout medieval society was for men to use ointments such as vinegar as a kind of soap that would irritate the womb and believably help to avoid pregnancy. Other oils could be used and for further protection, both the man and woman could coat their genitals. An alternative specific method credited by William of Saliceto otherwise known as Gargilius Martialis, believed if once a man ejaculates, a woman could open her legs and jump approximately eight times and descend a flight of stairs as a form of contraception.  If all else fails, William of Saliceto said the last option was to prescribe a medicine for ten days that would cause the woman to eject the fetus.  In the Middle Ages birth control was usually condemned, solely because Christianity promotes sex as a means to conceive children. In the Bible it says “be fruitful and multiply”, proposing the idea of having sex to generate a large population. This means that sexual activity during this time was exceedingly high. Some people believe contraception to be a great idea and some despise it because it is basically a form of homicide. During the medieval time period if a woman became pregnant, she had the option of abortion but would have to face the fact that it may not be socially accepted. Women that disagree with contraception were also afraid of having a child if they were not married, which would make them more socially outcast.  Although religious officials do not respect the idea of contraception, they do very little to stop women from using birth control. There are plenty of medical texts in the Middle Ages that write about how many plants and fruits were used as forms of contraception, but they also reported how they were pretty ineffective. Due to the fact that sex was also seen as only necessary for procreation, there became many speculations about how to avoid pregnancy as well as how to conceive. Paulus Agineta credits that sex must be in moderation as well only performed during certain types of the day. Agineta also believed that if a woman was asleep, the woman had a better chance of retaining the semen.  The majority of the people were under the impression that birth control was against nature because "it engaged in intercourse for pleasure and not for procreation."  In terms of how people view contraception today, it does not completely correlate with the Middle Ages. Contraception is much more accepted these days even though there are still some people that may not see it as such. Countless numbers of people believe it to be one of the greatest medical advancements of our time. Even though there are those who view contraception as a tremendous achievement, there are those who still believe it is one of the reasons our society is such a mess. In terms of the Church and religious attitudes towards contraception, there are people who still hold high hopes in their faith and trust in their process but then there are some who are in favor of contraception as a means of regulating the population. In England and other European countries, men in the same crafts banded together to form guilds during the thirteenth century.  Barbers joined together with surgeons through familiarity with tools.  This coalition would be known as "barber-surgeons."  These guilds brought a sense of self-esteem and status to the individual man.   These were surgeons that were called upon by midwives to attend difficult childbirth.   Barber-surgeons lacked any knowledge of the structure of the human body and thus brought more pain than ease to women giving birth.   They used crude instruments, which dismembered the babies in the womb.  Barber-surgeons used blunt hooks and knives to crush the baby's skull.  This operation was called “embryotomy" and exemplified how these surgeons were experts in mutilation.  The methods used by barber-surgeons showcase the lack of knowledge of the human body during the Middle Ages.  If the unborn baby was alive before the arrival of the barber-surgeon, he or she surely died soon after.  Both the Church and physicians looked down upon women healers in the Middle Ages.  The practices of women healers’ compromised of pagan rituals and techniques used for centuries before the arrival of Christianity.  The Christian Church of Rome sought to impose its doctrine on the whole world during the late Middle Ages.  The papal Inquisition was a powerful instrument of suppression that lead to the mass murder of thousands of women, most of whom were women healers and midwives accused of witchcraft.  Thus, women healers were considered to be open to temptation from the devil because they were “spiritually deficient.”   However, they continued to practice and treat the peasant population, which could not afford the fees of physicians.  Many of the remedies used by women healers were effective, while others were viewed as “magical.”  Although contraception was not a conceptualized idea during the Middle Ages, women healers used plant-based remedies to abort pregnancies as well as aid in the delivery process.  These midwives ran the risk if they failed to treat their patients.  If women healers failed or poisoned their patients, they would be titled as a witch.  Physicians began to compete with these women healers in the marketplace and were later recruited to be witnesses at witch trials.  The new medical profession believed that “women’s vast knowledge of plants and remedies came from the devil since women did not attain a medical education.”   Women healers were viewed as a threat and were blamed if anything went awry.  Even though women managed childbirth well, they ran the risk of being considered a witch if a deformed or stillborn baby was delivered.  Midwives were accused of performing abortions, poisoning and other heinous crimes during these witch-hunts.  Women healers were subjugated to blame and discrimination by “affronting the authority of the Church through their magical practices.”   