  Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE), is a Petroleum University  established in 2016 at Visakhapatnam in the state of Andhra Pradesh . IIPE is offering undergraduate courses in Petroleum and Chemical Engineering. Recently the Parliament has passed Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy Bill, 2017 which has declared the institute as an institution of National Importance.  The university has been allotted 210 acres of land in Anakapalli Village,  Vishakhapatnam. IIPE has collaborated with oil majors like HPCL, IOCL, ONGC, GAIL, OIL, OIDB, BPCL, and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and with an academic mentorship from IIT-Kharagpur till 2019. The Minister of State (I/C) for Petroleum & Natural Gas, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan launched the website of Indian Institute of Petroleum & Energy (IIPE), Visakhapatnam on 27/05/2016  The first batch of Petroleum and Chemical Engineering commenced from the first week of August 2016. As of now the maximum intake capacity for each course is 50 seats. B.Tech (Petroleum Engineering) Petroleum engineering is the branch of engineering with primary focus on exploration and production of Oil & Gas. The objective of the programme is to prepare graduates for professional practice in industry in the field of petroleum engineering technology with emphasis on upstream activities that encompass exploration, reservoir and production. The programme intends to create technical professionals who are fit to take on engineering responsibilities across the entire value-chain in the Oil & Gas Industry a specialization that has seen growing demand in the recent years. The programme is designed to develop skills and understanding in the fundamental aspects of petroleum engineering and apply best global practices in the Oil & Gas sector fields of natural gas processing, gas transportation and gas utilization techniques. B.Tech (Chemical Engineering) The programme aims to develop competent Chemical Engineers with specific emphasis on industry centric talent requirements. The programme plans to expose the students to the fundamentals of Chemical Engineering and instill innovative thinking to solve the problems related to energy, environment, etc. This programme intends to create professionals who can fit in well in a dynamic sector where they come across various technological advancements. During the course, emphasis will be laid to foster student's ability to deal with complex problems in multidisciplinary situations.  