The Petroleum University of Technology (Persian: دانشگاه صنعت نفت‎) is a leading Iranian public university funded by the Ministry of Petroleum particularly by its main company, the NIOC . It was  founded in 1939 in Abadan in response to the increasing industrialization of Iran oil company, and is officially the second oldest university in Iran after University of Tehran  and based on The Center for World University Rankings (CWUR), this university has the 7th worldwide rank in oil an gas sector and petroleum engineering. [unreliable source] It offers B.Sc., M.S and Doctorate programs for upstream and downstream oil and gas industry such as petroleum engineering, chemical engineering,  offshore  engineering,  instrumentation engineering, mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, accounting, and marine engineering. It has four campuses in Ahwaz, Abadan, Tehran and Mahmudabad and some research centers. The name of the university has been changed several times. The university was established in 1939 in Abadan as Abadan Technical School. The academic program comprised working and studying in sequence. The students (if employed) spent two-fifth of the academic program in the school and three-fifth in the Abadan Refinery (Persian: پالايشگاه آبادان‎ Pālāyeshgāh-e Ābādān) as trainees.  In 1956, the name was changed to Abadan Technical College. By then, the educational program focused on the general engineering major; admissions were given to 4th grade high school students after passing an entry test and interviews. The last admissions of the program were granted in 1961 and the last students graduated in 1961.  In 1962, the name changed to  Abadan Institute of Technology (AIT). The programs offered B.S. degrees in petroleum engineering, economic and administrative sciences and accounting. The programs was still internship-orientated.  After the outbreak of the War, the university was relocated. It was first moved to Gachsaran in 1981. The universities all over the country reopened in December 1982 and the university moved to the current location of Ahwaz Faculty of Petroleum in Kut-e Abdollah, Karun County.  After the War, in 1989, the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education granted permission to found the Petroleum University of Technology. All the educational institutions of the Ministry of Petroleum are supervised by the university. Ministry of Petroleum, then founded the Abadan Shahid Tondghuyan Faculty of Chemical and Petrochemical Engineering or Abadan Faculty of Petroleum in February 1992 in the location of the former Abadan Institute of Technology and The Research Center of Petroleum University of Technology in the campus of the current Ahwaz Faculty of Petroleum in 1993.  As of 2015, the Petroleum University of Technology consists of four faculties in cities that offer 13 undergraduate, 11 graduate and three doctorate programs: The university has four research centers: PUT programs:  The priorities of the PUT are maintaining the resources of oil and gas in the country and training manpower for the development and exploitation of these resources. According to the results of M.S. Entrance Examinations, PUT students are the best among other universities like Sharif University of Technology and Amirkabir University of Technology in Petroleum and Chemical Engineering, and Accounting . The university has sent some of its students to the  University of Calgary, Curtin University of Technology and French Institute of Petroleum (IFP). A student has won the bronze medal of the 9th South Eastern European Mathematical Olympiad for University Students (SEEMOUS 2015) that took place in Ohrid, Republic of Macedonia, from March 3–8, 2015.  Professor Abbas Firoozabadi Dr. Hojatollah Ghanimi Fard 