 Tyumen State Oil and Gas University (TSOGU) is a higher educational institution of Tyumen, one of the largest scientific and educational complexes of Russia including all education levels from the general secondary, secondary professional and higher education (specialist program, bachelor's degree, Master's degree program) to postgraduate study and doctoral studies, the program of professional development and retraining of personnel, the program of elite technical education. The Tyumen State Oil and Gas University conducts the family tree from training and counseling center of the Ural polytechnic institute opened in Tyumen in 1956 which was further a part of the Tyumen industrial institute. It happened in 1963 when fast development of resources of Western Siberia began. In 1963 the decision to create the profile higher education institution training experts for an oil and gas complex of Siberia in Tyumen was made. In 1994 the name was changed to "Tyumen State Oil and Gas University". Today in higher education institution 35 thousand students on all steps of education are trained. The leading technical higher education institution of Western Siberia offers 36 directions of preparation according to programs of the higher education (bachelor's degree, specialist program), 31 directions of master's degree program, 37 specialties of secondary professional education, 14 programs of training in working professions and 8 directions of study in postgraduate study. Since June 2007 graduates and teachers of TSOGU can receive the European supplement to the diploma. As a part of the scientific staff of TSOGU there are 225 doctors of science, professors, 787 candidates of science, associate professors. Among them there are 3 academicians, 4 corresponding members of the Russian Academy of Sciences and more than 100 full members and corresponding members of Academies of Sciences, the winner of the Lenin award, 3 winners of the State award, 7 honored worker of science and technology of the Russian Federation. Partnership for many years connects TSOGU with the largest oil and gas, transport and service companies, such as OAO Surgutneftegas, OAO Lukoil, OAO Transneft – Siberia, OAO Gazprom, OAO Rosneft, Baker Hughes, "Schlumberger", "Halliburton", "KCA DeutagDrilling", "Repsol", etc. Today the higher education institution has signed over 190 contracts on cooperation. The priority direction in this area is the conclusion of the long-term complex contracts providing training of specialists with the higher education, professional development of employees of the enterprises, carrying out Companies' Days, the organization of the students' internships, employment of graduates. The partner enterprises provide support to higher education institution in updating and modernization of industrial practice base establishing of the modern laboratories, audiences, computer classes, training centers. So, in higher education institution a set of personalized lecture halls, e.g. ООО "Rosneft, OAO Transneft – Siberia, OAO Lukoil, specially equipped with an educational program of Microsoft IT Academy, Slavneft-Megionneftegaz (JSC SN-MNG), "Schlumberger" lecture hall etc. In TSOGU the Joint Council of Students (JCS) conducts active work. Members of JCS participate in meetings of the Academic council and administration; consist in the commissions conducting work on creation of local normative legal acts. As a part of Council there are more than 20 public associations of a social, scientific, military patriotic orientation. Since 2008 the Joint Council of Students and students of TSOGU is the best student council in the Tyumen region. The Joint Primary Trade-union Organization (JPTUO) is the voluntary public association of the citizens connected by common interests by the nature of their activity, created for representation and protection of their social and labor rights and interests. Regularly trade-union activists become nominal scholars of TSOGU JPTUO and of the All-Russian labor union of education. Internal competitions in which everyone can participate are held. In higher education institution there are a lot of communities, clubs and organizations for interests, e.g. International club considered as popularization of foreign students in public, creative, scientific and sports life of university; Intellectual club promoting the student's intellectual movement; The Tyumen student's office of the international society of petroleum engineers at TSOGU (SPE); Military patriotic association of "Panthers of Neftegaz"; Student information bureau is a community of nonprofessional journalists; Formula Neftegaz engineering design office; Student's Sports club "Neft", etc. In TSOGU on all forms of education there are 1400 foreign students from 32 countries of the world: from the neighboring countries (Egypt,Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Ukraine, Tajikistan, Georgia, and Turkmenistan) and beyond (Great Britain, the USA, Canada, Germany, China, France, and Mongolia). Especially for foreign participants interesting programs of additional education in summer and winter periods which not only allow to get acquainted with traditions and customs of residents of Western Siberia but also increase the level of knowledge of Russian and adopt experience of leading experts of oil and gas branch are developed. More and more actively cooperation of TSOGU with foreign partner higher education institutions with financial support of the concerned foreign enterprises of oil and gas sector of economy is being developed. These are programs of "exchange education" of Institute of geology and oil and gas production of TSOGU and Institute of oil and gas equipment of Technical University of Klausthal (Germany) and Institute of geology and oil and gas production of TSOGU and Institute of "The higher school of mining operations of the Madrid University (Spain). Since June 2007 graduates and teachers of TSOGU can receive the European supplement to the diploma, the master's degree in PhD postgraduate study. Students and teachers annually become attendees of foreign courses and training in the cities of Europe and America. Coordinates: 57°09′09″N 65°32′40″E﻿ / ﻿57.1524°N 65.5445°E﻿ / 57.1524; 65.5445 