Recurrent pyogenic cholangitis is characterised by recurrent bouts of bacterial cholangitis with primary hepatolithiasis.  It is prevalent in Hong Kong and East Asian including China, Taiwan, Korea, Japan, Indonesia and the Philippines.  Apart from affecting humans it is also a common disease in cats. Hepatolithiasis may present with biliary colic, acute pancreatitis, obstructive jaundice and less commonly, hepatomegaly and abnormal liver chemistry.  Chronic biliary obstruction may cause jaundice, pruritus, liver abscess, and liver atrophy, mostly affecting the left lobe and the left lateral segment of the liver, and eventually secondary biliary cirrhosis and cholangiocarcinoma.     Presentation can be atypical with no pain or fever especially in the elderly population.  Suppurative cholangitis, liver abscess, empyema of the gallbladder, acute pancreatitis, thrombophlebitis of hepatic or portal veins, and septicemia are acute complications of the disease, to which patients may succumb during the acute attacks.  Chronically, complications include cholangiocarcinoma and intraductal papillary neoplasm.  In RPC the gallstones found within the biliary system are calcium bilirubinate stones or pigmented calcium stones. Calcium bilirubinate stones are prevalent in Asia and very rare in Europe and the United States. In addition to the presence of these friable concretions of various shapes and sizes within the biliary tree, the bile is often muddy in consistency and contains numerous fine particles of calcium bilirubinate. This differs greatly from cholesterol stones, which are common in Europe and the United States. Pure cholesterol stones contain >96% cholesterol whereas mixed cholesterol stones contain 71.3% cholesterol. The formation of calcium bilirubinate stones in RPC has been attributed to the high incidence of infection with Escherichia coli in the bile. In humans, the majority of bilirubin is excreted in the bile as bilirubin glucuronide. Hepatolithiasis is associated with Clonorchis sinensis and Ascaris lumbricoides infestation of the liver. This theory is based on high incidence of dead parasites or ova within stone in autopsy findings.    