BeBionic is a commercial prosthetic hand designed to enable amputees to perform everyday activities, such as eating, drinking, writing, typing, turning a key in a lock and picking up small objects.  The first version of the bebionic hand was launched at the World Congress and Orthopädie & Reha-Technik, Trade Show, Leipzig, Germany in May 2010.   Designed in the United Kingdom, the bebionic hand is manufactured by RSL Steeper and is available worldwide. Since February 2nd, 2017 BeBionic is owned by Otto Bock   The bionic hand is said to receive instructions from sensors that detect the movement of the muscles in the patient’s arm. These instructions are processed, which are then directed to the 337 mechanical parts, which are present within this bionic hand that eventually, mimic natural human movements.    In September 2011, the bebionic second-generation prosthetic hand was updated with improvements to speed, accuracy, grip and durability. The updated version also saw the bebionic hand available two sizes - medium and large.   The device was upgraded with new, higher capacity 2200mAh split cell internal batteries for increased usage time. During 2008, Jonathan Metz, from West Hartford, Connecticut, got his arm wedged in his basement furnace. Trapped in his own basement for three days, he had no alternative to self-amputate his own arm. Since using the prosthetic hand, in 2010, his life has dramatically improved.   In 2012, Kingston upon Hull man, Mike Swainger, was the first person to receive bionic hand on the NHS.  In 2015, a 26-year old London-based woman, Ashwell who was born without a right hand received Bebionic's prosthetic hand.  Margarita Gracheva, from the Moscow Serpukhov, had her hands cut off by her hands cut off by her husband. After six months of rehabilitation, dozens of concerned viewers of the Program live with Andrey Malakhov of Russia 1 TV channel, helped to make it super-modern prosthesis Bebionic on YouTube. In the world of science fiction, the bebionic hand has been compared to the artificial hands of fictional characters such as The Terminator and Luke Skywalker from Star Wars.   