Romeo Niram (born, 1974) is a figurative  painter of Jewish origin.  currently living and working in Madrid, Spain. Romeo Niram’s artistic work is deeply connected to other fields of knowledge, Physics above all, but also Philosophy, Theology, Literature, Cinema. His is a work of investigation and of the pursuit of knowledge through the art of painting, of identifying similarities in different knowledge areas and of binding them together through art in order to offer his viewer the most precious treasure in a renewed and refined form: information. His vision on arts and science expressed in the series “Brâncuși E=mc2” was presented at the conference “Art and Physics”, celebrated in Tel Aviv, organized by the cultural association New Vision Israel. In a nutshell, the series identify several similarities in 2 very different areas, Physics and Sculpture, in Albert Einstein’s cosmology and Constantin Brâncuși’s artistic intuition. Niram tackles different concepts that may be incomprehensible to a viewer unfamiliar to the world of Physics such as Einstein’s theory of relativity, the definition of the form of the universe, Einstein’s equation of the creation of the Universe, the mathematic principle of the hologram and much more. These complex principles are also present, in an intuitive form, in Brâncuși’s sculptures. The result is an intriguing journey into cosmology through an artist’s eyes. In 2008, a thesis on his series “Diary - Mircea Eliade – Essay”  was held by art critic Begoña Fernández Cabaleiro at the International Congress of Art History, University of Murcia, Spain. At the invitation of the Reales Tercios General Manuel Fuentes Cabrera, Romeo Niram painted in 2009 the portrait of their Royal Highnesses Prince Felipe and Princess Leticia of Spain and offered the painting to the couple on their 5th wedding anniversary. The painting is entitled “The Gate of the Kiss of Asturias” and it combines elements from Constantin Brâncuși, Dalí and Leonardo da Vinci. The frame of the painting was made by another artist, Bogdan Ater, and it represents the famous sculpture The Gate of the Kiss by Brâncuși. In 2004, Niram founded in Lisbon “Diaspora”,  the first bilingual cultural newspaper in Portugal. In Spain, he founded the fine arts magazine “Niram Art”, which received several awards for cultural journalism (Best Arts Magazine) from the Movement for Contemporary Art in Portugal. The magazine comprises articles in four languages, also in English. In 2008, he founded “Espacio Niram”, a cultural and artistic venue and art gallery in Madrid, designed to offe a new dynamic approach to culture and art to the young public. Espacio Niram was also distinguished in 2010 by MAC Lisboa for its contribution in support of arts in general and of young artists and writers from the Iberian Peninsula. In 2010, he founded Niram Art Publishing House that has published so far books of essay, fiction, poetry and art. In an effort to offer some form of recognition to artists of different areas, the Niram Art Awards were established, given away each year to both young and established artists, writers and other personalities from Spain, France, Israel, Romania, Mexico. In 2009, Romeo Niram was invited to become part of the Spanish elite group “Reales Tercios”, a military order with chivalry roots which date back to the Middle Ages. Its modern duties now comprise the promotion of arts and culture.   In September 2009, Romeo Niram was decorated for his artistic and cultural merits by the Reales Tercios. 