Young Figuratives traces back to the title of a series of exhibitions of new contemporary art by young German painters. This first exhibition was shown under this heading in 2001 in the Carolinen Palais in Munich (Germany). The same exhibition was presented at the Museum Mönchehaus Goslar (Germany) in 2002. Both exhibitions were curated by Martin Leyer-Pritzkow.   In their works  the new generation of artists do not apply anymore the historical distinction between abstract and figurative painting to them. Human figures, landscapes, plants and figures, interior - and exterior spaces, combining non-representational landscape with the abstract idea of classic antique head forms, all forms of expression, visual languages or art historical quotations are incorporated into their work. Christoph Zuschlag, a German Art Historian expresses in his text about the Young Figuratives:"...the ideological trench struggles to figuration and abstraction, which divided the art scene in the post-war period into two hostile camps, is now regarded as well as outdated as the picturesque tendencies of the 60s and 70s. This means that the painter today - no longer under constant pressure to justify - especially after the reunification with former East Germany, where painting had its leadership never lost and that a figurative painter is no longer automatically opposing abstraction.  This in turn liberates the young figuratives: freedom of synthesis .... They have the freedom to own, for example, the characteristic of the Informal resolution of the classical principle of form and make it useful for their own paintings, even and especially when they themselves work figurative. "  These artists studied at the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf and at the Kunsthochschule der Bildende Künste Braunschweig (Art Academy od Braunschweig). At the opening of the exhibition in 2002 put the monks Museum Goslar an offset edition of nine works by all participating artists entitled "Young Figurative - Mönchehaus Museum of Modern Art 2002" with an edition of 90 copies per motif .  With the concept of figurative painting followed after 2001 nationally and internationally a series of exhibitions devoted to the new figurative painting. So opened on the same day in 2002 the exhibition "Young Figurative" in the Mönchehaus Museum Goslar of Modern and Comporary Art and the Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris, the exhibition: "Cher peintre - Peintures figurative depuis l'ultime Picabia". The curator Alison Gingeras reflects the development of figurative painting of the past forty years with works by Francis Picabia, Martin Kippenberger, Alex Katz, Peter Doig, inter alia. The curator shows a radical realism from Francis Picabia until today.     In 2003, an exhibition featuring current positions of new figurative painting at the Kunstverein Frankfurt curated by Nicolaus Schafhausen showed under the title "deutschemalereizweitausenddrei" (German painting 2003).   Martin Hentschel showed in the year 2003/2004 in the Museum Haus Lange, Krefeld Art Museums, under the term "New Düsseldorf School of Painting”, works of other graduates of the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf .   