Charing Cross Bridge is a series of oil paintings by French artist Claude Monet. Painted in between 1899 and 1904, they depict a misty, impressionistic Charing Cross Bridge in London. During the years between 1899 and 1905, Monet travelled to London to capture its sights from the fifth-floor balcony of the Savoy Hotel. Monet was captivated by the London fog, a notable atmospheric effect made markedly worse by the heavy pollution of the Industrial Revolution. He painted the Houses of Parliament, Waterloo Bridge, and Charing Cross Bridge over and over, as he had earlier done with haystacks and Rouen Cathedral, dashing off paintings to capture fleeting atmospheric effects. He was extremely prolific, beginning nearly 100 paintings in London.  Thirty-seven of the canvases were of Charing Cross Bridge, only twelve of which he finished in London; the rest he took back to his Giverny studio for completion.  The Charing Cross Bridge paintings are scattered in collections all around the world. The unfinished canvas held by the Indianapolis Museum of Art was once derided by Terry Teachout in the Wall Street Journal as second-rate, proof that "even a master can have his off days."  Other versions are at the Art Institute of Chicago,  the Baltimore Museum of Art,  the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston,  the Harvard Museum of Fine Art, the Art Gallery of Ontario,  and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum  in Madrid. One version was stolen from the Kunsthal Museum in Rotterdam on October 16, 2012  and is believed to have been incinerated by the mother of one of the thieves in her oven.  Some of the paintings in the Charing Cross Bridge series: Charing Cross Bridge, 1899, Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum Madrid Charing Cross Bridge, c. 1899-1901, private collection Charing Cross Bridge, London, 1899-1901, Saint Louis Art Museum Charing Cross Bridge, London, 1901, Rotterdam painting Charing-Cross Bridge in London, c. 1902, National Museum of Western Art in Tokyo Charing Cross Bridge, 1903, Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon Lyon Charing Cross Bridge, Fog, 1902, Art Gallery of Ontario 