Metamorphosis of Narcissus (1937) is an oil-on-canvas painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. This painting is from Dalí's paranoiac-critical period. According to Greek mythology, Narcissus fell in love with his own reflection in a pool. Unable to embrace the watery image, he pined away, and the gods immortalized him as a flower. Dalí completed this painting in 1937 on his long-awaited return to Paris after having had great success in the United States. The painting shows Narcissus sitting in a pool, gazing down. Not far away there is a decaying stone figure which corresponds closely to him but is perceived quite differently; as a hand holding up a bulb or egg from which a Narcissus is growing. The egg has been used as a symbol for sexuality in other paintings by Dalí. In the background, a group of naked figures can be seen, while a third Narcissus like figure appears on the horizon. Dalí wrote the following poem, which accompanied the painting when it was initially exhibited: Under the split in the retreating black cloud  the invisible scale of spring  is oscillating  in the fresh April sky.  On the highest mountain,  the god of the snow,  his dazzling head bent over the dizzy space of reflections,  starts melting with desire  in the vertical cataracts of the thaw  annihilating himself loudly among the excremental cries of minerals,  or  between [sic] the silences of mosses  towards the distant mirror of the lake  in which,  the veils of winter having disappeared,  he has newly discovered  the lightning flash  of his faithful image.  It seems that with the loss of his divinity the whole high plateau  pours itself out,  crashes and crumbles  among the solitude and the incurable silence of iron oxides  while its dead weight  raises the entire swarming and apotheosic  plateau from the plain  from which already thrust towards the sky  the artesian fountains of grass  and from which rise,  erect,  tender,  and hard,  the innumerable floral spears  of the deafening armies of the germination of the narcissi. Already the heterosexual group, in the renowned poses of preliminary expectation, conscientiously ponders over the threatening libidinous cataclysm, the carnivorous blooming of its latent morphological atavisms. In the heterosexual group,  in that kind date of the year  (but not excessively beloved or mild),  there are  the Hindou  tart, oily, sugared  like an August date,  the Catalan with his grave back  well planted  in a sun-tide,  a Whitsuntide of flesh inside his brain, the blond flesh-eating German,  the brown mists  of mathematics  in the dimples  of his cloudy knees, there is the English woman,  the Russian,  the Swedish women,  the American  and the tall darkling Andalusian,  hardy with glands and olive with anguish. Far from the heterosexual group, the shadows of the avanced [sic] afternoon draw out across the countryside, and cold lays hold of the adolescent’s nakedness as he lingers at the water’s edge. When the clear and divine body of Narcissus  leans  down to the obscure mirror of the lake, when his white torso folded forward  fixes itself, frozen,  in the silvered and hypnotic curve of his desire,  when the time passes  on the clock of the flowers of the sand of his own flesh, Narcissus loses his being in the cosmic vertigo  in the deepest depths of which  is singing  the cold and Dyonisiac siren of his own image.  The body of Narcissus flows out and loses itself  in the abyss of his reflection,  like the sand glass that will not be turned again. Narcissus, you are losing your body,  carried away and confounded by the millenary reflection of your  disappearance  your body stricken dead  falls to the topaz precipice with yellow wreckage of love,  your white body, swallowed up,  follows the slope of the savagely mineral torrent  of the black precious stones with pungent perfumes,  your body ...  down to the unglazed mouths of the night  on the edge of which  there sparkles already  all the red silverware  of dawns with veins broken in ‘the wharves of blood’. Narcissus,  do you understand?  Symmetry, divine hypnosis of the mind’s geometry, already fills up your  head,  with that incurable sleep, vegetable, atavistic, slow  Which withers up the brain  in the parchment substance  of the kernel of your nearing metamorphosis. The seed of your head has just fallen into the water. Man returns to the vegetable state  by fatigue-laden sleep  and the gods  by the transparent hypnosis of their passions.  Narcissus, you are so immobile  one would think you were asleep.  If it were a question of Hercules rough and brown,  one would say: he sleeps like a bole [sic] in the posture  of an Herculean oak.  But you, Narcissus,  made of perfumed bloomings of transparent adolescence,  you sleep like a water flower. Now the great mystery draws near,  the great metamorphosis is about to occur. Narcissus, in his immobility, absorbed by his reflection with the digestive slowness of carnivorous plants, becomes invisible. There remains of him only  the hallucinatingly white oval of his head,  his head again more tender,  his head, chrysalis of hidden biological designs,  his head held up by the tips of the water’s fingers,  at the tips of the fingers  of the insensate hand,  of the terrible hand,  of the excrement-eating hand,  of the mortal hand  of his own reflection. When that head slits  when that head splits  when that head bursts,  it will be the flower,   the new narcissus,