  Spring Ice is a 1915–16 oil painting by the 20th-century Canadian painter Tom Thomson. The work was painted over the winter of 1915–16 in Toronto behind the Studio Building in Thomson's shack. It was purchased by the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa in 1916 and has remained in the collection ever since. It was produced as Thomson was in the peak of his short art career and is considered one of his most notable works. In the spring of 1915 Thomson returned to Algonquin Park earlier than he had in any previous year and had already painted twenty-eight sketches by 22 April. From April through July, he spent much of his time fishing, assisting groups on several different lakes. He would spend much of his summer travelling across the province, hunting and sketching.  From the end of September to mid-October, Thomson spent his time at Mowat,  a village on the north end of Canoe Lake.  By November he was at Round Lake with Tom Wattie and Dr. Robert McComb.   In late November Thomson returned to Toronto and moved into a shack behind the Studio Building that Harris and MacCallum fixed up for him,   renting it for $1 a month (equivalent to CAD$21 in 2016). [note 1] The year was particularly productive for Thomson, himself reporting that he had painted 128 sketches by September. He began to more consistently use hard wood-pulp board for sketching, something he picked up from J. E. H. MacDonald.  Spring Ice is among the dozen or so paintings expanded from a small sketch into a larger canvas work.  The smaller sketches were done en plein air—in this case likely painted a little north of Hayhurst's Point on Canoe Lake  —through the spring, summer and fall.  The larger canvases were instead completed over the winter in Thomson's studio—an old utility shack with a wood-burning stove on the grounds of the Studio Building, an artist's enclave in Rosedale, Toronto.    Curator Charles Hill has written that the Sketch for Spring Ice was almost certainly done with A. Y. Jackson's 1914 canvas A Frozen Lake in mind. [note 2] Thomson likely saw the painting in November 1914 before Jackson took it away in December to be exhibited.  The composition recalls Thomson's earlier work from his design career, using a group of trees in the foreground to establish a lake and low-lying hills in the background.  By 1914 Thomson was displaying an increasing interest in the motifs of both ice breaking up on a river as well as rock in the lower foreground. In these earlier examples, the foreground tends to cut a diagonal across the painting while the trees subtly obscure the far shore. A. Y. Jackson experimented with this idea in his own 1914 painting, Lake Shore, Canoe Lake.  In the Sketch for Spring Ice, a gentler rise to the left instead establishes the foreground with only a few brushstrokes used to paint the brown ground. Charles Hill has further written that, "the relationship of foreground, middle and distance is more fluid than in Northern River, opening the view of the water and far shore."  The final canvas for Spring Ice shares similarities to In the Northland, another work produced over the same winter. A key difference is that Spring Ice emphasizes the horizontal, seen with both the foreground, lake and hills existing in bands stacked on top of one another, and further emphasized by the open space and the trees being placed on the far left and right of the foreground.  While the sketch utilizes "muddy, warm tones," the canvas instead uses brighter, more highly keyed colours. The brighter greens, pinks, yellows, blues and whites are not too striking, with a pale blue lightly put on top of the final work to lower the overall contrast. The different regions of colour are readily apparent within the foreground. In the background, terra cotta is painted over with blue.  Advertising or calendar drawing, Fall–winter 1912. Location unknown Spring, Spring 1914. McMichael Canadian Art Collection, Kleinburg Petawawa Gorges (Early Spring), Winter 1914–15 National Gallery of Canada, Ottawa Spring Ice, Spring 1915. Private collection In the Northland, Winter 1915–16. Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, Montreal In March 1916 Thomson exhibited Spring Ice and three canvases with the Ontario Society of Artists (OSA).[note 3] Sir Edmund Walker and Eric Brown of the National Gallery of Canada wanted to purchase In the Northland, but Montreal trustee Dr. Francis Shepherd convinced them to instead purchase Spring Ice.  They bought it for $300 (equivalent to CAD$5,700 in 2016).     Reception to Thomson's paintings at this time were mixed. Margaret Fairbairn of the Toronto Daily Star would write, "Mr. Tom Thomson's 'The Birches' and 'The Hardwoods' show a fondness for intense yellows and orange and strong blue, altogether a fearless use of violent colour which can scarcely be called pleasing, and yet which seems an exaggeration of a truthful feeling that time will temper."  A more favourable take came from artist Wyly Grier in The Christian Science Monitor: Tom Thomson again reveals his capacity to be modern and remain individual. His early pictures—in which the quality of naivete had all the genuineness of the effort of the tyro and was not the counterfeit of it which is so much in evidence in the intensely rejuvenated works of the highly sophisticated—showed the faculty for affectionate and truthful record by a receptive eye and faithful hand; but his work today has reached higher levels of technical accomplishment. His Moonlight, Spring Ice and The Birches are among his best.   In The Canadian Courier, painter Estelle Kerr would similarly speak positively, describing Thomson as "one of the most promising of Canadian painters who follows the impressionist movement and his work reveals himself to be a fine colourist, a clever technician, and a truthful interpreter of the north land in its various aspects.  