Antanas Andrijauskas (born 3 November 1948) is a Lithuanian habilitated doctor; head of the Department of Comparative Culture Studies at the Culture, Philosophy, and Arts Research Institute; Professor at Vilnius University and the Vilnius Academy of Fine Arts, president of the Lithuanian Aesthetic Association; and member of the Lithuanian Academy of Sciences. Antanas Andrijauskas was born in Kaunas, Lithuania. In 1972 he took first place in the International Young Scientists Competition and was awarded a gold medal. He graduated Lomonosov Moscow State University with a degree in philosophy in 1978, and in 1990 he defended his habilitated doctoral dissertation. During 1981–1982 he studied at the University of Paris-Sorbonne (Paris –IV) and the Collège de France and in 1998 conducted research at the University of Paris-X Nanterre Centre de recherches sur l’art. He has lectured as a visiting professor at various French, Japanese, Canadian, Belgian, Swiss, Finnish, Polish, Russian, and other institutions of higher education. Professor Andrijauskas is one of modern Lithuania’s most outstanding representatives in the humanities and has a rare industry as shown by his authorship of 22 monographs, 47 studies, 38 compiled books, and over 650 scientific articles in various languages. Over 100 books have been issued under his supervision by various publishers. His contribution to Lithuanian philosophy, comparative civilization studies, cultural studies, aesthetics, the philosophy of art, the history of ideas, and oriental studies is especially important. He has founded and is the editor in chief of seven academic publication series, is a member of the editorial boards of seven Lithuanian and international journals, publishes research works in the Lithuanian and foreign press, organizes and actively participates in world congresses, international research conferences, and various research projects, and maintains research contacts with many of the world’s most noted scientists in his field. For the series of scholarly works Comparative Research into Culture, Philosophy, Aesthetics, and Art, he was awarded the National Prize for Lithuanian Scholarship in 2003. 