Arnold Berleant (born 4 March 1932 ) is an American scholar and author who is active both in philosophy and music. Arnold Berleant was born in Buffalo, New York .  He received his advanced musical education at the Eastman School of Music and his doctorate in philosophy at the State University of New York at Buffalo.  He is Professor of Philosophy (Emeritus) at Long Island University, former Secretary-General and Past President of the International Association of Aesthetics, and former Secretary-Treasurer of the American Society for Aesthetics.  His books and articles in philosophy focus on aesthetics, environmental aesthetics, and ethics.  Arnold Berleant is the founding editor of Contemporary Aesthetics, an international on-line journal of contemporary aesthetic theory, research, and application. As a philosopher Berleant has written on important aspects of both aesthetic theory and the arts.  These include ontological and metaphysical issues, basic theoretical questions such as appreciation and aesthetic experience, and explorations of music, architecture, painting and literature.   His first book, The Aesthetic Field:  A Phenomenology of Aesthetic Experience (1970), established the concept of the aesthetic field as a contextual framework within which questions in aesthetics and the arts can be most fully illuminated.  Much of his subsequent work has focused on environmental aesthetics, attending both to general issues and to specific kinds of environment.  The aesthetics of environment is a theme that he has elaborated and extended in much of his writing.   In Art and Engagement (1991), Berleant exemplified the usefulness of the concept of the aesthetic field by applying it to a range of arts – landscape painting, architecture and environmental design, literature, music, dance, and film.  Emerging from these original studies was the recognition that the different arts evoke experiences with their own claims to reality.  Moreover, these experiences exhibit an intense, active perceptual involvement that he calls “aesthetic engagement,” which belies the traditional claim of aesthetic disinterestedness.  The innovative concept of engagement leads to new perspectives on a variety of traditional esthetic topics, including metaphorical language, urban design, music, and metaphysics, and opens less traditional topics, such as virtual reality and social interaction to aesthetic analysis.  The body of Berleant’s work challenges the traditional view of philosophical aesthetics, which posits “disinterestedness” as foundational in aesthetic experience.  Berleant draws upon both phenomenology and pragmatism for an opposing theory of aesthetic perception based on the notion of engagement.  