Margaret MacDonald (9 April 1907 – 7 January 1956) was a British analytic philosopher.  She worked in the areas of philosophy of language, political philosophy and aesthetics. Margaret MacDonald was born in London and abandoned as a child. She was educated at Birkbeck College, London and was awarded a first class degree in philosophy in 1932, followed by a PhD in 1934. Her PhD supervisor was Susan Stebbing and she provided MacDonald with financial assistance during her research.  MacDonald joined Girton College, Cambridge, as a Pfeiffer Research Fellow in Moral Sciences between 1934–37. While at Cambridge, she studied under G.E. Moore and was part of the inner circle of students that  Ludwig Wittgenstein taught.  Along with fellow student Alice Ambrose she secretly (since he did not allow this) made notes during Wittgenstein's lectures, which were later published.  They later convinced Wittgenstein to allow them continue to write his lectures down. From 1937–41 MacDonald taught philosophy at St Hilda's, Oxford, where she was also librarian.  During the war she was temporary principal in the Board of Trade. This was followed by a lectureship at Bedford College, London.  At this time, she was one of a very small number of women teaching philosophy outside of Oxford University. From 1947 she was also a lecturer on Ethics to staff at the Home Office. She became reader in philosophy at Bedford College in 1955. MacDonald's early articles were criticisms of the work of contemporary philosophers, however she later concentrated on aesthetics, particularly how language relates to art.  She was also interested in political philosophy and published a significant article 'Natural Rights'.  In this paper she argues against the idea that natural rights are founded on the natural law. Her view is summarised by Jonathan Wolf as: "...statements of natural rights are akin to decisions, declaring ‘here I stand’, and...uses an analogy with another area of critical judgement—in her case literary appreciation—to point out the possibility of rational argument through the presentation of reasons".  Her work attracted substantial attention at the time. Two of her articles were reprinted in the Logic and Language (1951) series which included articles that were representative of current philosophical trends. MacDonald helped to found the philosophy journal Analysis together with Susan Stebbing, C.A. Mace and Gilbert Ryle in 1933. She was also the journal's editor from 1948 until 1956. She died in London in 1956, following heart surgery, aged just 48.  