Peter Trawny (born December 17, 1964 in Gelsenkirchen) is a German philosopher and professor at the University of Wuppertal.   Peter Trawny studied philosophy, musicology and art history at the Ruhr University Bochum, where he, after a guest stay at the Albert Ludwigs University in Freiburg in Breisgau and at the University of Basel, the Magisterium graduated in 1992. In 1995, he received his doctorate at Klaus Held with a dissertation on Martin Heidegger's phenomenology of the world. With a doctoral scholarship from the Study Foundation of the German people, he was promoted and awarded in 1997 with the Second Prize of all faculties of the University of Wuppertal. This was followed by a two-month stay at the University of Kyoto in Japan with a grant from the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science. Starting in 1997, Trawny was a research assistant at the University of Wuppertal in Klaus Held's department of phenomenology.  In 2000 he completed his habilitation at the University of Wuppertal about the time of the Trinity. Studies on the Trinity in Hegel and Schelling. Sponsored by the Fritz Thyssen Foundation, after his habilitation he worked from 2001 to 2003 at the philosophy department of the Freiburg Albert Ludwigs University. In 2005, the German Literature Archive in Marbach on Neckar granted Trawny a full scholarship and honored him in 2006 with the Ernst Jünger grant from the State of Baden-Wuerttemberg. In the same year he was appointed associate professor of philosophy at the University of Wuppertal. 2009 brought Trawny a W3 professorship at the University of Wuppertal for aesthetics and philosophy of culture. In 2011 he assumed a deputy professor at the Södertörns Högskola in Stockholm at the Center for Baltic and East European Studies. In 2012 Trawny founded the Martin Heidegger Institut in German at the Bergische Universität in Wuppertal, for whose support he would win, among others, the legacy of Heidegger.   Trawny taught in addition to his international lecturing and research as a Visiting Professor at several international universities such as the University of Vienna, the Tongji University in Shanghai or Södertörns Högskola in Stockholm at the Center for Baltic and East European Studies. Trawnys approach to philosophical problems uses a phenomenological-hermeneutic method. The focus of his work are questions of political philosophy, ethics, art and media philosophy, as well as questions of art and literature.  In his most recent works, Trawny dedicated to the elaboration of a philosophical understanding of globalization and cosmopolitanism, which in itself Adyton suggests, and especially in medium and Revolution clearly differentiated. Trawny tries to interpret the globalization of their strained relationship with the media and thus comes to a determination of the medium as "the immaterial unity of technology and capital". On the basis of Heidegger's event thinking tries Trawny the Marxist revolution discourse in the historical-contextual conditions of the 21st Century to translate, thus intertwined with those of its designation of the medium, the questions of political philosophy and media art philosophy.  In addition to his research and teaching, Trawny is consistently involved in the scholarly edition of Martin Heidegger's collected works.  