Rachida Triki is a philosopher, art historian, and art curator, currently full Professor of Philosophy at Tunis University specialized in Aesthetics. Dr Rachida Boubaker-Triki graduated from University of Paris 1 Pantheon-Sorbonne in 1971. Then she worked on a thesis about Aesthetics and politics at the renaissance directed by Pr. Hélène Vedrine. In 1983 she obtained her PhD from University of Paris 1 Pantheon-Sorbonne. In 2001 she obtained a Habilitation in philosophy from Paris 8 University under the direction of Pr. Patrice Vermeren. Currently she is full Professor of Philosophy at Tunis University. She is also founder and president of the Tunisian Association of Aesthetics and Poetics (ATEP), vice President of the International Association of Poetics (SIP), member of the Executive Board of the Euro-Mediterranean association for Art History and Aesthetics (AEPHAE), and delegate in the Executive Board of International Association for Aesthetics (IAA). She is also an Art critic and a Curator specialized in North African Art. In 1994 she has co-produced a series of 24 documentaries about the Tunisian painters in their workplace. She also has been the curator of numerous international art exhibitions in Europe and Africa. She has also been advising visual art foundations and nominating Artists for various international Awards. Currently she is acting as advisor for a Kamel Lazaar Foundation and nominator for Prix Pictet 2013   and for Prince Claus Awards 2013. She has organized numerous international meetings on the contemporaneous problems of the creation in Arts, and has published books and articles on the subject. She is also a member of editorial boards of “Recherches poïétiques” and “Art’in”. During the Tunisian revolution 2011, Rachida Triki, as a president of the Tunisian Association of Aesthetics and Poetics initiated an appeal  for the democratisation of culture, for the support of free and independent art criticism, and for the encouragement  of young artists and cultural NGOs. 