Music is an art form and cultural activity whose medium is sound organized in time. The common elements of music are pitch (which governs melody and harmony), rhythm (and its associated concepts tempo, meter, and articulation), dynamics (loudness and softness), and the sonic qualities of timbre and texture (which are sometimes termed the "color" of a musical sound). Different styles or types of music may emphasize, de-emphasize or omit some of these elements. Music is performed with a vast range of instruments and vocal techniques ranging from singing to rapping; there are solely instrumental pieces, solely vocal pieces (such as songs without instrumental accompaniment) and pieces that combine singing and instruments. The word derives from Greek μουσική (mousike; "art of the Muses"). See glossary of musical terminology. Read more... Music categories Analysis – Awards – Composers Education – Events – Festivals Form – Genres – Groups History – Images – Industry Instruments – Journals – Languages Music by continent – Musicians Musicology – Music by country Occupations – Production – Techniques – Terminology Theory – Videos More categories...   Music genres and forms Blues Disco Classical Electronic Folk Gamelan Rock Metal Hip hop Indian classical Jazz New-age Opera Pop Reggae Rhythm and blues Rock and roll Song Soul Symphony More genres...   Composers and musicians Louis Armstrong Johann Sebastian Bach The Beatles Ludwig van Beethoven Johannes Brahms Frédéric Chopin Antonín Dvořák George Frideric Handel Gustav Mahler Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart Édith Piaf Giacomo Puccini Elvis Presley Franz Schubert Igor Stravinsky Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky Umm Kulthum Giuseppe Verdi Antonio Vivaldi Vladimir Vysotsky Richard Wagner More composers and musicians...   Musical instruments Drum Flute Guitar Piano Trumpet Violin More musical instruments... Recently featured articles ...And Justice for All (album) George Formby Snr Jules Massenet George Formby Noye's Fludde Frédéric Chopin Megadeth New York Dolls (album) Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band Marquee Moon Misterioso (Thelonious Monk album) Imogen Holst  Spinning Around  More featured music articles...   Narayan was born in Udaipur and learned to play the sarangi at an early age. All India Radio, Lahore, hired Narayan as an accompanist for vocalists in 1944. He moved to Delhi following the partition of India in 1947, but wishing to go beyond accompaniment, Narayan moved to Mumbai in 1949 to work in Indian cinema. Narayan became a concert solo artist in 1956, and later gave up accompaniment. He recorded solo albums and began to tour America and Europe in the 1960s. Narayan taught Indian and foreign students and performed, frequently outside of India, into the 2000s.  More...  More...   WikiProjects connected with music: Main project – Songs – Albums – Alternative music - Classical music – Composers – Contemporary Christian music – Contemporary music – Electronic music – Emo music – Hip hop – Instruments – Led Zeppelin - Metal music – Jazz – Musicians  – Opera  – Panic at the Disco – Powderfinger (band) – Punk music – Record Labels – Record Production – Rock music – R&B and Soul Music – Terminology – The Beatles Create a requested article: See the list of  Requested articles. Improve an article: See the Music Noticeboard for a list of tasks. Start a music course: School of Music at Wikiversity Associated Wikimedia: The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wikivoyage  Travel guides Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database Wikispecies  Species  