Latin pop, Ballad Ventino is a Latin pop girl group, formed in Bogotá, Colombia that first gained popularity on YouTube, singing cover versions before becoming known for their original material.  They released their self-titled debut album in 2018. Its members are María Cristina "Makis" de Angulo, Camila Esguerra, Juliana Pérez, Natalia Afanador and Olga Lucía Vives.  Prior to their formation, each of the group's members performed in musical theater productions at their respective high schools.  Natalia Afanador and Juliana Pérez attended the same high school (Gimnasio La Montaña), while Camila Esguerra, Makis de Angulo y Olga Vives attended a neighboring school (Colegio Los Nogales).  On October 22, 2014, Camila Esguerra and Natalia Afanador uploaded their first video to YouTube, a mashup cover of Sia's "Chandelier" and Rihanna's "Diamonds".  In 2015 a friend of all five then future-members, Juan David Muñoz gathered the five young women together to record a video of them singing a mashup of various Disney Princess songs.  On April 8, 2015 they uploaded the video to YouTube. Within a month "Disney Princess Mashup" surpassed a million views. It was this experience that led the five members to pursue music as a group with Muñoz continuing to work with them as a producer and mentor.  They spent much of 2015 and 2016 recording and uploading covers of artists such as Sam Smith, Queen, Adele and Beyoncé. After a year together, as the group's popularity grew, they met Pedro Malaver who manages Cali & El Dandee and Morat. He arranged a meeting with Sony Music Colombia who signed them to a record deal.  Following their record deal with Sony Music Colombia, Ventino began working on their debut album. On October 14, 2016 they released their debut single, "Me Equivoque". Its video reached over 68 million views.  They spent the remainder of 2016 and 2017 releasing a string of singles leading up to their self-titled debut album. The singles "Apaga y Vamonos" and "Si Decides (Baby)" spread their popularity to Spain and throughout Latin America.   They released their debut studio album Ventino on August 17, 2018.  