The Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE, Chinese: 中国工程院; pinyin: Zhōngguó Gōngchéng Yuàn) is the national academy of the People's Republic of China for engineering.  It was established in 1994 and is an institution of the State Council of China. The CAE and the Chinese Academy of Sciences are often referred to together as the "Two Academies". Its president is Zhou Ji. Since the establishment of CAE, entrusted by the relevant ministries and commissions, the Academy has offered consultancy to the State on major programs, planning, guidelines, and policies. With the incitation by various ministries of the central government as well as local governments, the Academy has organized its members to make surveys on the forefront, and to put forward strategic opinions and proposals. These entrusted projects have played an important role in maximizing the participation of the members in the macro decision-making of the State. In the meantime, the members, based on their own experiences and perspectives accumulated in a long term and in combination with international trends of the development of engineering science and technology, have regularly and actively put forward their opinions and suggestions. The CAE is composed of elected members with the highest honor in the community of engineering and technological sciences of the nation. The General Assembly of the CAE is the highest decision-making body of the Academy and is held during the first week of June biennially. Member of Chinese Academy of Engineering is the highest academic title in engineering science and technology in China. It is a lifelong honor. It is must be elected by existing members. The membership of Chinese Academy of Engineering consists of members, senior members and foreign members. Foreigner members are non-chinese citizens who are distinguished and recognized for their respective field of engineering. As of 2018, the academy has 868 members, with 65 foreigner members.  The composition of its members include: The senior engineers, professors and other scholars or specialists, who shall have the Chinese citizenship (including those who reside in Taiwan Province, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Macao Special Administrative Region and overseas) and who have made significant and creative achievements and contributions in the fields of engineering and technological sciences, are qualified for the membership of the Academy. The Election of new Members is conducted biennially. Total numbers of Members to be elected in each election is decided by the Governing Body of the Academy. Examination and election of the candidates are done in every Academy Division and the voting is anonymous. The results of the voting is then examined and validated by the Governing Board. ISSN Print  1009-1724 ISSN Print  2095-8099 ISSN Online  2096-0026 The Chinese Academy of Engineering has collaborated   with other major academies (in policy development, engineering research projects, etc.), such as those  from UK and USA: 