  The Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE) was founded in 1987 with the aim of promoting and advancing the practice of engineering and technology in the India. It is an autonomous institution, registered under the Societies Registration Act 1860. It receives partial support via grant-in-aid programme of the Department of Science & Technology, Government of India. It is the recognised as a Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (SIRO) by the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, Government of India   The institute is a member of the International Council of Academies of Engineering and Technological Sciences (CAETS).  The Indian National Academy of Engineering was registered on 20 April 1987 on the recommendation of the Ministry of Civil Supplies. Prof. Jai Krishna was appointed its first President. The Academy was formally inaugurated by the Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on 11 April 1988 at a Foundation Function in New Delhi. INAE has a membership comprising the most distinguished engineers, engineer-scientists and technologists from all branches of engineering, technology and related sciences. Up to 50 fellows from academia, industry and government are elected every year. Election to the academy is only by nomination. Under the rules of the academy the total number of fellows at any time cannot exceed 800. The activities of INAE include the promotion of science and technology in the country, development of technology policy for the benefit of society, making research grants and funding pilot studies, promoting engineering education and awarding scholarships. Every year INAE also recognizes 8-12 young engineers under the age of 35 years with the INAE Young Engineer Award. The recipients of this prestigious award are picked after going through a rigorous selection process. The INAE every year awards engineers and scientists under various categories for demonstrated excellence in a field of science and/or engineering. The awards are extremely competitive and are subject to a rigorous selection process by well known  experts in engineering. With an objective to promote Engineering Excellence, INAE has instituted the following awards 