The National Academy of Public Administration was founded by James E. Webb, then-administrator of NASA, and other leading public administration practitioners in 1967 and chartered under Title 36 of the United States Code in 1984 under Pub.L. 98–257. The Academy is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization focused on analyzing emerging trends in governance and public administration. It is one of the two organizations (the other being the National Academy of Sciences) chartered by Congress in this manner.  Though the Academy's funding comes primarily from studies that are Congressionally requested or mandated, it is not considered a government agency. The Academy's studies are directed by a group of over 850 peer-elected fellows.  Election to the National Academy is one of the highest honors for those engaged in the study or practice of public administration.  The fellows are responsible for establishing the organization's policies and priorities and serving as advisers on panels, convened for each study, which issue the studies findings and recommendations. Webb's impetus in forming the Academy was to create an organization that would provide independent, nonpartisan and neutral advice to government leaders and agencies on all levels of government. The Academy provides advice to a variety of organizations including:  As per the Congressional Charter,  the Academy's mission is: Through its trusted and experienced leaders, the Academy improves the quality, performance, and accountability of governments in the nation and the world. To this end, the Academy's Congressional Charter calls on it to:Through its studies, the Academy has focused attention on a range of government issues, including: Most studies are carried out under the direction of Project Panels which consist primarily of elected Academy Fellows. Recent studies include: The Academy's over 850 fellows are current and former public managers and scholars, business executives and labor leaders, Cabinet officers, members of Congress, governors, mayors, state legislators, and diplomats who provide insight and experience as they oversee Academy projects and provide general guidance. Fellows are also the Academy's primary vehicle for addressing emerging issues and contributing to the intellectual and popular discourse on government. Fellows elect new members of the Academy each year. The principal criterion for selection is a sustained and outstanding contribution to the field of public administration through public service or scholarship. Some notable Fellows include: 