Tibetan Scholar and Calligrapher, Losang Thonden is a former Tibetan government official, calligraphy and language scholar, author, and Hollywood actor. Losang Thonden was born on May 23, 1942, in Lhasa, Tibet, to a Wangdue Khangsar family. His father Pasang Tsering Khangsar and mother Kungchok Dolma. Mrs. Dolma was the daughter of Sherpa Gyalpo, a prominent businessman and one of the richest Tibetans in Lhasa in the early 1910s.  During that period Lungsharwa Dorje Tsegyel one of the government official requested help from Mr. Gyalpo since he had close business ties and relationships with British India, Nepal, and China.  Mr. Gyalpo was an instrumental person in introducing "Short Magazine Lee–Enfield Mk-I" rifle guns to the Tibetan Army.  "Engi Kardom" as it was introduced in Tibetan (meaning enclosed English barrel gun). This was a revolutionary since it loaded 10 rounds of a magazine, much more efficient than (BonDha) Tibetan muskets, for the newly formed modern Tibetan Army by the 13th Dalai Lama. From 1946 to 1957, Thonden attended Jarpakhang High School in Lhasa. His family hired an officer named Darma Bhabu from the Nepalese Embassy in Lhasa to teach young Thonden English, Mathematics, and Nepali. He graduated high school at the age of 15 with top honors. He was then selected among few other students in all of Lhasa by the Tibetan Central Government in conjunction with Beijing government as an elite student ambassador to study at Beijing University to promote bilateral cultural brotherhood. But his family, particularly his mother who was a strong Tibetan nationalist, refused that her son to be sent to Communist China. Thonden was disappointed by the objections of his mother and decided that he would go on his own.  Soon his uncle Lobsang Tenzin, the executor of the Ladang Estate, requested that his sister send Thonden to Dakyap JangshupLing Ladang (pronounced Laprang), part of Sera Mey Monastery. Wangdue Khangsar family had been the patron of Sera Mey Monastery for many generations, so Thonden was accepted right away. Dakyap Ladang was north of Lhasa in Penpo region of Tibet. There he studied under the tutelage of Dakyap Rinpoche (Nawang Losang Yeshi), who was the direct lineage of Ka-dam Geshe Putowa Rinchen Sél . Later, Thonden attended non-monastic Sera University to study Tibetan Buddhism, language, and calligraphy under Geshe Lama Tenzin Gyaltsen. In 1959, he escaped from Tibet, after the invasion along with the 14th Dalai Lama. He was separated from his parents and other siblings until they reunited back in India in 1962. When he arrived in India, he was very keen on improving his English language skills, so with the help of his cousin sister Kesang Yangki Talka (former Tibetan Education Minister and Representative of the 14th Dalai Lama in the Office of Tibet London location) he began learning english and later he studied English under a retired British officer, Major Ken in Kalimgpong (West Bengal) India. From 1960 to 1963, Thonden served the Council for Tibetan Education and became a prominent member scholar in the Tibetan Literary Committee. He was later selected for the Central Tibetan Administrative for Higher Studies, a joint collaboration with Delhi University. A jumpstart certification program equivalent to Bachelors Degree in-order to further advancement and education for the success of upcoming Tibetan government officials. In 1963, he was appointed as the Education Officer for the Tibetan Bureau in New Delhi, India, for three years. In 1966, The Council for Tibetan Education asked Thonden to move to Kalakshetra Institute in South India to help with the Tibetan education and planning of curriculum for Tibetan children who were sponsored by the Indian Government and hosted by the Kalakshetra Institute with the blessing of Rukmini Devi. In 1968, Mr. Thonden became one of the youngest Tibetan government officials at the young age of 27, when the 14th Dalai Lama appointed him as the Secretary of Department of Education(1968-1975). His predecessor Mr. Barshi Tsedrung Ngawang Tenkyong (Secretary of the Department of Education 1961-68) explained newly appointed Deputy / Interim Secretary Mr. Thonden regarding the challenges faced by the Tibetan schools. Mr. Thonden overhauled and laid the new groundworks for the administrative system of managing a total of 60 Tibetan schools in India, Nepal, Sikkim, and Bhutan that were poorly underrepresented for getting financial grants from the government of India and international sources.  Mr. Thonden on many occasions met with Mr. PT. Shyam Narayan, the first Secretary of CTSA (Center for Tibetan School Administration) under the Ministry of Human Resources & Development, Government of India, regarding adequate funding and appointments of qualified teachers in all Tibetan schools. He worked tirelessly to secure funding, sponsorship, and educational scholarship for Tibetan schools so the children attending them would be able to attend major colleges and universities in India and abroad.  He managed to secure many international scholarship programs for the Tibetan refugee students and thus many Tibetan students were sent to technical schools and universities in England, Denmark, France, and Norway. In 1970, he succeeded in securing full sponsorship and scholarship at the Kimmins High School in Panchgani in the state of Maharashtra, India. This school later became one of the major sponsors for all young Tibetan refugee girls. Till today his initial groundwork has laid the foundation for the younger Tibetan refugee students to get higher education and become model citizens of our society. When newly established Library of Tibetan Works and Archives in Dharamshala was formed they had a dire need of Tibetan language scholar and in 1974 Mr. Thonden was requested to join as the resident Tibetan Language and Cultural Research Scholar by his then brother in law Mr. Gyatsho Tsehring (Director of LTWA 1964-90) Mr. Gyatsho expressed his wishes to the Dalai Lama that Mr. Thonden would have far better implementing on academia in promoting and preservation of Tibetan Language and Literature internationally well as towards upcoming younger Tibetan generations and he could fully exercise his Tibetan Language Mastery. In late 1975 the Dalai Lama accepted Mr. Thonden’s leave from Tibetan Government Administrations. Mr. Thonden was one of the first Tibetan scholars who worked with international language professors and scholars from around the world in bringing standardized Tibetan phonetics in all major European languages. He also helped Professor Ngawang Dhondup Narkyi, Father of the Tibetan Typewriter, to improve the Tibetan Remington Rand typewriter, later manufactured in Kolkata, India. He was an instrumental member in standardizing and implementing the early versions of modern computerized Tibetan Language Unicode for Microsoft Word. Mr. Thonden is considered by the Central Tibetan Government one of the few surviving Tibetan language scholars and calligraphers outside of Tibet who is versed in all the Tibetan forms of calligraphy: Uchen, Umi, Druktsa, Horyig, Tsukthun, Yigchun, TsomaQu, and Quk. His calligraphy can be seen in official Tibetan government letterheads, offices, and major libraries in India and New York City. He is an author of several Tibetan Language books. He has translated over 80 western articles and journals for subjects including law, health, and medicine for both the Council for Tibetan Education and the Tibetan Department of Home Affairs. He is working on a new book, soon to be published, about Tibetan calligraphy. He has been creating new Tibetan typefaces that will also be featured in his upcoming book. In 1992, he immigrated to the United States, and he now lives in Seattle, Washington, with his wife Dekyi Thonden Gyalkhang (her family was also known as Bhanashol Gyalkhang in Lhasa, Tibet.)  a Tibetan celebrity chef and former Deputy Secretary of Finance Department for the Tibetan Government in Exile. She has been featured in The Seattle Times, Seattle KOMO-TV, Macy’s Seattle Festival, local food blogs, local TV shows, and on Food Network: United Tastes of America with television personality chef Jeffry Saad. As he was exploring new creative avenues, Thonden was introduced to Hollywood in 1995. He was cast in Jean Jack Annaud’s Seven Years in Tibet and recently starred as a principal cast in the 20th Century Fox production The Secret Life of Walter Mitty with international superstar actor and director Ben Stiller. He appeared in the documentary film Ten Yaks and Twenty Horns. He has also acted in a few short films directed by his son Rabyoung Thonden Gyalkhang.     