Mickie Caspi is an Israeli-American calligrapher and artist specializing in Judaica. Caspi was raised in Highland Park, Illinois by two artists, Thelma and Philip Padawer,  who encouraged creativity from a young age. She lived in Israel on Kibbutz Nachshon for three years (1970–73).  After returning to Highland Park, she studied art at Columbia College in Chicago.   Caspi worked as an artist-in-residence at the Kohl Jewish Teacher Center in Wilmette, Illinois.  After graduating from Columbia College in 1982,  she returned to Israel, living on Kibbutz Harel and then in Jerusalem. She spent seven years as a freelance artist and calligrapher in Israel before returning to the United States in 1989 and establishing Caspi Cards & Art.  Her hundreds of original designs have been reproduced on greeting cards, Judaic art prints, calendars and is known for her innovations as a Ketubah artist.   She introduced the first pre-printed Same Sex Ketubah text in 1994  , predating  Same-sex marriage laws in the United States. Caspi derives her inspiration from many sources, including traditional Jewish motifs, Persian and Arabic illumination, contemporary graphics, as well as art nouveau and art deco.  Her art has been exhibited in Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, Chicago, San Francisco and Boston, and her illustrations have appeared in Hebrew children’s books  and English publications. According to Marc Michael Epstein (scholar of religion, focusing on Jewish religious culture), "Examples by American artist... Mickie Caspi are among the best and brightest examples of motifs often found in ketubot from the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries."  Caspi volunteered at the Horace Mann School in Newton, Massachusetts. In 2011, the Oakland Hebrew Day School used her artwork as a stepping off point for the students to create their own works of art.  She has illustrated books including the 1987 reprint of The Sea's Gift, 1930 [Matnat Ha-Yam] by Levin Kipnis, which represented Israel at the International Children's Book Invitational.  An avid organic gardener, Caspi incorporates the beauty of nature into much of her artwork.  Originally known as Micha Klugman, since her return to the United States she has used either Mickie Caspi or simply Mickie. She currently resides in Newton, Massachusetts, is married, and has three children and two grandsons.   