Lebanese mafia is a colloquial term for organized crime groups of Lebanese origin. Lebanese organized crime is active in the country of Lebanon itself, as well as in countries and areas with a large Lebanese community, most notably Australia, Germany and in the Triple Frontier in South America. Lebanese organized crime syndicates generally are active globally, largely due to the mass Lebanese diaspora. Crime and corruption has existed in Lebanon for centuries, although worldwide recognition did not truly happen until the 1970s. In 1975 the Lebanese Civil War caused many families to part. Many families decided to send their children to different locations all around the world in search for a better life. Many of these immigrants were children, young adults, and women. Slowly but surely Lebanese criminals started emerging within their local communities and seizing power in their host countries. Lebanese criminals who gained power in their host countries are notoriously known to return to Lebanon and use the illicit funds they have earned by investing it back in their homeland of Lebanon, where it cannot be traced. The Lebanese diaspora today is a staggering 20+ million, with only 4 million Lebanese residing in Lebanon. The advances of the Lebanese in their criminal activities throughout the world caused many governments and politicians to become corrupted and give in to their Lebanese guests due to their accumulated wealth and power. The Lebanese did not follow or practice any activity other criminal organizations founded. Their gift is that wherever they went and settled, they created the formula for corruption. In Africa, specifically Nigeria, Ghana, Angola, and Sierra Leone it is reported that at least 35% of the national economy is controlled by Lebanese involved in some sort of illicit activity. They operate in over 106 countries, with reach from the United States all the way across to world to China, with hubs in central Europe, Asia, and South America. The Lebanese mafia has successfully infiltrated and penetrated most governments and systems in the world, and they keep growing their criminal enterprises day by day. The Beqaa Valley, a fertile valley in east Lebanon and one of the country's most important farming regions, is also known for being one of the most important cannabis cultivating regions in the Middle East. In certain parts of the region, life is structured around extended clan families, a number of whom are active in criminal activities such as narcotics trafficking, kidnapping for ransom and car theft.  Due to the vast international Lebanese diaspora and along with a certain amount of organized criminals active in their respective communities, the Beqaa Valley has become one of the most infamous marijuana and hashish exporting regions in the world.  Lebanese organized crime was introduced in Australia after the mass immigration of Lebanese people after the Lebanese Civil War in the 1970s to the end of the 1980s. The first community of Lebanese in Australia were Maronite Christians, quickly followed by a large Muslim community. The main center of Lebanese organized crime is Sydney, with a significant community of 120,000, followed by Melbourne. Criminal organizations are mostly based around extended crime families with a large number of associates from their community. The main activities of Lebanese gangs in Australia are narcotics and weapons trafficking, extortion, prostitution, car theft and money laundering. Often different rival criminal families are interlocked in feuds, resulting in a fair amount of violence. Criminal organizations however often transcend religious and cultural barriers, with members of the Sunni, Christian and Mhallami communities all involved in the same criminal organizations.  In analogy with Australia, Lebanese organized crime also came to Germany following the Lebanese Civil War. A large number of former Lebanese citizens immigrated to several major German cities under political asylum and refugee status. Compared to the Lebanese population in Australia, a much larger number of Lebanese in Germany are originally from the Mhallami community. The Mhallami, a cultural community with origins in the Mardin Province of Southeastern Turkey, have traditionally settled in large numbers in Lebanese regions such as Tripoli, the Beqaa Valley and Beirut where they have become an integral part of the country's Sunni community. Under a large number of refugees, there were also several extended clans that already in Lebanon were deeply entrenched in organized crime. In Germany these clans mostly settled in Berlin, Bremen and Essen  where they became involved in narcotics trafficking, weapons trafficking, extortion, prostitution, illegal gambling, car theft, money laundering and armed robbery.  Some of the more notorious Lebanese crime families include the Al-Zein Clan  and the infamous Miri-Clan from Bremen.  These criminal organizations are mostly based around extended criminal Mhallami clans, but also include members from other Lebanese cultures. The Triple Frontier, a tri-border area along the junction of Paraguay, Argentina, and Brazil, is often used by Lebanese groups connected to political parties but also by Lebanese "mafia" groups as a haven for smuggling and money laundering.  Barakat clan 