The penose is the organized criminal underbelly in Amsterdam and other major cities in the Netherlands. Penose usually means the organisations formed by criminals of Dutch descent. It is a slang word coming from the old Amsterdam Bargoens language. Organized crime in the Netherlands goes back to the 18th century when organized groups of thieves, pimps and shady travelling salesmen created a cant language named Bargoens to communicate with each other.  Out of the language there arose a couple of new words which would become part of the Dutch folklore. Until this day the word Penose (which arose from Bargoens) is still used by some people to describe the Dutch underworld in which the organized crime bosses thrive.  The word is mostly used in Amsterdam, but has also spread to other big cities in the Netherlands such as Den Haag, Rotterdam or Eindhoven. The Netherlands is the biggest exporter of ecstasy in the world,  while Dutch gangs are a major exporter of cocaine, cannabis and a smaller exporter of heroin. In the drugs business they closely cooperate with British firms and Colombian cartels for the importation and exportation of ecstasy and cocaine,  while they cooperate with Moroccan drug barons in the Riffian areas and with Pashtun drug lords based in Pakistan for the importation of hashish. While the term Penose was and still is used to describe the ethnic Dutch crime lords, it has been used in a broader context. The penose concerns organized criminal groups with ties to the country of the Netherlands itself. Due to immigration there are strong Turkish, Chinese, Yugoslav, Russian, Albanian and Italian communities in the Netherlands. Criminal outfits such as the Turkish mafia, Triads, Serbian mafia, Russian Mafia, Albanian Mafia, and the 'Ndrangheta are not regarded as a part of the traditional Penose, although they're an active part of the Dutch criminal underworld nonetheless. The reason why Surinamese, Antillean, Moroccan and Ambonese groups are considered to be a part of the Penose is because their criminal groups were formed and based in the Netherlands, whereas the Turkish or Serb gangs are part of a criminal group based in their home country. Indigenous organized crime based in some of The Netherlands' major cities, mainly Amsterdam and The Hague, mostly has origins in the traditional working-class quarters. These small groups mainly consist of local career criminals that band together for their involvement in organized criminal activities such as extortion, loan sharking, prostitution and narcotics. Often these local criminals groups are strongly connected with, or in some cases even have an official membership to, outlaw motorcycle gangs such as the Hells Angels MC.   Another type of indigenous organized crime is mainly based in the Flemish regions bordering the Netherlands, mainly located in the provinces of Limburg and Antwerp. The region is known to be one of the most important production areas for synthetic drugs such as ecstasy. It is home to organized criminal gangs active in the production, transport and distribution of synthetic narcotics and marihuana, as well as in the importation of hashish and cocaine, controlled by both local Flemish and Dutch criminal entrepreneurs.    Out of the Netherlands' substantial Moroccan community also grew criminal gangs mostly involved in the trafficking of marihuana. This is due to the ties of some families to their area of origin, the Rif, which is a known hub of marihuana/hashish cultivating. Certain criminals have also progressed to the trafficking of cocaine. Armed robbery and prostitution are known activities of the Dutch Moroccan groups as well.  The word kejahatan is Indonesian for 'committing crime' and has since become a synonym for Moluccan organized crime. Due to the Netherlands' large Moluccan Ambonese community kejahatan groups also exist in the Netherlands. Dutch Ambonese gangsters are involved in kidnapping, armed robbery, extortion and drug trafficking, especially the growing and illegally distributing of marihuana. An alleged criminal gang of Ambonese origin is Satudarah, a known one-percenter motorcycle club. Ambonese gangsters have traditionally also assisted other criminal enterprises.  Incidents with the so-called Tattoo killers, a Moluccan/Ambonese gang specialised in contract killing, have also been major news in the Dutch criminal underworld in recent years.  Criminal groups consisting of descendants of Afro-Surinamese and Afro-Curaçaoan immigrants exist in major cities in the Netherlands. While some of said groups are involved in petty crimes, other Afro-Dutch crime groups have been responsible for the more sophisticated trafficking of cocaine.  Since both Suriname and the Netherlands Antilles are known transit zones for the drug trafficking from Colombia, Curaçaoan and Surinamese crime groups based in the Netherlands have also formed alliances with said Colombian groups and have committed contract killings for them.  Prostitution, hijacking and ripdeals are known activities of Afro-Surinamese and Afro-Curaçaoan groups. Gang wars over turf have appeared from time to time. The Amsterdam district Bijlmermeer for instance has been the scene of violence between two of its biggest gangs, the Hopi Boys and the Kloekhorststraat Gang.  Aside from these Netherlands-originated groups, gangs that originated in the Caribbean have also been able to set up shop in the Netherlands. The No Limit Soldiers gang, which originated in Curaçao, for instance now has bases in cities such as Rotterdam, where they're involved in gang violence and organized crime.  The Netherlands is the only country in Europe where the Crips have a significant presence.  In the major cities of Den Haag, Rotterdam and Amsterdam Crip-gangs were formed in the 80's. There are a lot of Crip-gangs in the Netherlands but only 12 of them are regarded as a serious criminal organization. The 12 criminal gangs are mostly composed of older adolescent males (in contrast to the majority of the street gangs which are composed of youths) who are involved in organized crime such as drug trafficking, arms trafficking, prostitution, contract killing and extortion. The groups are mainly composed of Dutch Antilleans (mainly Afro-Curaçaoans) and Afro-Surinamese people.  