 Federal University of Paraná Autonomous University Center of Brazil (UniBrasil) Clèmerson Merlin Clève (born November 21, 1958) is a Brazilian jurist, Law school professor, and lawyer. One of the most respected constitutionalists in Brazil,   he is a full professor of constitutional law at the Federal University of Paraná (UFPR) (undergraduate, LL.M, and J.S.D.).  Clève is also a full professor of constitutional law and president at the Autonomous University Center of Brazil (UniBrasil),  and a visiting professor at Universidad Pablo de Olavide – Máster Universitario en Derechos Humanos, Interculturalidad y Desarrollo (LL.M) and Doctorado en Ciencias Jurídicas y Políticas (J.S.D.) (Sevilla, España).  Clève also works as the institutional leader of the UFPR's 'Center of Constitutional Investigations' (NINC-UFPR).  Clève completed the graduation at Federal University of Paraná Law School in 1980 and his LLM at the Federal University of Santa Catarina in 1983, and his JSD in public law at the Faculté de Droit of the Université catholique de Louvain in Belgium in 1985, and at the Pontifical Catholic University of São Paulo in 1992. He became the first full professor of constitutional law at the Federal University of Paraná in 1992,  with the thesis entitled "The judicial review in the Brazilian Law". Nowadays, this work is a classic in the Brazilian juridical literature.   Clève is also a member of the Academy of Juridical Literature of Paraná (Chair n. 40),  and a member of the International Association of Constitutional Law.  Clève is member of several editorial boards on specialized constitutional law reviews. Acting as an attorney and a legal adviser, his firm is based on the city of Curitiba, Paraná, Brazil. In February,  March,  April,  June  2015, and in January, 2017    his name showed up several times in the Brazilian press as one of the most remembered to a chair on the Supreme Federal Court. In 2017, Clève was quoted in the press as the academic supervisor of Sérgio Moro and João Pedro Gebran Neto, judges on cases of Operation Car Wash, at Master in Constitutional Law of Federal University of Paraná Graduate Program.    Clève was indicated to Prêmio Jabuti in Juridical Literature 2015 by his book Fundamental Rights and Constitutional Jurisdiction.  Clève was Professor of Public International Law at UFPR (1986–89); Public Attorney of the State of Paraná (1986–2009); Chair's Legal Adviser of Constituent Process of the State Constitution of Paraná (1989); Republic's Public Prosecutor (1990–92); Coordinator (1992–94), and Vice-Director (1992–96) of the Federal University of Paraná Law School; and Substitute Judge of the Regional Electoral Court of Paraná (1999–2000). Some main cases which he promoted or participated: 