Second Constituent Assembly of Nepal (Nepali: व्यवस्थापिका संसद) was the unicameral legislature of Nepal.  It was formed as the result of the 2013 Constituent Assembly elections after the failure of the first Constituent Assembly to promulgate a new constitution.  The legislature ended its term on 14 October 2017.  Former Prime Minister Surya Bahadur Thapa, the oldest member of the house, assumed chairmanship of the CA on January 20, 2014  and administered the oath of office to 565 lawmakers at the first meeting of the assembly on January 21, 2014.  Leaders of the NC, CPN-UML and UCPN (Maoist) pledged to draft a new constitution within a year.  More than 80% of the members are new faces.  On January 26, 2014, President Ram Baran Yadav called for the election of a Prime Minister and the formation of a consensus government within a week   as per article 38(1) of the constitution which provides for the formation of a government through political understanding.  The Nepali Congress obtained the support of the CPN-UML for a NC-led consensus government  and the two parties also agreed to hold local body elections within six months and adopt a new constitution within a year.  An all-party meeting followed at which the CPN-UML, UCPN (Maoist) and MPRF-Loktantrik expressed support for a government under Sushil Koirala. The RRP-N boycotted the meeting.  Further discussions were held between the NC, CPN-UML and UCPN (Maoist) at which the Maoists expressed support for the idea of a NC-led government but did not agree to join the government and decided to stay in opposition.  On February 2, 2014, the NC  abandoned its pursuit of a consensus government under article 38(1) of the constitution after the UCPN (Maoist) and RPP-N, the third and fourth largest parties, decided not to join the government. The party has initiated talks with the  CPN-UML to form a majority government under article 38(2) of the constitution.   A total  of thirty political parties and two independents were represented at the start of the second constituent assembly. However, some parties have merged and the number of parties has declined.   