Vision restoration therapy (VRT) is a noninvasive, nonsurgical form of vision therapy.  This therapy was developed by Bernhard Sabel, Ph.D.   The phenomenon underlying the therapy is visual neuroplasticity.  Vision restoration therapy (VRT) is a computer-based treatment designed to help patients with visual field defects regain visual functions through repetitive light stimulation.   The therapy is cleared by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for "...the diagnosis and improvement of visual functions in patients with impaired vision that may result from trauma, stroke, inflammation, surgical removal of brain tumors or brain surgery, and may also be used to improve visual function in patients with amblyopia".   Patterns of visual field loss depend on the injury, but the most common are hemianopia, loss of an entire hemisphere of vision; quadrantanopia, loss of a quadrant of vision; and scotoma, loss of an irregular section of vision.The main characteristics of these visual field losses is that they persist in both eyes, and therefore, one eye cannot compensate for the deficit in the other eye. Before the development of VRT, there was no therapy available to improve the range or sensitivity of the patient's affected field of vision – patients were often told they "had to live with" their deficits. However, similar to recovery from motor deficits after brain injury, where repetitive stimulation has proven effective in recovery of patient functions such as movements of lower limbs, systematic repetitive visual training can also lead to increased visual sensitivity and recovery of function. To date the concept of improving vision in patients with repeated stimulation has been confirmed by a number of independent laboratories, and extended to a range of techniques. These include using moving stimuli (Krystal Huxlin, University of Rochester); flickering dots stimuli at sighted/blind field borders (Laura Julkunen, University of Turku; And D P Bergsma, Utrecht), and flashing large patterns deep in the blind field (Arash Sahraie, University of Aberdeen). In addition, VRT has been shown effective in more than 20 clinical studies where the repeated stimulation of the blind and transition areas has led to improved visual sensitivity.  