 Ramendu Majumder The Dhaka Art Center is a non-profit organization that strives to encourage the creation of contemporary visual art in Bangladesh and promote its discussion.  It seeks innovation and development in all concepts and forms of art and is devoted to exhibiting and discussing the work of important new and established artists working in the medium.  Located in a quiet neighborhood in Dhanmondi, the Dhaka Art Center building offers a light, open space for artists, students and art lovers to meet experience and engage in the discussion of art.  The Dhaka Center is proud to sponsor the work of both amateur and established artists through its studio program.  The Center houses two artists’ studios: a printmaking studio that offers training courses and work space for eight to twelve artists and an open space studio shared by two artists for a period of three months.  The printmaking studio is available for rent. Scholarships are provided to printmaking artists based on merit. Artists for the open studio are selected through an application judged on merit by the Board of Trustees. This space is provided to accepted artists space free of charge.  now its work in internationally. Dhaka Art Center has six galleries for the display of painting, sculpture, video and other forms of visual art. The gallery space regularly holds exhibitions of quality artwork from the Dhaka Art Center’s personal collection. The galleries are also available for rent by artists and exhibitors, either individually or together.  When you are in Dhanmondi 7/A, be sure to drop by Ajo, a café run by the administration of Dhaka Art Centre. Whether you love art or not, I can assure that you will fall in love with the place.If you want a quick bite then “fast casual” should be more of your type, or if you want to settle for some tranquility and “relax dining”, go for the upstairs section.  The two-week-long exhibition of paintings and photographs entitled HIDDEN CANVAS: Impression of Urban Life by artist Mashiul Chowdhury, at the Dhaka Art Center, on 1 February 2013 3rd Solo Painting Exhibition by Artist Sanjoy Kumar Das on Saturday, 22 December 2012  More on Dhaka Art center Events Coordinates: 23°44′43″N 90°22′35″E﻿ / ﻿23.7452°N 90.3764°E﻿ / 23.7452; 90.3764 