The Kuryokhin Center, or more extended the Sergey Kuryokhin Center for Modern Art, is a non-profit cultural centre in Saint Petersburg, Russia.  The centre was founded in 2004 and named after the Russian avant garde composer Sergey Kuryokhin. The main space of the centre has a capacity of 2000 people. The venue is located in an old cinema building. The Kuryokhin Center organises visual art exhibitions, art events and festivals. The Modern Art Center is an old cinema space. It hosts experimental music, film and art festivals (SKIF, Electro-mechanika Festival, Videoforma festival  and Ethno-mechanica Festival ) and a few other random events several times per year. The centre is also the residency of the Sergey Kuryokhin Foundation that collects documentation about the composer. SKIF, Sergey Kuryokhin International Festival, is a yearly international festival of modern arts taking place since 1998.  Kuryokhin′s long-time partner cellist Boris Raiskin conceived the festival in New York City. SKIF-1 and SKIF-2 took place in New York in 1997 and 1998. In October 1998 SKIF-3 moved to Saint Petersburg, the city where Kuryokhin lived and worked.  From 2005 SKIF takes place in the Kuryokhin Modern Art Center in St.Petersburg, the current residence of the festival and Sergey Kuryokhin Foundation.  Electro-Mechanica is an annual festival since 2007 representing electronic audio-visual arts including music, animation, videos, films, installations and performances  Acts such as Tok Tek, Camera, Michael Rother (of Neu), Psychic TV, The Ex, Pierre Bastien and Yuri Landman have performed at SKIF or Electro-Mechanica. Sister festival Ethnomechanica is an international contemporary world music festival in St.Petersburg, Russia. “Ethnomechanica” is a project of Sergey Kuryokhin Foundation and takes place in Sergey Kuryokhin modern art center annually since 2008. Carrying on the SKIF festival traditions, “Ethnomechanica” introduce to Russian audience diversity of world music, welcoming experiment and synthesis. Ethnomechanica focused in 2013 on Switzerland and The Netherlands. 2013 is the Netherlands-Russia year, a year in which the Netherlands and Russia emphasize their long bilateral relations. With a support of NLRF2013 Ethnomechanica invited Dutch artists Skip & Die, De Kift, The Ex and Rebel Up! Soundclash. Switzerland has a focus on Russia in 2013-2015, and Pro Helvetia Swiss Arts Council supports the projects in Russia as a part of the Swiss Made in Russia programme. In frames of this program we invited The Dead Brothers. Artists who performed in 2008-2012: Mulatu Astatke (Ethiopia), Tony Allen (Nigeria), Mari Boine (Norway), Alexander Balanescu & Evelina Petrova (UK/Russia), Orange Blossom (France), Alamaailman Vasarat (Finland), Zdob Si Zdub (Moldova), La Caution (France), Filastine (USA), Jimi Tenor & Kabu Kabu (Finland/Germany/Ghana/Cuba), Poirier (Canada), Munchi (Dominican Republic/The Netherlands), Schlachthofbronx (Germany), Awesome Tapes from Afrika (USA), Socalled (Canada), Shazalakazoo (Serbia), Las Balkanieras (Germany/Bosnia/Croatia/Russia), DakhaBrakha (Ukraine), DJ Penny Metal (UK), DJ Kosta Kostov (Germany/Bulgaria), Jouhiorkesteri (Finland), Debruit (France), General Levy (UK) & Jacky Murda (USA), Tibetan Buddhist monks from Phiyang Monastery (India), Altay Kai (Altai),Fellow & VJ Ken Wolff (The Netherlands), Daniel Haaksman (Germany), Troitsa (Belarus), Leha Chicanos (Belarus), Gurzuf (Belarus), Baimurat aka Jimmy (Tajikistan), Asfaltal Da Kosmasas (Finland/Russia), Tamara Soundsystem (Ukraine), and many Russia artists like Sainkho, Vera Sazhina&Sergey Letov, Kira Lao, Osipova Luka, Pontell, Signor Mako, Kamennoe More, Namgar, Psoy Korolenko, Garik Osipov, La Minor, Skazy Lesa, Nervenklinik, Volga, Swing Couture, Belorybitsa, Ptitsa Tyloburdo, Iva Nova, atlantida, Vereya, DJ Dr.Ethno aka Nazim Nadirov, Inna Zhelannaya, Obmorok Imama, Cheinesh and Marina Stepanova, Velena, Testo, Otava Yo, Hidden Tribe, Bugotak, Peterburgska Roma, DJ DenisRubin, VJ Anima, Trojan Soundsystem, Karl Hlamkin and OgneOpasnoOrchestra, Theodor Bastard, Chance-On Manouche, Reelroad, Naekhovichi, Chumaho Dryu, Ankalym, Dj Сhak and others. Besides musical program, the festival presents world cinema, workshops, dances, VJ-ing. Coordinates: 59°56′02″N 30°14′46″E﻿ / ﻿59.9339°N 30.2460°E﻿ / 59.9339; 30.2460 