And Then I Go is a 2017 American drama film directed by Vincent Grashaw and starring Melanie Lynskey and Justin Long.    It is based on the 2004 novel Project X by Jim Shepard.  In the cruel world of junior high, Edwin suffers in a state of anxiety and alienation alongside his only friend, Flake. Misunderstood by their families and demoralized at school daily, their fury simmers quietly until an idea for vengeance offers them a terrifying release. Based on the acclaimed novel "Project X" by Jim Shepard, this unflinching look at adolescence explores how the powerful bonds of childhood friendship and search for belonging can become a matter of life or death. And Then I Go made its worldwide premiere at the 2017 Los Angeles Film Festival.  The film was picked up for distribution by The Orchard, and was released theatrically as well as on VOD and Digital HD on April 17, 2018.  On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 86%, based on 7 reviews, and a MetaCritic score of 77.  The film has received almost unanimous critical acclaim with Justin Lowe of The Hollywood Reporter calling it, "A powerful portrait of teen alienation."  Further stating, "A disturbing drama of teen disaffection, Vincent Grashaw’s feature provides an essential and insightful perspective that will resonate with audiences attuned to the challenges of adolescence."  Forbes goes on to call the film "an uncommonly poignant treatment of adolescence, darker but not entirely dissimilar from Richard Linklater's 2014 masterpiece, Boyhood, irrespective of where this particular story leads." Further stating, "And Then I Go is less a film about school shootings than one about the crushingly real struggles of youth, struggles that adults quickly forget or make light of, which often just exacerbates the problem. That such difficulties can lead, increasingly, to equally real tragic ends should give any parent or educator pause. We may not be able to stop school shootings once and for all, but recognizing that each one is unique, and likely the product of something far more commonplace than mental illness, might be a place to start."   Entertainment Weekly garnered the film with a 'B+' rating and listed as a 'Must See'.  Leah Greenblatt commenting, "What Grashaw does remarkably well, in the movie’s harrowing final minutes, is put us entirely inside Edwin’s head; not as a sociopath or a killer, just a boy in a world of pain."   In Michael Nordine's positive IndieWire review of the film declares, "We need to talk about this disturbing coming-of-age drama." calling it, "an intimate, sympathetic character study."   Bob Strauss with the LA Daily News stated the film is "a deep, lived-in study of bullied middle school kids who plan to solve their problems in the worst possible way."   Reel News Daily claims, "‘And Then I Go’ will haunt every parent in America."   We Live Entertainment begins it's review with, "'And Then I Go' is one of the most uncomfortably realistic films I’ve ever seen, which is also one of my highest compliments."   Christopher Llewellyn Reed of Film Festival Today gave the film a score of 4 out of 4 stars, stating, "Beautiful and haunting, 'And Then I Go' is a vital work of art, and a must-see movie for our time."   Moveable Fest's review states the film, "Powerfully Opens Up a Conversation on School Violence."   Hollywood News stated that the film, "promises to stay with you long after the credits role."   CNN stated, "'And Then I Go' pulls back the curtain on school shootings in America", calling it, "a powerful film."    