Assassination Nation is a 2018 American black comedy thriller film written and directed by Sam Levinson. It stars Odessa Young, Suki Waterhouse, Hari Nef, Abra, Anika Noni Rose, Colman Domingo, Maude Apatow, Joel McHale and Bella Thorne. The film had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival on January 21, 2018 and was released in the United States on September 21, 2018, by NEON, AGBO and Refinery29. It received mixed reviews from critics, who praised "frenetic and visually stylish" action but knocked the thinly-written characters.  Salem high school senior Lily Colson (Odessa Young) and her pals spend their time in a haze of social media and partying. When the people of Salem are targeted in a malicious data hack, all privacy is destroyed and lives are ruined as deadly secrets are exposed. The small town turns on each other and descends into violent chaos as they hunt for the culprit. Lily and her friends must band together if they want to survive the night and restore peace in the town they love in this satirical teen thriller. On October 2016, Matthew Malek and Anita Gou launched the independent label Foxtail Entertainment. The duo announced the movie as their first project. David S. Goyer and Kevin Turen joined them to produced the movie.  The movie is also produced by Bron Studios and Phantom Four, in association with Creative Wealth Media.  After the premiere at Sundance Film Festival, NEON acquired the movie rights. AGBO signed a deal with 30West, a company  who acquired a majority stake in NEON, to co-distribute the film with NEON.  In July 2018, Refinery29 also signed with NEON to co-distribute the movie with them and AGBO.  In December 2016, Odessa Young, Suki Waterhouse, Hari Nef and Abra joined the main cast of the film.  In March 2017, Bella Thorne, Maude Apatow, Bill Skarsgård, Joel McHale, Colman Domingo and Noah Galvin joined the cast.     In April 2017, Anika Noni Rose joined the cast for the role of Nance, an attractive woman with terrible taste in men, who has an unfortunate reputation in the conservative town of Salem.  Principal photography began in March 2017 in New Orleans.  The film had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival on January 21, 2018.   It is scheduled to be released on September 21, 2018 by NEON, AGBO and Refinery29. In the United States and Canada, Assassination Nation was released alongside The House with a Clock in Its Walls, Life Itself and Fahrenheit 11/9, and is projected to gross around $4 million in its opening weekend from 1,403 theaters.  On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 65% based on 48 reviews, with a weighted average of 5.8/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Assassination Nation juggles exploitation and socially aware elements with mixed results, but genre fans may find it too stylish and viscerally energetic to ignore."  On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 51 out of 100, based on 19 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews".  