Don't Cry Mommy (Hangul: 돈 크라이 마미; RR: Don keurai Mami) is a 2012 South Korean crime drama film directed by Kim Yong-han. The story was about a mother's revenge against her daughter's rapists.  It premiered at the 2012 Busan International Film Festival before its theatrical release.  The film was inspired by Kim Bu-Nam case. Director Kim Yong-han said he wanted to raise awareness about sex crimes by charting "the tragic course of the lives of victims and their families as vividly as possible. Sexual abuse is like devastating a human's soul."   Recently divorced, Yoo-lim (Yoo Sun) now lives with her only daughter, Eun-ah (Nam Bo-ra). Upon arriving at her new school, Eun-ah is frequently picked on, though she has feelings for classmate Jo-han (Shin Dongho). One day she is brutally raped by Jo-han and his friends who threaten to upload footage of the rape online to keep her quiet. Unable to cope with the trauma she was forced to endure, Eun-ah takes her own life. As all of the boys involved in the rape are still minors, the law is helpless to prosecute them to the fullest extent possible, and they walk away with little more than a slap on the wrist. Filled with frustration and anger, You-lim sets out to make the boys' lives a living hell. As You-lim's animosity and exasperation is transformed into ever more brutal acts of revenge, she is brought closer and closer to the edge of insanity.  2013 Baeksang Arts Awards 2013 Blue Dragon Film Awards This movie highlights the prevalence of sexual abuse throughout the world and how it goes unattended by the governments. In the movie, Eun-ah had to go through checks that made her insecure, despite very obvious scars and bruises inflicted onto her, to have the 3 boys released with no penalties, it depicts out the reality of how sexual abuse cases are treated. The 3 boys showed no remorse at all after the incident. Despite prompts by the mother after Eun-ah died, they denied what they have done and all 3 stated that she was stupid to have resorted to suicide. 