 State's Evidence is an independent film created in 2004 and released in 2006, directed by Benjamin Louis and starring Douglas Smith, Alexa Vega, Majandra Delfino, Kris Lemche, Cody McMains, and Drew Tyler Bell. Scott declares his intention to kill himself and say goodbye to his friends and relatives and to shoot it at his camera. After coming to school he tells about his intentions to five best friends (Brian, Rick, Patrick, Trudi, Sandy), which are trying to reassure him. But then they all decide to kill themselves too and buy few cameras for everyone, aiming to upload complete video to the website. Through the movie comes the story of Patrick, Sandy and Trudi explaining the reasons of their decision. Once Patrick occasionally filmed a local bully Tyrone Johnson with his girl and was beaten by him for that. From this moment Patrick starts his own plan wishing to kill some students who irritate him before killing himself.  Once he films a video where he makes a list of such students and shows it to his friends, explaining it as a joke. But some friends don't believe him and begin suspecting him.  Sandy (Alexa Vega) and Scott slowly fall in love with each other, Trudi and Brian become close friends, while Patrick is planning a real punishment. At night before common suicide Patrick shows a tape where he strangles an innocent little girl in a supermarket. The girls punish him calling him a murderer. Though the guys regret, they decide not to tell anyone about that case except of saving it on a camera, which they call "State's Evidence". They all arrange to meet at school at one time in same place and go to sleep. However Patrick and Rick get up earlier and go to school. In the hall Patrick charges the gun telling Rick to follow him and show everything he does. When he comes around the corner he starts shooting some students (among them are "a greedy fatman" and "religious girl" whom he was planning to kill in one scene). Then he looks for Tyrone and his friends. At this time other friends come to a corridor and see killed and injured schoolmates. Scott hurries to stop Patrick realizing that it was his fault. He finds Patrick threaten and abuse Tyrone who is crying on his knees and Rick still filming everything. Scott offers Patrick to let Tyrone go and "take him instead", but Patrick injures Scott and then kills Tyrone from one shot. Rick realizing that Patrick is serious throws the camera and runs away. Then Patrick takes the camera and pulls wounded Scott to a science room where he says on a camera that it wasn't a random killing and aimed to attract the attention of American people. He hopes that his act will stop teenage suicides and bullying at school and makes a shot in his head. Scott crawling to a friend takes a camera and tells in crying tone that it was a mistake. Then the police bursts into the room finding both of guys dead and switch off the camera. The film ends with Scott's mother crying near the TV-set. Created in 2004, State's Evidence traveled around the film festival circuits until it was picked up by distributor Terra Entertainment, and released on DVD on November 7, 2006. 