The Koreanic languages are a language family consisting of the modern Korean language together with extinct ancient relatives closer to it than to any other proposed links. The Jeju language of Jeju Island, considered by some as a dialect of modern Korean, is distinct enough to be considered a language in its own right by other authorities. Some consider that rather than being a language isolate, Korean forms a small language family, together with Jeju. Among extant languages, Korean is considered by most linguists to be a language isolate and by some as part of the widely rejected Altaic family or the Dravido-Korean languages.  Alexander Vovin (2015)  notes that Koreanic shares some typological features with the four Paleosiberian language groups (e.g. lack of phonemic voiced stops, verb compounding, earlier ergativity), and suggests that it actually has more in common with "Paleosiberian" (which is a geographical and areal grouping rather a genetic one) than with the putative Altaic group. Koreanic also has some loanwords from Paleosiberian languages.  Vovin notes that Koreanic has some Tungusic loanwords, but is not genetically related to Tungusic. The unclassificated Khitan language has many similar Korean vocabulary that are not found in Mongolian or Tungusic languages, This suggests a strong Korean presence or that Khitan was in fact a Koreanic or para-Koreanic language.  The periodization of the historical stages of Korean is as follows: Several ancient languages of the Korean peninsula—Silla, Buyeo, Goguryeo, Dongye, Okjeo, Baekje, Gojoseon and Ye-Maek—may have been ancestral to, related to, or part of Old Korean. Two branches are sometimes posited, Goguryeo and Han.  In ancient times, Koreanic languages, then established in southern Manchuria and the northern Korean peninsula, expanded southward to the central and southern Korean peninsula, displacing the Japonic languages spoken there and possibly causing the Yayoi migrations.      There is disagreement over the protohistorical or historical period during which this expansion occurred, ranging from the Korean Bronze Age period to the Three Kingdoms of Korea period. Modern Korean is traditionally considered a single language. However, Jeju (Cheju) is sometimes classified as a distinct language, for example in the UNESCO atlas on endangered languages. If that is accepted, there are two modern Koreanic languages, Jeju and Korean proper.  