 Innoventions is a museum at the Epcot theme park in Walt Disney World, Florida. It focuses on technological advancements and their practical applications in everyday life. Innoventions is a portmanteau of the words "innovation" and "invention". Innoventions first opened in 1994, replacing Communicore in Epcot. When the attraction opened, it prominently displayed Sega Genesis, Sega Game Gear, Sega 32X, Sega CD, and Sega Pico games in an arcade style. The exhibit also featured "virtual reality" displays. Epcot's version is divided into two buildings known as Innoventions East and Innoventions West. In 1999, Innoventions had a major renovation for the park's Millennium Celebration, and added the subtitle "The Road to Tomorrow". In 2007-2008 Innoventions underwent another major renovation, dropped the subtitle "Road to Tomorrow," and changed its general aesthetic again while also launching the companion website innoventions.disney.com. Today, Innoventions East is the only operating portion still using the Innoventions name while the building that formerly housed Innoventions West is mainly being used as the Epcot Character Spot. On May 19, 2015, Innoventions West closed for a major overhaul. It is being used as an extension of Epcot Character Spot for the time being.  Epcot's Innoventions' mascot for 2000-2007 was a small Audio-Animatronic character named Tom Morrow 2.0, the former host of Disney Channel's "Imagineer That!" shorts. He was removed in the 2007-2008 renovation. Tom Morrow 2.0 recently made an appearance at the Odyssey Building which also features Figment from the original Journey into Imagination ride, and one of the characters from Kitchen Kabaret. The area music played at Epcot is about 20 minutes long and begins with a musical piece by David Arkenstone entitled "Papillon (On The Wings Of The Butterfly)" from his album In the Wake of the Wind. The rest of the music was composed by Russell Brower for Walt Disney Imagineering and is not commercially available. Brower, along with Arkenstone, would then compose the music for the World of Warcraft games. 