Europeesche Lagere School is European elementary school system in the Dutch East Indies during colonial rule.  The schools were intended primarily for Europeans. The implementation of basic education at that time was differentiated between basic education for European children and indigenous children, so there was a primary school for a European child (Lagere Onderwzjks en Lagere School voor Eropeanen)  and an elementary school for native and foreign Eastern children attending the ELS school. Although special requirements were established, in 1902 the name Europeesche Lagere Scholen was used for European children's primary schools. It means to eliminate the impression that this school is solely for Europeans. Having been established for the first time in Weltevreden (Jatinegara), the ELS was growing more and more in number. In 1820 there was only seven schools, an in 1845 it became 24 schools, then the number of schools grew up to 68 in 1868, until finally became 198 (in 1917). It takes seven years to complete education in ELS. The subjects are the same as the primary school subjects in the Netherlands, except the subjects of Dutch History replaced with Dutch and Dutch East Indies. This History course emphasizes the geography of the Dutch East Indies rather than the Netherlands geography. The education is carried out in two levels, namely the basic education and the advanced education. The subjects given at the basic education level include reading, writing, numeracy, Dutch, Dutch and Indies history, earth sciences, natural knowledge, singing, drawing, and sports. Subjects given at advanced levels are French, English, general history, exact science, agricultural drawing, sports and handwork for female students. Problems relating to educational supervision were supervised by the commission for European schools while technical issues were handled by the Dutch Indies government education director, who in the course of his supervisory assignment divides the Dutch East Indies into five school districts. Below are lists of Europeesche Lagere School in the Dutch East Indies: 