 Comment: Substantial portions of the draft are copied from the school prospectus.  References do not meet the substantial independent coverage standard. • Gene93k (talk) 15:21, 20 September 2018 (UTC) Tower College is an independent day school located in the heart of Rainhill, England. It welcomes children aged 3 months to 16 years. Founded in 1948 by Mr Charles and Mrs Muriel Oxley, Tower College has a happy, secure, family atmosphere within which the pupils thrive. Mr Oxley remained the schools principle until his death in 1987 when his wife Mrs Oxley took over. Following Mrs Oxley's death in 1993, their daughter Miss Rachel Oxley became principle. In 2018, Miss Oxley retired, and Mrs Andrea O'Grady became the new head teacher at Tower College. In the school year 2017 - 2018, school fees ranged from £2324 to £2704 per term. .   Mill Lane  Rainhill  L35 6NE  Baxter  Cholerton Merlewood Tower College was founded in 1948 by Mr Charles Alexander Oxley, and his wife Mrs Muriel Jean Oxley . In late October 1946, Charles proposed to Muriel and after a week long engagement the couple were married in St Helens. Their married life was spent in Victoria College, Alexandria, Egypt where Mr Oxley taught pupils of all nationalities - including the King Hussein of Jordan, the Prince of Zanzibar and Omar Shariff. Whilst on leave, Mr and Mrs Oxley were involved in a family discussion regarding the schooling of their four year old niece, Janet. The little prep school attended by family members on both sides had closed during the war years and Mrs Oxley suggested to her husband that they could open a school themselves, based on similar principles, where pupils of all ages learned to work side by side, helping each other learn in a family atmosphere. This ambition, combined with Christian principles, and high academic standards, continues to be fulfilled 70 years on.  The derelict property known as 'The Tower' in Rainhill was purchased for the pricely sum of £1200 and the work commenced immediately. Mrs Oxley invested all of her savings from her photographic work into the new venture and learned rapidly to find bargains and negotiate prices. Mr Oxley had to return to Egypt to fulfil the terms notice, required on his contract, and Mrs Oxley task of preparing the accommodation began. The letters between the newly married couple concerned staffing, timetables, uniform, furnishings, equipment, fee levels (8 guinees per term!), and sweet nothings too! Mrs Oxley was expecting their first child at this time, and they looked forward in their letters to the date that they're first born would be wearing the uniform they had so lovingly designed, along with Janet. Mr Oxley returned for Christmas 1947, for a final term of preparation for Tower College, whilst completing his previously interrupted studies. All the hard work, investment and worry was worthwhile, when on April 6th 1948 Tower College opened the doors to the 94 pupils. Baby Marcus had put in an appearance just 2 weeks earlier, but had to wait 4 years for his uniform! As the school grew, so did the family, and two brothers and a sister joined Marcus at school. Janet was the first of many cousins to attend the school. Tower College is located on Mill Lane in the heart of Rainhill. The beautiful stone building, completed in 1880, at a cost of £80,000 remains at the heart of tower college. The original family, the Baxters, left before the first World War, during which time it was used as a hospital. It was almost derelict when it was purchased by Mr and Mrs Oxley in 1947.   The red sandstone building is now surrounded by lawns, terraces and trees. It has stately grandeur that lends and air of calm and peaceful dignity to the college. The spaciousness and beauty of the interior have a charm of homeliness, that give the children a sense of security and pride.   Pupils of the Lower, Middle and Upper Schools join one of the four Houses (Alexander, Cholerton, Merlewood and Baxter). In each, two Staff members are House Leaders, and four pupils are House Captains. Departments and genders are equally represented. Pre-prep pupils join their House in their final term before joining the Lower School so that they can enjoy cheering their House on in the sporting events of the Summer Term. Siblings join the same House and pupils whose parents are on the staff join the same house as their parent. The aims of the House system are to encourage participation and healthy competition in all spheres of school life, to praise and reward positive behavior and achievements and to encourage close working relationships between all departments Alexander House takes its name from Mr Charles Alexander Oxley, one of our schools’ Co-Founders. Cholerton House takes its name from Mrs Muriel Oxley nee Cholerton, another of our Co-Founders. Merlewood House takes its name from the house of Mrs Oxley’s sister, where a late night discussion amongst the family about good schools for a niece led Mrs Oxley to suggest the opening of a school. Baxter House takes its name from the family, copper smelters from Widnes, who built the original building; ‘The Tower’. Their initials can be seen in the Main Hall carvings and stained glass windows and their family crest became our school crest, with the appropriate motto ‘Labore et Honore’ ~ Work with Honour.  Central to the House system is the awarding of House points to pupils that will be counted and contribute to their House’s total points. Point totals are announced regularly, and prizes are awarded at the end of each term for the Prep school, at Speech Day for the whole school and at Sports Day for individual ‘Best in House’ winners. House points may be awarded for a variery of reasons in order to reinforce positive behavior and the values of “Achievement, Belonging and Compassion”. Table A below outlines the criteria for awarding house points. House points will be recorded on Integris and allow SMT to monitor the positive behavior of all pupils.  Tower Tots is an on site nursery that caters for children aged 3 months to 4 years. Founded in 2012, the nursery has flourished since then, and has been running at full capacity ever since, resulting in 3 expansions. It has been voted the number one day nursery in St. Helens and third best in the whole of the North West. The children often visit the residents in teh local community and also participate in collections for the local food bank. The nursery recently featured on BBC news and Granada reports with their re-enactment of the Royal Wedding.  Learning in the pre- prep department is fun, active, engaging and purposeful. The Early Years Foundation Stage Curriculum is followed which allows development of individual learning interests further, due to the small class sizes and ratios of staff to children. Strategies have been put in place to help children adapt to life at school.  Lower school comprises two classes each of years 2,3, and 4, with six established, enthusiastic teachers and three classroom assistants. Children are encouraged to 'aim high' in every area of learning. Mornings are usually spent working on Mathematics and English. In the afternoons, the children follow a rich and varied curriculum consisting of Science, Art, IT and PE. Specialist teachers who work across all departments take the pupils for Music and PE. Pupils attend swimming lessons and partake in many sporting activities that are often combined with charity events such as 'Jump Rope for Heart' and sponsored activities.  Middle school pupils enjoy the new experience of moving to specialist rooms for all lessons. They soon become used to having all that the need with them and learn that being organised is very useful! The pupils in years 5 and 6 enjoy their General Science and Design & Technology lessons. In years 7 and 8, the sciences are taught seperately: Physics, Biology and Chemistry.  Upper school pupils arrive in the Department very well prepared for the final stage of school life at Tower College. Everyone is very aware of the GCSE examinations throughout this stage and time is spent on career's advice, revision techniques and interview practice. Available GCSE courses include Maths, English Language, English Literature, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, History, Geography, Spanish, PE, Further Maths, PHSE, RE, Music, Art & Design and Computer science. Children are motivated to partake in enrichment activities from Tower Tots and Bluebird, all the way through to Upper School. Pre - Prep students participate in activities such as Art Club, Messy Play and Drama, while lower school students are offered the chance to visit Tatton for Anglo Saxon days, and Chester Cathedral. There are also many clubs available to the children including Dance Club, Craft Club and Nature Club. Middle school students are offered the opportunity to participate in activities such as Board Games, School Bank, Model UN and Cake and biscuit decorating. Duke of Edinburgh award schemes, Ski trips and Athletics are just some of the opportunities offered to Upper School students.  When Mr and Mrs Oxley founded the school in 1948, they wanted a recreation that could bring satisfaction to children, parents, teachers and to the school. Music was the answer. Annual events such as Musical Evenings were held, giving every child in the school, from the youngest to the oldest, a chance to perform. The programmes were always varied, ranging from singing to comedy sketches.  Music is still an integral part of the school, with annual concerts held at The Theatre Royal, St Helens   being an important part of the school year. One of our most notable alumni includes singer/ songwriter Sophie Morgan who toured with The Waterboys through the Autumn of 2017 .   The school playing field provides facilities for football, rugby, cricket, rounders and athletics. The all weather surface courts provide netball, tennis and basketball. Local recreation centre facilities are made use of so students can participate in swimming and squash. Some notable past students include Beth Taylor, who is currently undertaking a fully funded Tennis scholarship at Presbyterian College, South Carolina, USA , Jake Knox and Owen Smith whom have both been selected for Leigh Academy Rugby League, Dominic Wallis, who is now the face of Liverpool Hope University, and has competed for both St Helens and Merseyside and represented Knowsley council at the Dr pepper Dallas international cup in 2016  Category:Education 