Education is the process of facilitating learning, or the acquisition of knowledge, skills, values, beliefs, and habits. Educational methods include storytelling, discussion, teaching, training, and directed research. Education frequently takes place under the guidance of educators, but learners may also educate themselves.  Education can take place in formal or informal settings and any experience that has a formative effect on the way one thinks, feels, or acts may be considered educational. The methodology of teaching is called pedagogy. Education is commonly divided formally into such stages as preschool or kindergarten, primary school, secondary school and then college, university, or apprenticeship. In most introductory physics courses mechanics usually is the first area of physics that is discussed. Newton's laws of motion, which describe how massive objects respond to forces, are central to the study of mechanics.  The primary goal of physics education research is to develop pedagogical techniques and strategies that will help students learn physics more effectively. A variety of interactive learning methods (sometimes also called active learning methods) and laboratory experiences have been developed with this aim.  Read more... Memorial Hall is the civil war monument that now serves as Sanders Theater and the Annenberg freshman dining hall at Harvard University. Read more... http://wgntv.com/2018/02/23/trump-says-video-games-movies-partly-to-blame-in-school-shootings/ Seymour Papert (born March 1, 1928 Pretoria, South Africa) is an MIT mathematician, computer scientist, and prominent educator. He is one of the pioneers of artificial intelligence, as well as an inventor of the Logo programming language (1968), a tool to improve the way that children think about and solve problems. Pappert developed an interesting and original vision on learning called Constructionism, built upon the work of Jean Piaget (Constructivism). It rethinks how schools should work based on these theories of learning. It also focuses on the impact of new technologies on learning in general and schools as learning organisations in particular. Read more... Academic institutions:  Universities and colleges • Schools  (High schools and secondary schools,  Middle schools,  Primary and elementary schools)  Alternative education:  Education reform • Homeschooling • Religious education • Special education  Education by country:  Australia • Brazil • Canada • China • France • Germany • India • Israel • Japan • Korea • Nepal •  Pakistan • Russia • Scotland • United Kingdom • United States • Ukraine Education by subject:  Chemical • Language • Legal • Mathematics • Medical • Music • Physics • Public health • Science • Vocational Educators:  Educational psychologists • Principals and headteachers • Teachers  • University and college presidents Educational: Administration • Philosophy • Psychology • General:  History of education Education •  Education in Australia •  Education in Canada •  Education in India •  Education in Nepal •  Education in Pakistan •  Alternative education • School Years •  Schools •  Science and academia •   Universities •  Deletion sorting/Education   Read more... Education by country:  Australia • Armenia • Brazil • Canada • China • Cuba • Egypt • France • Germany • Hong Kong, China • India • Israel • Japan • Korea • Nepal •  Pakistan • Russia • United Kingdom • United States • More... Education by subject: Agricultural • Art • Bilingual • Chemistry • Hospitality management • Language • Legal • Mathematics • Medical • Military • Music • Peace • Philosophy • Physics • Reading • Religious • Sail • Science • Sex • STEM • Technology • Vocational • More... Educational stages: Preschool • Kindergarten • Primary • Secondary • Post-secondary (Vocational,  Higher education (Tertiary, Quaternary)) • More... Alternative education: Autodidacticism • Education reform • Gifted education • Homeschooling • Polymath • Religious education • Special education • More... General topics:  Book • List •  Glossary •  Philosophy •  Psychology •  Technology •  Stubs •  More... Join the Education WikiProject  - Help work on the tasks list   The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews  News Wikiquote  Quotations Wikisource  Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary  Definitions Wikidata  Database  