Avicenna Tajik State Medical University (ATSMU) is a public university in Tajikistan.  Established in 1939, it is located in Dushanbe and named after Avicenna.  It is managed by the Ministry of Health and is the only higher medical education facility in Tajikistan preparing medical personnel for the country.  Since its establishment in 1939, the medical university has educated more than 35,000 highly skilled medical personnel working not only inside the country, but abroad as well.  One of the primary goals of the University is to adjust the national system of medical education - structures, contents, terms and quality to the both international standards and requirements to the quality of a professional training, that will allow Tajikistan to join the world community of medical education and provide the development of the international cooperation in the field of training and advancing the professional skill of the medical staff. The University successfully proceeds on a direction of improving the quality of the public standard of the medical education and the development of new curricula and programs according to the requirements of the World Federation for Medical Education. Great attention is being paid to the constant improvement of the quality of medical education, and the quality of training the medical staff on a whole. University is considered a key scientific-methodical base of the Ministry of Health of the Republic, and the majority of achievements in the sphere of public health services of the country are directly connected with the activity of its professors. Each year the staff of the University carries out over 15000 surgical operations and over 45000 remedial and consultative actions that makes about 60% of all medical interventions to be carried out in the healthcare facilities of the city of Dushanbe.  Realization of research activity in the field of public health is one of the most important directions of the University activity, and an occasion for pride is that ATSMU has achieved the outstanding successes in scientific sphere. So, during recent 5 years 114 PhD and Doctor Theses were defended, 4984 articles and 35 monographs were published, 157 discoveries and the interventions have been defended by the patents.   The mandate of the University is to train high-qualified medical personnel according to the needs of the population of Tajikistan. To perform this task ATSMU has 796 faculty members working in 63 chairs, where the majority are outstanding and highly professional scientists. The University has four faculties - Medical, Dentistry, Pharmaceutical and Public Health Faculty. The total number of students at undergraduate and postgraduate levels makes 8844, including over 500 international students from 15 countries, such as India, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Egypt, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan etc.   The library fund of the University consists of 680334 items of educational, medical and scientific literature, including 151100 electronic books. The University has the well equipped electronic library, connected to the Internet, accessible to all beneficiaries. Taking into consideration the available resources and a spectrum of opportunities, the University library is considered to be the best specialized medical library in the country.  During the last years the capacity of the University was strengthened by opening various resources, scientific and clinical centers, such as Stem Cells Laboratory, Evidencebased Medicine Centre, Drug Information Centre, Educational-clinical Centre "Stomatology", Diagnostic and Treatment Centre, Clinical Skills Centre etc. Some centers and the laboratories working within framework of the ATSMU are unique in the republic, and provide methodological support to scientific and medical establishments at the national level.  ATSMU is included in the catalogue of the Foundation for Advancement of International Medical Education and Research (FAIMER), the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) and the Directory of the Medical Universities of the World Health Organization. The improvement of the quality of education and advancement of the level of training of the medical staff for the system of public health of the country is the priority goal of the management of the University. To attain this goal the experience of the best foreign medical educational institutions and also all existing real opportunities of the University itself are adopted.   The important directions of University activity is promotion of international cooperation, which facilitates improvement of the quality of curriculums, development of all-round and effective relations with medical institutions, high schools, the foreign research centers. Thus currently University has cooperation links with over 80 scientific - educational institutions of Canada, Austria, France, Germany, Sweden, Poland, China, Iran, Afghanistan, Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, as well as successful joint projects with WHO, SDC, USAID, GIZ, Global Fund, Soros Foundation, DAAD, TEMPUS, ISTC, UNFPA that contributes to the development of all-round cooperation with foreign partners. Coordinates: 38°36′06″N 68°47′07″E﻿ / ﻿38.6018°N 68.7854°E﻿ / 38.6018; 68.7854 https://tajmedun.tj/ru/ 