GeoGuessr is a web-based geographic discovery game designed by Anton Wallén, a Swedish IT consultant, released on 9 May 2013.  The game uses a semi-randomized Google Street View location and requires players to guess their location in the world using only the clues visible.  The website received hundreds of thousands of unique visitors per day within a week of being released.  The idea for GeoGuessr came from Wallén's love of visiting far away locations on Google Street View, and the way in which it gave a visitor the sense of actually being there.   He decided to add a gaming element to it.   The development of the game took a couple of weeks, spread over a period of several months.  It uses the Backbone.js JavaScript library and version 3 of the Google Maps API.  Wallén posted the completed game to Google Chrome Experiments on 10 May 2013.   GeoGuessr places the player on a series of five algorithmically determined semi-random locations around the world.   The locations are limited to roads and other paths that have been photographed by Google Street View cameras, which excludes the majority of Asia and Africa, large portions of South America and most of the far north in Canada and Russia.   The Street View window of GeoGuessr does not provide any information beyond the street view images and a compass; things such as road signs, vegetation, businesses, climate, and landmarks have been suggested as some clues that may help the player determine their location. The player may also move about along the roads through the normal directional controls provided by Street View. Once the player is ready to guess the location, they will place a location marker on a zoomable Google Map. After the placed marker is submitted as a guess, GeoGuessr reveals the true geographic location and assigns the player a score depending on how far away the player's guess was from the true location. Scores range between 0 for a guess at an antipode and 5000 points if the guess is within about 150 meters of the correct location.  A new location is then provided to the player, and the process repeats until the player has guessed five locations for a maximum of 25,000 possible points.  Newer features include a variable time limit and grouped challenges, such as "Famous Places" or "Sweden".  GeoGuessr was positively received by the media, with reviewers citing its simplicity of play and addictiveness.    The game has also been praised as an educational tool and has inspired a number of classroom exercises.   