The knowledge acquisition bottleneck is perhaps the major impediment to solving the word sense disambiguation (WSD) problem. Unsupervised learning methods rely on knowledge about word senses, which is barely formulated in dictionaries and lexical databases. Supervised learning methods depend heavily on the existence of manually annotated examples for every word sense, a requisite that can so far[update] be met only for a handful of words for testing purposes, as it is done in the Senseval exercises. Therefore, one of the most promising trends in WSD research is using the largest corpus ever accessible, the World Wide Web, to acquire lexical information automatically.  WSD has been traditionally understood as an intermediate language engineering technology which could improve applications such as information retrieval (IR). In this case, however, the reverse is also true: Web search engines implement simple and robust IR techniques that can be successfully used when mining the Web for information to be employed in WSD. The most direct way of using the Web (and other corpora) to enhance WSD performance is the automatic acquisition of sense-tagged corpora, the fundamental resource to feed supervised WSD algorithms. Although this is far from being commonplace in the WSD literature, a number of different and effective strategies to achieve this goal have already been proposed. Some of these strategies are: The automatic extraction of examples to train supervised learning algorithms reviewed has been, by far, the best explored approach  to mine the web for word sense disambiguation. Some results are certainly encouraging:  There are, however, several open research issues related to the use of Web examples in WSD:  Besides automatic acquisition of examples from the Web, there are some other WSD experiments that have profited from the Web:  It is clear,[according to whom?] however, that most research opportunities remain largely unexplored. For instance, little is known about how to use lexical information extracted from the Web in knowledge-based WSD systems; and it is also hard to find systems that use Web-mined parallel corpora for WSD, even though there are already efficient algorithms that use parallel corpora in WSD. 