A mondegreen /ˈmɒndɪɡriːn/ is a mishearing or misinterpretation of a phrase as a result of near-homophony, in a way that gives it a new meaning. Mondegreens are most often created by a person listening to a poem or a song; the listener, being unable to clearly hear a lyric, substitutes words that sound similar and make some kind of sense.   American writer Sylvia Wright coined the term in 1954, writing about how as a girl she had misheard the lyric "...and laid him on the green" in a Scottish ballad as "...and Lady Mondegreen".  "Mondegreen" was included in the 2000 edition of the Random House Webster's College Dictionary,  and in the Oxford English Dictionary in 2002. Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary added the word in 2008.   Examples in other languages include those cited by Fyodor Dostoyevsky,  in the Hebrew song "Háva Nagíla" ("Let's Be Happy"),  and in Bollywood films.  A closely related category is a Hobson-Jobson, where a word from a foreign language is homophonically translated into one's own language, e.g. cockroach from Spanish cucaracha.   For misheard lyrics this phenomenon is called soramimi, a Japanese term for homophonic translation of song lyrics.  An unintentionally incorrect use of similar-sounding words or phrases, resulting in a changed meaning,  is a malapropism. If there is a connection in meaning, it can be called an eggcorn. If a person stubbornly continues to mispronounce a word or phrase after being corrected, that person has committed a mumpsimus.  In a 1954 essay in Harper's Magazine, Wright described how, as a young girl, she misheard the last line of the first stanza from the 17th-century ballad "The Bonnie Earl o' Moray". She wrote: When I was a child, my mother used to read aloud to me from Percy's Reliques, and one of my favorite poems began, as I remember: The actual fourth line is "And laid him on the green". Wright explained the need for a new term: "The point about what I shall hereafter call mondegreens, since no one else has thought up a word for them, is that they are better than the original."  Her essay had already described the bonny Earl holding the beautiful Lady Mondegreen's hand, both bleeding profusely but faithful unto death. She disputed: "I know, but I won't give in to it. Leaving him to die all alone without even anyone to hold his hand—I WON'T HAVE IT!!!"  Other examples Wright suggested are: People are more likely to notice what they expect than things not part of their everyday experiences; this is known as confirmation bias; they may mistake an unfamiliar stimulus for a familiar and more plausible version. For example, to consider a well-known mondegreen in the song "Purple Haze", one would be more likely to hear Jimi Hendrix singing that he is about to kiss this guy than that he is about to kiss the sky.  Similarly, if a lyric uses words or phrases that the listener is unfamiliar with, they may be misheard as using more familiar terms. The creation of mondegreens may be driven in part by cognitive dissonance, as the listener finds it psychologically uncomfortable to listen to a song and not make out the words. Steven Connor suggests that mondegreens are the result of the brain's constant attempts to make sense of the world by making assumptions to fill in the gaps when it cannot clearly determine what it is hearing. Connor sees mondegreens as the "wrenchings of nonsense into sense".[a] This dissonance will be most acute when the lyrics are in a language the listener is fluent in.   On the other hand, Steven Pinker has observed that mondegreen mishearings tend to be less plausible than the original lyrics, and that once a listener has "locked in" to a particular misheard interpretation of a song's lyrics, it can remain unquestioned, even when that plausibility becomes strained. Pinker gives the example of a student "stubbornly" mishearing the chorus to "Venus" ("I'm your Venus") as "I'm your penis," and being surprised that the song was allowed on the radio.  The phenomenon may, in some cases, be triggered by people hearing "what they want to hear", as in the case of the song "Louie Louie": parents heard obscenities in the Kingsmen recording where none existed.  James Gleick claims that the mondegreen is a distinctly modern phenomenon. Without the improved communication and language standardization brought about by radio, he believes there would have been no way to recognize and discuss this shared experience.  Just as mondegreens transform songs based on experience, a folk song learned by repetition is often transformed over time when sung by people in a region where some of the song's references have become obscure. A classic example is "The Golden Vanity", which contains the line "As she sailed upon the lowland sea".  English immigrants carried the song to Appalachia, where singers, not knowing what the term lowland sea refers to, transformed it over generations from "lowland" to "lonesome".  The top three mondegreens submitted regularly to mondegreen expert Jon Carroll are:  Both Creedence's John Fogerty and Hendrix eventually acknowledged these mishearings by deliberately singing the "mondegreen" versions of their songs in concert.    The national anthem of the United States is highly susceptible (especially for young grade-school students) to the creation of mondegreens, two in the first line. Francis Scott Key's "Star-Spangled Banner" begins with the line: "O say can you see, by the dawn's early light."  This has been accidentally and deliberately misinterpreted as "Jose, can you see", another example of the Hobson-Jobson effect, countless times.   The second half of the line has been misheard as well, as "by the donzerly light"  or other variants. This has led to many people believing that "donzerly" is an actual word.  "Blinded by the Light", a cover of a Bruce Springsteen song by Manfred Mann's Earth Band, contains what has been called "probably the most misheard lyric of all time".  The phrase "revved up like a deuce", altered from Springsteen's original "cut loose like a deuce," both lyrics referring to the hot rodders slang deuce (short for deuce coupé) for a 1932 Ford coupé, is frequently misheard as "wrapped up like a douche".   Springsteen himself has joked about the phenomenon, claiming that it was not until Manfred Mann rewrote the song to be about a "feminine hygiene product" that the song became popular. [b] A 2010 survey in Britain found that the most commonly misheard lyric was "Call me when you try to wake her" in R.E.M.'s "The Sidewinder Sleeps Tonite," which was misheard as "Calling Jamaica" or "Calling Cheryl Baker" (in the United Kingdom). Other misheard lyrics reported in the survey included "See that girl, watch her scream, kicking the dancing queen,"  from the ABBA song "Dancing Queen" ("See that girl, watch that scene, diggin' the dancing queen"). In the United Kingdom, the BBC received complaints after Billy Ocean had performed his song "When the Going Gets Tough, the Tough Get Going" on the TV show Top of the Pops, because some viewers misheard the lyrics as "go and get stuffed." Rap and hip hop lyrics may be particularly susceptible to being misheard because they do not necessarily follow standard pronunciations. The delivery of rap lyrics relies heavily upon an often regional pronunciation or non-traditional accenting of words and their phonemes to adhere to the artist's stylizations and the lyrics's written structure. This issue is exemplified in controversies over alleged transcription errors in Yale University Press's 2010 Anthology of Rap.  For example, in the 2015 song "Post To Be" by Omarion ft. Chris Brown & Jhené Aiko, Aiko's lyric "I might have that nigga sailing his soul for me" was widely misheard as "selling his soul" but it was really  a play on the title of Aiko's mixtape Sailing Soul(s).  Sometimes, the modified version of a lyric becomes standard, as is the case with "The Twelve Days of Christmas". The original has "four colly birds"  (colly means black; cf. A Midsummer Night's Dream: "Brief as the lightning in the collied night." ); sometime around the turn of the twentieth century, these became calling birds, which is the lyric used in the 1909 Frederic Austin version.[c] A number of misheard lyrics have been recorded, turning a mondegreen into a real title. The song "Sea Lion Woman", recorded in 1939 by Christine and Katherine Shipp, was performed by Nina Simone under the title "See Line Woman". According to the liner notes from the compilation A Treasury of Library of Congress Field Recordings, the actual title of this playground song might also be "See [the] Lyin' Woman" or "C-Line Woman".  Jack Lawrence's misinterpretation of the French phrase "pauvre Jean" ("poor John") as the identically pronounced "pauvres gens" ("poor people") led to the translation of La Goualante du pauvre Jean ("The Ballad of Poor John") as "The Poor People of Paris", a hit song in 1956.  A Monk Swimming by author Malachy McCourt is so titled because of a childhood mishearing of a phrase from the Catholic rosary prayer, Hail Mary. "Amongst women" became "a monk swimmin'".  The title and plot of the short sci-fi story "Come You Nigh: Kay Shuns" ("Com-mu-ni-ca-tions") by Lawrence A. Perkins, in Analog Science Fiction and Fact magazine (April 1970), deals with securing interplanetary radio communications by encoding them with mondegreens.  In Beverly Cleary's children's book Ramona the Pest, Ramona mishears "by the dawn's early light" as "by the dawnzer lee light" and concludes that a "dawnzer" must be a kind of lamp.  "Olive, the Other Reindeer" is a 1997 children's book by Vivian Walsh, which borrows its title from a mondegreen of the line "all of the other reindeer" in the song "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer".  The book was adapted into an animated Christmas special in 1999. A monologue of mondegreens appears in the 1971 film Carnal Knowledge. The camera focuses on actress Candice Bergen laughing as she recounts various phrases that fooled her as a child, including "Round John Virgin" (instead of '"Round yon virgin...") and "Gladly, the cross-eyed bear". The enigmatic title of the 2013 film Ain't Them Bodies Saints is actually a misheard lyric from a folk song; director David Lowery decided to use it because it evoked the "classical, regional" feel of 1970s rural Texas.  "Mondegreens" was the name of a segment on the Australian music quiz show Spicks and Specks (ABC TV).  Mondegreens have been used in many television advertising campaigns, including: The traditional game Chinese whispers ("Telephone" in the United States) involves mishearing a whispered sentence to produce successive mondegreens that gradually distort the original sentence as it is repeated by successive listeners. Among schoolchildren in the U.S., daily rote recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance has long provided opportunities for the genesis of mondegreens.    The travel guide book series Lonely Planet is named after the misheard phrase "lovely planet" sung by Joe Cocker in Matthew Moore's song Space Captain.   In Dutch, mondegreens are popularly referred to as Mama appelsap ("Mommy applejuice"), from the Michael Jackson song Wanna Be Startin' Somethin' which features the lyrics Mama-se mama-sa ma-ma-coo-sa, and was once misheard as Mama say mama sa mam[a]appelsap. The Dutch radio station 3FM had a show Superrradio (originally Timur Open Radio) run by Timur Perlin and Ramon with an item in which listeners were encouraged to send in mondegreens under the name "Mama appelsap". The segment was popular for years.  The title of the film La Vie en rose depicting the life of Édith Piaf can be mistaken for "L'Avion rose" (The pink airplane).   The French word "lapalissade", designating a gross truism or platitude, is derived from the name of Jacques II de Chabannes, Seigneur de La Palice, because of a misread mondegreen in a mourning song written just after his heroic death. Reading an "f" as a long "s" (ſ), "s'il n'était pas mort, il ferait encore envie" ("if he were not dead, he would still arouse envy") becomes "il serait encore en vie" ("he would still be alive"). This truism remains as the first and most well-known "lapalissade" in French. The title of the 1983 French novel Le Thé au harem d'Archi Ahmed ("Tea in the Harem of Archi Ahmed") by Mehdi Charef (and the 1985 movie of the same name) is based on the main character mishearing le théorème d'Archimède ("the theorem of Archimedes") in his mathematics class. A classic example in French is similar to the "Lady Mondegreen" anecdote: in his 1962 collection of children's quotes La Foire aux cancres, the humorist Jean-Charles  refers to a misunderstood lyric of "La Marseillaise" (the French national anthem): "Entendez-vous ... mugir ces féroces soldats" (Do you hear those savage soldiers roar?) is heard as "...Séféro, ce soldat" (that soldier Séféro). Ghil'ad Zuckermann cites the Hebrew example mukhrakhím liyót saméakh ("we must be happy", with a grammar mistake) instead of (the high-register) úru 'akhím belév saméakh ("wake up, brothers, with a happy heart"), from the well-known song "Háva Nagíla" ("Let's be happy").  The Israeli site dedicated to Hebrew mondegreens has coined the term "avatiach" (Hebrew for watermelon) for "mondegreen", named for a common mishearing of Shlomo Artzi's award-winning 1970 song "Ahavtia" ("I loved her", using a form uncommon in spoken Hebrew).  A paper in phonology cites memoirs of poet Antoni Słonimski, who confessed that in the recited poem Konrad Wallenrod he used to hear "zwierz Alpuhary" ("a beast of Alpujarras") rather than "z wież Alpuhary" ("from the towers of Alpujarras").  The most well-known mondegreen in Brazil is in the song "Noite do Prazer" (Night of Pleasure) by Claudio Zoli: the line "Na madrugada a vitrola rolando um blues, tocando B. B. King sem parar" (At dawn the phonograph playing a blues, playing B. B. King nonstop), is often misheard as "Na madrugada a vitrola rolando um blues, trocando de biquini sem parar" (at dawn the phonograph playing a blues, [people are] exchanging bikini nonstop). Russian author Fyodor Dostoyevsky, in 1875, cited a line from Fyodor Glinka's song "Troika" (1825) "колокольчик, дар Валдая" ("the bell, gift of Valday") claiming that it is usually understood as "колокольчик, дарвалдая" ("the bell darvaldaying"—supposedly an onomatopoeia of ringing).  In Turkey, the political Democratic Party changed its logo in 2007 to a white horse in front of a red background because many voters mispronounced its Turkish name Demokrat, instead saying demir kırat ("iron white-horse").  A reverse mondegreen is the intentional production, in speech or writing, of words or phrases that seem to be gibberish but disguise meaning. A prominent example is Mairzy Doats, a 1943 novelty song by Milton Drake, Al Hoffman, and Jerry Livingston.  The lyrics are a reverse mondegreen, made up of oronyms,  so pronounced (and written) as to challenge the listener (or reader) to interpret them: The clue to the meaning is contained in the bridge: With that clue, the listener can figure out that the last line is "a kid'll eat ivy, too; wouldn't you?" Other examples include: Two authors have written books of supposed foreign-language poetry that are actually mondegreens of nursery rhymes in English. Luis van Rooten's pseudo-French Mots D'Heures: Gousses, Rames includes critical, historical, and interpretive apparatus, as does John Hulme's Mörder Guss Reims, attributed to a fictitious German poet. Both titles sound like the phrase "Mother Goose Rhymes". Both works can also be considered soramimi, which produces different meanings when interpreted in another language. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart produced a similar effect in his canon "Difficile Lectu" (written c. 1786-87, when he was 30 or 31), which, though ostensibly in Latin, is actually an opportunity for scatological humor in both German and Italian.  Some performers and writers have used deliberate mondegreens to create double entendres. The phrase "if you see Kay" (F-U-C-K) has been employed many times, notably as a line from James Joyce's 1922 novel Ulysses  and in many songs, including by blues pianist Memphis Slim in 1963, R. Stevie Moore in 1977, April Wine on its 1982 album Power Play, the Poster Children via their Daisy Chain Reaction in 1991, Turbonegro in 2005, Aerosmith in "Devil's Got a New Disguise" in 2006, and The Script in their 2008 song "If You See Kay". Britney Spears did the same thing with the song "If U Seek Amy". A similar effect was created in Hindi in the 2011 Bollywood movie Delhi Belly in the song "Bhaag D.K. Bose". While "D. K. Bose" appears to be a person's name, it is sung repeatedly in the chorus to form the deliberate mondegreen "bhosadi ke" (Hindi: भोसडी के), a Hindi expletive. "Mondegreen" is a song by Yeasayer on their 2010 album, Odd Blood. The lyrics are intentionally obscure (for instance, "Everybody sugar in my bed" and "Perhaps the pollen in the air turns us into a stapler") and spoken hastily to encourage the mondegreen effect.  Notes Citations 