In sociology and  cultural studies, reappropriation or reclamation is the cultural process by which a group reclaims terms or artifacts that were previously used in a way disparaging of that group.  The term reappropriation is an extension of the term appropriation or cultural appropriation used in anthropology, sociology and  cultural studies to describe the reabsorbing of subcultural styles and forms, or those from other cultures, into mass culture through a process of commodification: the mass-marketing of alternate lifestyles, practices, and artifacts.    A reclaimed or reappropriated word is a word that was at one time pejorative but has been brought back into acceptable usage, usually starting within the communities that experienced oppression under that word but sometimes also among the general populace as well.  (The term "reclaimed word" more often implies usage by a member of the group that is referred.) That can have wider implications in the fields of discourse and has been described in terms of personal or sociopolitical empowerment.  Reclaiming or reappropriating a word involves re-evaluating a term that is or was, in the dominant culture, used to by a majority to oppress various minorities of the same culture,  such as "queer", once seen as pejorative but now reclaimed and used as a self-reference by some.   Reclaimed words differ from general reclamation outside of language because of their deliberately provocative nature. In addition to neutral or acceptable connotations, reclaimed words often acquire positive meaning within the circles of the informed.  Outside the community, such transitions are rare. As such, the use of these terms by outside parties is usually viewed as strongly derogatory. For some terms, even "reclaimed" usage by members of the community concerned is a subject of controversy; for example, there is considerable debate within the transgender community over attempts to reclaim the term "tranny", usually applied offensively to trans women.      There are many recent English-language examples of some linguistic reappropriation in the areas of human sexuality, gender roles, sexual orientation, etc. Among these are: However, the phenomenon is much older, especially in politics and religion. In England, for example, Cavalier was a derogatory nickname reappropriated as self-identification,  while Roundhead, a Royalists derisory term for the supporters of the Parliamentary cause, is not (it was a punishable offence in the New Model Army to call a fellow soldier a roundhead).  Tory (orig. from Middle Irish word for "pursued man" Tóraidhe ), Whig (from "whiggamore" (See the Whiggamore Raid)) and "Suffragette" are other British examples. In the American colonies, British officers used Yankee, from a term used by the British to refer to Dutch pirates, as a derogatory term against colonists. British soldiers created the early versions of the song "Yankee Doodle", as a criticism of the uncultured colonists, but during the Revolution, as the colonists began to reappropriate the label "yankee" as a point of pride, they likewise reappropriated the song, altering verses, and turning it into a patriotic anthem.  In the 1850s in the United States, a secretive political party was derisively dubbed the Know Nothing party, based on their penchant for saying "I know nothing" when asked for details by outsiders; this became the common name for the party. It eventually became a popular name, sufficiently so that consumer products like tea, candy, and even a freighter were branded with the name.  One of the older examples of successful reclaiming is the term "Jesuit" to refer to members of the Society of Jesus. This was originally a derogatory term referring to people who too readily invoked the name of Jesus in their politics,  but which members of the Society adopted over time for themselves, so that the word came to refer exclusively to them, and generally in a positive or neutral sense,  even though the term "Jesuitical" is derived from the Society of Jesus and is used to mean things like: manipulative, conspiring, treacherous, capable of intellectually justifying anything by convoluted reasoning.     Another example can be found in the origins of Methodism; early members were originally mocked for their "methodical" and rule-driven religious devotion, founder John Wesley embraced the term for his movement.  Members of the Religious Society of Friends were termed "Quakers" as an epithet, but took up the term themselves. To a lesser extent, and more controversially among the groups referred to, many racial, ethnic, and class terms have been reappropriated: More generally, any kind of community can reappropriate words referring to them: 