    Mihira Bhoja (836–885 CE) or Bhoja I was a ruler of the Gurjara-Pratihara dynasty of India. He succeeded his father Ramabhadra. Bhoja was a devotee of Vishnu and adopted the title of Adivaraha which is inscribed on some of his coins.  One of the outstanding political figures of India in ninth century, he ranks with Dhruva Dharavarsha and Dharmapala as a great general and empire builder.  At its height, Bhoja's empire extended to Narmada River in the South, Sutlej River in the northwest, and up to Bengal in the east. It extended over a large area from the foot of the Himalayas up to the river Narmada and included the present district of Etawah in Uttar Pradesh.   During his reign, the capital was in Kannauj (present-day Uttar Pradesh), during his period Kannauj was referred as Panchala. He was a bitter enemy of the Arab invaders  who, according to an Arab chronicler, Sulaiman, maintained a large army and had a fine cavalry.  The territories under his rule were prosperous and safe from robbers. His state was rich in natural resources, especially gold and silver mines.  Many temples made by him still survive. Teli Mandir, near Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, marks the presence of Vishnu on  earth. The temple's architecture, design and layout features an outstanding fusion of architectural styles: the roof resembles a Dravidian style while the decoration highlights the art of North India. He was succeeded by his son Mahendrapala I (c.836 - 910 CE). When Mihira Bhoja started his career reverses and defeats suffered by his father Ramabhadra had considerably lowered the prestige of the Royal Gurjara Pratihara family. He invaded the Pala Empire of Bengal, but was defeated by Devapala.  He then launched a campaign to conquer the territories to the south of his empire and was successful. After Devapala's death, Bhoja defeated the Pala King Narayanapala and the Rashtrakuta ruler Krishna II. :20–21  He gradually rebuilt the empire by conquest of territories in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. The Chandelas of Bundelkhand acknowledged his suzerainty.  Besides being a conqueror, Bhoja was a great diplomat.  According to the sources (inscriptions found in Gawilor)  Mihira Bhoja defeated Dharmapala  the ruler of Pala Empire. But defeated by his son Devapala. There are other sources which claims that  Mihira Bhoja defeated some of the Arab  rulers  of the northwest.  Mihira Bhoja's epithet was Srimad-Adivaraha (the  fortunate primeval boar incarnation of Vishnu) and therefore there is a broad agreement amongst the scholars on the attribution of adivaraha dramma billon coins to him. These coins have a depiction of Adivaraha on the obverse.  