C3 Presents is a concert promotion, event production and artist management company based out of Austin, Texas.  C3 also produces several iconic multi-day festivals including Austin City Limits Music Festival in Texas,  Voodoo Music + Arts Experience in New Orleans,  and Lollapalooza in Chicago along with its six international editions.  C3   was founded by Charles Attal, Charlie Jones and Charlie Walker in 2007(2)  and headquartered in Austin, TX, with offices in Los Angeles, Atlanta, and New Orleans.  The company also promotes more than 1,100 concerts annual in arenas, casinos and clubs throughout North America. In the Fall of 2014, Live Nation began talks to purchase a 51% stake in the Austin company’s events production and promotions businesses.    At the time, C3 was largest independent concert promoter in the world.  The deal was completed in December of that year. Annually, C3 Presents produces the following festivals: •	All Things Go  Fall Classic  •	Auckland City Limits Music Festival   •	Austin City Limits Music Festival   •	Austin Food + Wine Festival   •	Chipotle Cultivate Festival   •	In Bloom Music Festival (formerly FPSF)   •	Innings Music Festival   •	Lollapalooza Argentina   •	Lollapalooza Berlin   •	Lollapalooza Brazil   •	Lollapalooza Chicago   •	Lollapalooza Chile   •	Lollapalooza Paris   •	Lollapalooza Stockholm   •	Music City Food + Wine Festival   •	Music Midtown   •	NFL Draft   •	Shaky Beats Music Festival   •	Shaky Knees Music Festival   •	Sydney City Limits Music Festival   •	Voodoo Music + Arts Experience   •	Obama Election Night Celebration (2008 and 2012)     •	Obama White House Easter Egg Roll   C3 also books and promotes over 1,000 shows nationwide, including Austin venues Stubb's BBQ, Emo's and La Zona Rosa. In addition to promotion and production, C3 Presents also has an artist management division operating in New York City, Los Angeles, Nashville, and Austin.  C3 Management has a current roster of over 50 musicians    including The Strokes, Phoenix, Lindsey Buckingham, My Bloody Valentine, The Head And The Heart, The Revivalists, Justice, Sylvan Esso, and Gramatik.   The company also maintains its own freestanding radio promotion, film/TV, digital, and creative staffs.   