ICM Partners is a talent and literary agency with offices in Los Angeles, New York, Washington D.C. and London. ICM (International Creative Management) Partners represents clients in the fields of motion pictures, television, music, publishing, live performance, branded entertainment and new media. Its corporate headquarters are in Constellation Place in Century City, Los Angeles.    ICM was formed in 1975 through the merger of Creative Management Associates and International Famous Agency. In 2005, the company raised a financing round of $75 million from Rizvi Traverse.   In 2006, ICM acquired the literary agency Broder Webb Chervin Silbermann.   In 2012, the agency completed a management buyout and formed a partnership with the new name, ICM Partners.  In March 2018, ICM acquired the Just For Laughs comedy festival, as part of a partnership with Howie Mandel.   In June 2018, ICM formed a joint venture partnership with esports-focused talent agency Evolved  . ICM Partners' motion picture department represents Academy Award-winning film actors, actresses, directors and writers from around the world. The department also features a division dedicated to key production professionals such as cinematographers, editors, 2nd unit directors, composers, production designers, costume designers and visual effects supervisors. ICM Partners' International and Independent Group structures and arranges financing and packaging, and secures distribution for independent motion pictures. ICM Partners' television department represents Emmy Award winning on-air and creative talent in all segments of the industry, including network, cable and first-run syndication.  ICM Partners represents several noted executive producers and other showrunners and has successfully packaged hit shows such as Grey’s Anatomy; Scandal; The Black List; The Big Bang Theory  Dancing with the Stars; Modern Family; Criminal Minds; Undercover Boss; Cougar Town; House; Breaking Bad; Mike & Molly; The Simpsons; Two and a Half Men; Sons of Anarchy; Psych; The Ellen DeGeneres Show; America’s Next Top Model; Kitchen Nightmares; Last Comic Standing; Don't Forget the Lyrics; Friends;  Army Wives; Cheers; Sex and the City; Frasier; Scrubs; and The X-Files.  ICM Partners represents recipients of the Nobel Prize, Pulitzer Prize, National Book Award and many other prestigious literary honors. Among the agency’s clients are Patricia Cornwell,  Thomas Friedman,  Anna Quindlen, E.L. Doctorow, Walter Isaacson, Carl Hiaasen,   Tom Bissell, Anthony Swofford, Chris Cleave, Candace Bushnell, John Feinstein,  Ann Patchett, Carol Higgins Clark and Steve Martin. In addition, the agency represents the estates of Theodor Geisel (Dr. Seuss), Arthur Miller,  E.B. White, and Tennessee Williams, among others. The agency routinely represents more than 100 titles on the New York Times Best Seller list annually. ICM Partners' concert and live appearances department represents artists in all musical genres as well as comedians and lecturers. The agency arranges engagements and tours in venues around the world for a wide range of acts.  ICM Partners’ global branded entertainment division’s services range from celebrity endorsements, product placement and music tour sponsorship  to brand integration, such as the creation and packaging of original branded films and television shows.  The agency's celebrity endorsements department services all ICM Partners' film and television talent for on-camera, print and voiceover commercial work as well as for paid media campaigns in the U.S. and overseas .  