  The Center for Economic and Social Studies (CESS) is an Indian autonomous research institute, established in 1980 to facilitate research activity in Economics and Social Sciences. It was a brain child of B.P.R. Vithal, IAS (Retd)., a former Principal Secretary to Government of Andhra Pradesh, Finance and Planning Department. The campus is situated at Begumpet, in Hyderabad. The centre celebrated its silver jubilee in 2006 with special silver jubilee seminar inaugurated by Prime Minister, Dr. Manmohan Singh.  One of its founder member, Prof. C. H. Hanumantha Rao was nominated to the National Advisory Council (NAC) in 2005   This institute takes up research in the fields of  Rural Development and Poverty, Agriculture and Food Security, Irrigation and Water Management, Public Finance, Demography, Health and Environment. It also undertakes research projects sponsored by the State and Central governments, as well as international agencies like World Bank, Department For International Development (DFID), Ford Foundation, European Community, Rockefeller Foundation and Asian Development Bank. Conducting interdisciplinary research in analytical and applied areas of social sciences, encompassing socio-economic and other aspects of development, constitute the predominant activities of the Center. This institute is conducting M.Phil. and Ph.D. Programmes in Development Studies in the specific areas of Economics, Commerce, Development Statistics, Political Science & Public Administration, Sociology and Geography in collaboration with Telangana University, Nizamabad. The  M.Phil Programme was started in 1986 and the Ph.D Programme  was started in 1991.  It is a part-time Programme that enables the faculty of colleges, research organisations, NGOs etc., to undertake research in areas of their interest without having to take a long leave from their regular jobs. The policy guidance to this Programme is framed by a Research Programme Committee (RPC) comprising subject experts from several academic institutes in Hyderabad. Till October 2010, 61 candidates have been awarded Ph.D Degrees and M.Phil Degrees have been awarded to 86 candidates. Currently, there are 83 Ph.D students and 72 M.Phil students on rolls. The Center is equipped with advanced computer system and networking facilities and Video Conferencing Equipment. The  Cartography Cell attached to the Center,  completed several cartographic studies, viz. "Spatial Framework for Planning and Development Administration", "Godavari Valley Development Plan", "Shore Area Perspective Plan", "Medak District Planning Atlas", "Tribal Development Atlas of Andhra Pradesh", "Geo-thermal Atlas of Rajasthan", "Geo-tectonic Map of India", etc. The Center has four conference halls with excellent acoustic and projection facilities which can be used for official meetings and seminars where parallel sessions can be conducted. The new Auditorium was Inaugurated by the Hon'ble Prime Minister of India Dr. Manmohan Singh in January, 2006. The premises also houses the Nizamia observatory  operated by the Osmania University. It is governed by a Board of Governors consisting of eminent Professors in Economics,  Scholars and personalities,  besides Principal Secretaries to Government of Andhra Pradesh, Finance and Planning Departments and representative(s) of Indian Council of Social Science Research. The Institute gets grant in aid from the Government of Andhra Pradesh and The Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR) (Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India. Besides, it generates funds for the Projects that are assigned by various institutions and agencies. Its activities are expanded beyond the state of Andhra Pradesh and cover other areas of the country. The Center is recognized as an institute for advanced research in social sciences by the University of Hyderabad and Osmania University. The Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR) (Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India), in appreciation of its role in promotion of research and training, recognized this center as a national institute in the year 1986 and included the Center in its network of institutions. 