The Council for Economic Education  (the new name, since 2009 January, of the National Council on Economic Education) is an organization in the United States that focuses on the economic and financial education of students from kindergarten through high school.  The mission of the Council for Economic Education is to instill in young people the fourth “R”—a real-world understanding of economics and personal finance. It is only by acquiring economic and financial literacy that children can learn that there are better options for a life well lived, will be able to see opportunity on their horizon line and, ultimately, can grow into successful and productive adults capable of making informed and responsible decisions.  Headquartered in New York City, CEE provides classroom resources to K-12 teachers and students, free professional development to educators, webinars, standards and assessment tools, and guidance for advocacy and outreach.  The Council for Economic Education is working on a campaign to increase economic literacy. It was reported in 2013 that five million K-12 students annually used the Council for Economic Education's personal-finance and economics education.  The Council for Economic Education measures through a biennial survey financial literacy education across the United States by state.  The National Economics Challenge (NEC) is a high school economics competition. Each year, over 11,000 students across the U.S. participate in the competition. The Challenge recognizes exceptional high school students for their knowledge of economic principles and their ability to apply problem-solving and critical-thinking skills to real-world events.  The National Economics Challenge is the only national competition of its kind, with students showcasing their knowledge of economics in a fun, challenging, and rewarding contest. The competition begins at the state level, with state champions advancing to the National Semi-Final round and the top performers subsequently advancing to the National Final round, which is held in New York City. Teams of four students answer rigorous questions on microeconomics, macroeconomics, international economics, and current events. At the National Final level, students complete rounds of multiple choice testing, work in teams to solve critical thinking case problems, and participate in a quick-paced oral quiz bowl in order to earn the title of National Economics Challenge Champions. The National Economics Challenge offers a two-division contest format based on students’ economics coursework. The Adam Smith division is designed for students who are enrolled in Advanced Placement, international baccalaureate and honors economics courses. The David Ricardo division is fashioned for students who have received a general economics education, typically of one semester or less. The two-division system provides high school students of varying levels of economics practice with the chance to compete against their peers. The Council for Economic Education sponsors the National Economics Challenge. The Council for Economic Education released its National Content Standards in Personal Finance in March 2013 that are a personal finance course for high.  The Annual Conference is a nationwide meeting of K–12 educators, CEE affiliates from across the country, Federal Reserve partners, and other educators in this field. The conference features a selection of professional development workshops on economic and financial literacy geared for elementary, middle and high school levels. Topics include pedagogy and resources, curriculum strategy for schools/school districts, teaching strategies, assessment and research, new programs and best practices. In addition to the workshops, speakers address current economic and financial topics to enable educators to bring these perspectives back to their classrooms. The conference also features roundtable sessions led by master teachers to discuss shared issues and successes, and informal opportunities for networking. The following is a partial list of donors to the Campaign for Economic Literacy.  Each has donated at least 100,000 US Dollars to the Campaign. Other past contributors:   