The Global Development And Environment Institute (GDAE, pronounced “gee-day”) is a research center at Tufts University founded in 1993. GDAE works to promote a better understanding of how societies can pursue their economic and community goals in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner. GDAE pursues its mission through original research, policy work, publication projects, curriculum development, conferences and other activities Neva Goodwin  and William Moomaw are co-directors of GDAE.  The Theory and Education program, headed by Jonathan Harris is developing an economic theory that aims to better serve human needs and address ecological issues. The program explores alternatives to the standard economic paradigm, using new theories and producing educational material.  The Research and Policy program, led by Timothy Wise, carries out applied research on the effects of economic policies using an analytical framework that assesses the limitations of market-mechanisms for addressing social and environmental issues. Research priorities include globalization, food policy, Foreign Direct Investment, energy and climate change, recycling and materials use, and sustainable economic integration.  GDAE researchers emphasize ecological health and the correlation between social and economic well-being. They view economic systems in physical contexts of technology and the natural world, as well as in the social/psychological contexts of history, politics, ethics, culture, institutions, and human motivations.   Between 1995 and 2001 GDAE produced the six-volume series, Frontier Issues in Economic Thought, which was published by Island Press. The articles that GDAE researchers selected and summarized for this project focus on the limitations of the mainstream economic paradigm and a wide range of creative efforts that have been and are being made to extend economic understanding.  GDAE is in the process of distributing an electronic collection of publications for free to universities in 138 nations,   with special attention to those institutions that are most in need of library resources. The collection, or the Social Science Library (SSL), contains over 3,400 full-text journal articles, book chapters, reports, and working papers in anthropology, economics, history, philosophy, social psychology, sociology and political science.  It also includes full bibliographic references (including abstracts) to more than 6,000 additional articles. The SSL is being distributed to these countries with the assistance of various partner organizations.  For people who are not in the recipient countries, a web-based version, with the 10,000+ bibliographic entries, but without the full text PDFs, can be accessed.  In 2000, GDAE established the Leontief Prize.  Named in honor Wassily Leontief, Nobel laureate and member of the GDAE advisory board, the annual award recognizes outstanding contributions to economic theory that address contemporary realities and support just and sustainable societies.   Coordinates: 42°24′20″N 71°07′30″W﻿ / ﻿42.405628°N 71.125017°W﻿ / 42.405628; -71.125017 