The Vancouver School of Economics  (also known as  VSE ) is a school of the University of British Columbia located in Vancouver, BC, Canada. The school consistently ranks as one of the top 25 in the world and top in Canada.     The school exhibits high research activity and offers undergraduate and graduate degrees. The Vancouver School of Economics is ranked: based on research contribution 2007-2011.  The school's faculty have won 5 of the 11 John Rae Prizes given by the Canadian Economics Association. This prize is awarded to the Canadian economist with the best recent research.  The School manages the British Columbia Inter-University Research Data Centre. The RDC provides access, for approved projects, to selected confidential Statistics Canada micro-level data.  Additionally, the School operates the Experimental Lab, an active hive for research in the emerging field of experimental economics; and the Institute for Advanced Studies in Economics, a collaborative teaching and research initiative by the Vancouver School of Economics and the Strategy and Business Economics Division, Sauder School of Business. Bachelor of Arts in Economics Programs: Honours, Major/Combined Major, Minor, and Second Degree (third year entry into programs) Bachelor of International Economics Program (direct entry, 4-year, cohort-based degree) Master of Arts in Economics Program (12-month program) Doctoral Program In 2002, UBC's Faculty of Arts expanded the number of full-time equivalent undergraduate student spaces in economics by 50%, as it is one of the most popular areas of study at UBC. Admittance to an academic program in economics at UBC is highly competitive. Academic programs in economics in UBC's Faculty of Arts are all administrated by the Vancouver School of Economics (formerly the Department of Economics). For instance, for the September 2013 intake for the 85 spaces in the BIE program over 2,100 applications were received; and over 480 applications were submitted for the 284 third-year spaces available in the Majors program. Undergraduate BA programs (honours, major/combined majors, minors, dual degrees) – 1,042 students. Additionally, several hundred students take undergraduate BA courses in economics each term as general electives. Undergraduate BIE program – 84 students for the inaugural year of the program. Graduate MA program – 45 students in the 2013/14 academic year Graduate PhD program – 67 students in the 2013/14 academic year; admits an entering class of about 15 students annually. The VSE (and its predecessor, the Department of Economics) has many reputable faculty and alumni, including: Students in the VSE come from many backgrounds and represents a very diverse and international backgrounds. The undergraduate students are represented to the school by the Vancouver School of Economics Undergraduate Society (VSEUS.) The graduate students also have representatives (1 in Masters and 1 in PhD) that represent their respective needs to appropriate bodies within the university. Students who graduate from the VSE go on to graduate school, work in consulting firms, governmental agencies and international organizations. In September 2013, the school had 67 faculty members specialize in a wide range of topics, including banking policy, taxation effects, global macroeconomics, labour market and skills development, gender and environmental economics, developmental economics, economic history, and the emerging field of experimental economics. Faculty members include eight researchers affiliated with the National Bureau of Economic Research, six researchers affiliated with the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research, two current and one former research fellow of the Bank of Canada, two elected fellows of the Econometric Society, four fellows of the Royal Society of Canada, and one of the Distinguished Fellows of the American Economics Association. Professors Emeritus – 16 Professorial Faculty (Professors, Associate Professors and Assistant Professors) – 38 Lecturers, Instructors and Visiting Faculty – 13 Affiliated Economics Faculty (Strategy and Business Economics Division, Sauder School of Business) – 7 