 Fake or Fortune? is a BBC One television series which examines the provenance and attribution of notable artworks.  Since the first series aired in 2011, Fake or Fortune? has drawn audiences of 5 million viewers in the UK , the highest for an arts show in that country.  Fake or Fortune? was created by art dealer and art historian Philip Mould and producer Simon Shaw, inspired by Mould’s book Sleuth (2009), which was the programme’s working title during the development phase.  It is co-presented by Mould and journalist Fiona Bruce, with specialist research carried out by Dr. Bendor Grosvenor during the first five seasons. Forensic analysis and archival research is carried out by various fine art specialists.   Each series first aired on BBC One, except the third series accidentally first aired on SVT.  The seventh series aired in August and September of 2018. In each episode Philip Mould and Fiona Bruce focus their attention on a painting (or a group of paintings), usually related to one particular artist. Season 7, episode 5 saw the show tackle their first sculpture, a work attributed to Alberto Giacometti. The team, assisted by Bendor Grosvenor in series 1 to 5, investigate the paintings on a number of fronts: establishing the provenance of the piece by working backwards from present day to the time of the work's creation; on a forensic level, with investigation and scientific tests on the materials used to help establish specific time frames; and examining the unique painting styles and quirks of the artist. This evidence is then presented to established authorities to help demonstrate the legitimacy of the work and its possible addition to the relevant catalogue raisonné.  There were four episodes in the first series, which started on 19 June 2011: Bords de la Seine à Argenteuil Children Under a Palm Tree The Procuress Man in an Oriental Costume The first episode of the second series was shown in the UK on 16 September 2012. The series had three episodes: Turner – The Beacon Light Turner – Off Margate Turner – Margate Jetty Van Dyck – Portrait of Queen Henrietta Maria, as St Catherine before restoration The third series features four episodes. The first episode was first shown on 27 December 2013, on Sweden's SVT, with episodes 2 and 3 shown in the following weeks.  Philip Mould described the appearance on Swedish television weeks ahead of the British premiere as a "weird BBC World cock-up".  SVT on its website described the programme at the time as a "Brittisk dokumentärserie från 2012" (British documentary from 2012).  The Café (1918) by Édouard Vuillard Imaginary Landscape by Thomas Gainsborough Portrait of Joseph Gape by Thomas Gainsborough The series had four episodes: Charles Henty seeks to validate the provenance of two inherited paintings, one by Alfred Munnings and one, putatively by Winston Churchill, discovered in a coal hole of a house in Ebury Street. Having suffered the death of his uncle, Charles wishes to sell the paintings to fund the continuation of a working farm in France. Philip Mould visits David Coombs, a leading expert on the art of Churchill, who is unconvinced by the painting on account of the unfamiliarly well painted figures. He is particularly concerned by the colouring which, he feels, is tonally dissimilar to Churchill's accepted oeuvre. Having travelled to France, the team discover, thanks to Luc Tombeur, that the painting is not of Èze, as originally thought, but of the Fountain of Saint-Paul in Saint-Paul-de-Vence. They are introduced to Joy Lutenbacher, who recalls that her aunt, Joan Smith, witnessed Churchill paint the fountain. Bendor Grosvenor also finds evidence in a 1949 newsreel that Churchill painted the scene. Finally, Lutenbacher provides a signed photo of Churchill that had been given to Joan Smith, dated October 1945. Despite this evidence, Coombs' initial 'serious misgivings' have not disappeared, and he decides to include the painting in his catalogue raisonné, although only in the 'Mysteries' section. Filming for the fifth series started on 24 November 2015.  The four-episode series was broadcast on 17 July 2016.  Saint Amelia, Queen of Hungary by Paul Delaroche The sixth series started on 20 August 2017.  It waw originally planned to have four episodes before one was postponed.  The team investigate two possible works by Paul Gauguin which have been brought to their attention. One appeared to be the first pencil sketch for Gauguin's Tahitian masterpiece When Will you Marry?. It had been bought by the viewer's art historian grandfather, but its authenticity was in doubt because it appeared to be a copy of a sketch in Gauguin's notebook. The team establish provenance that takes it back to Gauguin and show that it had been cut from the sketchbook sometime between 1916 and 1932. It is accepted as genuine by the Wildenstein Institute. Willy Lott's Cottage by John Constable The seventh series consists of five episodes and started on 12 August 2018.  The team investigates two rare portraits of black British subjects from the 18th and 19th centuries, pictures which are highly unusual in their positive depiction of black sitters at a time when Britain was still heavily engaged in slavery.  The first case is a double portrait featuring Dido Belle, a former slave who became a member of the aristocratic Mansfield family, and her cousin Lady Elizabeth. The painting is on display at Scone Palace in Scotland and was commissioned by the first Lord Mansfield, Dido Belle's guardian, sometime in the late 1770s or early 1780s. The abolishionist Mansfield, a judge, had ruled in the infamous case of the Zong massacre. The painting's original attribution, to Johan Zoffany, is considered wrong, but the identity of the actual artist is unclear. The second painting, even more unusual, is of two beautifully-dressed black girls holding a book in what appears to be a tropical landscape. Early clues suggest this could be a political painting, perhaps connected to the campaign to abolish slavery in British colonies. The signature was not legible. Answering the programme's call for works of art other than paintings, Philip and Fiona investigate what appears to be a plaster sculpture of Alberto Giacometti's early work Tete qui regarde or Gazing Head.   The object shows signs of extensive damage, and a CT scan reveals it has been stapled, stitched and glued back together several times. Philip visits the Sainsbury Centre for Visual Arts at the University of East Anglia, where he learns more about how the cast would have been produced. The investigation leads Fiona to France where the current owner's grandmother modelled at the same time and place where Giacometti worked. Without a clear trail of evidence linking the piece to the sculptor, however, the team changes its approach, and discovers that one of the genuine Gazing Head plasters is considered lost by its British owner, the estate of S. J. Woods, suggesting that it might be possible the piece was purchased from Woods rather than in Paris.  Dido Elizabeth Belle Lindsay and her cousin Lady Elizabeth Murray by David Martin Describing the outcome of the first episode of series one as a "scandal", Sam Wollaston writing for The Guardian found the programme "incredibly interesting" and praised it "for being about just one case in which you can become totally involved, instead of flitting between three, which is what so many documentaries seem to do".  In The Telegraph, Ceri Radford was described as being "flabbergasted" at the result of the first episode, but concluded her review by saying: "This may have been a disappointing finale, but it at least confirmed that this aesthetically pleasing, quietly enjoyable new series isn't afraid to thwart expectations."  Tom Sutcliffe in The Independent had a mixed view as a result of the presentation of the facts, saying: "It was full of cliffhanger tension and thrilling moments of discovery. But I couldn't entirely shift the suspicion that some of it was just a little too good to be true."  The first programme of the third series, shown in the UK on 19 January 2014, had 4.8 million viewers (a 21.8% audience share)  while the first programme of the fourth series attracted 4.85m (24.5%).  The record audience for the series was on 12 July 2015 with a peak attendance of 5.8 million viewers (episode 4.2 "Renoir").  Reviewing an episode of the seventh season, Michael Hogan of The Telegraph wrote "Arts programming is an increasingly endangered beast on prime time television. This absorbing and enjoyable series flies the flag in quietly thrilling fashion."  The programme had its North American premiere on Canada's TVOntario in 2011.  It has also aired on PBS in the United States.  The programme airs on ABC in Australia.  