The Institut national d'histoire de l'art (INHA; National Institute for Art History) is a French research institute, created and governed by Decree No. 2001-621 (July 12, 2001) and situated in Paris. The Institute develops scientific activity and contributes to international cooperation in most fields of art history and heritage by exercising research, training and knowledge-diffusion. It is located in the Galerie Colbert in Paris, which houses the Department of Education and Research and the Richelieu Quadrilateral Area. The latter's Labrouste Room houses the Department of Documentation, which holds collections from the Art and Archeology Library founded by Jacques Doucet in 1897 and donated in 1917 to the University of Paris. The INHA's mission is to promote international art historical research in all fields of the history of art. It pilots a large number of programs by gathering together university researchers and curators. It organises study days, symposiums, conferences and meeting-debates and develops different resources, documentary bases and research programs in art history. Each year, the INHA invites about sixty art historians, among them experienced researchers, academics, curators, art critics and doctoral students. Twice a year, the INHA publishes a scientific review on art history entitled Perspective. Many documentary bases are to be found on the INHA's website. The institute is located in Paris at 2, Rue Vivienne, in a former 17th century town house converted into a gallery in the 19th century. Its art history library, one of the largest in the world with more than 1,700,000 documents, is located in the Labrouste room of the Bibliothèque nationale de France at 58 rue de Richelieu. The INHA provides access to external and internal online databases like AGORHA (Accès global et organisé aux ressources en histoire de l’art) which allows several search modes in the different research fields of the INHA: general search (or use « Rechercher » in the bar), simple search, expert search and search by links, in particular in the RETIF (répertoire des tableaux italiens dans les collections publiques françaises (XIIIe-XIXe siècles)) which gives the 13,761 italian paintings held in French public collections.  Coordinates: 48°52′00″N 2°20′22″E﻿ / ﻿48.8668°N 2.3394°E﻿ / 48.8668; 2.3394 