Geomedical engineering is a discipline that applies the engineering practice to medical geology issues for the purpose of preventing medical geology risks to human and animal health. Geomedical engineering deals with the engineering principles and techniques to prevent or reduce the impacts of geological, geochemical and geoenvironmental factors on human and animal health. The term "geomedical engineering" was coined by Pakistani geologist Dr. Atteeq-Ur-Rehman in 2009 in his paper titled "Geomedical Engineering: A new and captivating prospect".  Some naturally occurring elements are extremely dangerous for human health when digested excessively.  The aim of the studies in geomedical engineering is to pinpoint the poisonous contents of natural environments to cope with the forthcoming health dangers and ambiguities. In addition, geomedical engineering would provide supportive techniques to deal with the geological threats to prevent or minimize their impacts on human and animal health. It's significant need has been greatly realized due to the rapid growth in population and advent of environmental concerns. There is a dire need of getting an augmented awareness of this issue among scientists, engineers, medical specialists and general public as well.  Geomedical Engineering would establish and combine the engineering and geological solutions to muddle through the health hazards originated by geological and geo-environmental factors. It includes: A geomedical engineer prepares the maps of certain areas indicating extent and toxicity of deleterious elements in earth materials and waters. He or she marks the hazardous areas and those likely to be hazardous with the consultation of a medical geologist. He or she would advise and implement the reclamation techniques by artificial addition of certain minerals or salts to the materials and water after discussing with the medical specialist. He or she would also implement the technique to stop the artificial addition of toxic substances from external sources and environment. He or she designs the certain water and soil treatment programs to control toxicity risks and support the society to convene the sustainable usage of natural resources and environment which help them to create a balance between man and geoenvironment.  Medical geology examines the role of rocks, soils, and groundwater in controlling the health of humans and animals, and considers the influence of environment on the geographical distribution of health problems. Planet earth is the ultimate source of all metals which are inhomogeneously distributed and occur in different chemical forms. Drinking water travels through the rocks and soils as a part of hydrological cycle. Thus medical geology: Whereas geomedical engineer 