Mink Trapping – A Book of Instruction Giving Many Methods of Trapping – A Valuable Book for Trappers. One of Harding's Pleasure & Profit Books.  A collection of mink trapping instructions and tips from the author and other trappers in the United States and Canada, including photographs and illustrations. The book gives information on where and how to set for mink, including land, water, blind sets, baits and scent to use, methods in Northern and Southern states, size and care of skins.   I have had a world of experience trapping but very limited at catching, says an Arkansas trapper, yet plenty of both to be fully capable of solving the question as to whether or not mink are afraid of the scent of iron. It is simply this. Some mink are positively afraid of it and some are positively not so.The mink is very cunning and hard to catch in a steel trap unless you know how and where to set, which is about the only secret there is in catching mink. I have had people write to know what scent I used and how I set traps. A man can learn better methods as long as he traps—experience is the best teacher and unless he is willing to work hard he will never make a successful trapper of any kind of game. – Moses BoneMINK TRAPPING – While this book has only been upon the market about one year the first edition is nearly sold and the second is being printed and bound.  While this book contains less than 200 pages 5x7 inches it is by far the best book for mink trappers ever produced.  The author in his introduction says:  "While there are some excellent mink trappers no one man has studied out all the methods, for the conditions under which the trapper in the South makes his largest catches would probably be of little to the trapper of the Far North, where snow covers the ground the greater part of year.  Conditions along the Atlantic are than the Pacific, and as well the used by thousands of trappers along Mississippi and its tributaries differ the Eastern or Western Coast trapper, for the mink's food is not the same along fresh inland waters as the coast or salt water.  The methods published are from all of the country, and many experienced trappers tell of their best methods, so that it makes no difference in what part of you live, something will be found of to trap in your section. Most of the articles are taken from those published in the H-T-T with slight correction." First published by A. R. Harding Publishing Company, Columbus, Ohio, August 6, 1906 (copyright), later editions are currently available in hardcover and paperback.   