 Archipelago Learning is an American subscription-based, software-as-a-service provider of education studies used by over 14 million students in nearly 38,700 schools throughout the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Their comprehensive digital supplemental product suite uses technology to transform education. Their goal is to make rigorous learning fun, engaging, accessible, and affordable.  The company's core business, Study Island, provides standards-based instruction, practice, testing and other tools for students in Kindergarten through 12th grade. During the 2010-2011 school year, Study Island products were utilized by approximately 11 million students in nearly 23,700 schools in 50 states and 3 Canadian provinces. These students answered over 3.6 billion practice questions. In April 2009, Archipelago Learning introduced Northstar Learning, which provides instruction, practice, assessment, and test preparation for college and career subject areas through a web-based platform. In June 2010, Archipelago Learning acquired EducationCity, which provides an online K-6 educational program that includes instructional content and assessments in language arts, mathematics and science. At the end of 2010, EducationCity was being used by 9,200 schools in the U.K. and 6,000 in the U.S. In August 2010, Archipelago Learning entered an agreement with Blake Publishing and began distributing Reading Eggs in the U.S. and Canada. Reading Eggs is a comprehensive, online supplemental literacy program for students Pre-K to grade 2. In June 2011, Archipelago Learning purchased Alloy Multimedia, which publishes ESL ReadingSmart. ESL ReadingSmart, is an online, standards-based program for English language learners (ELL) targeted toward grades 4-12. The product offers individualized, content-based instruction to develop English language proficiency with emphasis on literacy and academic language development. Founded in 2000, the company is headquartered in Dallas, Texas and is a publicly held company with the largest shareholder being Providence Equity Partners, a media focused private equity firm. The company went public in November 2009 under the ticker (NASDAQ: ARCL). On 17 May 2012, Archipelago Learning (ARCL) was acquired by PLATO Learning in an all-cash deal valued at $291 million.  As a result, the stock was delisted. The company sells a suite of supplemental educational software products. Study Island is the company's most popular site. It is a product used by many teachers for test prep, assignments and benchmarking. Study Island is also broken into 2 subscriptions. Study Island for Home, for home users, and Study Island for Schools, for schools. Study Island started in 2000.  EducationCity is a developer and publisher of online educational learning solutions with offices in Chicago, USA and Rutland, UK. Archipelago acquired EducationCity in June 2010.  Reading Eggs is a comprehensive, online supplemental literacy program for students Pre-K to grade 2. The Reading Eggs program combines progressive learning activities, colorful animations, music, and a built-in rewards program to motivate and engage children. There are also products based with Reading Eggs that are Reading Eggspress and Mathseeds. ESL ReadingSmart, is an online, standards-based program for English language learners (ELL) targeted toward grades 4-12. The product offers individualized, content-based instruction to develop English language proficiency with emphasis on literacy and academic language development. Study Island was founded in May 2000 by Cam Chalmers and Dave Muzzo, originally providing tools related to the Ohio Proficiency Test Program. By 2002, Study Island had expanded to four states, Ohio, North Carolina, New York, and Michigan and serviced 180 schools. Continuing its rapid growth plan, Study Island, which moved its offices to Dallas, Texas added six states in 2003 and expanded its coverage to 750 schools. In January 2007, Providence Equity Partners and MHT Partners together with co-founders Cameron Chalmers and David Muzzo completed a recapitalization of Study Island in which Archipelago Learning was created to acquire 100% of the outstanding shares of Study Island.  In June 2008, the company acquired TeacherWeb and in August 2009 the company acquired a minority interest in Edline, a private educational technology company. Also, in April 2009, the company launched Northstar Learning, marking its first entry into the postsecondary education market. In October 2009, it launched in Canada.  In November 2009, Archipelago Learning launched a $75 million initial public offering on the NASDAQ under the symbol "ARCL".    It also sold TeacherWeb in November 2009.  In June 2010, it bought EducationCity expanding the company's school count and portfolio of products in the U.S. and providing an entry point into the U.K.  Later that summer the company entered into a distribution agreement with Blake Publishing, and in August 2010 began selling Reading Eggs in the U.S. and Canada. In June 2011, they acquired Alloy Multimedia, the publisher of ESL ReadingSmart, an English language learning program. 