 Campus Consortium, previously CampusEAI Consortium, is a non-profit IT consulting firm.  Founded in 2003, Campus Consortium connects approximately 37,000 education institutions to increase their access to innovative technologies.  Campus Consortium was founded by fourteen institutions in response to increasing IT budget cuts, resource constraints, and the needs of incoming students. Among the founding universities are the University of Montana;  the University of Nevada, Las Vegas; and Oklahoma State University.  CampusEAI Consortium was incorporated as a non-profit in Ohio by Executive Director, now Chairman, Anjli Jain in June 2003. The Executive Advisory Committee was established in June 2004 composed of CIOs from various member campuses. In June 2005, the company received a grant from the City of Cleveland to move its headquarters from the BioEnterprise incubator located on the Case Western Reserve University campus to downtown Cleveland. The following August, CampusEAI Consortium received a Certificate of Recognition from the Mayor of Cleveland in recognition of the Consortium's active participation in creating a new IT industry in Cleveland and for the organization's dedication to servicing higher education. In January 2006, CampusEAI Consortium launched hosting and SaaS services for web applications including portal, collaboration, LMS and ERP software. Gartner announced CampusEAI Consortium as the "Cool Vendors in Web Technology" for its support of innovative new technologies and unique business model in April 2010. That same month, CampusEAI was spun out as a for-profit to support its growth and provide future incentives (eg. equity) to the startups it was incubating. In January 2011, CampusEAI Consortium establishes an office in Gurgaon, India. In March 2012, CampusEAI Consortium announced an investment in consolidated help desk services and partnered with five campuses to launch BlackBeltHelp. In September 2012, CampusEAI Consortium announced an investment in Kryptos Mobile as an industry-first cloud-based, self-service app development and publishing platform. CampusEAI Consortium opened EVC Ventures accelerator in Gurgaon, India in July 2014. In August 2014, CampusEAI Consortium invested in IDaaS starting with announcing its incubation of and investment in QuickLaunch SSO. The following month, it officially launched EVC Ventures. CampusEAI Consortium launched EdTalks in February 2015. In January 2016, the company changed its name from CampusEAI Consortium to Campus Consortium. In February 2016, Campus Consortium announced a partnership with Government of India to launch I-MADE program with a goal of launching 1 million mobile app start-ups in 5 years by providing all 35,000 intuitions with an app development platform and programs to help campuses and students adopt and create mobile-first solutions.  In June 2016, Campus Consortium established Chicago as its new executive headquarters. Since its founding in 2003, Campus Consortium has provided information technology grants to higher education institutions and public sector agencies through its Grant Program. The Campus Grant Program is designed for institutions seeking to implement an internet/intranet Portal. Recipients of the grant receive financial and organizational assistance in integrating a portal into existing systems and protocols for online and distance education, SIS software and administrative computing, school and organization web properties, student-based web publishing, wireless and e-commerce initiatives. Recipients of the Campus Grant include: In February 2010, the Campus Grant Program was featured as part of the White House Initiative on historically black colleges and universities.  The initiative was established in 1980 by President Jimmy Carter as a federal program to help historically black colleges and universities overcome the effects of discriminatory treatment and provide quality education. The program exists today to help strengthen the capacity of historically black colleges and universities to provide excellence in education. Campus Consortium has also been featured in Maryland's Governor's Grants Office list. The Consortium has played a vital role at providing colleges with generous grants to revolutionize the education, some of the 2017 Grant Awardees include Oregon State University,  Dakota Wesleyan University,  Alvin Community College.  For the entire list, Campus Consortium lists each award winner on the website. 