Multimedia Learning: - Lab 300, Study 500 Language Learning: - Lab 100, Lab 200, Lab 300, Study 700, Study 1200 Classroom Management: Sanako is a technology company developing language teaching solutions, teaching and classroom management software, virtual learning and professional development solutions. Sanako's multimedia learning solutions are used by universities, schools, educational institutions and corporations in more than 100 countries. Based in Finland, the company has sales offices in China, India, UAE, UK and US. Sanako supports its over 30,000 classroom installations through a network of over 200 business partners worldwide.  Multimedia learning solutions have been designed for use on PCs, providing tutors live interaction with students during cross-curricular teaching, and making multimedia, Internet resources and classroom management tools available. Products for multimedia learning include Sanako Study 1200, Sanako Study 700, Sanako Study 500, Sanako Lab 300. Language learning solutions include traditional language labs, PC-based multimedia suites, and mobile and wireless systems. Current products for language learning are Sanako Lab 100, Sanako Lab 300, and Sanako Study 1200. Classroom management solutions allow tutors manage the technology resources used during live learning sessions. Products for classroom management include Sanako Study 500, Sanako Study 700, Sanako Study 1200, and Sanako Study Modules. Professional services provided by Sanako and its global partner network include training, system installation, helpdesk, maintenance, and remote system support. Sanako products have been designed for the Windows software platform. The company is a Microsoft Certified Partner. External analog and digital devices used during classes can be connected to a number of Sanako products for integrated teaching environment. The company has integrated some of its products with [Blackboard Inc.|Blackboard Academic Suite]. Sanako is co-operating with SIVECO in order to introduce integrated content products to the technology platform. Sanako's learning systems can be extended to wireless handheld devices. The Nokia N810 Internet Tablet has been integrated with the classroom management solution, allowing students to personalise their learning environment and teachers to monitor classroom use of the devices. 