Popexpert is an online learning platform that allows users to connect face-to-face with experts in a variety of subject areas.  The experience all takes place on the Popexpert site, allowing users to book, pay, and video chat all from their accounts.  Not unlike CreativeLive, Skillshare.com, and Lynda.com, Popexpert’s “Life, Work, and Play” categories are geared towards emotional intelligence and personal development.  Popexpert is currently based at 1020 Kearny Street in San Francisco, California. Popexpert connects experts with users through curated courses and one on one sessions. In 2014, Popexpert began offering video classes by its cache of experts, jumpstarted by Carrie Hammer's "Role Models not Runway Models" master course    and Shauna Shapiro and Pediatrician Chris White's "Mindful Discipline" workshop. Experts in Meditation, Nutrition, Personal Style, Career Development, and many other disciplines can be found in Popexpert's Live, Work, and Play categories.  Sessions with experts typically last fifty minutes and offer a personalized experience.  They use a video platform that allows users to type and save notes for future study.  Notable experts include Ashton Kutcher, Latham Thomas, and Mikaela Reuben   among other celebrities and academics. Popexpert was founded in 2012 by "Entrepreneur to watch"  Ingrid Sanders after a life changing sabbatical inspired her to try and change the world through education.   She was soon joined by Paypal co-founder Ken Howery and former colleague Jeremy Thomas, who came on as CTO.  After a year, the Popexpert team had developed relationships with over 2,000 of the best experts in  EQ topics.  They raised a $50k seed round November 28, 2012 followed immediately by another $450k December 14, 2012. By May 21, 2013 Popexpert secured both $1.7M and $2M in funding for an overall total of $4.20M.  A sample of Popexpert's investors include Learn Capital, BoxGroup, Expansion Venture Capital, Ken Howery, Michael Chasen, Jonathan Segal, Capricorn Investment Group, David Tisch, Noah and Jonah Goodhart, Miki and Radha Agrawal, Mark Ein, Justin Dangel, Jeremy Hinman, Nivio founder Sachin Duggal,  and Mike Walsh. In April 2016, According to The Wall Street Journal, It was reported that PopExpert Filed for Bankruptcy.  