 System Technology-i Co. Ltd. is a Japanese e-learning company covering three lines of business: an enterprise-grade learning management platform, technical certified training, and publishing of e-content and technical books. All of the company’s products are branded with the iStudy name. The in-house developed learning management platform is delivered to corporate customers either in-house or as a Cloud-based application using the ASP/SaaS model. In addition, System Technology-i Co. Ltd. has developed a collaborative meeting solution for paperless meetings. In 2014, the company introduced multilingual support for its products and started to develop its activities in Malaysia and Singapore. The company was founded in 1997 and is based in Tokyo, Japan. iStudy brand was created in 1999   and is dedicated to learning solutions and services offered by System Technology-i Co. Ltd. Like many Japanese companies, System Technology-i Co. Ltd. is following the Kaizen philosophy in the development of its products and services.  @meeting   is a product for executive meeting functions, in particular the paperless meeting, Board portal and team collaboration tool. Products under this brand are available only outside Japan. System Technology-i Co. Ltd. develops an e-Learning enterprise level solution that serves as the learning management system for financial institutions i.e. bank, insurance, health care organization, governments. iStudy e-learning solutions include:  iStudy Enterprise Server is a corporate Learning Management System targeted at medium and large sized organizations such as banks, health care or manufacturing. The product includes skills assessment, planning and management of the training, content creation, and delivery. The platform has multilingual support. In Japan, iStudy Enterprise Server is used by over 1 million users.  iStudy Paperless Meeting  is a paperless meeting platform using a Smart device. It is used by executives and managers to facilitate internal meetings and encourage active meeting participation. iStudy Paperless Training is software used by in-house trainers or Training Managers to deliver paperless training within an organisation. Both options are available as an appliance server or cloud-based environment. iStudy e-learning is a selection of technical and business e-content  The technical courses cover topics such as: Oracle, Java/Solaris, IBM, Cisco, Miracle ZBX, while business courses focus on basic and advanced sales skills, business presentation delivery and marketing. iStudy is provides specially designed training and certification for advanced IT engineers covering such areas as Oracle database, IBM WebSphere Application Server, Miracle Linux operating system, Java or DB2. Training is delivered in the company's training venue located in Tokyo or the customer site. The company has earned the following awards from Oracle: "Excellent Partner" award in 2010-2014;     "University Delivery Award" in 2009;  University Excellent Partner in 2008;  and Outstanding Achievement Partner in 2007.  System Technology-i Co. Ltd. has its headquarters in Higashi Ginza in Tokyo, Japan. In the Learning management system Market, System Technology-i Co. Ltd. primarily competes against SAP, Skillsoft and Oracle in Japan. In the Board portal Market, it is competing against BoardPAC, Diligent Inc, Boardvantage, Inc. and Boardpad in Asia. Collaborative software Board portal Talent management Green computing 