 University of the People (UoPeople) is an American non-profit  distance learning institution of higher education that offers undergraduate and graduate degrees. It was founded by entrepreneur Shai Reshef in 2009.  University of the People was launched by educational entrepreneur Shai Reshef in January 2009.  Although the university has no campus  due to its online distance learning nature, it uses a shared office in California as an office of admission.  The first intake of UoPeople students began studying in September 2009, studying for associate and bachelor's degrees in business administration and computer science. At that time, the school had no accreditation and did not charge any fees or tuition.  In September 2009, Yale Law School's Information Society Project (ISP) entered into a research partnership with University of the People, for the study of education over digital networks and social software platforms.  In 2011, the university formed a partnership with the New York University at Abu Dhabi.    In February 2012, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation awarded the University of the People a grant of $613,282 for the purposes of helping the university earn national accreditation.  In 2013, the International Student Identity Card (ISIC) Association and MasterCard Worldwide announced that the University of the People was the winner of the 2013 ISIC Award.    In August 2013, Microsoft launched its 4Afrika Scholarship program in collaboration with its 4Afrika Initiative and University of the People was the first participating higher-education institution.  In 2014 University of the People gained accreditation for degree granting programs through the Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC),  which is recognized by the United States Department of Education and  the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA),  and is approved by the California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education (BPPE).   In March 2016, the university began offering an online MBA, with the course itself beginning in September 2016.  The MBA is not accredited by any business school accreditation bodies (e.g. AACSB, AMBA, EQUIS).  In April 2016, the university signed an articulation agreement with the University of California, Berkeley regarding top associate degree graduates.   In 2017 the University of Edinburgh partnered with the school so that graduates of the University of the People could  complete a bachelor’s or postgraduate degree at the University.   In September 2017, the South African government, Council of Higher Education (CHE) and Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET), warned the public of a fraudulent university, University of the People. The university started it's next semester with the President of the University of the People visiting Johannesburg  , instead the government thought the university has setup to operate within South Africa, which they have not applied for the necessary accreditation.  Few days later the South African government withdrew it's comments due to the misunderstanding.  Due to the DEAC accreditation the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) recognize the qualifications from the university nationally.   In 2017 Olympian Simone Biles became a student and a spokeswoman for the school, and in 2018 she set up a scholarship fund to help financially struggling students.    University of the People is a nationally accredited online university. As with all similar universities, this accreditation may affect student qualification for state licensure, and whether courses and credits will be recognized by regionally accredited institutions for transfer.  University of the People claims to be tuition-free, but students must pay some administrative costs.  These include processing fees for applications and final exam assessments; however, students who cannot afford the administrative costs may be eligible for scholarships.    Furthermore, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees the University of the People offers scholarships for refugees.   