First-generation students are defined as those whose parents’ highest level of education is a high school diploma.  This group of students is getting larger in the United States as educational opportunities become more accessible to students on high school campuses. There are educational interventions that have been found to help first-generation students from immigrant families reach higher education. A descriptive analysis was conducted to examine how several variables influence the persistence and attainment rates of first-generation college students compared to non-first generation college students. The researchers were interested in the effects of gender, age, socioeconomic status, race-ethnicity, and institutional type had on the persistence and attainment rates of first-generation college students. Results from this descriptive analysis concluded that first-generation college students persisted and attained postsecondary degrees at significantly lower rates than students whose parents did graduate from college. Educational interventions for first-generation students have included interventions like AVID, GEAR-UP, and after–school programs. Advancement Via Individual Determination (AVID) program has become a national educational intervention for first-generation college students in U.S. public middle and high schools. The AVID curriculum was developed on the foundation of strong research developed and presented by David T. Conley in his book College Knowledge,  which states that in American education we have two systems that were created independently from one another (high school and college) that have not worked collaboratively as they should to benefit all students regardless of their race-ethnicity or socioeconomic status. AVID’s goal is for all of their students to gain acceptance into a 4-year university. In order to achieve AVID’s goal, their curriculum was developed in alignment with David T. Conley’s Knowledge and Skills for University Success (KSUS) Standards. Conley’s KSUS Standards recommend that students complete the course requirements that have been created in collaboration with U.C./C.S.U. schools as a result of this research. In addition, a quasi-experimental research design was used to explore the effects that the AVID program had on students attitudes toward school, self-efficacy, self-reported grades, time spent on homework, educational goals, and academic motivation. Two schools were randomly assigned to the AVID program while one school continued with the traditional high school curriculum. The study found significant differences between schools that implemented the AVID program and the one that did not. Results from this study found that the AVID program students spend significantly more time on homework and on college plans than students from the school that did not implement AVID as an educational intervention.  AVID has significantly increased the number of first-generation students accepted into college (Swanson et. al., 1993).  The Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Program (GEAR-UP) is another evidence-based intervention that promotes higher education for low-income students in U.S. public middle schools. GEAR-UP is a federally funded program that has been implemented nationwide at schools that are in low-income neighborhoods. According to a report from the U.S. Department of Education, parents and students who attended a GEAR-UP school have increased knowledge concerning routes to higher education. In addition, the researchers found that GEAR-UP students enrolled in algebra and more advanced sciences classes in the 8th grade than non-GEAR-UP students.  After-school programs may also be used as a form of educational intervention for first-generation students. Programs after school provide students with additional opportunities to be part of the school culture. The Bridge Project study examined the academic and psychosocial effects of students who participated in an after-school program for 25 prekindergarten through 6th grade English Language Learner Mexican immigrant children. The results of the study found children’s reading comprehension increased by an average of 2.8 grade levels and increased children’s English Proficiency an average of 2.8 California English Language Development Test levels over a 2-year period.  