Learning level descriptors are statements that provide a broad indication of learning appropriate to attainment at a particular level, describing the characteristics and context of learning expected at that level. They are designed to support the reviewing of specified learning outcomes and assessment criteria in order to develop particular modules and units and to assign credits at the appropriate level.   In this context, level refers to the level at which the outcomes of learning are allocated through the use of descriptors which constitute an integral component of qualifications frameworks internationally. Learning level descriptors are an integral part of qualifications frameworks regionally, nationally, and globally, but also consider how the level of learning is determined in other contexts, such as longitudinal studies, international competence assessments and diagnostic reviews.  Learning level descriptors vary across qualifications frameworks, and understanding the similarities and differences is the first step in establishing world reference levels for learning.  Descriptors are formulated using learning outcomes language, yet they are divided into different domains based on specific contextual decisions. These domains are mostly referred to as sets of like competences which describe progression across the levels.  All types of qualifications frameworks use level descriptors based on learning outcomes, to define a set of hierarchical levels across a series of domains. The hierarchy of level descriptors is purposefully developed to allow for alignment of qualifications: "Each of these unique learning outcome terms is defined in statements of knowledge, skill and competence. They are assembled in vertical strands for each framework level. The use of strands of learning outcomes and levels in a qualifications framework helps improve the hierarchical and distinguishing characteristics applicable between levels as well as within a level. It provides those designing qualifications with a finely drawn vertical and horizontal structure (grid) to facilitate easy alignment."   Qualifications are compared against the level descriptors and pegged at a particular level of a qualifications framework. To be more specific, the learning outcomes contained within a qualification are compared with the learning outcomes listed in the level descriptors.   P. 49-51 The pragmatic approach that underlies the current understandings of level descriptors has resulted in a weak theoretical model that will take many years to be improved. While level descriptors may be important to standards developers, stakeholders are interested in levels, not level descriptors. Level descriptors are sometimes criticized for being too broad and generic to be applicable to a specific qualification from a specific sector. The defense has been that level descriptors are not an exact science, but only provide guidance with regard to levels.   This article incorporates text from a free content work.  Licensed under CC-BY-SA IGO 3.0 License statement: Level-setting and recognition of learning outcomes: The use of level descriptors in the twenty-first century, 10-16, 33, 49-51, 60, Keevey, James; Chakroun, Borhene, UNESCO. UNESCO. To learn how to add open license text to Wikipedia articles, please see Wikipedia:Adding open license text to Wikipedia. For information on reusing text from Wikipedia, please see the terms of use. 