Stone Soup is an old folk story in which hungry strangers convince the people of a town to each share a small amount of their food in order to make a meal that everyone enjoys, and exists as a moral regarding the value of sharing. In varying traditions, the stone has been replaced with other common inedible objects, and therefore the fable is also known as axe soup, button soup, nail soup, and wood soup. Some travelers come to a village, carrying nothing more than an empty cooking pot. Upon their arrival, the villagers are unwilling to share any of their food stores with the hungry travelers. Then the travelers go to a stream and fill the pot with water, drop a large stone in it, and place it over a fire. One of the villagers becomes curious and asks what they are doing. The travelers answer that they are making "stone soup", which tastes wonderful and which they would be delighted to share with the villager, although it still needs a little bit of garnish, which they are missing, to improve the flavor.  The villager, who anticipates enjoying a share of the soup, does not mind parting with a few carrots, so these are added to the soup. Another villager walks by, inquiring about the pot, and the travelers again mention their stone soup which has not yet reached its full potential. The villager hands them a little bit of seasoning. More and more villagers walk by, each adding another ingredient. Finally, the stone (being inedible) is removed from the pot, and a delicious and nourishing pot of soup is enjoyed by travelers and villagers alike. Although the travelers have thus tricked the villagers into sharing their food with them, they have successfully transformed it into a tasty and nutritious meal which they share with the donors.  In the Aarne-Thompson-Uther folktale classification system this tale and set of variants is type 1548.  There are many examples of projects referencing the "Stone Soup" story's theme of making something significant by accumulating lots of small contributions. Examples include:  The film Fandango (1985) contains a wedding sequence towards the end which builds on the Stone Soup theme. The protagonists need to hold a wedding ceremony, but they lack any funds to do so. Therefore, they set up a folding card table by the main street of a sleepy Texas town, dust it off, and invite passersby to come to the wedding. As they concoct stories of delinquent caterers and crashed champagne trucks, the friendly townspeople contribute their time and resources, the result being a magical wedding ceremony. William Butler Yeats' play, The Pot of Broth (1904), tells a version of the story in which a clever Irish tramp uses his wits to swindle a shrewish medieval housewife out of her dinner.  The story is the basis of Marcia Brown's 1947 children's book, Stone Soup (1947),  which features soldiers tricking miserly villages into cooking them a feast. The book was a Caldecott Honor book in 1948  and was read aloud by the Captain (played by Bob Keeshan) on an early episode of Captain Kangaroo in the 1950s, as well as at least once in the 1960s or early 1970s.   "Stone Soup" (1968),  written by Ann McGovern and illustrated by Nola Langner, tells the story of a little old lady and a hungry young man at the door asking for food, and he tricks her into making stone soup. Canadian children's author Aubrey Davis adapted the story to a Jewish context in his book Bone Button Borscht (1996). According to Davis, he wrote the story when he was unable to find a story that he liked for a Hanukkah reading.  Barbara Budd's narration of Bone Button Borscht traditionally airs across Canada on CBC Radio One's As It Happens, on the first day of Hanukkah. Jon J. Muth's children's book based on the story, also called Stone Soup (2003),  is set in China, as is Ying Chang's The Real Story of Stone Soup (2007).  "Stone Soup" (2014), Cas Willing and Paula Rego (illustrations), children's book Shel Silverstein's song, "The Wonderful Soup Stone", tells a version of this story. Bobby Bare included the song on his album Lullabys, Legends and Lies (1973).  and Dr. Hook & The Medicine Show included the song on their album Belly Up! (1973). A version of the tale written by Tom Chapin and John Forster appears on Chapin's album Mother Earth (1990). A contemporary twist on "nail soup" helps relieve real-world iron deficiency anemia in Cambodia. The Lucky Iron Fish is a cast iron bar in the shape of the "Try Kantrop" fish that many villagers consider lucky. When immersed into a simmering pot of soup, enough of the iron dissolves into the liquid to add the critical amounts of a trace nutrient needed to prevent certain types of anemia.  US Army General George S. Patton, Jr. referred to the "rock soup method" of acquiring resources for attacks in the face of official disapproval by his superiors for offensive operations. In the military context, he sent units forward, ostensibly on reconnaissance missions, to later reinforce them when resistance was met, and these missions eventually turned small scale probes into all out attacks; he notably did this during the Battle of Sicily, in the advance on Palermo, and again in the campaign in northwest Europe, notably near Metz when his 3rd US Army was officially halted during Operation Market Garden.  The big pool at Karl Johan street in Oslo, funded by the steel company Christiania Spigerverk ("Christiania Nail Factory"),  is nicknamed Spikersuppa ("Nail Soup") as a humorous reference to the story. 