Service animals are animals that have been trained to perform tasks that assist people with disabilities.  Service animals may also be referred to as assistance animals, assist animals, or helper animals depending on the country and the animal's function. Dogs are the most common service animals, assisting people in many different ways since at least 1927.   Other animals such as pigs, birds, and horses have also been documented. In places of public accommodation in the United States, only dogs (and in some cases miniature horses) are legally considered service animals.   It is legal in certain states to have service "animals". For instance, in Montana all animals are allowed at state level. Many cats, birds, and even a wolf are working to help mitigate people's disabilities in Montana. It is also legal to train your own service animal in the United States.  There is a broader definition for assistance animals under the US Fair Housing Act as well as a broader definition for service animals under the US Air Carrier Access Act.   In the United States, prior to a revision of the Americans with Disabilities Act going into effect March 15, 2011  types of animals other than service dogs and miniature horses were protected at least on the Federal level; individual states could expand coverage. The international assistance animal community has categorized three types of assistance animals:  Despite regulations or rules that deny access to animals in restaurants and other public places, in many countries, guide dogs, other types of assistance dogs, and in cases miniature horses,  are protected by law, and therefore may accompany their handlers in most places that are open to the public. Laws and regulations vary worldwide: Service animals can be of many species and come in many sizes. Dogs, cats, dolphins, miniature horses, monkeys, ducks, ferrets, and parrots have all been trained to perform specific duties of a service animal, though the type of animal that may be registered as a "service animal" may vary depending on legal definitions. The people that can qualify for a service animal can have a range of physical and/or mental disabilities. A guide animal is an animal specifically trained to assist visually impaired persons to navigate in public. These animals may be trained to open doors, recognize traffic signals, guide their owners safely across public streets, and navigate through crowds of people. A mobility animal may perform similar services for a person with physical disabilities, as well as assisting with balance or falling issues. Hearing animals are trained to assist hearing-impaired or deaf persons. These animals may be trained to respond to doorbells or a ringing phone or to tug their owners toward a person who is speaking to them. Psychiatric animals can be trained to provide deep-pressure therapy by lying on top of a person who may be suffering from PSTD flashbacks, overstimulation, or acute anxiety. Similarly, autism dogs have been recently introduced to recognize and respond to the needs of people with autism spectrum disorder; some persons with ASD state that they are more comfortable interacting with animals than with human caregivers due to issues regarding eye contact, touch, and socialization.{cn|Sept=2018} Medical emergency animals can assist in medical emergency and perform such services as clearing an area in the event of a grand mal seizure, fetching medication or other necessary items, alerting others in the event of a medical episode; some may even be trained to call emergency services through use of a telephone with specially designed oversized buttons. The animals also provide important companionship and emotional support for owners who might otherwise be isolated due to disability. It is important to note, however, that providing "important companionship and emotional support for owners" is not a task that would qualify an animal as a service animal. In the US, it is illegal to bring an animal to non-pet friendly places simply because it provides companionship or emotional support. Additionally, saying your animal is a service animal for such reasons is illegal.{cn|Sept=2018} The owners in turn often derive a sense of accomplishment and importance from attending to the needs of their animals. Many service animals may be trained to perform tasks to help their disabled partners live independent lives. Such animals include: A  miniature horse can be trained to guide the blind,  to pull wheelchairs, or as support for persons with Parkinson's disease. A full-grown miniature horse can vary from 26” to 38”. There are two main registering organizations. The American Miniature Horse Association  limits height to 34” whereas the American Miniature Horse Registry  has a division for horses 34” to 38”.  There are a number of advantages of miniature horses as service animals. Miniature horses may be chosen by people whose religion considers dogs to be unclean or who have serious allergies to dogs, as well as phobias. Miniature horses have average lifespans of 30–40 years (longer than those of both service dogs and monkeys) and take 6 months to a year of training, done only by professional trainers.  Guide horse users report they typically are immediately recognized as a working service animal, whereas a dog may be mistaken for a pet.  Miniature horses have been praised for their excellent range of vision (350 degrees), good memories, calm nature, focused demeanor, and good cost-effectiveness.  A helper monkey is a type of assistance animal, similar to an assistance dog, that is specially trained to help people with quadriplegia, severe spinal cord injuries, or other mobility impairments. Helper monkeys are usually trained in schools by private organizations, taking 7 years to train, and are able to serve 25–30 years (two to three times longer than a guide dog).   After being socialized in a human home as infants, the monkeys undergo extensive training before being placed with an individual needing assistance. Around the house, the monkeys assist in daily living by doing tasks including microwaving food, washing their human's face, and opening drink bottles.In 2010, the U.S. federal government revised its definition of service animal under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Non-human primates are no longer recognized as service animals under the ADA.  The American Veterinary Medical Association does not support the use of nonhuman primates as assistance animals because of animal welfare concerns, the potential for serious injury to people, and risks that primates may transfer dangerous diseases to humans.  