The European Academy of Management (EURAM), founded in 2001,  is a learned society dedicated to the advancement of the academic discipline of management in the Europe. It is a member of the European Institute for Advanced Studies in Management network. EURAM runs the European Management Review,  a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by John Wiley & Sons, annual conferences for business and management scholars, and training programmes for PhD students, Post-Docs, Research Directors, and Business School Executives. It is an organization associated with the Academy of Management  since inception  and also with the European Institute for Advanced Studies in Management.  The European Academy of Management (EURAM) was founded in 2001 and its head office is in Brussels, Belgium. The first EURAM Annual Conference was titled European Management Research: Trends and Challenges, and it was organised at the IESE Business School in Barcelona, Spain.  EURAM has continued to develop programs and activities to accompany members throughout their professional career life-cycle. Additional initiatives include the creation of the European Management Review in 2003;  the Doctoral Consortium started in 2006; Strategic Interest Groups launched in 2009; the European Directors of Research program started in 2009; and the junior faculty program, the EURAM Early Career Colloquium, launched in 2010.  At EURAM, Special Interest Groups are organised networks of researchers focused on a specific subfields of management scholarship. Launched in 2009, SIGs are run by members and organize workshops, seminars, conferences throughout the year. The SIGs also organise dedicated tracks at the annual EURAM conferences.  Currently there are 13 standing SIGs at EURAM: European Management Review is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by John Wiley & Sons on behalf of the European Academy of Management. The journal is abstracted and indexed by Current Contents/Social & Behavioral Sciences, Social Sciences Citation Index, Scopus, ProQuest databases, and EBSCO databases. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has an increased 2016 impact factor of 1.333, ranking it 121th out of 191 journals in the category "Management".  