 USERN, the official acronym of universal scientific education and research network, is established in 2015 and the Basic Statute of USERN was drafted on 21 January 2015, which was revised on 20 March 2016 to be signed by a number of top scientists worldwide.   USERN organized exclusively for advancement of authentic, ethical and professional scientific research and education and consequently advancement of science for non-military purposes and public good.   Making international interdisciplinary scientific projects and providing a platform for more effective communication among young researchers and experienced scientists, all over the world, is a head of USERN's schedule.  The USERN advisory board includes top 1% scientists in all disciplines based on ESI and Nobel laureates.   The executive team is consist of interested students and graduates who are responsible for executive affairs of USERN. At the beginning of 2016, USERN started its official activities and after the first meeting of top 1% scientists, it has started to get membership throughout the USERN website.  USERN Prize is an international award, established by USERN, which would be annually bestowed to junior scientists or researchers less than 40 years of age for any novel advancement or achievement in scientific education, research, or serving the humanity in five scientific fields including medical sciences, life sciences, formal sciences, physical sciences, and social sciences.   The international USERN congress was held for the first time in Tehran on 8 to 10 November 2016 with a new horizon for science. The congress was wrapped up on 10 November, the global day of science for peace and development with awarding the USERN international prizes to 5 global young scholars from the United States, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Iran. Science without borders, the slogan and main goal of the scientific network of USERN and its congress, was manifested in the unique organization of this conference. Dr. Nima Rezaei the founder and the head of Universal Scientific Education and Research Network (USERN) and the secretary of the first congress of USERN said: "we are going to remove any kind of border for science, the borders among different sciences, the geographical borders and the borders among scientists with experience and young scientists." The USERN congress was held as an interdisciplinary confab, with speeches delivered by scientists from the US, Europe and Asia. About 1000 participants most of whom PhD students and some undergraduate students have attended the conference. The participants’ age were ranged from 16 to 75, coming from different cities of Iran, Germany, Spain, and Iraq. Students from Medical Sciences, Biology, Chemistry, Physics and Engineering were in the greatest number compared to other areas of study. This congress was attended  by 14 scholars who are among the top one percent of world scholars and 20 Iranian scholars who are among the top one percent of Iranian scientists (according to ISI). The closing day of congress and awarding the international rewards ceremony of USERN, the universal scientific education and research network prize or USERN prize will be awarded in 10 November the World Science Day for Peace and Development to 5 young scholars under 40 ages in different theoretical sciences (Mathematics and Computer), Physics sciences (Physics, Chemistry, Engineering), Environmental Sciences, Medical Sciences, and Social Sciences.    Floris De Lange (Netherlands) in Social Sciences For: Expectation sharpens the visual response Alexander Leemans (Belgium/Netherlands) in Medical Sciences For: Processing and Visualization in Diffusion Imaging Jamshid Aghaei (Iran) in Physical Sciences For: Evaluating Technical Benefits and Risks of Renewable Energy Sources Increasing Penetration in Electrical Networks Morteza Mahmoudi (Iran/USA) in Biological Sciences For: Defining the Biological Identity of Nanotherapeutics for High Yield Cancer Therapy Lucas Joppa (USA) in Formal Sciences For: Technology for Nature    The 2nd international USERN congress was held in Kharkiv, Ukraine on 8 to 10 November 2017.  Matjaž Perc (Slovenia) in Social Sciences For: Transitions Towards Cooperation in Human Societies Lucina Qazi Uddin (USA) in Medical Sciences For: Brain Dynamics and Flexible Behavior in Autism and Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Maria-Magdalena Titirici (UK) in Physical Sciences For: The Design of Efficient and Low Cost Electrocatalysts Catalysts Without the Use of Critical Metals Valentina Cauda (Italy) in Biological Sciences For: Hybrid Immune-Eluding Nanocrystals as Smart and Active Theranostic Weapons Against Cancer -TrojaNanoHorse Manlio De Domenico (Italy) in Formal Sciences For: Multilayer Structure and Dynamics of the Physical World: Modeling the Complexity of Systems of Systems    Since the beginning of its establishment, and in order to promote universal scientific education and research, USERN has signed several Memorandum of Understanding (MOUs) and established several offices in scientific research centers and universities worldwide.  Prof. Nima Rezai presentation at USERN congress in Kharkiv, Ukraine Prof. Evan Eichler presentation at USERN congress in Kharkiv, Ukraine 