The Marinko Sudac Collection, based in Zagreb, Croatia, has been created with a clear collecting strategy based on the region of Central and Eastern Europe, additionally spanning from the Baltic area to the Black Sea. The guiding principle of the Collection is systematic exploration, researching, and promotion of the avant-garde practices which have been marginalized, forbidden, and at times completely negated due to the historical, social and political circumstances. In this context, the Marinko Sudac Collection gives the most complete and comprehensive overview on the art of this region. The Collection starts at 1909, and it show the continuity from the first Avant-Gardes, through neo-avant-garde and New Artistic Practices, ending with the fall of the Berlin Wall. The global uniqueness of the Marinko Sudac Collection is also seen in the kind of media it contains.  It contains not only traditional artworks, such as paintings, sculptures, and photographs, but it gives equal importance to documentary and archival material. Great importance is put on these almost forgotten media, which enable research of specific phenomena, artists and the socio-political situation which affected this type of art. The Collection contains a great number of museological units, and it treats the documentary and archival material on the same level as traditional artworks. By examining the units contained in the Marinko Sudac Collection, one can read not only the art scene or the art production of a certain artist, but the full status of the society, the socio-political atmosphere of the region in which this art was created in. This Collection is not merely a process of gathering artworks, but a contextualisation of the art of region in the global history of art and an effort of putting it on its deserved place in history. The aim of the Marinko Sudac Collection is to preserve the cultural heritage of the Central and Eastern European region from globalisation, by maintaining it in a contextual unity. The end goal is to place the Collection in an architectural, physical building of the Museum of Avant-Garde, in which this art will be valorised, museologically processed, open to researchers and experts, and presented to the public. A part of the works from the Marinko Sudac Collection is available in digital form on an innovative platform of the Virtual Museum of Avant-Garde (www.avantgarde-museum.com/en), which unites the work of the Virtual Museum of the Avant-Garde, the Marinko Sudac Collection, and the Institute for the Research of the Avant-Garde, with a goal to form a central database for the researching of the phenomena of the Avant-Garde. Alongside more than 80 already accomplished successful collaborations with museum institutions and independently organized exhibition in great museum centres such as Tate Modern, London; Ludwig Museum, Budapest, Haus der Kunst, Munich; ZKM, Karlsruhe, Deutsches Filmmuseum Frankfurt, Museum of Modern Art, Warsaw, Museum of Contemporary Art, Zagreb,... or exhibition of the Collection in unofficial places such as Marshall Josip Broz Tito's boat Seagull (At Standstill exhibition, Rijeka, 2011), Marinko Sudac is also an editor of numerous publications – art monographs, exhibition catalogues and collections of texts, and an author of a successful artist residence project Artist on Vacation, held annually since 2012, which hosted over 50 of the leading world artists which continue the tradition of the Avant-Garde. The Collection's interest extends from the Baltic area to the Black Sea, with particular emphasis on Central and Eastern Europe. The collector's strategy is directed towards systematic exploration, research, and promotion of Avant-Garde practices that have been marginalized, forbidden, and at times completely rejected, due to historical, social and political circumstances. In this respect, the Collection is, in relation to already existing European art collections, regionally cohesive, and presents an inexhaustible resource for the research of Avant-Garde art and a dynamic platform for the exchange of knowledge on the phenomenon of Avant-Garde. This can be seen in numerous topical and retrospective exhibitions, organized events, followed by connected detailed publications or studies, articles in professional journals, some published in the framework of research projects and collaborations with numerous important institutions, experts, theoreticians, art historians, and artists from the entire world.  The Virtual Museum of Avant-Garde, based on the Marinko Sudac Collection, was created in 2009. It presents the digital database of the Collection through which you can see the overview of Avant-Garde art in the countries of former Yugoslavia structured according to authors, artworks, time periods, and geographical areas, as well as links and influences of the artists with cultural happenings and artistic centres in the region and the world. The website, beside the high-quality digitized artworks, contains biographies and bibliographies, alongside the connection of the artists with other artists, art institutions and cultural forums, as well as selected publications. The online database show only a small part of the Collection. Speedy digitization of the material is crucial to accomplish the Museum's main aim, which is to make it a centre for information on the regional Avant-Garde practices. The Virtual Museum of Avant-Garde is a free online platform to research all forms of Avant-Garde art of Eastern and Central Europe, to show connection with the rest of the world, to be a place for free thought and making realisations on the relevant cultural phenomena of Avant-Garde thought and artistic doing, to be a space for creating and publishing expert materials and research on the phenomena of the Avant-Garde. In its work, the Virtual Museum of Avant-Garde managed to become a meeting point of experts and intellectuals from the region and the artists, as well as interested public who can, in one place, find many information on the Avant-Garde movement in this area.  The international Board is made up of leading theoreticians and art historians: Lutz Becker, Jerko Denegri, Živko Grozdanić, Matko Meštrović, Želimir Koščević, Irina Subotić, Feđa Vukić, and Laszlo Beke. The director is Branko Franceschi. Andrija Maurović Antun Branko Šimić Antun Motika Avgust Černigoj Boško Tokin Branko Ve Poljanski Čedomil Plavšić Csuka Zoltán Dada Tank Dragan Aleksić Dušan Matić Eduard Stepančič Franjo Fius Ivan Goll Ivana Tomljenović Meller Janko Polić Kamov Jo Klek Ljubiša Jocić Ljubomir Micić Marijan Mikac Marko Ristić Mihailo S. Petrov Miho Schön Oskar Davičo Rade Drainac Radovan Ivšić Rastko Petrović Salomon Monny de Boully Srečko Kosovel Stanislav Vinaver Tank Traveleri UT Vane Bor Vilko Gecan Željko Hegedušić Zenit Božidar Jelenić Božidar Rašica Branko Vlahović Dimitrije Bašičević Mangelos Đuro Seder Eugen Feller EXAT 51 GEFF Gorgona Ivan Kožarić Ivan Picelj Ivo Gattin Josip Vaništa Jozef Ács Julije Knifer Juraj Dobrović Koloman Novak Marijan Jevšovar Matko Meštrović Mihovil Pansini Miljenko Horvat Pal Petrik Petrik Pal Radoslav Putar Sava Simončić Stipo Pranyko Vjenceslav Richter Vladimir Petek Vlado Kristl Vojin Bakić Želimir Žilnik Andraž Šalamun Ante Vukov Attila Csernik Autopsia Bálint Szombathy Bogdanka Poznanović Bojan Brecelj Boris Buċan Boris Demur Bosch+Bosch Braco Dimitrijević Crveni Peristil D. Raša Todosijeviċ David Nez Drago Dellabernardina Dragomir Ugren Dubravko Budiċ Era Milivojeviċ Fedor Vučemilović Franci Zagoričnik Gera Urkom Goran Trbuljak Gorki Žuvela Group of Six Authors Igor Grubić Ilija Šoškić Ivan Volarič-Feo Iztok Geister Janez Kocijančič Josip Stošić Katalin Ladik Kôd Group László Kerekeš László Szalma Marijan Molnar Marina Abramović Marjan Ciglić Marko Pogačnik Matjaž Hanžek Milenko Matanović Mirko Radojčiċ Mladen Stilinović Naško Križnar Neša Paripović Nuša Dragan OHO Peđa Vranešević Radomir Damnjanović-Damnjan Raša Todosijević Sanja Iveković Slavko Bogdanović Slavko Matkoviċ Slobodan Tišma Srečo Dragan Sven Stilinović The Šempas Family Tok Group Tomaž Šalamun Tomislav Gotovac Verbumprogram Vladimir Gudac Vladimir Kopicl Vlado Martek Vojin Kovač-Chubby Željko Jerman Željko Kipke Živko Grozdanić Zoran Popović Farkas Molnár Korunk Lajos Kássak MA Munka Sándor Bortyik Tibor Déry Miklós Erdély Imre Bak Ferenc Ficzek Gábor Attalai Gyula Konkoly János Sugár Kálmán Szijártó Károl Kismányoky Károly Halász László Haris Pécsi Műhely Sándor Pinczehelyi Tamás St. Auby György Galántai Tibor Hajas Gyula Pauer Endre Tot Tibor Csiky Géza Pernecky Dóra Maurer Balatonboglár György Jovánovics Gyula Gulyás Gábor Tóth Odeon Stavba Karel Teige Jindřich Štyrský Vítězslav Nezval Olymo Josef Čapek Otakar Mrkvička Ladislav Sutnar Jaromír Funke Milan Grygar Zdeněk Beran Dalibor Chatrný Milan Knížák Eugen Brikcius Běla Kolářová Stano Filko Miroslav Klivar Jiří Valoch Karel Miler Jan Steklik Jiří Palla Jan Mlčoch Petr Štembera Jan Woynar J. H. Kocman Július Koller Rudolf Sikora Desider Tóth Milan Adamčiak Rudolf Fila Juraj Meliš Otis Laubert Milan Dobeš Jarosław Kozłowski Józef Robakowski Andrzej Lachowicz Natalia LL Permafo Gallery Teresa Tyszkiewicz Lech Mrožek Andrzej Partum LEF Lev Nussberg Francisco Infante-Arana Galina Bitt Alexander Stepanov Viacheslav Koleichuk Anatoli Krivchikov Viacheslav Shcherbakov Yuri Lapokov Vladimir Jankilevskij Boris Diadorov Aleksei Smirnov Michail Grobman Ernst Neizvestny Viktor Pivovarov Oleg Kulik John Cage Fluxus Ken Friedman Philip Corner Bruce Conner Stan Brakhage Futurism Gabriele D'Annunzio Azimuth Kurt Schwitters Der Strurm Der Blau Reiter Bauhaus Dada Andre Breton Renate Bertlmann Since its beginning, the Marinko Sudac Collection has been open to collaboration with various institutions. Through the years, the works from the Collection have been exhibited both locally and internationally. The Collection has been recognised as a good partner and the growing interest in different types of collaborations (exhibitions, conferences, projects, movies, publications) shows the quality of the Collections and its open character. List of collaborations with instititutions (loans of works from the Marinko Sudac Collection) As part of its activities, the interconnected institutions of the Museum of Avant-Garde, Marinko Sudac Collection, and the Institute for the Research of the Avant-Garde publish various types of publications – artist monographies, exhibition catalogues etc. The aim of these publishing projects is to present relevant artists, artist groups, artistic movements and developments of the former Yugoslavia region, as well as of Eastern and Central Europe. By presenting them through publications, the aim is to provide them with better international recognition and valorisations, so they could be placed in their rightful position in the global art scene. The Institute for the Research of the Avant-Garde was created in 2010 as part of the project which has as its goal to research, preserve, present and popularize regional historical Avant-Gardes. The Institute brings together the work of the Virtual Museum of Avant-Garde and the Marinko Sudac Collection. The Institute for the Research of the Avant-Garde's task is to create the work and development strategy of the Museum of Avant-Garde, make projects which promote Avant-Garde art and publish materials on the topic. Since 2012, the Artist on Vacation project has gathered, hosted and presented to the public a number of internationally prestigious artists who belong to the period of historical Avant-gardes, as well as artists who continue the practice of radical art and further develop its aesthetics. In the summer months, Poreč becomes a vacation spot for international artists. In collaboration with Valamar Riviera d.d., the Institute for the Research of Avant-Garde and Marinko Sudac Collection invite artists to spend a week at an exclusive hotel and vacation on the beautiful Istrian peninsula. The project was created by Marinko Sudac as an extension of the activities of the Museum of Avant-Garde, the Institute for the Research of Avant-Garde and Marinko Sudac Collection. It complements the Collection's mission, and gives affirmation to the artists in the social, cultural and artistic contexts. The mission of the Artists on Vacation project is to show the various legacies of the original Avant-Garde movement that have developed in different countries and contexts. The entire driving force behind our project is to present the participating artists to the Croatian public. The project is an effort to connect all the activities that aim to bring together the historical Avant-Gardes and present them to the public in a direct way, outside of an institutional environment. Artists get an opportunity to meet other artists, but also theorists, art historians, and museum professionals. This exchange of ideas and influences brings about personal and artistic developments and paves way to new collaborations and projects.  Every year, there is an exclusive one day exhibition organized during the Project. Each year, at the end of the Project, an exhibition of works created during the Artist on Vacation project, as well as a presentation of the participating artists is organized at the Museum of Contemporary Art Zagreb. A catalogue of a year's project is produced. The catalogue contains all the information about the project, the participating artists, their stay at Poreč, their works etc.  Every year, there is an exclusive one day exhibition organized during the Project. In 2012: Attila Csernik (Serbia), Era Milivojević (Serbia), Radomir Damnjanović Damnjan (Italy), Ilija Šoškić (Italy), Ivan Kožarić (Croatia), János Sugár (Hungary), Vlado Martek (Croatia), Sándor Pinczehelyi (Hungary), Bálint Szombathy (Hungary), Romelo Pervolovici (Romania), Željko Kipke (Croatia). In 2013: Željko Kipke (Croatia), Dan Perjovschi (Romania), Rudolf Sikora (Slovakia), Zdzisław Sosnowski (Poland), Blue Noses – Alexandr Shaburov and Vyacheslav Mizin (Russia), Oleg Kulik (Russia), Eric Andersen (Denmark), Marko Pogačnik (Slovenia), Živko Grozdanić (Serbia), Bálint Szombathy (Hungary), Ben Patterson (USA). In 2014: Dragomir Ugren (Serbia), Gergelj Urkom (Serbia), Ulay (Germany), Era Milivojević (Serbia), Andraž Šalamun (Slovenia), David Nez (USA), Jiří Valoch (Czech Republic), Sven Stilinović (Croatia), Igor Grubić (Croatia). In 2015: Verbumprogram (Serbia), Autopsia (Czech Republic), Teresa Tyszkiewicz (France), Ewa Partum (Poland), Przemysław Kwiek (Poland), Guia Rigvava (Austria), Jan Steklik (Czech Republic), Michail Grobman (Israel), Vadim Fiskin (Slovenia), Deimantas Narkevičius (Lithuania), Miloš Šejn (Czech Republic), Srečo Dragan (Slovenia), Milan Adamčiak (Slovakia). In 2016: István Nádler (Hungary), Katalin Ladik (Hungary), Raša Todosijević (Serbia), Lev Nussberg (Russia), Philip Corner (USA), Rudolf Sikora (Slovakia), Slobodan Šijan (Serbia), Jarosław Kozłowski (Poland),Vladimir Gudac (Croatia) In 2017: Ken Friedman (USA / Sweden), Miroslav Pavlović (Serbia), Zoran Todorović (Serbia), Andrien Sina (France), Nikola Džafo (Serbia), Tanja Ostojić (Serbia / Germany), Koji Kamoji (Japan / Poland), Józef Robakowski (Poland), Jusuf Hadžifejzović (Bosnia and Hercegovina), Boris Buden (Croatia) Documentary film "Artist on Vacation" follows the activities of 11 world-renowned artists who have gathered in a luxurious Adriatic resort for a one-month vacation. Documentary is a collage of recorded activities and accomplishments of artists in the given space, which is a vacation destination of mostly high classes of society. The artists which we are following are: Attila Csernik (Serbia), Radomir Damnjanović Damnjan (Serbia), Željko Kipke (Croatia), Ivan Kožarić (Croatia), Vlado Martek (Croatia), Era Milivojević (Serbia), Romelo Pervolovici (Romania), Pinczehely Sandor (Hungary), Balint Szombathy (Hungary), Janos Sugar (Hungary) and Ilija Šoškić (Montenegro).  Directors: Sandra Bastašić, Damian Nenadić Producers: Oliver Sertić, Vanja Jambrović Co-producer and author of the concept: Marinko Sudac Cinematographer: Damian Nenadić Editor: Sandra Bastašić Additional camera: Aleš Sudac Production: Restart Laboratory and Marinko Sudac in cooperation with: the Institute for researching the Avant-garde and Melange production Duration: 30 min. Shooting Format: HD 