Omni art is an art movement that emerged in 1988 in New York City (United States).  Omni art followed Pop art and Postmodernism by shifting attention from social and political issues focusing on the emerging convergence of science, consciousness and art in the late 20th and early 21st century.   It draws from ancient Sanskrit mysticism, sacred geometry, and theoretical quantum physics, and its premise maintains that sentient experience is immersed in a multidimensional quantum field that can be distilled into 5 distinct yet connected planes or dimensions that together weave a Universal fabric or “cosmic soup” of existence.   Within the Omni art paradigm,  there is an ascending series of vibrational fields ranging from the most coarse in vibratory rate (the physical dimension) to the most subtle and sublime (the etheric dimension). Each of the 5 dimensions (described below) maintain environmental vibrational fields that correlate with universal particle and wave energy signatures with qualities that can be ascertained through both empirical and subjective methodologies.    Omni art is concerned with exploring and expressing sentient life experiences of and within these 5-dimensional fields that exhibit powerful influences within and upon sentient and other life forms.  The quantum physicist postulates that a wave/particle model of energy and matter substructs universal cosmology and in this way quantum physicists and Omni artists are concerned with the same observable and intuited phenomenon.  Artist Jeffrey Milburn postulates that these 5-dimensional vibrational particle and wave fields are experienced in the human consciousness through light and sound waves forming a 5-dimensional matrix that sustains the fabric of existence for all life in the visible and invisible universe.  The Physical Dimension - The primary vibrational field has the most dense oscillation pattern and energy signature manifested as matter within the physical universe. The Astral Dimension - The secondary vibrational field has a faster and finer oscillation pattern and energy signature than the physical dimension. This is where dreams, psychic cognition, human emotions, and paranormal phenomenon take place. The Causal Dimension - The tertiary vibrational field has a faster and finer oscillation pattern and energy signature than the astral dimension, and is described by many researchers as a resonant “brain” or record of all the cause-effect relationships in the universe, known in ancient Vedic texts as the akasha. The Mental Dimension - The quaternary vibrational field has a faster and finer oscillation pattern and energy signature than the causal dimension. The human mind experiences this vibrational field as thoughts, ideas, concepts and connectivity. The Etheric Dimension - The quinary dimensional field has a faster and finer oscillation pattern and energy signature than the mental dimension. This is the subconscious portal to the non-dual dimensions. This dimension acts as the gateway into non-duality or singularity and can be observed in sudden, unexplainable awareness that spontaneously appears as an "aha!", or sudden, moment of realization. Artist Jeffrey Milburn mounted a museum installation of the foundational collection of 12 artworks called “The Universalist Group.” in 1991 at The Islip Art Museum  in Islip, New York. This group of 12 assemblage artworks were created over a period of 10 years beginning in 1981, and provide the basic vocabulary for the language of the Omni art style. Milburn coined this style of art “Omni art” in 1988 when he founded this nascent art movement. The Universalist Group collection has appeared in whole or in part in all of Milburn's performance installations over the last 30 years and is described in detail in his book, OMNI ART - Language of Consciousness, Milburn’s treatise regarding Omni art. Milburn's artworks are assemblages of found objects, canvas, and paint. Milburn describes the juxtaposition of objects in his artworks as creating a gestalt “language” allowing the observer to communicate with an inner experience he describes as a “language of consciousness” that is attuned to the observer's current state of developmental awareness. In this way, each artwork serves as a catalyst for a personal inspiration or realization that mirrors what quantum physicists describe as the observer and observed duality that collapses into a singularity field. This is the same singularity that scientists and ancient spiritual teachers describe as “Source” or “Oneness” that is the origination point for all particles and waves that form the phenomenon of existence. In this way, Omni art is literally defined as “God art” or “Source art” both by intentional application and pragmatic utilization. The term Omni was discovered by Milburn when researching terminology that would apply to this emerging art form. Milburn describes his role as one of an artist/mystic and subsequently he has come to be known as “The Oracle of Omni.” One of the two primary artworks from The Universalist Group collection titled “SOUL” (1981) contains many elements that are fundamental in the science of sacred geometry. Surrounding the mirror in the center circle on this art work are 5 hand cut quartz crystals in the shape of the 5 platonic solids originally discovered and articulated upon by Plato. Milburn identified these platonic solids as corresponding to the 5-dimensional vibrational fields which he deduced constitute the basic elements forming a universal cosmological structure. This center circle area is fronted with a 3-dimensional metaform mandala projecting out from the front of the artwork also containing many sacred geometry's. Milburn discovered 16 years after creating this artwork that its basic shape reflects the geometric shape of a black hole and posited that this peculiarity pertains to the ancient Kabbalistic theory that all in the invisible universe is reflected in the visible universe - or more commonly stated as “as above, so below.” In quantum physics jargon this same cosmological structure was articulated by physicist David Bohm as an “implicate and explicate order.” Milburn further describes this artwork as a symbolic map or representation of universal cosmological structures that integrate with emerging scientific theories of conscious human evolution. According to Milburn, conscious human evolution is intrinsic and incontrovertible and can be seen in all aspects of life.  It naturally follows that this conscious evolution can then be observed in all the arts, sciences, and cultural idioms and he coined this process “meta-evolution” as it transcends the boundaries of scientific materialism. Reaching into the invisible regions of discovery not accessible by current technology, this evolutionary phenomenon is seen by Milburn to be the definition of the Omni art movement in the widest sense.     Milburn states that in popular culture one can observe the contemporary appearance of this meta-evolutionary process in contemporary films, books, and videos exploring the many aspects of emerging awareness as it intersects with a popular fascination with metaphysical and paranormal phenomenon.  Some of this phenomenon such as UFO sightings, and most recently the light orbs that are appearing by the hundreds of thousands in low resolution (below 2 mega-pixels) digital photographs espoused upon in Miceal Ledwith and physicist Klaus Heinemann's 2008 book The Orb Project, have captured the imaginations of millions of people around the world and show no sign of abating. Writer has compiled the history on Omni art from multiple audio interview and conversation sources on The Omni Art Salon cyber art salon 2005-2008 and archived written materials from artist Jeffrey Milburn's personal archives.  For more information see, The Omni Art Salon archive at www.omniartsalon.com with additional descriptive sources at www.freshperspectiveswithjeffreymilburn.com 