In some cultures there is the Tradition of removing shoes in home or other zone like Church, Temples and School. In the Northern Europe and in Austria, it is considered rude and unhygienic to keep one's shoes on while entering a house. This tradition is also very common (but to a lesser extent) in Germany. In the Netherlands and Belgium, people usually keep their shoes on indoors. In the United Kingdom shoes are usually kept on, unless there are certain weather conditions (for example, snow) or a certain type of floor or carpet. In Italy, France, Spain, and Portugal it is normal entering a home with shoes on. They can be removed only in rare cases, as for a wooden floor. The Italian autonomous region Friuli-Venezia Giulia is an exception, where the no-shoe tradition is quite respected. In Eastern Europe, including all Slavic countries (Russia, Ukraine, Poland, etc.), Hungary, Romania, and Moldova, most people will take off their shoes at home and will expect visitors to do so, unless it is a formal meeting or a social event. When in doubt, people will usually ask if they can keep their shoes on. When at home, some people will walk barefoot while others will wear slippers (this often depends on the type of floor covering, e.g. carpets vs wooden floor). It is common for schoolchildren to have a special pair of shoes for wearing at school, especially in winter. Some people will have a special pair of shoes for wearing at work, especially in winter. In restaurants, shops, theatres, and museums shoes are not taken off. Shoes are not taken off in churches. Japan is already the most famous country with this tradition, which is extended to restaurants, working places and schools. This is reflected in popular culture and in manga. Taiwan, Thailand, Korea, Vietnam, Philippines, and China have this tradition as well as many other Asian countries. In Turkey, this is a widespread tradition. Cleanliness of a home is very important for families. It is also common to remove shoes in kindergarten schools and, although rarely, in some small private businesses. Only some families in Israel follow this tradition, but it is not a strict tradition. In some parts of the synagogue the Rabbi can't wear shoes. In India, it is the widespread norm to take shoes off when entering the home. It may even be considered rude for guests to keep their shoes on inside the house.  In Vietnam, it is a custom to remove shoes before entering any house or flat. It is also common to remove shoes in kindergarten schools and in some small private businesses. In Arabic countries, no shoes are allowed indoors, as the shoes' soles are seen as an impure part. In the United States, taking shoes off indoors is not a tradition within the Continental United States, but is considered expected in Hawaii. It is also more prevalent in the North East due to poor weather in the winter, as well as in the Pacific Northwest, with standards differing from household to household. This is especially the case during rainy weather, when one's shoes could easily get very muddy, wet, or dirty. However, removing of shoes is common among certain immigrant communities. In Canada, it is generally the rule to take off your shoes when entering a person's home, although exceptions do exist.  