The Global Recording Artist of the Year is an award presented by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) to honor the most popular recording artist based on a total of album-equivalent units, which include music downloads, streaming and  physical format sales.  It has been awarded every year since January 2014, with British boy band One Direction becoming the first act to receive the accolade for Global Recording Artist of 2013.  This success was attributed to the band's third studio album, Midnight Memories, which became the best-selling album of the year with sales of four million copies worldwide.  The music videos for its singles, "Best Song Ever" and "Story of My Life", had been watched almost 200 million and over 100 million times, respectively, on YouTube up to that point.  Taylor Swift was awarded the Global Recording Artist of 2014 after the commercial success of her fifth studio album, 1989.  During the year, the album became the second global bestseller with sales of six million copies and spawned two international number-one singles, "Shake It Off" and "Blank Space".  Adele received the award for the Global Recording Artist of 2015 with the release of her third studio album, 25.  It became the best-selling album of the year worldwide, selling 17.4 million copies. The album's lead single, "Hello" reached number one in nearly all countries where it charted, and became the seventh biggest digital song of the year with 12.3 million track-equivalent units.  The Global Recording Artist of 2016 went to Drake, whose fourth studio album, Views, was the third best-selling album of the year with 2.3 million copies.   View was more successful on streaming service, becoming the first album ever to accumulate one-billion streams on Apple Music.  The album's second single, "One Dance", which became the biggest digital song of the year, with 12.5 million track-equivalent units worldwide.   Ed Sheeran received the award for the Global Recording Artist of 2017 with the release of his third studio album รท (read as "divide") and its singles including "Shape of You", "Castle on the Hill", "Galway Girl" and "Perfect".  He became the first IFPI Global Recording Artist of the Year to have both the best-selling album and single of the year. 