Aviation, Space, and Environmental Medicine (ASEM) is a peer-reviewed scientific journal in the field of aviation / aerospace medicine. Aviation, Space, and Environmental Medicine was founded as the Journal of Aviation Medicine in 1930 by Louis H. Bauer, M.D., and is published monthly by the Aerospace Medical Association, a non-profit organization of physicians, physiologists, psychologists, nurses, engineers, and others working to solve the problems of human existence in threatening environments on or beneath the Earth or the sea, in the air, or in outer space. The peer-reviewed original scientific articles in this journal provide the latest available information on investigations into such areas as changes in ambient pressure, motion sickness, increased or decreased gravitational forces, thermal stresses, vision, fatigue, circadian rhythms, psychological stress, artificial environments, predictors of success, health maintenance, human factors engineering, clinical care, and others. this journal also publishes notes on scientific news and technical items of interest, and provides teaching material and reviews for health care professionals.  Aviation, Space, and Environmental Medicine is the most used and cited journal in its field, and is distributed to more than 80 nations.  The journal was first published, under the title "The Journal of Aviation Medicine" (ISSN 0095-991X)  in 1930. In 1959 the title changed to "Aerospace Medicine" (ISSN 0001-9402)  and in 1975 the current title, "Aviation, Space, and Environmental Medicine" (ISSN 0095-6562)  commenced publication. The journal Aviation, Space, and Environmental Medicine is often referred to as "the blue journal" by its subscribers. Digital content from recent (since 2003) journal issues is available online via IngentaConnect. This content is free-of-charge to AsMA members and available for purchase to non-members. A DVD archive is available for purchase from AsMA. This DVD contains all articles published in Aviation, Space, and Environmental Medicine prior to 2003, including the predecessor titles back to 1930. 