  Brooklands Trust Members (BTM) are the official support group for Brooklands Museum  in Weybridge, Surrey, England. It is governed by a charitable trust. The BTM's main aims are to financially support and promote Brooklands Museum. Principally funds are raised for the Museum through subscriptions to the BTM and by additional fund raising activities throughout the year such as an annual Classic Car Show & Jumble, a series of popular talks and other events The BTM also fund specific projects such as the restoration of the Pratts petrol pagoda which was opened in October 2010 by HRH Prince Michael of Kent, the replacement of the Test Hill railings and the recreation of the iconic Brooklands Scoreboard. Construction of Brooklands motor racing circuit began in 1906 after the land owner, Hugh Fortescue Locke-King, visited the Targa Florio and Brescia, Italy and wanted to create a place in England where motor racing could occur away from normal public roads. The track was constructed in less than a year opening in 1907. It flourished as both a motor racing circuit and aviation centre until 1914 and the advent of World War I. Reopening in 1920 Brooklands once again became prominent in motor racing and aviation. In 1939 the circuit was closed once again and did not re open. After many years of industrial neglect, the site now being owned by Vickers (later British Aircraft Corporation and British Aerospace), the Brooklands Society formed in 1967 with the intention to preserve as much of the remaining track and buildings as possible. Following the sale of the land by British Aerospace a charitable trust was formed in 1987 with the intention of starting a Museum dedicated to the Brooklands site and based on the original 1907 clubhouse. Following negotiations with the new landowners, Gallaghers, the Museum was established on thirty acres surrounding the clubhouse including the Members banking and Test Hill. To raise funds and support for the Museum two new groups were formed, principally the Friends of Brooklands Museum but also a more prestigious entity the Brooklands Club. After initial renovation the Museum opened in 1991 displaying artefacts from both motoring and aviation related to the Brooklands site. In 2007 a move was made to amalgamate the support groups for the Museum which resulted in two of them, the Friends of Brooklands Museum and the Brooklands Club joining together to form the Brooklands Trust Members under the auspices of the Brooklands Museum Trust. The Brooklands Society remain independent from the Museum itself.  The BTM was officially launched in the Summer of 2008 with its first full season of activity the following year. The first chairman of the new group was Philip Strickland and the vice-chairmen were Robert Hall and Ian Macgregor. The president of the BTM was Sir Stirling Moss and he was welcomed at an inaugural dinner held at Brooklands in December 2009.  Ian MacGregor died in December 2010 and Robert Hall retained the vice chair at the 2011 AGM. Philip Strickland stood down as the founding Chairman at the 2014 AGM. Neil Bailey replaced him as Chairman and Julian Grimwade joined Robert Hall as joint vice-chairmen. By mid 2018 the BTM had around 6,400 memberships worldwide, reaching around 19,000 people through those memberships.   It publishes a bi-monthly magazine for Members, the Brooklands Bulletin, which went from a monochrome newsletter to full colour A5 magazine production in January 2009. There is a monthly e-mail newsletter for members only plus a website. The group also run social network pages on Facebook, Instagram, Flickr and Twitter.  It organises a series of evening lectures for members at Brooklands Museum featuring speakers from the motoring and aviation fields, which have featured John Surtees and Capt. Eric Winkle Brown, as well as motoring and aviation related trips and events.  The BTM represent Brooklands Museum at numerous events and shows throughout the year which have included the Le Mans Classic and Goodwood Revival through their "Outreach" Team.   Tim Morris has been the BTM administrator/Membership Secretary since the inception of the group in 2009 and is based at Brooklands Museum. Due to increased workload he was joined by a second staff member, Jeni Larwood. They remain the only two salaried members of the BTM, all other committee and helpers are volunteers.   At the 2014 AGM Philip Strickland stood down as the founder Chairman. Neil Bailey is the current Chairman with Robert Hall and Julian Grimwade Vice Chairmen. In June 2018 Damon Hill OBE became the second President of the Brooklands Trust Members . 