The National Museum Institute of the History of Art, Conservation and Museology (NMIHACM) is an autonomous institute, a seat of higher education in the fields of History, Conservation and Museology under the Ministry of Culture, Government of India. The Institute is a deemed university  and is located at Janpath, New Delhi, within the premises of National Museum, New Delhi.  The National Museum Institute of the History of Art, Conservation and Museology was established on 27 January 1989, under the Societies Registration Act by the Ministry of Culture, Government of India for providing facilities for advanced studies and research in the field of art and cultural heritage. The Institute was given the status of a deemed university by the Ministry of Human Resource Development on 28 April 1989. NMIHACM has now positioned itself as the premier institute of its kind in India and is located within the premises of the National Museum in New Delhi. The Institute has been offering study opportunities at the diploma, Masters and Doctoral levels since 1985 on various aspects such as history, conservation and restoration and museology. The main objectives of NMI are set as:  The Institute's functions are broadly divided into three areas and each area is managed by a dedicated department. History of Art: The Department of History of Art offers educational opportunities in Indian, Asian and Western Art. Conservation: The Department of Conservation is the platform of NMIHACM for imparting training on conservation of art and cultural heritage. Museology: The Department of Museology controls the curriculum on studies on Museology. NMIHACM undertakes various projects with regard to heritage conservation across the country;  some of them are: NMIHACM, through its Department of Museology, has organised several exhibitions, covering various topics under History and conservation. NMIHACM offers three courses at Masters level; MA in History of Arts, MA in Conservation and MA in Museology. All the three programs are two year full-time Masters courses and offer higher studies in the respective areas of study.    A limited number of Government scholarships are available for all the courses.  NMIHACM offers doctoral research facilities for PhD in:  The Institute organises internal and external lecture series and seminars for the research scholars.   NMIHACM also conducts a few short-term courses on India Art and culture, Art Appreciation and Bhartiya Kalanidhi (Hindi Medium).   NMIHACM has access to a well stocked library maintained at National Museum Institute which is equipped with a fully automated digital library consisting of 68,014 slides, apart from the hard copy collections.  Many journals subscribed by the library is also accessible to NMIHACM.  The Institute regularly releases important publications on History, conservation and Museology, some of the more notable ones are:   