 York Museums Trust (YMT) is the charity responsible for operating some key museums and galleries in York, England. The trust was founded in 2002 to run York's museums on behalf of York City Council.   It has seen an increase in annual footfall of 254,000 to the venues since its foundation.  Over 400,000 people visited its museums and galleries in 2016.  The trust runs four cultural venues and a garden. The Yorkshire Museum York Museum Gardens The Castle Museum York City Art Gallery St Mary's (contemporary art space) This is the historic county museum displaying collections inherited from the Yorkshire Philosophical Society and acting as a regional collecting museum.  The Museum Gardens are a botanical garden containing the Yorkshire Museum and St Mary's Abbey.  The Castle Museum is a social history museum housed in two former prison buildings.  York's Art Gallery has a large collection of paintings and an internationally important collection of studio ceramics.  In 2012 the trust obtained £7 million of funding for major refurbishment of the gallery.  York St Mary's is a contemporary art space in the deconsecrated church of St Mary's, Castlegate.  The first use of the space was a joint exhibition by a number of artists, but since 2005 St Mary’s has hosted installations by individuals, which are changed on a regular basis. The first of these commissions, inspired by the medieval building itself, was a textile work by Caroline Broadhead called Breathing Spaces. This was followed by Echo, a work by Susie MacMurray. In 2012, Laura Belem created The Temple of a Thousand Bells, which used individually-made clear glass bells in a composition combining bell chimes with a narrative describing how a temple sinks into the sea, silencing the music of a thousand bells.   The Trust is primarily funded through the City of York Council and the Arts Council. The Trust also derives substantial revenue from admission charges and other income sources. Total funding and income for 2013/14 is expected to be £5.85 Million.   Over 1000 nationally important paintings held by the Trust have been made available online as part of a cooperative project with the BBC and the Public Catalogue Foundation.   A number of objects with a Yorkshire connection and held by the Trust were included in the BBC History of the World project, including the Middleham Jewel, the York helmet, and a tin of Rowntree's cocoa from Ernest Shackleton’s unsuccessful Nimrod expedition to the South Pole.    