The Egyptian Pharmaceutical Students' Federation (EPSF) (Arabic|الاتحاد المصري لطلاب الصيدلة) is an independent student organization representing about 85,000 pharmacy students in 31 pharmacy schools all over Egypt. It works under the supervision of the Egyptian Pharmacist Syndicate, the national FIP member. Since 1982 EPSF has also been a Full Member organization representing Egypt in the International Pharmaceutical Students' Federation. EPSF was initially established in January 1982 with six pharmacy schools: EPSF become a Full Member in IPSF in August 1982,in Sweden during the 28th IPSF congress. Today EPSF is represented by pharmacy associations in 32 different pharmacy schools in Egypt: EPSF - Sinai || Sinai University EPSF consists of the General assembly and the executive board. Each association is represented in the General assembly and has the right to vote according to provisions of  the EPSF constitution, which gives the right of votting to the Full members only. The GA is the highest decision-making body in EPSF at which discussion on all  the Federation's ongoing matters and plans take place. in addition to reports adoption ,admission of new members and executive board elections. EPSF General Assemblies are held four times a year, first during the Annual National Congress in October, the second after the mid-year vacation at the end of February, the third during the National Symposium at the end of April, and the fourth in August(final GA ). This ensures a smooth running of the Local Associations whilst taking important decisions, accepting reports of Executives and Associations, admission of new members to EPSF, and the constitution amendments. The Full Members of EPSF have the right to vote in the General Assembly.full members of EPSF are the associations that fulfill all the conditions to become a full member,they present their reports ,attend the General Assembly meetings and pay their membership fees. The EPSF Executive board consists of 15 elected members: President, Secretary General, Treasurer,  Contact Person, Marketing Director,training director, Chairpersons of Public Health,internal Relations,external relations, Professional Development, Media and Publications, Logistics and organizing, Continuous Education and the Student Exchange Officer, the Immediate Past President works as an advisor for the Executive board. Executive Board members are Pharmacy students who serve the Federation as volunteers. On 6 December 2014 at Mall of Arabia in cairo: EPSF hit Guinness World Record under title of “Most Blood Glucose Tests taken in 24 Hours”; with 8,600 blood glucose tests and they introduced awareness about Diabetes for more than 10,000 persons at a National diabetes awareness campaign “La Vista”  On 12 August 2011, the EPSF was declared winner of the IPSF Annual Award (Sidney J. Relph Award) for the overall best-performing association in the world 2010–11 in the Gala Night of the 57th IPSF World Congress in Hat Yai, Thailand. 1-The Egyptian Pharmaceutical Students' Federation hosted the International Pharmaceutical Students' Federation annual world congress three times :  2-The 5th IPSF EMPS Symposium held in Cairo in July 2016 . 3-Participation in Organizing of first annual conference of “Arab African Pharma (APP)”. EPSF has 4 projects oriented committees which aim to serve pharmacy students, pharmacists and the community. Public health  committee is an important part of the Egyptian Pharmaceutical Students' Federation, Using their strength in scientific and public health research, they have built effective teams around Egypt, they are organizing health awareness campaigns in universities, public places, villages and Schools about different epidemic places in Egypt to increase public awareness. EPSF is intended to be one of  the best organizations all over Egypt  which is interested in Public health ,all the Associations collaborate with their time and efforts preparing the materials and actively arrange campaigns all over Egypt; they all interact and develop their skills, to increase people’s aware, help them to change their life style and present a real change on ground. Public Health committee Responsible for: Each year EPSF exerts effort to reduce the prevalence of smoking-related diseases. Their target is to convince people to stop and to help them understand the risks of developing the fatal diseases caused by smoking. Congresses and campaigns aim to help people detect the diseases caused by smoking and be diagnosed early. Professional Development committee Responsible for: Continuous Education committee responsible for -Plan, coordinate and innovate courses. -creating other educational programs which helps pharmacy students in Egypt to fulfill the profession requirements after graduation . -Plan and coordinate the Mini diploma program and responsible for its development to achieve the target and to appear in the best way . -Work for creating other educational and research programs. Student Exchange Program (SEP) is a project offering professional pharmacy internships. Every year, through it pharmacy students around Egypt are given the opportunity to experience the field of pharmacy in other countries.The program runs throughout the year (Winter version and Summer version), but the majority of the exchanges take place between May and September. The length is usually 1 to 3 months with a minimum of 60 working hours per exchange, and possible host sites include The host may also provide room, board and/or pocket money in addition to the training site in order to help the applicant. 