European Voluntary Service (EVS) is the European Commission's project that allows a young person (17–30 years) to become a volunteer in another country for a specified period, normally between 2–12 months. The service activities can be, for example, in the field of environment, arts and culture, activities with children, young people or the elderly, heritage or sports and leisure activities. Each project has three partners, a volunteer, a sending organisation and a host organisation. The project has to take place in a country other than where the volunteers lives, is non-profit-making and unpaid and lasts for a limited period (maximum 12 months). An EVS project involves a triangular partnership: a volunteer, a sending organisation, and a host organisation. One of the countries involved in a project must be an EU Member State or an accession country. All volunteers are insured for sickness, accidents, permanent invalidity, and repatriation in case of serious illness, accident, and death through AXA  . The insurance also covers civil liability. This insurance complements the protection provided by the national social security (if applicable) which is proven by the E111 (or similar) form of the volunteer. All insurance costs are paid directly by the European Commission and they are not included in project budgets. The first step of a prospective volunteer is to find and contact a sending organisation and together with them consult the database of approved hosts. All volunteers who have completed their EVS project are entitled to a certificate called a Youthpass signed by the Head of the Youth Agency. This certificate validates their period of voluntary service and provides details of the activities in which they were involved. Volunteers from the countries involved also have the possibility to benefit from the Youth initiative action, and get involved in other Community programmes in general. In Austria, due to the conscription regulations, the EVS is recognized as an alternative service to mandatory national service in the Austrian Armed Forces or the regular alternative service called Zivildienst.  British residents will continue to have access to the programme throughout 2017.  