The national space program program (PSN) horizons 2020 planned to put in place space infrastructures, space systems and increase the specialized human resources in space technologies. Among the space systems planned in the PSN EO Satellites (Alsat-2A, Alsat -2b, Alsat -3, Alsat -4, African resource management ARM and the communications satellite Alcomsat-1), of which a significant number should be partly or totally integrated in the Algerian center for satellite development "CDS". CDS offers the technological environment for national competence to develop the future Algerian satellite systems. Algeria's objectives is to make of space tools a powerful instrument in national prosperity in the fields of earth observation, meteorology and communications. CDS comprises:   The CDS is organized in 6 departments: these departments house mechanical & thermal, electrical, electronic and optics research and development laboratories. the satellite integration building consistes of a large clean room of class 100000, with 4 subareas dedicated to: these areas are separated by sliding curtains. The satellite environmental tests building is also planned for the future, this building shall consiste of: Missions:   The "Alsat program " is a constellation of Algerian earth observation satellites operated by the Algerian Space Agency. Algeria has three (3) operational units and one (01) retired mission. Alsat-1 is the first earth observation satellite of Algeria. Its principal mission is monitoring natural resources. It was a Disaster Monitoring Constellation (DMC) satellite that is developed and coordinated by Surrey Satellite Technology Ltd (SSTL). The satellite is a 60-centimeter cube, and weighs about 92 kilograms. The imaging system covers the green, red, and the near infrared, at a resolution of 32 meters. It was placed in orbit by a kosmos-3M launch vehicle from the Russian cosmodrome of Plessetsk, on 28 November 2002. Its orbit is heliosynchronous at an altitude of about 700 kilometers with orbital inclination of 98°. Its first images were received on December 17, 2002 at the reception stations of the Center of space technics (Centre national des techniques spatiales CNTS) at Arzew, Algeria. Alsat-1 completed its mission on 15 August 2010. On February 1, 2006, EADS Astrium announced the signature of a contract for the realisation of two (02) satellites (Alsat-2A et Alsat-2B) of the Alsat-2 Program.  The Alsat-2 program includes also the establishment of two ground control segments and an image terminal to control and pilot the satellites from Algerian territory. Alsat-2A is a high resolution earth observation satellite that was integrated and tested in France at the d'EADS Astrium workshops with participation of 29 Algerian engineers. It was launched by a Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle on 12 July 2010. With a resolution of 2.5m in panchromatic mode, and of 10m in multispectral mode, it provides satellite images for multiple applications such as topography, agriculture, cartography, and protection of the environment.  The satellite is based on the Myriade platform of the Centre national d'études spatiales (CNES) and is placed in a polar heliosynchonous orbit. It has the following characteristics:  Alsat-2b is the 2nd high resolution earth observation satellite and the 2nd unit of the Alsat-2 program launched on 26 September 2016 with a PSLV-C35 rocket.  Alsat-2b was made in Algeria by ASAL, weights about 125 kg.    its characteristics and payload are not yet published by the Algerian space agency. Alsat-2B is operational.  Images taken by Alsat 2B in muptispectral mode (visible and near infra-red) and in panchromatic mode will be invested in important thematic and economic fields such as: urban and agricultural planification of the territory and littoral, cartography, fellowing mega-projects etc. Alsat-1B is a medium resolution earth observation satellite based on the SSTL-100 platform.  the satellite weights 110 kg. It was integrated at the center of development of satellites of the Algerian space agency in Oran. its images are used for the management of natural disasters and the protection of the Environment.  Alsat-1b was launched on 26 September 2016 by a PSLV-C35 launch vehicle.   Alsat-1B is a Disaster Monitoring Constellation (DMC) satellite coordinated by Surrey Satellite Technology Limited (SSTL).  The satellite carries.:  1- ALITE ( ALgerian Imager TElescope): delivers medium resolution images of 12m in panchromatic mode and 24m in multispectral mode. 2- radiation monitor: permits a better understanding of the environment of radiation that satellites circulating in low earth orbit are exposed to.      Alsat-1N or Alsat-Nano is a 3U technology demonstration nano-satellite,weight of 3.5 kg.built by an Algerian-British team in application of the cooperation agreement signed between the Algerian Space Agency and the l'UK Space Agency. 18 Algerian engineers used the satellite as a pedagogical tool during their graduation research at Surray University. the main mission objectives are test of three (03) innovative components:camera, fin solar films and a measure of radiation. Data obtained by the satellite will be studied by Algerian and British researchers.  Alsat-1N was launched on September 26, 2016 by an ISRO PSLV      3 Scientific and technology demonstration payloads: Is a telecommunications satellites program. Alcomsat-1 is a telecommunications satellite built in partnership with China Great Wall Industry Corporation. It will be launched sometime in 2017 The satellite will provide television, VSAT and internet access. It will be positioned longitude 24.8W or 27.6W.  Alsat-3 and Alsat-4 are also planned to cover national needs   The Algerian Space Agency in charge of the National Space Program of Algeria is now capable of: 