TARANIS (Tool for the Analysis of Radiation from lightning and Sprites) is an observation satellite of the French Space Agency (CNES) which will study the transient events produced the Earth's atmospheric layer between 10 and 100 km altitude.   TARANIS will be launched in 2019 and placed in a sun-synchronous orbit at an altitude of 700 km, for a mission duration of at least two years. The satellite is intended to collect data on transient events that are observed during thunderstorms.  These events are happening between the medium and upper atmosphere, the ionosphere and the magnetosphere (radiation belts). The resulting phenomena in visible light are called Transient Luminous Events (TLE) and take a great diversity of forms (elves, halos, blue jets) varying in color, shape and duration. Thunderstorms are also known to generate  gamma and X-ray emissions called Terrestrial Gamma-Ray Flashes (TGF), generated by intense electric fields in which the electrons are accelerated to the point of reaching an energy up to 30 MeV. The link between TLEs and TGFs is one of the scientific questions of the TARANIS mission.  The Lightning-induced Electron Precipitation (LEP) will also be studied.  All these events have associated electromagnetic wave emissions that will be investigated too.  The Atmosphere-Space Interaction Monitor (ASIM) will operate as the same time as TARANIS and will provide complementary observations. The TARANIS micro-satellite has a mass of 152 kg, and uses the Myriade platform powered by solar panels providing 85 W. The amount of data transferred is planned to be 24 GB per day. The scientific payload is made of six instruments  The studied phenomena last not more than a few milliseconds (except blue jets), so a specific recording method is implemented. Scientific instruments operate continuously and data is stored in a memory that is regularly purged of its oldest elements. If a phenomenon is noticed through one of the triggering instrument (XGRE, IDEE, MCP, IME-HF), the data of all the instruments corresponding to the period it took place is saved, and later transmitted to the ground.  