TeLEOS-1 is Singapore's first commercial earth observation satellite which was launched on a PSLV-C29 vehicle of ISRO from SDSC (Satish Dhawan Space Center) at Sriharikota on December 16, 2015 along with other five satellites developed in Singapore. The satellite is aimed to provide high temporal imagery and geospatial solutions for homeland security and border control, maritime monitoring and disaster management around the equatorial belt. TeLEOS-1 is developed by ST Engineering.  In May 2011, ST Electronics (Satcom & Sensor Systems) Pte Ltd, Nanyang Technological University and Defence Science Organisation Laboratories, Singapore established a joint venture, ST Electronics (Satellite Systems) Pte Ltd (STEE-SatSys), to design, develop and deploy an earth observation satellite with an aim to harness the indigenous potential in satellite development and to check the commercial viability of the satellite. in February, 2014, Two independent suppliers of small and microsatellites – ATK Space Systems Inc. of Beltsville MD, USA and ST EE-SatComS entered into an commercial agreement for the distribution of satellite imagery to the world market. On Feb. 5, 2014,  Antrix Corporation, the commercial arm of ISRO, signed a Launch Services Agreement with ST EE-SatComs, Singapore, for the launch of the TeLEOS-1 Earth Observation Satellite. Subsequently, the satellite was launched on December 16, 2015.  On July 26, 2016, STEE today announced the commencement of its commercial imagery service of the satellite.  On February 16, 2016, First test images of the TeLEOS-1 mission were provided at the Singapore Airshow 2016. The satellite is equipped with electro-optical camera payload capable of performing imaging at ground resolution of down to one metre.  It carries 8GB of solid storage for storage of imagery captured by the panchromatic camera.  The imagery captured by the satellite will be useful in the areas of maritime security and disaster management such as : TeLEOS-1, along with five other Singaporean satellites, was launched successfully aboard PSLV-C29 on December 16, 2015. The launch took place at 6 PM local time from Satish Dhawan Space Centre in the southeastern India. The satellite was placed into a 550-kilometer circular orbit inclined at 15 degrees relative to the equator.Singapore government paid 26 million euros ($30 million) for the launch.  