ÑuSat satellites series (Spanish: ÑuSat, pronounced just like the GNU project acronym), also known as codename Fresco, Batata, MilaneSat, Ada, Maryam (named after local culture reference on Argentinean deserts and food), is a series of Argentinean commercial Earth observation satellites constellation designed, built and operated by Satellogic. The satellites in the constellation are identical 40 cm × 43 cm × 75 cm spacecraft of 82 lb (37 kg) mass. The satellites are equipped with an imaging system operating in visible light and infrared. The constellation will allow for commercially available real-time Earth imaging and video with a ground resolution of 3.3 ft (1 m). The satellite were developed based on the experience gained on the BugSat 1 (Tita) prototype satellite.  The Aleph-1 constellation will consist of up to 25 satellites. The first two satellites will be launched as piggy-back payloads on a Chinese CZ-4B rocket in April 2016 from the Taiyuan Satellite Launch Center into a 500 km sun synchronous orbit with an inclination of 97.5°. Four more will follow later in 2016. An U/V transponder with 2 W of output power for 8 GHz downlink and 2 GHz uplink will be operating on 100 kHz bandwidth.  MeMOSat, developed by the LabOSat Group, designed and built by a group of scientists at the National Atomic Energy Commission (Spanish: Comisión Nacional de Energía Atómica (CNEA)), the National Institute of Industrial Technology (Spanish: Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Industrial (INTI)), the National University of San Martin (Spanish: Universidad Nacional de San Martín (UNSAM)) and National Scientific and Technical Research Council (CONICET). This memory was specially designed to operate in harsh environments and adverse conditions, such as the strong radiation it must withstand in space. Its main objective is to test electronic components that will be commercialized in the future. To do this, the memory is made up of two metallic films with an oxide between about 20 nm thick, with electrical resistance properties, that can send information from the satellites, allowing to study their behavior in these hostile environments. Additionally, ÑuSat-1 carries a U/V linear transponder called LUSEX provided by AMSAT Argentina (AMSAT-LU) to offer services to the HAM community. Although the satellites are officially named "ÑuSat", each satellite has a nickname, a tradition from Satellogic that dates back since its very first satellite Capitan Beto   Legally valid stamps printed in commemoration of ÑuSat Satellites Launching Mauricio Macri alongside Satellogic directives after the launch of Fresco and Batata Mission patch of the ÑuSat 4 & 5 satellites Buenos Aires as seen from one of the ÑuSat satellites 