In marketing and financial services, mass affluent and emerging affluent are the high end of the mass market, or individuals with US$100,000 to US$1,000,000 of liquid financial assets  plus an annual household income over US$75,000.  Mass affluent consumers are an important target market for sellers of luxury goods. There may be a high correlation between the households in the upper-middle reaches of the income strata and the mass affluent, but there are differences. Social class is the result of a person's function within society rather than merely the income of the household in which he or she resides. Both terms refer to people whose wealth or income is above the average, yet below the top. As opposed to households with above average incomes the mass affluent are also defined through liquid assets such as stocks, bonds, cash, and mutual funds. Fixed assets such as real estate are not commonly counted. This is because liquid assets provide more financial flexibility, which is a desirable trait in customers. The mass affluent have been characterized as those who save more than they spend and invest for their future. While they worry about funding their children's college education, they realize other savings and loan options exist and they are not opposed to their children paying some part of their educational costs. The mass affluent generally may worry about replacing their paycheck in retirement, and may need to be encouraged to spend more money during their retirement years. They often wish to leave an inheritance to their children. The mass affluent will have between $500,000 and $1.5 million (USD) in investable assets upon retirement with a net worth between $500,000 and $2.5 million (USD). They spend between $4,000 and $10,000 (USD) per month in retirement.  In the United States there are roughly 33 million mass affluent households, and they own roughly 37% of America's liquid financial assets.  Among family households, approximately thirty percent could be described as being mass affluent.  