Redirect to:Success is Unbounded refers to the nature of success. It is a subtopic of Social status. Success in Scence of Success is equivalent to recognition, be it the recognition of an individual or a team. It is most easily measured by indices on the internet, for example with number of followers, numbers of Google hits, etc. It is correlated with the performance in the field in which they compete with others for the recognition. The first to investigate this phenomena was Vilfredo Federico Damaso Pareto as Pareto principle he investigated it in the question of wealth. The distribution of success has been investigated in economics as well, and it has been verified that the success distribution follows a Power law distribution . According to these results the relationship between quality and recognition works in a way that the effect of an additional amount of quality on success is increasing as quality increases. The higher performance the individual produces the higher is the marginal gain of success from an additional amount of performance measure. It means that success is distributed in a way that the vast majority have low success measure, while there are few who achieved extremely high values of success and even between these top performers there are order of magnitude diffferences in success even though there is close to no extreme in performance. The Poisson distribution of the performance  and the Power law distribution of success combined are able to produce superstars. The individuals or teams with extremely high amount of recognition even compared to the others with just slightly smaller performance value. So there are large amounts of individuals with small amount of recognition, and just a few individuals with outstanding recognition. It can be observed in many fields from earnings to telephone calls, and even outside of the question of recognition and performance there are natural phenomenons which follow the Power law distribution such as earthquakes.  