County of Santa Clara Bruce Olszewski (Director), Jaime Vega (Administration Manager),   Stephanie Koo (HHW Manager), The Center for the Development of Recycling (CDR), also known as the County of Santa Clara Recycling Hotline, is a university-based, non-profit, environmental research and service organization. The CDR is located in the Department of Environmental Studies office at San Jose State University (SJSU).  Faculty-managed students work on recycling-related projects for the community.  This organization not only provides the community with a recycling service, but also provides a service-learning opportunity to students.  CDR operates with a part-time Director, two compensated part-time students who serve as Administrative Manager and Project Manager, and a staff of student interns who earn academic credit for community service learning. The CDR Director is a Department of Environmental Studies faculty member who is responsible for all activities including management of staff, projects, equipment, budget, and adherence to University regulations. The San Jose State University Foundation manages accounting and payroll services.  The CDR’s website assists users to find locations for recycling, reuse, and the donation of goods. It contains specific services available from over 1200 companies and local government for over 2000 product and material types.  Links and documents are provided to assist users with access to multiple information sources that address nearly any question about recycling and waste management.  The site features specific information about recycling and reuse services provided by private business, local government, landfills, and extensive information resources in this expanding field. The CDR was founded in 1989 by Bruce Olszewski.  In 1991, CDR bridged personnel and equipment resources of SJSU with Santa Clara County and its 15 cities that resulted in an alliance to provide cost-effective recycling information services for County residents and businesses that also created student service-learning opportunities. In 1992, the CDR began operating the County of Santa Clara Recycling Hotline. CDR added a donor funded website in 1999.  In 2017, CDR expanded its organization to include the County of San Mateo. Since 1992,  the CDR has operated the County of Santa Clara Recycling Hotline under contract with the County of Santa Clara.  The hotline was created to assist residents with finding a reuse or recycling center  for any recyclable item they may have.  The student-operated hotline serves the 16 jurisdictions of Santa Clara County  which include:  Campbell,   Cupertino,   Gilroy,  Los Altos,  Los Altos Hills,  Los Gatos,   Milpitas,   Monte Sereno,  Morgan Hill,   Mountain View,   Palo Alto,   San Jose,  Santa Clara,  Saratoga,  Sunnyvale,  and the unincorporated areas of Santa Clara County.  Faculty-managed students work on environment-related projects for businesses, government agencies, consultants, and non-profit organizations. CDR has contracted to work on urban water conservation and recycling projects involving residential and commercial sectors, hotels, multi-family buildings, multi-tenant office buildings and conducting various types of surveys. CDR is also involved in community outreach to promote recycling and proper household hazardous waste disposal among Santa Clara County residents, and assists in expanding the recycling program at SJSU.  CDR makes recycling and waste management-related documents available to the public.  Recycling and recycling-related guides can be downloaded for free from their web site (www.recyclestuff.org). The CDR annually updates and releases the following publications: 