Einstein for Beginners, republished as Introducing Einstein, is a 1979 graphic study guide to Albert Einstein and the theory of relativity written by Joseph Schwartz and illustrated by Michael McGuinness. The volume is, according to the publisher's website, "amusing, irreverent, sophisticated and highly accessible," and, "the perfect introduction to Einstein’s life and thought."  "This is," confirms Leonardo reviewer Nan Conklin, "not simply a book explaining Einstein’s scientific work, but a mixture of history, politics and science."  In which, according to Science for the People reviewer Professor Paul Thagard, "Einstein's work is related to the rise of electrical industries and the later development of the atomic bomb."   This volume was originally published in the United Kingdom by Writers and Readers Publishing Cooperative in 1979, following the collapse of this organisation in 1984, in part due to a disagreement over the selling off of the United States rights to this title,  the book has subsequently been republished in the US by Pantheon Books and in the UK by Icon Books. Selected editions: Related volumes in the For Beginners series: Related volumes in the Introducing... series: Professor Paul Thagard, writing in Science for the People, describes the book as, "intelligible and entertaining,"  while Henry McDonald, writing in the Washington Post, describes it as "well illustrated and thoroughly researched".  "Almost half the book," according to Nan Conklin, writing in Leonardo, "is devoted to recounting Einstein’s early life and the influences on him."  "Its discussion of the political environment in which Einstein's discoveries were made is." according to McDonald, "informative."  "The drawing and the words have a distinctly comic-book flavor," according to Conklin, but it is,  "only when the authors set out to explain Einstein’s theories that the use of the peculiar mode of presentation seems justified."  McDonald describes, "the presentation of the discoveries themselves is little short of inspired,"  while Thagard too commends the authors as, "highly inventive in using amusing illustrations and humorous asides to lead the beginners through difficult concepts."  While Conklin speculates that the publishers may have included a volume on Einstein in this series due to his belief in, "the establishment of a socialist economy, accompanied by an educational system which would be oriented toward social goals,"   and McDonald confirms that the authors, "go out of their way to emphasize [...] Einstein's socialism," Thagard is critical of the failure to, "develop the social connections in a substantial way," and concludes that the volume does not provide a, "basis for discussion of the role of science in society."  