Madah-Sartre is a seven-act play by Alek Baylee Toumi about a fictional abduction by Islamists of Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir in Algeria in 1993, and attempts by these Islamists to convert their captives to Islam. Originally written in French, Toumi also translated Madah-Sartre into English. Secondary characters Sartre and de Beauvoir are in heaven preparing to depart to earth. It is 1993 in Algeria and Islamists have just assassinated Tahar Djaout. Jean-Paul Sartre (died 1980) and Simone de Beauvoir (died 1986) return to earth from the afterlife to attend the funeral of Djaout. While they are en route to the funeral, Islamists abduct them. The Islamists hold their intellectual guests captive and begin sessions of trying to convert Sartre and de Beauvoir to Islam. James D. Le Sueur wrote the introduction to the English edition of the play. Le Sueur is a professor of History at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and author of several books on Algeria. His most recent publication is Between Terror and Democracy: Algeria Since 1989, published by Zed Books in March 2010. This play includes characters who support intellectual freedom and who challenge ideas detrimental to human well being with better ideas (rather than with violence). In the preface Toumi states, "In the case of the civil war in Algeria, the overwhelming majority of the assassinated people - journalists, intellectuals, school teachers, raped women - are Muslims. It means that: The victims are Muslims, while the killers, the assassins, the terrorists are Islamists...It is very important not to confuse the two and to learn to distinguish between victims and executioners. Madah-Sartre is not anti-Muslim; to the contrary, it defends Muslim victims and all Others who are victims of terrorism. That is why Madah-Sartre is, without a shadow of a doubt, antifundamentalist, antiterrorist, and anti-Islamist." Toumi, Alek Baylee, Madah-Sartre: The Kidnapping, Trial, and Conver(sat/s)ion of Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 2007. ISBN 978-0-8032-1115-5   