Nevermore: The Imaginary Life and Mysterious Death of Edgar Allan Poe, is a musical that was written, composed, and directed by Jonathan Christenson, and designed by Bretta Gerecke. It follows the tragic life of Edgar Allan Poe and the internal struggles he faced which later on inspired his writings. The script contains many references to Edgar Allan Poe's poems and short stories. The majority of the script follows the true events which took place in his life, while other aspects are fictitious. It was originally produced at the Catalyst Theatre in Edmonton, Alberta and went on to be performed at theatre festivals and theatres across Canada, and to the Barbican Theater in London, and the New Victory Theatre in NYC. The following is the original cast of Nevermore: The Imaginary Life and Mysterious Death of Edgar Allan Poe.[Ref 1] The story began with Edgar Allan Poe’s mother Eliza Poe, a talented traveling actress. She was married to David Poe, who gave up the study of law to follow his wife in the career of theatre. Unlike his wife, however, David often forgot his lines due to stage fright, making him easy fodder for critics. He ended up becoming an alcoholic, spending most of his time in the bar. Eliza Poe’s dressing maid helped deliver and raise her children. The oldest was William Henry Leonard Poe, an adventurous boy who collected interesting objects, the most prized being the skull of a cat. The youngest was Rosalie Poe, a somewhat deranged girl. On the darkest, and loneliest, of nights (so the legend goes), Edgar Allan Poe was born. The father disappeared, eventually leaving Eliza to raise three children on her own. Although sometimes she was exuberant, Eliza spent most of her time sick, and depressed, in bed. One night, Edgar woke to hear his mother coughing; Eliza Poe later died of tuberculosis. The three Poe children were split up from each other and sent off to new homes. Edgar went to live at the Allan household, and was greeted by the housekeeper Nancy Valentine. She told Edgar about the Allans, presently away for a few days. Finally the Allans, Fanny and Jock, arrived home. They'd adopted Edgar because of their love for Eliza Poe and theatre in general. Fanny had wished to adopt all of the children, but Jock Allan would only allow the one to be "fostered", not "adopted". Edgar feared Jock Allan, not just because the man was blind in one eye, but because Jock was bitter and disregarding towards the lad. Fanny Allan won Edgar’s love, as she brought tea and cinnamon toast to Edgar every morning, and presented him with a kitten. One day, after school, Edgar found a mouse, which he showed to his friends. His friends took hold of the mouse and forced Edgar to watch as they grotesquely tortured it. Horrified, Edgar ran home and sat on his bed, overflowing with anger and despair. His new kitten kept bothering him until he'd finally had enough, so he attempted to kill the cat. Fanny was able to interfere, but was shocked at Edgar’s actions. This incident changed Edgar, who began to impress Jock Allan by excelling in sports and school. Fanny Allan slowly went insane, claiming there was an Imp in her head making her want to do strange things like making cuckoo noises. She was sent to an institute for the insane, and died leaping off of the seventeenth floor, possibly in an attempt to "fly the coop". Poe then met Sarah Elmira Royster, a strange girl who shared his love of morbid stories. They secretly got engaged, and planned to be married sometime in the future. Edgar promised to write Elmira every day upon leaving for university, which he did. He never received a letter in return from Elmira, because her father hid all of the letters Edgar mailed to her. Possibly because of this, Elmira married another man. Edgar Allan Poe found university difficult and wild, and returned home before finishing his degree. Upon coming home, he found that Jock Allan had remarried and had a child. Jock and his new wife were unwelcoming to Edgar, and he moved to the streets. Soon, Edgar came in contact with his brother Henry, who was living with their Aunt Muddy Clemm, another unfortunate Poe. Edgar, Henry and Rosalie reunited, and made plans for the future. One night, Edgar heard his brother Henry coughing, and like his mother, William Henry Leonard Poe died from tuberculosis. Rosalie Poe left, to a school for "girls in need of moral disposition". Aunt Muddy Clemm had a daughter, Virginia Clemm, also known as Sissy. Sissy had been away at boarding school, but became close friends with Edgar Allan Poe. Soon Edgar scored a position through the publisher Rufus Griswold, and his poems began to appear in magazines. Edgar married Sissy, and slowly gained fame for his writing. Jealous of Edgar Allan Poe, Rufus Griswold spread a rumor about Edgar having an affair with a wealthy lady. Because of this rumor, Edgar’s reputation plummeted, and he lost his job. His wife Sissy became ill with tuberculosis, throwing Edgar into depression and alcoholism. Sissy died, and Edgar Allan Poe was left alone. One night, Edgar planned to poison himself, but was visited by his old love, Elmira Royster. Her husband had died, and she and Edgar rekindled their relationship and arranged for a wedding. Before they marry, Edgar disappeared for five days. He showed up miles from where he was last seen. He was soaking wet, confused and disheveled. Edgar was taken to a doctor, where they declared that it was only a matter of time until he succumbed to his illness. The play ended with the death of Edgar Allan Poe. Although the cause of his death was not stated, it is hinted that he died from tuberculosis. Following an 11-week run of Nevermore Off-Broadway at New World Stages from January 14, 2015 to March 29, 2015, the cast recording of Nevermore was released by Broadway Records on June 16, 2015 entitled Nevermore - The Imaginary Life and Mysterious Death of Edgar Allan Poe (Original Off-Broadway Cast Recording) [2 CD set].   Nevermore: The Imaginary Life and Mysterious Death of Edgar Allan Poe was the winner of seven Sterling Awards in 2009,[Ref 8] including: Additionally, Nevermore received two Betty Mitchell Awards in 2011:  