You're Welcome America. A Final Night with George W Bush is a comedic Broadway play written by and starring American comedian Will Ferrell as George W. Bush, which ran from February 5 to March 15, 2009.  The play is directed by Ferrell's long-time comedy partner, Adam McKay, who previously worked with him on his films Anchorman and Talladega Nights. According to a review at The Improper.com, "Combined with lewd humor and an uncanny cast of characters to help him drive home his alter ego's West Texas mannerisms, Ferrell’s showpiece is a true delight."  It broke the house record at the Cort Theater, taking in $846,507.05 for the week that ended on February 15, 2009.  The show was broadcast live on the HBO cable channel,  as well as in Canada, on March 14, 2009, at 9:00PM EST.   It was released to DVD on November 3, 2009.  The play is based on Ferrell's Bush impression which originated from the show Saturday Night Live. The first appearance of Ferrell's character appeared in Saturday Night Live (season 26)  which took place during the United States presidential election, 2000. The play carries over some qualities of Ferrell's George W. Bush character that replicates the same comedic element as seen on the popular late night show. You're Welcome America. A Final Night With George W. Bush utilizes the comedic element of Political Satire. This type of humor is the reason the play was able to be as successful as it was. According to an article on ebscohost.com "The people have really warmed up to this type of comedy and they really enjoy it."  Ferrell's success and positive feedback of his spot on Bush impression from SNL presented him with the opportunity to turn it into something more. Political satire has grown very popular in the entertainment business. Some more examples include The Daily Show and even the more recently popular show Late Night with Seth Meyers. The play took place months after Bush left the office in 2009  so why bring him back? The play was meant as a final farewell not only to the former president himself, but to Ferrell's character of the former president. The timing of the play was just close enough to get a few last minute jokes in before the people start to lose interest. The show was nominated for Best Special Theatrical Event at the 63rd Tony Awards, but lost to the musical revue special, Liza's at The Palace..... Husband and wife performers Kevin Kline and Phoebe Cates are visible in the audience. Also visible in the audience are Edward Norton, Adam Levine, Common, and Serena Williams. 