AIDS amendments of 1988, better known as the Health Omnibus Programs Extension (HOPE) Act of 1988, is a United States statute amending the Public Health Service Act. The Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome amendments were compiled as Title II - Programs with Respect to Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome within the HOPE Act of 1988. The Title II Act appropriated federal funding for Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome education, prevention, research, and testing. The U.S. legislative title provisioned the establishment of the presidentially appointed National Commission on AIDS.    The S. 2889 legislation was passed by the 100th U.S. Congressional session and signed by the 40th President of the United States Ronald Reagan on November 4, 1988. The Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome was officially recognized on June 5, 1981, when the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) published a clinical article in the CDC's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. The CDC article acknowledged five young males in the Los Angeles, California, area who were infected with the cytomegalovirus and an infrequent form of Pneumocystis Carinii Pneumonia (PCP).  On July 3, 1981, The New York Times published a report concerning forty-one males with scarce cases of Kaposi's sarcoma in California and New York.  By the close of 1981, there had been two hundred and seventy cases of severe immune deficiency cases in males across the United States. Of the two hundred and seventy cases, one hundred and twenty-one of those cases resulted in mortality rates in the United States.  On April 13, 1982, the first U.S. congressional hearings were conducted on the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome by U.S. Representative Henry Waxman.  By September, U.S. Representatives Phillip Burton and Henry Waxman provided U.S. legislation to fund five million for opportunistic infection surveillance by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and ten million for Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome research by the National Institutes of Health.  The 1982 U.S. Congressional deliberations concluded on December 17, 1982, when the 97th Congressional session passed the Orphan Drug Act of 1983. The AIDS amendments established policy for five primary elements with respect to the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  