Hall Render is a large health care-focused law firm in the country.  The firm concentrates on health law and other areas in the health care industry, serving health systems, hospitals, physician organizations, post-acute and ancillary providers, ambulatory surgery centers, provider-sponsored health plans and other health care industry partners.  Hall Render was founded in 1967 in Indianapolis and most recently opened its 10th office in Annapolis, Maryland.  William S. Hall started Hall Render in 1967 as general counsel to the Indiana Hospital Association. The firm has continued to focus on health care law, becoming Hall, Render, Killian, Heath & Lyman in 1984 and gradually expanding to 10 offices across the United States.  Hall Render now has 150 attorneys serving health care industry clients. Hall Render attorneys provides services in the health care industry in the following areas:  Hall Render has offices in Anchorage, Annapolis, Dallas, Denver, Detroit, Indianapolis, Milwaukee, Raleigh, Seattle and Washington, DC. In November 2016, Hall Render was named in U.S. News & World Report and Best Lawyers® 2017's "Best Law Firms" rankings. The firm received national first-tier ranking in health care law and metropolitan first-tier rankings in health care law in Colorado, Indianapolis, Milwaukee and Troy, as well as construction law in Louisville.   Hall Render attorneys are annually selected by their peers for inclusion in Best Lawyers' The Best Lawyers in America listing and included in Super Lawyers listings in a number of markets across the nation. In June 2016, Modern Healthcare named Hall Render as the second largest health care law firm in the country. The publication is known for providing the industry with competitive rankings and practical information for all areas of the health care industry.  In its June 27/July 4, 2016 issue, the rankings were released and reflect results based on the number of attorneys spending at least 50 percent of their time on health law. Hall Render has also been recognized an advocate of diversity in the legal field, being named on Law360's list of best firms for female attorneys.  The president of the firm is John P. Ryan, and each office has a managing partner with connections in the regional health care community.  The attorneys in the Denver office work with clients on health care, employment and antitrust matters.          