Historical accounts for early American naval history now occur across the spectrum of two and more centuries. This Bibliography lends itself primarily to reliable sources covering early American naval history beginning around the American Revolution period on through the 18th and 19th centuries and includes sources which cover notable naval commanders, Presidents, important ships, major naval engagements and corresponding wars. The bibliography also includes sources that are not committed to the subject of American naval history per se but whose content covers this subject extensively. Among the contemporary and earlier historical accounts are primary sources, historical accounts, often derived from letters, dispatches, government and military records, captain's logs and diaries, etc., written by authors who were involved in or closely associated to the historical episode in question. Primary source material is often collected, compiled and published by other editors also, sometimes many years after the historical subject has passed. Many of the authors are notable and even famous in their own right and are linked to their corresponding biographies. Sources dedicated to or well committed to a subject are listed under that subject/section. Sources in any given section can often be used for other subjects/section so a link is sometimes provided to those section(s). A few of the more general sources are sometimes duplicated in the various sections where they equally apply. Sections/subjects are listed in chronological order.  For uniformity in the listing, sources in this bibliography employ the format supported by WikiProject Bibliographies, presented in the example shown directly below, noting author's lastname first, etc., year-date of publication, book title in italics, number of pages, ISBN and/or OCLC number (when available): Primary sources listed in this bibliography are denoted with an uppercase bold ' (P) ' before the book title. Many of the historical accounts were authored by members and ex-members of the U.S. Navy who have not only offered primary accounts but have very often gone on to write about naval history in other general and specific capacities—these sources will be denoted with an  ' (N) ' following the author's name. Many of the sources are available for searching and viewing online. Copyrighted publications are often offered for partial viewing, while sources in the public domain can be viewed in their entirety and are denoted with  'E'book' . At this late date most of the publications are now available in PDF and/or EPUB formats.  A link to the publication is included at the end of a given title listing. As the listings in the various sections are often lengthy, a link to the  'Top'  of a given section is provided at the end of that section. Further information regarding the various types of sources and their usage can be found at: 