A hospitality service, also known as "accommodation sharing", "hospitality exchange" (short "hospex"), "home stay network", or "home hospitality network" ("hoho"), is a centrally organized social networking service of travelers who offer or seek homestays (lodging in a home) either gratis or for money. Hospitality services generally connect users via the internet and are examples of collaborative consumption and sharing. In cases where lodging is offered gratis, they are examples of a barter economy or gift economy. A hospitality service may collect commissions on each homestay, charge a membership fee, or be completely free. In 1949, Bob Luitweiler founded Servas International, the first hospitality service, as a volunteer-run international nonprofit organization advocating interracial and international peace. In 1953, several European teachers who wanted to travel internationally during their summer breaks founded Intervac International, a home exchange network. In 1965, John Wilcock set up the Traveler's Directory as a listing of his friends willing to host each other when traveling.  In 1988, Joy Lily rescued the organization from imminent shutdown, forming Hospitality Exchange. In 1966, psychologist Rubén Feldman González created Programo Pasporto, a hospitality service for Esperanto speakers in Argentina. In 1974, with the help of Jeanne-Marie Cash, it became Pasporta Servo and published its first membership directory, which listed 40 hosts. In 1971, Sue Coppard founded WWOOF ("Worldwide Opportunities on Organic Farms"), a network in which food, lodging, and education is provided to guests in exchange for housekeeping and farmworker services. In 1977, Presbyterian minister Wayne Smith and U.S. President Jimmy Carter established Friendship Force International, with the mission of improving intercultural relations, cultural diplomacy, friendship, and intercultural competence via organized trips involving homestays. In 1992, Hospex.org became the first internet-only hospitality service; it later was folded into Hospitality Club, created in 2000 by Veit Kühne. In 2004, Casey Fenton founded CouchSurfing, the largest hospitality service in which accommodation is offered gratis. In 2008, Brian Chesky and Joe Gebbia founded Airbnb after a popular conference made it hard to find accommodation. Hosts receive monetary payment from guests, paid online in advance, and Airbnb receives commissions from each transaction. 