The city of Liverpool has a greater number of public sculptures than any other location in the United Kingdom aside from Westminster.  Early examples include works by George Frampton, Goscombe John, Thomas Thornycroft, Charles Bell Birch, Richard Westmacott, Francis Chantrey, John Gibson, Thomas Brock and F.W. Pomeroy, while Barbara Hepworth, Jacob Epstein, Mitzi Cunliffe and Elizabeth Frink provide some of the modern offerings. More recently, local artist Tom Murphy has created a dozen sculptures in Liverpool. While statues and sculpture are dotted throughout the inner city, there are four primary groupings: inside and around St George's Hall; in St John's Gardens;  around the Pier Head; and around the Palm House at Sefton Park. Smaller groups are found in Old Hall Street/Exchange Flags and in and around The Oratory. The Queen Victoria Monument at Derby Square, an ensemble of 26 bronze figures by C. J. Allen, is described in the Liverpool Pevsner Architectural Guide as one of the most ambitious British monuments to the Queen.  NB: the following list does not include the comprehensive collections held by National Museums Liverpool, or the countless ornate features of many Liverpool buildings. Gladstone inside St. George's Hall John Lennon on Mathew Street Johnnie Walker DSO*** at the Pier Head Peter Pan in Sefton Park William Earle outside St. George's Hall Liverpool Resurgent outside Lewis's store George V at the Mersey Tunnel entrance Eleanor Rigby on Stanley Street Day outside the George's Dock Control Station William Roscoe inside St. George's Hall Christ Risen at the Anglican Cathedral John Lennon at Liverpool Airport Queen Victoria outside St. George's Hall Ken Dodd at Lime Street station Gladstone (and figure of Justice) in St. John's Gardens Archbishop Derek Worlock on Hope Street Edward VII at the Pier Head Arthur Bower Forwood in St. John's Gardens Raphael outside the Walker Art Gallery Michelangelo outside the Walker Art Gallery Noel Chavasse VC* at Abercromby Square George III on London Road King's Liverpool memorial (including figure of Britannia) in St. John's Gardens George Canning at Liverpool Town Hall Bessie Braddock at Lime Street station Alexander Balfour in St. John's Gardens Mother and Child at the Women's Hospital Detail of Sir Oliver Lodge, on the Queen Victoria Monument Titanic memorial, Pier Head Eros in Sefton Park The River Mersey on Old Hall Street Henry the Navigator in Sefton Park figures of Liverpool and The Fruits of Industry, on the Alfred Lewis Jones memorial Thomas Major Lester in St. John's Gardens William Rathbone in Sefton Park Night outside the George's Dock Control Station Dixie Dean outside Everton Football Club War Memorial at the Cotton Exchange Lions at St. George's Plateau Mackenzie monument, Rodney Street A Case History, Hope Street Exchange Flags war memorial 