Fourteen Words, 14, or 14/88, is a reference to slogans coined by white supremacist David Lane,  a founding member of the terrorist organization The Order.  The terms were coined while he was serving a 190-year sentence in federal prison for his role in violating the civil rights of Jewish talk show host Alan Berg, who was murdered in June 1984.  The slogans were publicized through now-defunct 14 Word Press, founded in 1995 by Lane's wife to disseminate her husband's writings.   Lane also used the phrasing in other pamphlets including the "14 points" of his White Genocide Manifesto and further in his 88 Precepts essay, stressing his support for racial and ethnic religions, opposition to universal religions (such as Christianity), his opposition to miscegenation, his anti-Americanism,  and support for racial separatism.    Many of his concepts, ideology and values, particularly the Fourteen Words slogan, are either inspired by or derived from Adolf Hitler's autobiographical book Mein Kampf.  The terms were later adopted by white supremacists  and neo-Nazis,  white nationalists and identitarians, members of the far-right and alt-right, the most widely used variation being: We must secure the existence of our people and a future for white children.    Another less commonly used variation is:  Because the beauty of the White Aryan woman must not perish from the earth.  It is sometimes combined with 88, as in "14/88" or "1488" with the 8s representing the eighth letter of the alphabet (H), with "HH" standing for "Heil Hitler,"  or simply as a reference to Lane's 88 Precepts,  which when combined with "14" refer to Lane's white supremacist neo-Pagan religion, Wotanism.  In 2018, although dismissed by the US government as a coincidence,  the Trump administration's United States Department of Homeland Security were accused of referencing both "88" in a document,  and the Fourteen Words by creating a similar fourteen-worded title,  starting with the same first three words ("We must secure"), in relation to illegal immigration and border control: We Must Secure The Border And Build The Wall To Make America Safe Again. The slogan has been used in acts of white supremacist terrorism and violence.  It was central to the symbolism of 2008's Barack Obama assassination plot,  which intended to kill 88 African Americans, including future President Barack Obama (at that time the Democratic Party nominee), 14 of whom were to be beheaded.   Skinhead Curtis Allgier notably tattooed the words on to his body after his murder of corrections officer Stephen Anderson,  and Dylan Roof's race war-inspired Charleston church shooting was influenced by the slogan. A strong resemblance of the first definition to a statement in Adolf Hitler's Mein Kampf has been pointed out, albeit not by Lane or by Fourteen Word Press. Scholars such as Barry Balleck have stated that Lane was almost certainly influenced by Hitler, specifically the following statement in Mein Kampf.  What we must fight for is to safeguard the existence and reproduction of our race and our people, the sustenance of our children and the purity of our blood, the freedom and independence of the fatherland, so that our people may mature for the fulfillment of the mission allotted it by the creator of the universe. Every thought and every idea, every doctrine and all knowledge, must serve this purpose. And everything must be examined from this point of view and used or rejected according to its utility. (Vol. I, Chapter 8) A press release issued in February 2018 on the US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) website included a title with fourteen words similarly structured to the white supremacist phrase ("We Must Secure The Border And Build The Wall To Make America Safe Again").  The release also included a reference to the number '88' in the text: "On average, out of 88 claims that pass the credible fear screening, fewer than 13 will ultimately result in a grant of asylum". The similarity was widely shared on social media.   DHS dismissed the similarity as a conspiracy theory, and journalist Chris Hayes attributed the unusual use of 88 as a statistical artifact of how DHS processes asylum seekers.  The slogans and numerology of "14" and "88" have been used by many white supremacists, both before and after committing violence (such as in manifestos), as well as symbolically within criminal acts. These include Order-member David Lane, assassination attempters Paul Schlesselman and Daniel Cowart, and murderers Dylann Roof  and Curtis Allgier.  Allgier has "14" and "88" tattooed on his forehead above and to the sides of the words "skin" and "head" above his eyes in his mugshot.   The assassination of Jewish talk show host Alan Berg in June 1984, is considered as The Order's most infamous act of terrorism.   Order member Bruce Pierce served as the gunman in the murder and Lane the getaway driver.   During Lane's imprisonment on separate convictions (some relating to violating Alan Berg's civil rights) he created the Fourteen Words slogan. The number 14 continues to symbolize allegiance to the Aryan Nations' vision of a white homeland.  "14/88" numerology was symbolically included in the Barack Obama assassination plot in October 2008.  Both Neo-Nazis, Schlesselman and Cowart were introduced to each other online by a mutual friend who shared their white supremacist beliefs.  Within a month of meeting, they had planned to kill the Democratic Party nominee by driving at their target and shooting from their vehicle. This was to be followed by a killing spree in which the men planned to kill 88 African Americans, 14 of whom were to be beheaded. They were targeting mostly children at an unidentified, predominantly black school.   Shortly after their arrest, their vehicle was discovered to have "14" and "88" written onto it.  Mass-shooter Wade Michael Page, who killed six and wounded four members of the Sikh community in August 2012, had been a supporter of the Fourteen Words, and was found with "14" tattooed on his arm,  after committing suicide at the scene of the crime.   About a year before the shooting, Page has written on the internet regarding the slogan that "Passive submission is indirect support to the oppressors. Stand up for yourself and live the 14 words".  After the Charleston mass-murder shooting in June 2015, Dylann Roof's idealogy and apparent manifesto emerged in the media with multiple references to "1488",  these included several photos of Roof pictured alongside the numbers.  He symbolically brought 88 bullets to the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church to carry out the shooting, in which nine African Americans were killed.   