Glory to Ukraine (Ukrainian: Слава Україні! Героям слава!, Slava Ukrajini! Herojam slava!; translated as: Glory to Ukraine! Glory to the heroes!) is a commonly used greeting in Ukraine  and slogan. According to Volodymyr Viatrovych, the phrase “Slava Ukrayini!” (Glory to Ukraine!) first appeared in the Black Zaporozhtsi Cavalry Regiment, an armed unit of the UNR Army, which fought for the independence of Ukraine in 1918-1920. It became part of the Ukrainian lexicon in 1920, which, despite popular fallacy, was long before the OUN and UPA movements started. In his monumental book Kholodny Yar, Yuriy Horlis-Horskyi writes that he heard this phrase from several insurgents, who fought in the Kholodny Yar Ukrainian partisan movement (1918-1923). They routinely greeted each other with the phrase “Slava Ukrayini!”, and the response had to be “Ukrayini Slava!” (which also means "Glory to Ukraine" but with words swapped around). The modern response "Heroyam slava!" (Glory to the heroes!) appeared in the 1930s among members of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN) and Ukrainian Insurgent Army (UPA) who started using this slogan, replacing all former responses with it as a mark of deep respect for all the men and women who had laid down their lives for their country. The partisans thus honoured the memory of all the brave soldiers and passed it on to future generations. The greeting Glory to Ukraine! Glory to the heroes! became an official slogan of Stepan Bandera's OUN-B in April 1941.  “Slava Ukrayini! Heroyam slava!" became very popular in the 1940s and 1950s when the OUN/UPA partisan movement fighting against the Polish and Soviet occupiers swept across most of western Ukraine.  "Glory to the heroes!" was also used by the Kuban Cossacks dating back to at least 1944 with the return of the Cossack Rebel Army who fought with the UPA.  In the Soviet Union the slogan “Slava Ukrayini!” was forbidden and discredited in a decades long propaganda campaign alongside the Ukrainian nationalists who used it.  They were dubbed "Nazi henchmen".  After Ukraine declared independence in 1991, the phrase "Glory to Ukraine" became a common patriotic slogan. In 1995, President of the United States Bill Clinton used the phrase in his speech in Kiev (together with "God bless America").  The phrase has undergone a resurgence in recent times, becoming a popular and prominent refrain during the 2014 Ukrainian revolution.  In September 2014, after addressing a gathering of the United States Congress in Washington, D.C., Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko concluded his speech by uttering the phrase.  It is also commonly used in greeting to Ukraine from the world leaders . On July 10, 2018, Ukrainian supporters flooded the Facebook page of football governing body FIFA with over 158,000 comments, most saying "Glory to Ukraine", after FIFA fined Croatia's assistant coach for a video in which he used the same slogan after Croatia's World Cup victory. The Football Federation of Ukraine said in a statement that "Glory to Ukraine is a commonly used greeting in Ukraine ... (and) should not be interpreted as an act of aggression or provocation".  On 9 August 2018 Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko announced that Glory to Ukraine will be the official greeting of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, replacing Hello Comrades (Вітаю товариші, Vitayu tovaryshi).  The greeting was used during the Kiev Independence Day Parade on 24 August 2018.  The Ukrainian parliament approved the President's bill on this in its first reading on 6 September 2018.  On 7 September 2018, the Ukrainian national football team wore the phrase on their kits, during a UEFA Nations League match with the Czech Republic.  