C. Arden Pope III (born c. 1954) is an American professor of economics at Brigham Young University and one of the world's foremost experts    in environmental science.  He received his B.S. from Brigham Young University (BYU) in 1978 and his Ph.D. in Economics and statistics from Iowa State University in 1981.  Although his research includes many papers on topics in the fields in which he was trained—environmental economics, resource economics, and agricultural economics—he is better known for his cross-disciplinary work in environmental epidemiology and public health.  He is world-renowned for his seminal work on the effects of particulate air pollution on mortality and health.  His articles have helped establish the connection between air pollution and health problems, including cancer, cardiovascular, and pulmonary disease.  These research findings have influenced environmental policy in the United States and Europe, contributing to the establishment of emission standards for particulate matter pollution. Early in Pope's career he published a paper that made him an academic cornerstone of environmental science and policy called "Respiratory hospital admissions associated with PM10 pollution in Utah, Salt Lake, and Cache Valleys".   In Utah Valley the Geneva Steel Mill generated large quantities of particulate matter which is a byproduct of fossil fuel consumption.  The mill was shut down temporarily.  Pope compiled hospital admissions data for the time before, during, and after the temporary closing of the mill and was the first to convincingly show the immediate health harms associated with atmospheric particulate matter.  Asthma, mortality, and respiratory admissions generally were twice as high while the plant was operating than the year in which it was closed. Utah made a particularly suitable natural experiment as the various valleys included in the study trap pollution in the winter months when temperature inversions stifle the escape of pollution.  His abstract states: Pope came under hostile political pressure and his findings became a firestorm of controversy.  Intense scrutiny revealed that his results were accurate.  In 2004 Pope was awarded the Utah Governor's Medal in Science and Technology. In 2006 Dr. Pope was recognized as BYU's distinguished faculty through reception of the Karl G. Maeser award.  