Tomas J. Philipson is the Daniel Levin Chair in Public Policy at the University of Chicago with posts in the Harris School of Public Policy Studies, department of economics, and the Law School. He also is the Director of the health economics program at the Becker Friedman Institute at The University. Philipson is a co-founder of Precision Heath Economics, a healthcare consulting firm with headquarters in Los Angeles and locations throughout the US, Canada, and Europe. In August 2017 he was appointed by President Donald Trump to become a member of the Council of Economic Advisers.  Philipson was born and raised in Sweden where he obtained his undergraduate degree in mathematics at Uppsala University. After earning his MA in mathematics at the Claremont Graduate University, he went on to receive his MA and PhD in economics from the Wharton School and the University of Pennsylvania. He then joined the University of Chicago as a postdoctoral fellow in 1989 and thereafter joined the faculty. He was a visiting faculty member at Yale University in the academic year 1994-95 and a visiting fellow at the World Bank in the winter of 2003. Philipson has served in several public sector positions. He served in the second Bush Administration as the senior economic advisor to the head of the Food and Drug Administration(FDA) during 2003-04 and subsequently as the senior economic advisor to the head of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in 2004-05. He served as a senior health care advisor to Senator John McCain during his 2008 campaign for President of the United States. In December 2010, he was appointed by the Speaker of the US House of Representatives to the Key Indicator Commission created by the Affordable Care Act. He has served as scientific advisor to Congress on the 21st Century Cures Act and to Vice President Biden’s Cancer Moonshot Initiative. Philipson is the recipient of numerous international and national research awards. He has twice (in 2000 and 2006) been the recipient of the highest honor of his field: the Kenneth Arrow Award of the International Health Economics Association (for best paper in the field of health economics). In addition, he was awarded the Garfield Award by Research America in 2007, The Prêmio Haralambos Simeonidisand from the Brazilian Economic Association in 2006, and the Distinguished Economic Research Award from the Milken Institute in 2003. Philipson has been awarded numerous grants and awards from both public and private agencies, including the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, the John M. Olin Foundation, and the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. Philipson is a founding editor of the journal Forums for Health Economics & Policy of Berkeley Electronic Press and has been on the editorial board of the journal Health Economics and The European Journal of Health Economics. His research has been published widely in all leading academic journals of economics such as the American Economic Review, Journal of Political Economy, Quarterly Journal of Economics, Journal of Economic Theory, Journal of Health Economics, Health Affairs, and Econometrica. Philipson is a fellow, board member, or associate of a number of other organizations outside the University, including the National Bureau of Economic Research, the American Enterprise Institute, the Manhattan Institute (where he is chairman of Project FDA), the Heartland Institute, the Milken Institute, the RAND Corporation, and the USC Shaeffer Center for Health Economics and Policy at the University of Chicago, he is affiliated with the John M. Olin Program of Law & Economics, the George J. Stigler Center for the Study of the Economy and the State, the Population Research Center, and the National Opinion Research Center (NORC). He was a member of the University-wide Council on Research in 2000-02 and is currently a member of the Advisory Committee to the University's Office of Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer (UCTech). Philipson has done an extensive amount of executive consulting in the United States and abroad. He has consulted for both private corporations, including many U.S. Fortune 100 companies, as well as government organizations domestically and internationally. This has included work for the President's Council on Science and Technology, the National Academy of Sciences, and reforming the payment system of the UK National Health Service. It has also included work for multi-lateral organizations such as the World Bank, the World Intellectual Property Organization, and the OECD. Philipson is a contributor to a monthly column at Forbes Magazine and coverage of Philipson's research has appeared in numerous popular media outlets such as CNN, CBS, FOX News, Bloomberg TV, National Public Radio, New York Times, Wall Street Journal, New York Times Book Review, Business Week, The Economist, Washington Post, Investor's Business Daily, USA Today. He is a frequent keynote speaker at many domestic-and international health care events and conferences. 