Kritika Kultura is the semi-annual peer-reviewed international electronic journal of literary, language and cultural studies of the Department of English of the Ateneo de Manila University, Philippines. It touts itself as "a pioneering academic electronic journal in the Philippines"  and "the only academic e-journal of its kind in the Philippines today."  The journal is also known as KK. Kritika Kultura has been selected for coverage in the Elsevier Bibliographic Database (EBD) effective 2009. According to EBD, the selection is "in recognition of its high quality and relevance to the scientific community." With this selection, KK is indexed in Scopus, the largest abstract and citation database of peer-reviewed research literature and quality web sources. The Modern Language Association indexed the journal on January 17, 2008.  The Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ), which also indexed the jornal, lists down its publication details. Kritika Kultura's ISSN is 1656152X. Its subject matter mostly revolves around topics under languages and literatures. It was founded in 2002 and is published in English by the Ateneo de Manila University in the Philippines. Keywords include: Philippine literary studies, cultural studies.  The issues and topics covered by the journal are described by anglistikguide.de as "an attempt to respond to the needs of the globalizing world of the academe in general and of Philippine society in particular."  The journal addresses "issues relevant to the 21st century within these disciplines even as addressing those same issues would have to be precisely about crossing the very borders of these disciplines: language and literature and cultural policy, cultural politics of representation, the political economy of language, literature and culture, the production of cultural texts, audience reception, systems of representation, effects of texts on concrete readers/audiences, the history and dynamics of canon formation, gender and sexuality, ethnicity, diaspora, Philippine nationalism and nationhood, national liberation movements, identity politics, feminism, women's liberation movements, etc."  Anglistikguide.de lists down the journal's bibliographic data. The journal's full title is Kritika Kultura. The journal is edited by Dr. Luisa Torres Reyes and published by the Département of English at the Ateneo de Manila University. The online journal formats its data as text/html; image/gif. It can be accessed via the URL www.ateneo.edu  Its level is classified as undergraduate, graduate, and professional.  Since its founding in 2002, Kritika Kultura has published works of internationally noted writers and scholars such as E. San Juan Jr.,  Peter Horn, Bienvenido Lumbera,  Neferti Tadiar,  Doreen Fernandez,  Harry Aveling,  Suchen Christine Lim, Danton Remoto,  Oscar Campomanes   and many others. According to its editorial policy, "Kritika Kultura is interested in publishing a broad and international range of articles on language and literary/cultural studies that appeal to academic researchers in government and private agencies and educational institutions, as well as members of the public."  It is a (1) forum for the publication of such studies "authored by both Ateneo and non-Ateneo faculty and scholars" and as a (2) "site for the development of ideas and the fostering of debate in the areas of literature, language and culture, and language studies."  Kritika Kultura was first envisioned in 2002 by Dr. Ma Luisa T. Reyes, an associate professor with the Department of English at the Ateneo de Manila University.  The journal continues until today to be edited by her. To date, Kritika Kultura has an International Board of Editors, and many of the papers, essays and literary works it has published have come from prominent intellectuals who are actively engaged in lively, ongoing global conversations about society and the academe. KK referees come from important universities worldwide who are respected in their fields. The members of the international editorial board are among the world's renowned writers and scholars in literary, language and cultural studies, namely, Jan Baetens (University of Leuven, Belgium), Faruk Tripoli(Gadja Mada University, Indonesia), Regenia Gagnier (University of Exeter, UK), Inderpal Grewal (University of California, Irvine, USA), Peter Horn (University of Cape Town, South Africa), Anette Horn (University of Pretoria, South Africa), David Lloyd (University of Southern California, USA), Bienvenido Lumbera (University of the Philippines), Rajeev S. Patke (National University of Singapore), Temario Rivera (International Christian University, Japan), E. San Juan, Jr. (Philippine Cultural Studies Center, USA), Neferti X.M. Tadiar (Columbia University, USA), Antony Tatlow (University of Dublin, Ireland), and Vicente L. Rafael (University of Washington, USA).  