The Bertrand Russell Society is a non-profit learned society whose purpose is to foster a better understanding of Bertrand Russell and his work. The Society was founded in 1974 by, among others, Lady Katharine Tait, Russell's only daughter. The Society publishes the Bertrand Russell Society Bulletin, and all members receive Russell: the Journal of Bertrand Russell Studies. The Society holds an annual meeting, and offers numerous prizes for literature and other work. The Society also sponsors talks in conjunction with the American Philosophical Association (APA) and the Society for the Study of the History of Analytical Philosophy (SSHAP). The Bertrand Russell Society has three aims (Bylaws, Article 2):  The BRS motto is: "The good life is one inspired by love and guided by knowledge." -Bertrand Russell (1925) "What I Believe"; cited from p. 349 in The Basic Writings of Bertrand Russell (Routledge Classics, New York: 2009). Founded in 1974, the Bertrand Russell Society seeks to foster a better understanding of the life, work, and writings of Bertrand Russell (1872-1970) and how his contributions relate to today’s world. The Society has a regular annual meeting featuring scholarly and popular presentations about Russell and related subjects, a business meeting, a banquet, and good fellowship. Usually in June, most often in a university setting, annual meetings have taken place at wide variety of locations. The Society publishes the Bertrand Russell Society Bulletin, which is free to all members. Interested persons are invited to submit papers to the editor, William Bruneau. Members also receive the scholarly journal Russell. The Bertrand Russell Society Library has a collection of Russell-related books and papers that members can borrow and a large selection of television and radio interviews of Russell online in the members area of the Library. Members of the Bertrand Russell Society may contact us for access. The Society awards annual student-paper-prizes for the best new papers about Russell by undergraduate and graduate students. Prize-winners present their papers at our annual meeting, receive $200, free registration, lodging and banquet at the meeting, and a 1-year membership in the BRS. The Society also awards an annual BRS Book Award for the best new book on Russell, an annual BRS Award to an individual or an organization whose work best furthers the interests and commitments of Bertrand Russell, and the Lee Eisler Service Award for service to the Russell Society. The Society sponsors sessions of talks on Russell and early analytic philosophy more generally at meetings of the American Philosophical Association (APA), often in conjunction with the Society for the Study of the History of Analytical Philosophy (SSHAP). The Society helps support Russell scholarship, for example, the scholarly journal Russell: The Journal of Bertrand Russell Studies, which all BRS members receive as part of their membership, and maintains these web pages to provide information on Russell and related subjects and to further our shared interests and values. 