Health in Uganda refers to the health of the population of Uganda. As of 2013, life expectancy at birth in Uganda was 58 years, which was lower than in any other country in the East African Community except Burundi.   As of 2015, the probability of a child dying before reaching age five was 5.5 percent (55 deaths for every 1000 live births).  Total health expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product (GDP) was 7.2 percent in 2014.  In 2015, an estimated 1.5 million people in Uganda were infected with HIV,  and the HIV prevalence rate in the country was 7.2 percent.  Uganda was the most physically active nation in the world in 2018 according to the World Health Organization. Only 5.5% of Ugandans do not achieve 150 minutes of moderate-to-intense or 75 minutes of rigorous activity per week. Most work is still very physical, and commuting by vehicle is beyond the reach of most of the population.  Kampala, however, is not freindly towards walking or cycling, and the air is very polluted. The Kampala Capital City Authority established the country's first cycle lane - 500 metres in Kololo - in 2018.  As of 2016, the five leading causes of death in Uganda included communicable diseases such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, respiratory tract infections, and diarrheal diseases.  The risk factors most responsible for death and disability include child and maternal malnutrition, unprotected sexual activity, multiple sex partners,  contaminated water, poor sanitation, and air pollution.  HIV treatment in Uganda has centered on human antiretroviral therapy through cross-training and increasing the scope of health workers who can administer treatment (e.g., community health workers and nurses).   This shift in treatment occurred through the WHO's 2004 "Integrated Management of Adult and Adolescent Illness" guide.  Studies of HIV-infected adults in Uganda showed risky sexual behavior  to have declined, contributing to the decline in HIV incidence.  From 1990 to 2004, HIV rates declined by 70 percent and casual sex declined by 60 percent.  Health communication was also listed as a potential cause of inducing behavioral changes in the Ugandan population.  According to a 2015 study, impediments to reducing HIV incidence include food insecurity in rural areas and stigma against HIV counseling and testing.   Uganda has the highest incidence rate of malaria in the world, with 478 people out of 1000 population being afflicted per year.  According to WHO data published in May 2014, malaria accounted for 19,869 deaths in Uganda (6.19% of total deaths).  In 2002, the Ugandan government formalized the process of treating fevers through home-based care.  Mothers who were able to better recognize symptoms of malaria took their children to a community medicine facility early in the illness.  The Integrated Management of Childhood Illness allowed for better recognition of malaria's symptoms.  Treatment either involved immediately taking the child to see a nearby healthcare worker or acquiring the treatment of chloroquine and SP, also known as Homapak,  though kits have been found to be expired in some instances.  However, resistance to HOMAPAK emerged, and drug recommendations by the WHO changed to artemisinin combination therapy (ACT).  After the midterm review in 2014 of the national plan for malaria reduction and the malaria programme review in 2010, the national strategy to reduce malaria is being redesigned.  Currently, Uganda is treating malaria through distribution of insecticide-treated nets, indoor spraying of insecticides, and preventative therapy for pregnant women.  The disease burden of malaria, however, remains high and is further strengthened by inadequate resources, understanding of malaria, and increased resistance to drugs.  Reproductive health (RH) is a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being in all matters relating to the reproductive system and to its functions and processes. It implies that people have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if, when, and how often to do so. Implicit in this is the right of men and women to be informed and to have access to safe, effective, affordable, and acceptable methods of family planning of their choice, as well as other methods of their choice for regulation of fertility, which are not against the law, and the right of access to health care services that will enable women to go safely through pregnancy and childbirth. RH care also includes sexual health, the purpose of which is the enhancement of life and personal relations.   The World Health Organization (WHO) defines maternal health as the health of women during pregnancy, childbirth, and the postpartum period.  According to UNICEF, Uganda's maternal mortality ratio, the annual number of deaths of women from pregnancy-related causes per 100,000 live births,  was 440 from 2008 to 2012.  The Millennium Development Goal (MDG) for 2015 concerning the maternal mortality ratio was 131 per 100,000 births. The MDG also set a goal for all births to be attended by a skilled health professional,  In rural areas, conceiving pregnant women seek the help of traditional birth attendants (TBAs) because of the difficulty in accessing formal health services and high transportation or treatment costs. TBAs are trusted as they embody the cultural and social life of the community. The TBAs' lack of knowledge and training and the use of traditional practices, however, have led to risky medical procedures resulting in high maternal mortality rates. Those rates also persist because of an overall low use of contraceptives, the limited capacity of health facilities to manage abortion/miscarriage complications, and the prevalence of HIV/AIDS among pregnant women. Despite malaria being one of the leading causes of morbidity in pregnant women, prevention and prophylaxis services are not well established according to a 2013 published report.  Only 47 percent of Ugandan women receive the recommended four antenatal care visits, and only 42 percent  of births are attended by skilled health personnel. Among the poorest 20 percent of the population, the share of births attended by skill health personnel was 29 percent in 2005/2006 compared to 77 percent among the wealthiest 20 percent of the population.  Malnutrition is a major development concern in Uganda, affecting all regions of the country and most segments of the population. The current levels of malnutrition hinder Uganda’s human, social, and economic development. Although the country has made tremendous progress in economic growth and poverty reduction over the past 20 years, its progress in reducing malnutrition remains very slow. The ultimate objective of the Uganda Nutrition Action Plan (UNAP) is to ensure that all Ugandans are properly nourished so they can live healthy and productive lives. However, it is at the start of life in particular that we must work together to ensure that all Ugandans are properly nourished. According to the three most recent Uganda Demographic Health Surveys (UDHS), nutrition indicators for young children and their mothers have not improved much over the past 15 years, with some indicators showing a worsening trend. For example, in 1995, 45 percent of children under 5 years old in Uganda were short for their age (stunted); 10 years later, the prevalence of stunted under-5s had fallen to only 39 percent (UDHS, 2006). Stunting indicates chronic malnutrition in children; the stunting prevalence rate of 39 percent means that about 2.3 million young children in Uganda today are chronically malnourished. UNICEF  Consider the nutrition profile of Uganda for children under 5 years of age as per USAID     This has a huge burden on the country through lost income that directly affects the GDP where as much as 5.6% or US$899 million is lost annually. WFP   Despite the worrying numbers, latest research shows that the numbers of children under 5 suffering from malnutrition are declining.   Domestic violence (DV) is a key issue in reproductive health and rights. Most of the DV is gender-based.  Physical violence is the most prevalent type of DV in Uganda, with one quarter of women reporting it. More than 60 percent of women who have ever been married have reported experiencing emotional, physical, or sexual violence from a spouse.  In 2011, about 2 percent of women reported to have undergone female genital mutilation, a practice that is dying away in the areas where it was more frequently practiced.  Northern Uganda is one of the four major administrative regions in Uganda. The region was devastated by a protracted civil war between the government of Uganda and the Lords Resistance Army as well as the cattle rustling conflict that lasted for 20 years.   Since the war ended in 2006, the internally displaced person camps have been destroyed and people have resettled back to their former homesteads. The region, however, still has many health challenges, such as poor health care infrastructure and inadequate staffing at all levels (2008 published report);  lack of access to the national electricity grid (2007 published report);  an inability to attract and retain qualified staff;  frequent stock outs in the hospitals and health facilities;  emerging and re-emerging diseases such as Ebola, nodding syndrome, onchocerciasis, and tuberculosis;  proneness to malaria epidemics, the leading cause of death in the country;  reintegration of former abducted child soldiers who returned home (2007 study);  lack of safe drinking water as most boreholes were destroyed during the war;  the HIV/AIDS epidemic (2004 published report);  poor education standards with high failure rates in primary and secondary school national examinations (2015 published report);  and poverty (2013 published report).  Uganda has been hosting refugees and asylum seekers since achieving its independence in 1962.In fact, the 2016 United Nations Summit for Refugees declared Uganda’s refugee policy a model. The 2006 Refugee Act and 2010 Refugee Regulations allow for integration of refugees within host communities with refugees having access to the same public services as nationals. They have freedom of movement and are free to pursue livelihood opportunities, including access to the labour market and to establish businesses. Uganda is currently hosting 1,252,470 refugees and asylum seekers making it the largest refugee hosting country in Africa and the third largest in the world (GoU and UNHCR, 2017) UNDP  . This has placed a huge burden on the country that has GDP of just 710 dollars, yet the aid received per person is very small. "Aid received per person against income"  Cost disaggregated by sector exemption to UN agencies || 45,254,125 || 14.01 There are regular outbreaks of diseases such as cholera, ebola and marburg. 2017 Uganda Marburg virus outbreak. The policy of allowing refugees to freely move within the country increases the risk of spreading these outbreaks beyond refugee camp borders. According to the 2015 Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS) report:  