The Beach Volleyball Major Series (or Beach Major Series and formerly the Swatch Beach Volleyball Major Series) is an international series of beach volleyball tournaments which began in 2015. The tournaments consist of Tour Stops and form part of the FIVB Beach Volleyball World Tour. The series concludes with the FIVB World Tour Finals. Each tournament in the series has a prize pool of USD$300,000 per gender, except for the World Tour Finals which has a prize pool of USD$400,000 per gender.   The Beach Volleyball Major Series arose out of a joint-venture between Austrian companies Red Bull and the ACTS Group.  Red Bull was established in 1987 by Dietrich Mateschitz. Aside from the energy drink, Red Bull’s direct marketing focuses heavily on sports and lifestyle. ACTS Group is a marketing agency founded in 1990 by Hannes Jagerhofer.  It offers services including event-marketing, event-organization, external-communication and public relations. The group has also been responsible for the organizing beach volleyball tournaments, including the FIVB Grand Slams in Klagenfurt, Carinthia, Austria. Swatch was the title sponsor of the Swatch Beach Volleyball Major Series between 2015 and 2017. The Series will continue for a fourth year in 2018 with three Major stops and one World Tour Finals tournament in August. The competition is overseen by the FIVB, the international governing body for the sports of indoor, beach and grass volleyball.  In the category of Beach Volleyball, the FIVB oversees three competitions, namely: the FIVB Beach Volleyball Continental Cup, the FIVB Beach Volleyball World Tour and lastly the FIVB Beach Volleyball World Championships. The Beach Volleyball Major Series forms part of the FIVB Beach Volleyball World Tour. Beach volleyball was formally recognized as an Olympic discipline in 1996. In order for a beach volleyball athlete to participate in the Olympics, minimum requirements must be met and one of these requirements as stipulated by the FIVB is that all athletes must have participated in a minimum of 12 official FIVB Olympic qualification tournaments as an individual. Also an athlete hoping to participate in the Olympics must earn FIVB World Ranking points which tallies up to make up the Olympic Ranking. Participation in Major Series tournaments counts towards Olympic qualification tournaments and also earns athletes FIVB World Ranking points. An exception is the FIVB World Tour Finals – participating teams do not earn FIVB World Ranking points for this event. In 2016, the smart Major Hamburg was the final tournament where Olympic ranking points for the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro could be obtained.  The first Beach Volleyball Major Series began in 2015. There were Tour Stops in Poreč, Croatia; Stavanger, Norway and Gstaad, Switzerland. The Swatch Beach Volleyball FIVB World Tour Finals took place in Fort Lauderdale Florida, United States. The 2016 Major Series schedule began in Hamburg, Germany, and took in further stops in Croatia, Switzerland and Klagenfurt in Austria. The Series culminated with the Swatch Beach Volleyball FIVB World Tour Finals in Toronto.  The 2017 Major Series schedule was released in October 2016.  As part of the FIVB World Tour, the Swatch Major Series will again pay trips to Poreč and Gstaad. The 2017 tour began in February in Fort Lauderdale, the site of the 2015 World Tour Finals. The 2017 Finals were held in August in Hamburg. The Swatch Major Series was also responsible for the organization of the FIVB Beach Volleyball World Championships in Vienna in July and August.  The Major Series' official mascot is Marnin. Unveiled prior to the 2016 season, Marnin is described as a cross between a kangaroo and a fox.  Marnin made his debut courtside on the FIVB Tour at the Hamburg Major. 