The Grand Chess Tour (GCT) is a circuit of chess tournaments where players compete for multiple prize pools.  Major tournaments that have been featured in the Grand Chess Tour include Norway Chess, the Sinquefield Cup, and the London Chess Classic. The Grand Chess Tour was announced on April 24, 2015 at the Chess Club and Scholastic Center of Saint Louis in St. Louis, Missouri prior to the Battle of the Legends: Garry Kasparov vs Nigel Short match. The tour was designed to promote competitive chess by including all of the top players and the World Champion Magnus Carlsen in a single circuit.  With the combination of several established tournaments, the Grand Chess Tour aimed to create a large prize pool which would be attractive to the players and media alike.  The first Grand Chess Tour took place across three tournaments,  Norway Chess, the Sinquefield Cup, and the London Chess Classic with each tournament in the Grand Chess Tour having the same prize fund, structure, and time controls. The overall prize pool for the first Grand Chess Tour was $1,050,000, with $300,000 for each tournament and a $150,000 prize for the top three players across the entire circuit.   In 2015, nine "standard" players competed in each tournament in the Grand Chess Tour, with a tenth wildcard player is selected by the organizing committee of each individual event.  In 2016, there will be eight standard players, and two wildcards per event. Players earn tour points based on their performance at each event.  The top three players who accumulate the most tour points across all events receive extra prize money, taken from the Grand Chess Tour prize fund, and automatic invitations to the following year's Grand Chess Tour.  Wildcard players receive tour points for any tournaments in which they participate.  The point breakdown and prize money for each classical tournament is as follow: In 2015, the Grand Chess Tour invited the top-10 players in the world ranked by the January 2015 FIDE rating list.  Maxime Vachier-Lagrave, the 11th ranked player in January 2015, was invited as the ninth player to compete after 8th ranked Vladimir Kramnik and 10th ranked Wesley So declined to participate.   Jon Ludvig Hammer was selected to participate in the 2015  Norway Chess Tournament after qualifying through a wildcard tournament.   Wesley So and Michael Adams were selected to participate in the Sinquefield Cup and the London Chess Classic, respectively.    The results of the 2015 Grand Chess Tour.  Tour points in bold indicate a tournament win. On January 6, 2016, the Altibox Norway Chess event announced it would not be part of the Grand Chess Tour in 2016.   On February 11, 2016, the GCT announced it was adding two rapid/blitz tournaments for 2016,  sponsored by Colliers International France (Paris), and Your Next Move (Leuven).  For 2016, an initial roster of eight players was created based upon the rules published on the GCT website. The Initial Roster consisted of the three top finishers in the 2015 GCT and the next five highest players by rating according to the 2016 January FIDE Rating List. Maxime Vachier-Lagrave was subsequently added to the roster as the GCT Wild Card Player for all 4 events. World Champion Magnus Carlsen declined participation in the two classic events but competed as a wild card in the rapid/blitz tournaments held in both Paris and Leuven.  All other players accepted the invitations for all four tournaments with the exception of Viswanathan Anand who declined the invitation to the Paris tournament. Since GCT Tour Points are based on the best three tournament results Anand remains eligible for the overall tour prizes in 2016. For the Sinquefield Cup, Vladimir Kramnik had to withdraw due to health issues and was replaced by Peter Svidler. The wildcards were as follows: The results of the 2016 Grand Chess Tour.  Tour points in bold indicate a tournament win.  The 2017 Grand Chess Tour consists of five events: three rapid and blitz chess, and two classical chess.  By January 2017, six players had qualified for the 2017 Grand Chess Tour;  on January 3, three wildcard selections for the tour were announced, bringing the total number of participants to nine.   Vladimir Kramnik declined to participate in the 2017 GCT, citing a busy summer schedule.  He was replaced by Levon Aronian, the next highest rated player on the January Universal Rating System list.   On July 5, Garry Kasparov agreed to join the St. Louis Rapid & Blitz tournament as a wildcard. Note that wildcard players are not eligible for the overall prize funds. Grand Chess Tour 2018 sees a format change. While the first four events retain the same rule, the last event, London Chess Classic, is replaced with a semifinal and final match consisting of classical, rapid and blitz. Top 4 players from the first four events will be invited for the final event.   Results   