The IFSC Climbing World Cup is a series of climbing competitions held annually and organized by the International Federation of Sport Climbing (IFSC). The athletes competes in three disciplines: lead, bouldering and speed. The number of competitions and venues vary from year to year. The first World Cup was held under the auspices of UIAA in 1989, World Cups were held under the auspices of IFSC from 2007.  For this reason before 2007 the World Cup was called UIAA Climbing World Cup. At the end of each World Cup competition, a trophy is awarded to the winner, the top three athletes are awarded gold, bronze, and silver medals, and the top six athletes are awarded prize money. The top 30 competitors of individual World Cup competitions are eligible to accrue points.  For each discipline (lead, bouldering and speed), the points awarded to each athlete are added together throughout the World Cup series in order to determine an overall World Cup ranking. If an athlete participates in all competitions in a discipline, its worst result is discarded (provided that IFSC organizes at least 6 competitions for that season). At the end of the season, the athlete with highest ranking in each discipline will be considered to be the overall winner of the World Cup series, and will be awarded a trophy. The athletes ranking second and third will be awarded a plate.  At the end of each competition, a national team ranking is determined, for each discipline, by adding the ranking points of the three highest ranked individual team members. For each discipline (lead, bouldering and speed), the points awarded to each team are added together throughout the World Cup series in order to determine the overall team ranking. If a team participates in all competitions in a discipline, its worst result is discarded (provided that IFSC organizes at least 6 competitions for that season). At the end of the season, the team with highest overall ranking is awarded a throphy. The overall rankings obtained by each athlete in all of the three disciplines (lead, bouldering and speed) are added together to determine a combined ranking. At the end of the season, prizes are awarded to the top three athletes in the combined ranking. 