The PSA World Series (formerly known as the PSA Super Series) is a series of men's and women's squash tournaments which are part of the Professional Squash Association (PSA) World Tour for the squash season. The PSA World Series tournaments are some of the most prestigious events on the men's tour. The best-performing players in the World Series events qualify for the annual PSA World Series Finals tournament.  Each year, several tournaments on the tour are designated World Series events. These include major events such as the World Championship, the British Open, the Hong Kong Open or the Tournament of Champions. Then, early the next year, the eight best-performing players from the Super Series events are invited to compete in the PSA World Series Finals (a similar event to the ATP World Tour Finals).  The World Series Squash Finals were first staged in Vitis Club in Zurich, Switzerland, in 1993 and 1994. The event was then moved to England. It was held at the Galleria shopping complex in Hatfield from 1996-98. From 1999-2006, it was held in the Broadgate Arena in London. In 2007, the event was moved to the National Squash Centre in Manchester. In 2009, the tournament was shortened to a four-day format and played at the Queen's Club in London. And in 2014, the event was held for the first time in the United States in the Westwood Club in Richmond, Virginia. From January 2015, it also includes World Series tournaments for women's after merger between PSA and WSA in November 2014. Here is the list of tournaments that have been at least a season PSA World Series tournament since 1993 (current tournaments in green) : PSA World Series events also have a separate World Series ranking.  Points for this are calculated on a cumulative basis after each World Series event. The top eight players at the end of the calendar year are then eligible to play in the PSA World Series Finals.  At the same time, the players competing in PSA World Series Events earn world ranking points according to the prize money, classification of the event, and the final position in the draw the player reaches. 