The Rhythmic Gymnastics Grand Prix Series is an annual competition of tournaments in rhythmic gymnastics open to athletes from all over the globe. The series consists of a number of stages, culminating in the final event, usually referred to as Grand Prix Final. The Grand Prix circuit usually hosts some of the most watched yearly events in rhythmic gymnastics, frequently gathering some of the best gymnasts in the world.  The Grand Prix Series should not be confused with the Rhythmic Gymnastics World Cup series, which is a competition officially organized by the Fédération Internationale de Gymnastique (FIG).  The Grand Prix Series was established in 1994. The then vice-president of the International Gymnastics Federation, Hans-Jürgen Zacharias, came up with the idea of a series of events held in different cities, and the rules were drafted in the course of many meetings with the European Union of Gymnastics (UEG).  The first Grand Prix Series was organised in the Netherlands, Ukraine, France, Germany and Austria, with the Grand Prix Final event being held in Innsbruck.  The Grand Prix Series focuses on individual rhythmic gymnastics; winners of the overall series were crowned for their all-around performances from 1994 to 1997, and later in four apparatus, each year, since 1998 up to the present edition, in 2017. Grand Prix stages have also hosted a number of rhythmic gymnastics group events, being considered part of the official Grand Prix Series. However, even some Grand Prix Final events had had group events, these were not officially considered part of the Grand Prix Final event, since this event crowns only the overall winners of the individual events. As of 2016, gymnasts from countries in Europe and Asia, including Russia, Bulgaria, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, have won medals at the Grand Prix Final tournament. Gymnasts from countries in the Americas, such as Brazil and the United States, have won medals at the Grand Prix stages.   The final stage of the event, also commonly referred to as Grand Prix Final, is considered a prestigious event in which usually only the best ranked gymnasts from previous stages are allowed to compete. Except for the 1994 edition, in which only the all-around event was staged, in all the other Grand Prix Final tournaments the all-around competitions served as qualifications for the finals by apparatus.  Though group events have been competed at Grand Prix Final events, only medals earned by individual rhythmic gymnasts are officially considered Grand Prix medals. 