The World Series of Darts is a series of darts tournaments organised by the Professional Darts Corporation. Beginning in 2013, the World Series has comprised between two and seven tournaments across the world, where a mixture of the top-ranked PDC players take on local qualifiers in a knockout format. Since 2015, there has been a finals tournament held annually in November at the Braehead Arena in Glasgow, Scotland, although in 2018, it is scheduled to be moved to the Multiversum Schwechat in Vienna, Austria. The World Series of Darts commenced in 2013 with the Dubai Duty Free Darts Masters. The goal of these series of tournaments is to make darts more popular across the globe. Later that year, the Sydney Darts Masters took place, which as well as including 8 top-ranked PDC players, also featured 8 players from Australia and New Zealand to take part in the tournament. In 2014, tournaments in Singapore and Perth were added to the series, although this would be the only year that Singapore was used for an event. In 2015, but the Japan tournament (later renamed as Tokyo for the 2016 tournament) and Auckland were added. Also in 2015, ended the series with the World Series of Darts Finals. In 2016, the PDC expanded into China with the addition of the Shanghai Darts Masters, and in 2017, both North America and Europe had their own tournaments with the US Darts Masters in Las Vegas, and the German Darts Masters in Düsseldorf, along with Melbourne over from Sydney in the Australian leg of the tour. In 2018, Brisbane will join the fray and replace Perth, whilst Dubai, which will have a one-year hiatus.  It was also confirmed that Vienna, Austria will replace Glasgow as the host of the World Series Finals in 2018. Since the first tournament began in 2013, the World Series has visited eight countries. Since the World Series of Darts Finals were announced in 2015, each event includes ranking points that all players earn dependent on how far they go to through each tournament. The top 8 ranked players automatically qualify for the Finals. Up to and including the 2018 Brisbane Darts Masters. 