The Helsinki Process on Globalization and Democracy is a joint initiative of Finland and Tanzania that resulted from the Helsinki Conference of December 2002. The Helsinki Process searches for novel and empowering solutions to the dilemmas of global governance. It aims to offer a forum for open and inclusive dialogue between major stakeholders.  The Helsinki Process is part of Finland's increasing involvement in global cooperation. Like Sweden, the state actively engages other countries to address global issues such as the impact of globalization. However, while some countries are focused internally on how its policies can contribute to a just globalisation, Finland is more oriented towards external initiatives that advance the global dialogue.  This was demonstrated during the Cold War where the country helped facilitate the East-West negotiations. The Helsinki Process is seen as an attempt on the part of Finland to encourage North-South engagement.   Through its partnership with Tanzania, Finland successfully launched a platform where countries from the North and South can actively participate in discussion and negotiations to mitigate the adverse impact of globalisation and achieve equitable management of the process.  This initiative serves as a forum not just for governments from the North and South but also international organizations, private sector, and civil society, among other stakeholders. By 2005, the Helsinki Process hosted a two-day conference that attracted 700 participants from 79 countries.  The process is split in two phases: the First Phase and Second Phase of the Helsinki Process. The First Phase of the process occurred from 2003 to September 2005. During this phase "the high-level Helsinki Group and three thematic Tracks worked on developing a concept for multi-stakeholder cooperation in global problem solving and suggested ways of addressing various global problems using this concept."   The Second Phase of the process occurred from October 2005 to the end of 2007. The purpose of this phase was to:   