The Data Quality Act (DQA) or Information Quality Act (IQA),  passed through the United States Congress in Section 515 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2001  (Pub.L. 106–554). Because the Act was a two-sentence rider in a spending bill, it had no name given in the actual legislation. The Government Accountability Office calls it the Information Quality Act,  while others call it the Data Quality Act. IQA directs the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to issue government-wide guidelines that "provide policy and procedural guidance to Federal agencies for ensuring and maximizing the quality, objectivity, utility, and integrity of information (including statistical information) disseminated by Federal agencies".  Other federal agencies are also required to publish their own guidelines for information quality and peer review agendas.  Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2001 Sec. 515 reads:  (a) In General. – The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall, by not later than September 30, 2001, and with public and Federal agency involvement, issue guidelines under sections 3504(d)(1) and 3516 of title 44, United States Code, that provide policy and procedural guidance to Federal agencies for ensuring and maximizing the quality, objectivity, utility, and integrity of information (including statistical information) disseminated by Federal agencies in fulfillment of the purposes and provisions of chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, commonly referred to as the Paperwork Reduction Act. (b) Content of Guidelines. – The guidelines under subsection (a) shall – The Data Quality Act has been criticized as providing a vehicle for special interest groups to challenge regulations on the grounds of not meeting information quality requirements.  However, others view unchecked data and lack of peer-review as a tool of political corruption leading to the imposition of arbitrary and capricious regulations.  The Competitive Enterprise Institute filed a lawsuit to prevent dissemination of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)'s "Climate Action Report 2002" published May 2002,  claiming the research did not meet requirements of the Federal Data Quality Act (FDQA), which came into effect in October 2002.  The case was dismissed in November 2003.  In 2004 the Salt Institute, a salt-producers' association and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce sued the Department of Health and Human Services in federal court using the Data Quality Act.  The suit alleged that federal scientists lacked evidence that salt was harmful to health. Although the case was dismissed, the Salt Institute appealed the decision.  The Journal of the American Dietetic Association and the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI) which is part of the US National Institutes of Health claimed that the food industry is adding too much salt to foods.  