Maximilianus Transylvanus (Transilvanus, Transylvanianus), also Maximilianus of Transylvania and Maximilian (Maximiliaen) von Sevenborgen (c. 1490 – c. 1538), was a sixteenth-century author based in Flanders who wrote the earliest account published on Magellan and Elcano's first circumnavigation of the world (1519–22). Written after he interviewed the survivors of the Victoria, and being a relative of sponsor Christopher de Haro, his account De Moluccis Insulis is a main source about the expedition along with that of Antonio Pigafetta. In 1520, Transylvanus had published, at Augsburg, a work in Latin that describes the reception that nominated Charles I, King of Spain, as Holy Roman Emperor in 1519 at Molins de Rei, in Spain.  This is the Legatio ad sacratissimum ac invictum Caesarem divum Carolum .... ab reverendissimis et illustrissimis principibus ... qua functus est ...Federicus comes palatinus in Molendino regio vlt. Novembris Anno MDXIX (Augsburg: Sigismund Grimm und Marx Wirsung, 1520).  At this point, Maximilianus seems to have already been serving as personal secretary to Charles V, as well as accompanying the monarch on his travels. As Secretary to Charles V, the Holy Roman Emperor, for whom Magellan had sailed, Transylvanus interviewed the survivors of the voyage when Magellan's surviving ship Victoria returned to Spain in September 1522.  This group included Juan Sebastián Elcano, Francisco Albo, and Hernando de Bustamante.  The result was Maximiliani Transyluani Caesaris a secretis epistola, de admirabili & novissima hispanoru in orientem navigatione, que auriae, & nulli prius accessae regiones sunt, cum ipsis etia moluccis insulis, published in Cologne in 1523. Maximilianus, a pupil of Peter Martyr Vermigli, interviewed the surviving members of the expedition when they presented themselves to the Spanish court at Valladolid in the fall of 1522.  Eager to acquire fame as a writer, he produced his tract De Moluccis Insulis as a letter to Matthäus Lang von Wellenburg, the Cardinal-Archbishop of Salzburg, who had suggested that he perform the interviews in the first place.   It may have also been Vermigli who suggested the project to the young courtier.  Vermigli, was, after all, very interested in overseas exploration. Maximilianus' letter is dated 24 October 1522, and his account was sent to Lang, whom he calls ambiguously domine mi unice ("my sole lord"), while the cardinal-archbishop was attending the Diet of Nuremberg.  This diet was concerned with pacifying the first Protestants, which resulted in the sending of a letter of appeal to Pope Adrian VI. Maximilianus' letter reached the hands of a Cologne printer, Eucharius Cervicornus (a Latinized rendering of "Hirtzhorn"), and the first edition of De Moluccis Insulis was printed in January 1523.  Despite the war that had erupted between Charles V and Francis I of France (see Italian War of 1521), this first edition reached Paris, where it was printed anew by Pierre Viart in July 1523.  A subsequent edition was printed at Rome by Minutius Calvus (Minizio Calvo), in November 1523. Maximilianus Transylvanus' origins and paternity are a matter of dispute among historians. In spite of his surname, Transylvanus is said to have come from Flanders, not Transylvania, and to have been a natural or bastard son of Archbishop Lang von Wellenburg. Scholars point to a Flemish provenance due to the fact that: In an 1891 letter to Notes and Queries, a scholar (identified only as "L.L.K.") wrote: In 1916, the same scholar wrote in to state: Sigismund von Herberstein (1486-1566), the diplomat, writer, historian mentions him as Maximilian von Sibenpergen  , while Konrad Peutinger (1465-1547) the humanists knows him as Maximilian Sybenberger , both clearly referring to the German names of Transylvania: Siebenbürgen.  Both were also contemporaries and probably personal friends of Maximilianus . One of the main arguments in favor of Maximilianus' Transylvanian origin: The renowned humanist and  Bishop of Pécs  (later archbishop of Esztergom, Hungary) Nicolaus Olahus' 1534 dated letter mentions "noster Maximilianus Transylvanus", that is "our Transylvanian Maximilianus", with whom he became a close friend in  Brussels bonded by the shared heritage: "Based on our common fatherland we are in great intimacy with one another , as he says , and I believe (pro ea, quae inter nos ob patriam communem intercedit familiaritas ut ipse dicit, ergo qouque ita credo, non vulgaris)” . It is also well known that Nicolaus Olahus was born  in Hermannstadt (in Hungarian: Nagyszeben; today in Rumanian: Sibiu) in Transylvania. Transylvanus had a lively interest in Magellan's expedition around the world.  However, his information should not be entirely accepted at face value, as Transylvanus uncritically accepted the testimony he took down from the surviving crew members.  He was also in a hurry to get his letter published.  The account written by Antonio Pigafetta, the expedition's official chronicler and one of the survivors of the voyage, did not appear until 1525, in Paris, and was not wholly published until the last year of the 18th century; this was the edition by Carlo Amoretti published in 1800. This edition is now famously called the Ambrosiana codex.  It is through Transylvanus' account that Europe was informed of the first circumnavigation of the globe. Transylvanus recorded gossip on board about the mutiny that occurred during Magellan's voyage, calling it a "shameful and foul conspiracy" among the Spanish officers and men.   Pigafetta and Transylvanus differ on who was responsible for the massacre that occurred at Cebu in the Philippines.  Transylvanus states that it was João Serrão who mistreated Enrique de Malacca, Magellan's former slave, thereby causing Enrique to plot the massacre; Pigafetta, who did not attend the banquet that served as the trap, blames Duarte Barbosa. Transylvanus' text also includes a fairly accurate description of how spices were grown.  "The natives share groves of this tree among themselves," he writes, “just as we do vineyards."  A surviving copy of the first edition of his work can be found in the Beinecke Library (Yale University).  A second edition can be found at the Nederlands Scheepvaartmuseum (Amsterdam). Princeton University Library has copies of the Cologne and Rome printings. 