The NSW Schools Spectacular is an Australian variety show featuring more than 5,000 students from public schools across New South Wales and was performed annually at the Sydney Entertainment Centre (later known as Qantas Credit Union Arena) until 2015, after which the venue was permanently closed.  In 2016, it moved to Sydney Olympic Park, and found its new home at Qudos Bank Arena. The Schools Spectacular was broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation from 1984 until 2012, then by the Nine Network from 2013 until 2015.  The Seven Network has been broadcasting the Schools Spectacular since 2016. Fifteen television cameras are placed in various vantage points throughout the arena.  All four performances are recorded, and the best versions of each show segment are edited together and then aired in the television broadcast. The actual performance is made up of many different pieces. A typical piece would have a spotlighted soloist singing on an elevated platform in the arena, surrounded by many dancers and actors. On the stage, the orchestra would be playing the instrumental part of the song while the choirs behind and next to the orchestra would be singing the chorus of the song.  There are some 400 audio inputs for microphones and musical instruments, and an amazing array of around 600 lights used throughout the show. The first Schools Spectacular was Schools Spectacular 1983 and was intended to be a sound test for the Sydney Entertainment Centre. Since then, the Schools Spectacular has evolved significantly.  The 2012 event included 3,600 students and 600 teachers from 400 schools in four performances viewed by 30,000 people.  Schools Spectacular 2016 broke the Guinness World Record for "Largest Amateur Variety Act", with 5,500 performers.  As well as being broadcast each year on national television, the Schools Spectacular is webcast through the Internet onto their website, with the help and sponsorship by Cisco Systems.  The Schools Spectacular is produced by 'The Arts Unit' of the New South Wales Department of Education and Training. Each year the School Spectacular follows a theme, usually reflective of something Australian.       2008 marked the 25th anniversary for Schools Spectacular. It intended to bring back some of the most talented performers in the show's history (many who are now world-famous), from when it began in 1984 until today. It planned to highlight how the show had grown over the twenty-five years. The event has grown to be one of the biggest shows on earth, also published in Guinness World Records for over 10 years now as "the world's biggest variety show", and claimed by audiences across Australia as "the most heart-warming event of the year". The Spectacular starts off with hundreds filling the grand stage for the opening and builds by "thousands" in over three hours of non-stop performances and talent. Finally the cast of over 3500 of the most talented student performers across NSW return to the one stage for the finale. Schools Spectacular 2007, dubbed "My Spec", had a schools preview performance on Friday 23 November 2007, followed by an evening performance on the same day. There was another performance at 2pm and 8pm on Saturday 24 November. Schools Spectacular 2005 was dubbed "The Face of Australia" and celebrated the Australian history, landscape, goal and lifestyle. A tribute to Alec Campbell, the last surviving ANZAC, who had died in 2002, was in the production. Previous Schools Spectacular successes like John Foreman, who has hosted Schools Spectacular since 2001 and Human Nature made appearances during the show.   Scout Band/Choir The piece also included the NSW Senior Drama Company performing a theatre piece integrated throughout the Anzac segment.   