The Plague of Cyprian is the name given to a pandemic that afflicted the Roman Empire from about AD 249 to 262.   The plague is thought to have caused widespread manpower shortages for food production and the Roman army, severely weakening the empire during the Crisis of the Third Century.    Its modern name commemorates St. Cyprian, bishop of Carthage, an early Christian writer who witnessed and described the plague.  The agent of the plague is highly speculative due to sparse sourcing, but suspects include smallpox, pandemic influenza and viral hemorrhagic fever (filoviruses) like the Ebola virus.    In 250 to 262, at the height of the outbreak, 5,000 people a day were said to be dying in Rome. Cyprian's biographer, Pontius of Carthage, wrote of the plague at Carthage: In Carthage, the "Decian persecution", unleashed at the onset of the plague, sought out Christian scapegoats. Fifty years later, North African convert to Christianity Arnobius defended his new religion from pagan allegations: Cyprian drew moralizing analogies in his sermons to the Christian community and drew a word picture of the plague's symptoms in his essay De mortalitate ("On the Plague"): Accounts of the plague date from about AD 249 to 262.  There was a latter incident from 270 involving the death of Claudius II Gothicus, though it's unknown if this was the same plague or a different outbreak.  The Historia Augusta says that "in the consulship of Antiochianus and Orfitus  the favour of heaven furthered Claudius' success. For a great multitude, the survivors of the barbarian tribes, who had gathered in Haemimontum  were so stricken with famine and pestilence that Claudius now scorned to conquer them further.... during this same period the Scythians attempted to plunder in Crete and Cyprus as well, but everywhere their armies were likewise stricken with pestilence and so were defeated." The severe devastation to the European population from the two plagues may indicate that the people had no previous exposure or immunity to the plague's cause. Historian William Hardy McNeill asserts that both the earlier Antonine Plague (166–180) and the Plague of Cyprian (251–270) were the first transfers from animal hosts to humanity of two different diseases, one of smallpox and one of measles although not necessarily in that order. D. Ch. Stathakopoulos asserts that both outbreaks were of smallpox.   According to historian Kyle Harper, the symptoms attributed by ancient sources to the Plague of Cyprian better match a viral disease causing a hemorrhagic fever, such as ebola, rather than smallpox. (Conversely, Harper believes that the Antonine Plague was caused by smallpox.)    According to historian Kyle Harper, the period of the plague nearly saw the end of the Roman Empire. He states that between AD 248 and 268, ".. the history of Roman is a confusing tangle of violent failures. The structural integrity of the imperial machine burst apart. The frontier system crumbled. The collapse of legitimacy invited one usurper after another to try for the throne. The empire fragmented and only the dramatic success of later emperors in putting the pieces back together prevented this moment from being the final act of Roman imperial history."  Many Roman authorities blamed the plague itself on Christianity. Despite this, the threat of imminent death from the plague and the unwavering conviction among many of the Christian clergy in the face of it won more converts to the faith.   