Directors Label is a series of DVDs devoted to notable music video directors. First released in 2003 by Palm Pictures, the series was created by Spike Jonze, Chris Cunningham, and Michel Gondry, the subjects of the first three volumes. Four new volumes were released in 2005, this time featuring Mark Romanek, Jonathan Glazer, Anton Corbijn and Stéphane Sednaoui. A second volume of Gondry's work was released exclusively on his website. Though another series has not yet been confirmed, other directors rumoured to be in future releases are Mike Mills, Shynola, Samuel Bayer, Jonas Åkerlund, Tarsem, David LaChapelle, Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris,  Jean-Baptiste Mondino and Roman Coppola, as well as a separate hip-hop and R&B series featuring Paul Hunter, Director X, and Chris Robinson.  Although not released under the Directors Label name, a DVD of Hype Williams' work, as well as a second volume of Gondry's work, has been released.   In 2010, several years after the last collection was released, Palm Pictures issued a DVD collection of videos by Hammer & Tongs exclusively in the United Kingdom. The first installment of the series centered on director Spike Jonze and was released on October 28, 2003. It includes interviews and audio commentaries from musicians including Fatboy Slim, Weezer, The Pharcyde, Daft Punk, The Chemical Brothers, Björk, Christopher Walken and Puffy. The making of "Drop" with The Pharcyde. Also includes Beastie Boys commentary on a selection of the videos. The accompanied book comprises Jonze's photographs, drawings and interviews. All videos directed by Spike Jonze, except where noted. Behind the scenes photographs, storyboards, sketchbook drawings, record cover art and interview Michel's stories, drawings photographs & interviews. Trailers for "Volume 3: The Work Of Director Michel Gondry" (found on the Volume 1 and Volume 2 DVDs, as well as on Palm Pictures' website) include clips of, as well as references to, Gondry's heavily autobiographical video for Radiohead's "Knives Out."  It is unclear why this video was omitted from the final DVD; however, as of June 2008, it is available on the compilation DVD Radiohead: The Best Of, released by EMI after the band had left its contract. On August 2009, "Knives Out" along with other omissions and more recent works of Gondry's were released on a follow-up DVD appropriately titled, "Michel Gondry 2: More Videos (Before and After DVD 1)' for sale exclusively on michelgondry.com Includes photographs by Mark Romanek and Spike Jonze interview with Mark Paul Kaye Includes photographs, sketches, storyboards and interview. Anton's photos, text and drawings. Diary of photos, storyboards, sketches and comments Palm Pictures released a DVD collection of videos by Hammer & Tongs - the duo of director Garth Jennings and producer Nick Goldsmith - on November 22, 2010.  Although a Director's Label set for the duo had long been planned, the eventual DVD set did not carry the name. However, press coverage of the set universally referred to the collection as a part of The Director's Label. It is the only collection of music videos released by Palm Pictures since the Stephane Sednaoui set and was only made available in Europe. Shortly after the release of the first three volumes, Palm Pictures released a box set including all three plus a bonus disc featuring more recent content. Because no additional Cunningham videos were included on the disc, the box set also included a poster with images from the Cunningham disc. Those who purchased the three volumes individually could receive the bonus disc and poster by e-mailing Palm Pictures, but Palm Pictures is no longer able to provide the bonus DVD and Poster. Palm Pictures released a box set of Volumes 4-7 immediately upon their individual releases. Unlike the first box set, there was no additional content save for the box itself. 