The Original Jacket Collection is a Classical Music boxed set reissue series undertaken by Sony Classical. Compact Discs in the series mostly replicate the content of the original LP albums.  In addition to the musical programming, the original LP front and back covers are duplicated.  Most Original Jacket boxes contain ten CDs.  Exceptions have included a 13-CD set of Mahler, Brucker, and Wagner conducted by Bruno Walter, and 70 and 80-CD sets for Vladimir Horowitz and Glenn Gould, respectively.  In 2010, the series name was changed to Original Album Collection. The sets have been issued since the series inception. Gould's complete recordings for Columbia Masterworks Columbia Recordings Columbia Records presents Vladimir Horowitz The Sound of Horowitz Horowitz in his first recordings of… Horowitz plays Scarlatti An Historic Return: Horowitz at Carnegie Hall A recording of his first concert in twelve years. (2 CDs) Horowitz - Schumann Horowitz plays Rachmaninoff Horowitz plays Chopin Horowitz plays Scriabin RCA Recordings (Repackaging of 1990s Red Seal & Gold Seal CDs) Clementi Chopin, Volume 1 Chopin, Volume 2 Schumann Scriabin 20th Century piano music Encores Brahms Second and Tchaikovsky First Concertos (NBC Symphony Orchestra / Arturo Toscanini, Conductor) Golden Jubilee Concert (New York Philharmonic / Eugene Ormandy, Conductor) (1999 High Performance Remastering) (See article for detailed contents) (recordings with the New York Philharmonic unless otherwise specified) (all recordings feature The Cleveland Orchestra with Szell unless otherwise specified) (all recordings feature the Cleveland Orchestra with Szell unless otherwise specified) Mahler: Bruckner: Wagner: Double Concertos Beethoven & Mendelssohn (Boston Symphony Orchestra / Charles Munch, Conductor) Brahms & Tchaikovsky (Chicago Symphony Orchestra / Fritz Reiner, Conductor) Bloch & Vieuxtemps Sibelius, Prokofiev, & Glazunov (Chicago Symphony Orchestra / Walter Hendl, Conductor (Boston Symphony Orchestra / Charles Munch, Conductor) (RCA Victor Symphony Orchestra / Walter Hendl, Conductor) Korngold, Lalo, Rosza, & Waxman J. S. Bach (2 CDs) Jascha Heifetz in Concert Last public concert (2 CDs) (Brooks Smith, Pianist)  Eugene Ormandy  Respighi Russian Showpieces Rachmaninoff Tchaikovsky Bartok (Isaac Stern, Violinist Shostakovich Bach: Orchestral Transcriptions The Bach Album The Romantic Philadelphia Strings Contains all of Rubinstein's previously issued RCA recordings, plus Also includes: 