The Art Directors Club Hall of Fame was established in 1971, by the Art Directors Club of New York, a professional organization in the design and creative industries. The Art Directors Club selects its honorees from those "who have made significant contributions to art direction and visual communications, and whose lifetime achievements represent the highest standards of creative excellence."   In addition to designers usually notable within the communities of design and advertising, the honorees include more popular artists who have affected the broader field of visual culture, including, for example, Issey Miyake, Jim Henson and Andy Warhol. On its website,  the Art Directors Club maintains a biography of each of the Hall of Fame honorees. In a video shown at the 2010 Hall of Fame gala, George Lois speaks a little bit about the award and its history.  In the video, Lois calls the Hall of Fame honors "the Oscars of the advertising business."  The 2012 Hall of Fame Benefit Gala was held on October 5, 2012 in Manhattan.  The 2011 black-tie gala was held on November 10, 2011 and was emceed by Steve Heller.  Christoph Niemann provided illustrations for publicity of the Hall of Fame gala and associated exhibition.   Jennica Johnstone designed the invitations and associated assets. The 2010 Hall of Fame gala was held on Thursday, November 4, 2010 at the Art Directors Club on West 29th Street.  Pentagram designed the invitations for the 2010 Hall of Fame gala ceremony, using Matthew Carter's Carter Sans typeface.  Six Hall of Fame laureates were inducted at a black-tie gala at the ADC Gallery in New York on November 6, 2008.  The benefit gala was emceed by John Hockenberry and was one part of a week of activities all taking place at the ADC Gallery.  2006's Hall of Fame laureates were inducted at a gala black-tie dinner at the ADC Gallery in New York on Thursday, October 12.  The New York Times reported that three inductees were to be honored on the evening of October 21, 1988.  The Art Directors Club listing of Hall of Fame honorees includes those three inductees and a fourth, Silas Rhodes. The New York Times reported that four inductees were to be honored on the evening of October 23, 1987 at the Waldorf Astoria in New York.  The Art Directors Club listing of Hall of Fame honorees includes those four inductees and a fifth, Leon Friend. According to an article in The New York Times, the 1982 Hall of Fame laureates were inducted at a dinner at the Pierre Hotel in November 1982 in Manhattan.  According to The New York Times, the 1981 Hall of Fame laureates were inducted at an event at the Pierre Hotel.  