The Design Management Europe Award (DME) is a European Design management prize. The DME Award aims to promote the strategic use of design within European businesses. It awards the management and successful implementation of design in their processes and strategies to achieve their business goals.    The DME Network consists of 24 partners from 17 different countries that have been organizing the DME Award since 2007.   The DME Award started off as part of the ADMIRE programme in January 2007. The ADMIRE programme was a 2-year project in the European PRO – INNO programme of the Directorate-General for Enterprise and Industry of the European Commission. The 6.4 million Euro programme addressed the Innovation management agenda of PRO – INNO Europe by raising the awareness of Design Management, in particular amongst European small and medium enterprises, to improve their competitiveness and to boost the European economy in general. It was one of the key project objectives to establish the DME Award. 18 European organisations participated in this programme under the coordination of the City of Eindhoven until the end of the ADMIRE project in February 2009.     The former ADMIRE partners have been organising the DME Award since the end of the funded ADMIRE project on a voluntary basis. The role of these DME partners is to promote and organize the annual DME Award. For this purpose, a DME Award board was elected. The board consists of five representatives from the following organisations:  The costs of the DME Award ceremony are covered by the hosting cities and entering the Award is free for all participants. The entrants are challenged to represent their Design Management processes, strategies and procedures in poster format. These posters are judged by a jury of internationally recognised Design Management experts.  The DME judging Criteria are:  Large Company: Medium-sized Company: Small Company: Micro Company: Public or non–profit organisation (NPO): Organisations outside of Europe First time design project (2007–2010): Design strategy for sustainability (2008–2009): In 2011 the DME Award consortium consisted of the following partners:  Czech Trade  Eesti Disainerite Liit  Design Zentrum Nordrhein Westfalen Associazione per il Disegno Industriale  The Silesian Castle of Art and Enterprise Centro Portugues de Design Barcelona Centre Disseny Stiftelsen Svensk Industridesign No winner Honourable Mention:  No winner Honourable Mention: 