The Edison Awards are a set of 16 awards that honor excellence in technological innovation, new product and service development, marketing, and human-centered design. The Edison awards are sometimes referred to as "The Oscars of Innovation" and are given annually by Edison Universe, a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization dedicated to fostering innovators.  The Awards are named after innovator Thomas Alva Edison (1847-1931) and symbolize the persistence and excellence in innovation personified by him. Award winners represent game-changing products, services and excellence and leadership in innovation around four criteria: Concept, Value, Delivery and Impact. Additionally, Edison Green Awards and Edison Achievement Awards are bestowed each year. Originally established in 1987 by the American Marketing Association, The Edison Awards became an independent organization and part of the Edison Universe non-profit organization in 2008.  Annually, beginning in September, nominations are sought from product and service innovators in fifteen categories. A nomination fee of ~$1000 is required, and then nominations are vetted by members of the Edison Award Steering Committee, who present a slate of finalists to the Panel of Judges. The panel is composed of over 3,000 senior business executives and academics from across the nation, whose votes acknowledge excellence in meeting the award criteria - concept, value, delivery and impact. Awards are presented at an annual black-tie gala event, usually held each April. Past gala events have been held in New York, NY, Chicago, IL, and San Francisco, CA. Gold, Silver, and Bronze awards are given in each category.  A percentage of every Edison Awards nomination and gala event goes to fund Edison Universe Scholarships, a non-profit program focused on fostering innovation of youth by promoting innovation concepts through curriculum and educational programs. Additionally, the organization connects representatives from past Edison Award winning companies and Edison Achievement Award honorees with students to provide mentoring and internship opportunities. The 2018 Edison Award Categories are: The Edison Achievement Award recognizes one or more individuals who, through their careers, their leadership and their achievements, have distinguished themselves by making a significant and lasting contribution to the world of innovation.  Unlike the Edison Awards™, nominations for the Edison Achievement Award™ are not solicited. Rather, the Edison Steering Committee announces winners annually in the fall. The winners are honored at the annual event the following April. Past recipients of the Edison Achievement Award include:   