The Forum AID Award is a Nordic architecture and design award, given annually by the Swedish magazine Forum AID. AID is an acronym for the three subject-matters of the magazine - Architecture, Interior design and Design - and it is also the three categories of the award. It is given to the designers of the "Best Building [interior design and design in the Nordic Countries" that year. The award was founded in 2004 and is presented at a ceremony in Stockholm The selection process is carried out in two stages. Each Nordic country is represented through its selection committee. The task of the committees is to select the best objects in their respective countries or by their countrymen abroad. The committees choose freely from those objects that had been carried out during the period October 1, to September 30, the year before. The winner is chosen by an international jury.  Building: Mountain Dwellings, Ørestad, CopenhagenArchitect: Bjarke Ingels Group/Julien de Smedt, Denmark. Building: Ørestad College, Ørestad, CopenhagenArchitect: 3xN Architects, Denmark Tautra Maria Convent, Tautra, Norway Architect: Jensen & Skodvin, Norway Building: VM Houses, Ørestad, CopenhagenArchitect: Bjarke Ingels Group/Julien de Smedt, Denmark. Cristal Bar by Katrin Olina Petursdóttir. Iceland. Client: Zenses Xile by Mats Karlsson, Sweden  Baron House, Ystad, Sweden Architect: John Pawson Ltd Client: Fabien Baron and Malin Ericson Design: Plopp by Oskar Zieta Client: Hay. Denmark Design: Nobody Chair by Komplot Design, Denmark Client: Hey, Denmark Design: North Tiles by Ronan & Erwan Bouroullec Client: Kvadrat, Denmark The jury consisted of Chairman Marcus Fairs (the man behind Icon and Dezeen), Manuelle Gautrand, Sean Griffiths and Dirk Wynants. The jury consisted of chairman Detlef Rahe (internationally renowned architect and designer), Hans Ibelings (editor and publisher of the magazine A10 - new European architecture), Lorraine Farrelly (acting head of the School of Architecture at the University of Portsmouth) and Johan Valcke (one of the founders of Design Flanders). Deyan Sudjic (chairman), Ellen van Loon, Johanna Grawunder, Patricia Urquiola. Detlef Rahe (chairperson), Hélène Binet, Peter Cook, Kristin Feireiss, Satyendra Pakhale 