The Earth Awards is an aspirational platform for consumer-driven ideas that challenge designers and innovators to build a new economy.   It is an annual competition since 2007, aiming to "transform visionary ideas into market-ready solutions by offering finalists the unique opportunities to pitch their project to world business leaders".  The Awards are open to students, graduates and industry professionals - the public is invited to submit innovations to be judged.  The Earth Awards originated from a collective of designers, architects, scientists, writers, and entrepreneurs.   The event was founded by Nicole Ting-Yap, as an initiative of the ecoStyleTM Project, established in 2007 by the Malaysian Government. As of 2010 the event is produced by NYC Inc, and Karena Albers of the organization kontentreal is the Director of the Awards.  Submissions are judged by a panel that includes Yves Behar, Richard Branson, David DeRothschild, Bill McKibben, and TreeHugger Founder Graham Hill.  The Earth Awards is a global search for creative solutions designed for the 21st century. The award represents six categories: Built Environment, Product, Future, Systems, Fashion, and Social Justice.  Ideas, great or small, realized or prototypes, are considered but must distinguish themselves in six criteria: Achievable, Scalable, Measurable, Useful, Original and Ecological.  One finalist from each of the six categories will have their sustainable designs showcased in September 2010.   This will include an exhibition in London, in conjunction with the Financial Times’ Sustainable Business Conference and gala dinner that will invite CEOs, entrepreneurs and venture capitalists to match innovation with investment.   The 2010 Selection Committee includes:  In 2009, The Earth Awards ceremony took place in New York City.  Neri Oxman's project FAB.REcology won the grand prize for combining principles of biomimicry with the design and construction of built environments.  A prestigious and eclectic panel served on the Selection Committee, including: Paola Antonelli, Adam Bly, David Buckland, Antonio de la Rua, David de Rothschild, Nicky Gavron, Scott Hahn, Peter Head, Graham Hill, Dr. Dan Kammen, Yang Lan, Thom Mayne, Michael McDonough, Khaldoon Khalifa Al Mubarak, Barry Nalebuff, Sergio Palleroni, John Picard, Werner Sobek, Terry Tamminen, Suzanne Trocmé, Dilys Williams, and Dr. Kenneth Yeang.  