Austronesian alignment, commonly known as the Philippine-type voice system, is a typologically unusual kind of morphosyntactic alignment in which "one argument can be marked as having a special relationship to the verb" .  This special relationship manifests itself as a voice affix on the verb that corresponds to a noun (i.e., the subject) within the same clause that is either marked for a particular case or found in a privileged structural position within the clause or both. Austronesian alignment is best known from the languages of the Philippines, but is also found in Taiwan's Formosan languages, as well as in Borneo, Northern Sulawesi, and Madagascar, and has been reconstructed for the ancestral Proto-Austronesian language.  The examples  below are in Proto-Austronesian.  Asterisks indicate a reconstruction.  The voice affix on the verb appears in red text, while the subject, which the affix selects, appears in underlined bold italics.  Four voices have been reconstructed for Proto-Austronesian:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, Locative Trigger and Instrument Trigger. Whereas most languages have two voices which are used to track referents in discourse, a transitive 'active' voice and an intransitive 'passive' or 'antipassive' voice, prototypical Philippine languages have two voices, which are both transitive. One of the two Philippine voices is similar, in form, to the active voice of ergative–absolutive languages, and the other is similar to the active voice of nominative–accusative languages. They perform functions similar to the active and passive/antipassive voices, respectively, in those languages. The ergative-like Philippine voice used to be often called the "passive," and the accusative-like voice has often been called the "active." However, that terminology is misleading and now deprecated, partly because the "passive" is the default voice in Austronesian languages, and a true passive is a secondary voice; however, no substitute terms have been widely accepted. Among the more common terms proposed are patient trigger (the ergative-like voice) and agent trigger (the accusative-like voice), which will be used here. The phrases are taken from the terms 'agent' and 'patient', which are used in semantics for the acting and acted-upon participants in a transitive clause. The three types of voice system and the grammatical cases of their core arguments can be contrasted as follows: The Philippine cases are only approximately equivalent to their namesakes in other languages and so are placed in quotes. ("Direct," as used here, is commonly called "nominative" or "absolutive", for example.) The "ergative" case is identical in form to the Philippine genitive case, but it is common in ergative languages for the ergative case to have the form of an oblique case like the genitive or the locative case. The reconstructed Proto-Malayo-Polynesian examples below  illustrate the Philippine system. (Asterisks indicate a reconstruction.) The unmarked clause order was to have the verb first and the "direct" phrase last. The voice was indicated by an affix to the verb (infix -um- for agent trigger and suffix -ən for patient trigger). In modern Philippine languages, the practical effect of the voice distinction is rather like the difference between sentences with definite patients and sentences with indefinite patients (i.e., the use of a and the with direct objects) in English, and it is assumed to have played a similar role in the protolanguage. In the example in (1) below, the agent a manuk "the chicken" is in sentence-final, subject position.  The verb appears with the -um- agent trigger infix.  In (2), however, the patient a wai "the mango" is in subject position, and the verb is marked with the -ən patient trigger suffix.  Note that, in (1), the patient ta wai translates to "a mango". Philippine-type languages have more than two voices. Beside the ones shown above, there would be also locative and benefactive voices.  The locative trigger is illustrated below in (3); the -an suffix on the verb selects a kahiw "the tree", which is the location of the action, as the subject: The various Austronesian languages sampled below demonstrate that the number of voices differs from language to language.  While the majority sampled have four voices, it is possible to have as few as three voices, and as many as six voices. In the examples below, the voice affix on the verb appears in red text, while the subject, which the affix selects, appears in underlined bold italics. The data below come from Formosan primarily spoken in Taiwan. Hla’alua   has three voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger and Circumstantial Trigger. The circumstantial trigger suffix selects for locative and theme subjects. While bound pronouns have a direct case form, nouns do not bear a special direct case marker for subjects in Hla’alua.  Kavalan  has three voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger and Circumstantial Trigger. The circumstantial trigger prefix selects for instrument and benefactee subjects. The direct case morpheme, which marks the subject in Kavalan, is ya. Paiwan  has four voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, Locative Trigger, and Instrument Trigger. The direct case morpheme, which marks the subject in Paiwan, is a. Pazeh , which became extinct in 2010, had four voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, Locative Trigger, and Instrument Trigger. The direct case morpheme, which marks the subject in Pazeh, is ki. Puyuma  has four voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, Locative Trigger, and Circumstantial Trigger. The circumstantial trigger suffix selects for benefactee and instrument subjects. The direct case morpheme, which marks the subject in Puyuma, is na or i. The two dialects of Seediq presented below each have a different number of voices.  The direct case morpheme, which marks the subject in both dialects, is ka. The Tgdaya dialect  has four voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, Locative Trigger and Instrument Trigger. The Truku dialect  has three voices:  Agent Trigger, Goal Trigger, and Circumstantial Trigger. The goal trigger suffix selects for patient and location subjects.  The circumstantial trigger prefix selects for benefactee and instrument subjects. Squliq Atayal  has four voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, Locative Trigger, and Circumstantial Trigger. The circumstantial trigger prefix selects for benefactee and instrument subjects. The direct case morpheme in Squliq Atayal is qu’. Tsou  has four voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, Locative Trigger, and Benefactive Trigger.  In addition to the voice morphology on the main verb, auxiliary verbs in Tsou, which are obligatory in the sentence , are also marked for voice.  However, auxiliaries only differentiate between agent trigger and non-agent trigger  (in pink text). The direct case morpheme, which marks subjects in Tsou, is ’o. The data below come from Philippine languages, a subgroup under Malayo-Polynesian, predominantly spoken across the Philippines, with some found on the island of Sulawesi in Indonesia. Blaan    has three voices: Agent Trigger, Goal Trigger, and Instrument Trigger. The goal trigger voice selects for patient and location subjects. Cebuano  has four voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, Circumstantial Trigger, and Instrument Trigger. The circumstantial trigger suffix selects for location, benefactee and goal subjects. The direct case morpheme, which marks the subject in Cebuano, is ang or si. Kalagan  has four voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, Instrument Trigger, and Circumstantial Trigger. The circumstantial trigger suffix selects for benefactee and location subjects. The direct case morpheme, which marks the subject in Kalagan, is ya.  The direct case form of the first person, singular pronoun is aku, whereas the ergative case form is ku. Kapampangan  has five voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, Goal Trigger, Locative Trigger, and Cirumstantial Trigger. The circumstantial trigger prefix selects for instrument and benefactee subjects. The direct case morpheme in Kapampangan is ing, which marks singular subjects, and reng, which is for plural subjects.  Non-subject agents are marked with ergative case, ning, while non-subject patients are marked with accusative case, -ng, which is cliticized onto the preceding word.  Limos Kalinga  has five voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, Location Trigger, Benefactive Trigger and Instrument Trigger. Except for when the subject is the agent, the subject is found directly after the agent in the clause. Maranao  has four voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, Circumstantial Trigger, and Instrument Trigger. The circumstantial suffix selects for benefactee and location subjects. The direct case morpheme, which marks the subject in Maranao, is so. Tagalog has six voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, Locative Trigger, Benefactive Trigger, Instrument Trigger, and Reason Trigger. The locative trigger suffix selects for location and goal subjects.  (In the examples below, the goal subject and the benefactee subject are the same noun phrase.) The reason trigger prefix can only be affixed to certain roots, the majority of which are for emotion verbs (e.g., galit "be angry", sindak "be shocked").  However, verb roots such as matay "die", sakit "get sick", and iyak "cry" may also be marked with the reason trigger prefix. The direct case morpheme, which marks subjects in Tagalog, is ang.  The indirect case morpheme, ng /naŋ/, which is the conflation of the ergative and accusative cases seen in Proto-Malayo-Polynesian, marks non-subject agents and non-subject patients. Tondano  has four voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, Locative Trigger, and Circumstantial Trigger. The circumstantial trigger selects for instrument and benefactee subjects. The subject is found in sentence-initial position, before the verb. The data below come from Bornean languages, a geographic grouping under Malayo-Polynesian, mainly spoken on the island of Borneo, spanning administrative areas of Malaysia and Indonesia. Kadazan Dusun  has three voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger and Benefactive Trigger. The direct case morpheme, which marks the subject in Kadazan Dusun, is i. Kelabit  has three voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger and Instrument Trigger. Unlike other languages presented here, Kelabit does not use case-marking or word-ordering strategies to indicate the subject of the clause .  However, certain syntactic processes, such as relativization, target the subject.  Relativizing non-subjects results in ungrammatical sentences. .  Kimaragang  has five voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, Benefactive Trigger, Instrument Trigger and Locative Trigger. Only intransitive verbs can be marked with the locative trigger suffix , which looks similar to the patient trigger suffix . The direct case marker, which marks the subject in Kimaragang, is it for definite nouns and ot for indefinite nouns. The data below represent the Barito languages, and are from a language spoken on Madagascar, off the east coast of Africa.  Other languages from Barito are spoken in Indonesia and the Philippines. Malagasy  has three voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, and Circumstantial Trigger. The circumstantial trigger suffix selects for instrument and benefactee subjects. Malagasy does not have a direct case marker.  However, the subject is found in sentence-final position. Alignment types resembling Austronesian aligment have been observed in non-Austronesian languages. Van Urk (2015) suggests that Dinka Bor, which is a Nilotic language spoken in South Sudan, exhibits Austronesian alignment.  This language has three voices:  Agent Trigger, Patient Trigger, and Circumstantial Trigger. The subject is found in sentence-initial position, before the verb.  The non-finite form of the verb found in the examples  below is câam "eat". Here is a list of the abbreviations used in the glosses:  