Blueprint Education is a non-profit organization located in Glendale, Arizona providing distance learning, curriculum design, and alternative education to students and schools in all 50 states and 20 countries around the world. Founded in 1969 , Blueprint Education first offered correspondence learning to migrant worker families in Maricopa County, Arizona. Blueprint Education offers middle and high school courses that are compatible in content to traditional schools in the United States. Students may take courses either to make up classes or to accelerate the educational process in order to graduate early. Each student learns at his or her own pace through an open-entry/open-exit system. In 1994, Blueprint Education created a partnership with school districts to extend their students educational needs through alternative methods of learning.  Kids at Hope academies serves 20 districts, 60 schools for children grades 4 through 12 in Phoenix, Arizona. Arizona State University (Baker & Martinez 1999) evaluated the effectiveness of the Kids at Hope Program enhancements. Almost 2,000 students studied. Statistically significant results demonstrated Kids at Hope positively influenced two success factors; identifying interested caring adults and feeling a sense of acceptance and belonging. Other scales also showed promise including: reporting better grades and participating in extracurricular activities. Curriculum is designed specifically to work around students lives offering 250 courses for grades 7 through 12, allowing learners to work at their own pace and on their own schedule.  Distance Learning courses are fully accredited by North Central Association of Colleges and Schools and the  Commission on International and Trans-Regional Accreditation and accepted by schools and colleges worldwide. Private Pay Institutions In 1994, Blueprint Education created a partnership with school districts in the greater Maricopa County area to extend their students educational needs through alternative methods of learning.  The focus of these programs are to provide unique, high quality service to individuals and institutions through powerful innovations in education.   Blueprint Education now serves over 20 districts, 60 schools and hundreds of children grades 4 through 12 in the greater Phoenix metropolitan area. Blueprint Education has been working with charter schools to provide curriculum and consulting since 1995.  In 1998, Blueprint Education in a partnership with Deer Valley Unified School District became one of the first state funded virtual schools.  This helped Blueprint Education gain necessary skills to open both a physical and virtual charter school. 