The Mosaic Network is a charitable initiative founded by Charles, Prince of Wales in 2007.    Mosaic delivers mentoring programmes in primary   and secondary schools and in prisons.    The mentoring programmes are designed to help those from disadvantaged communities to realise their potential with the support of volunteer mentors.   Mosaic operates in five regions of the UK: London, North West, South East, West Midlands and Yorkshire. In the academic year 2012/13, Mosaic supported 5,000 young people in 140 schools and other institutions, supported by over 900 volunteers.   83% of UK beneficiaries were drawn from the 20% most deprived areas of the country. Mosaic also operates internationally through its International Leadership Programme      and delivery of its Enterprise Challenge competition with local partners in Jordan and Qatar.   Mosaic’s International Leadership Programme supports 80 young leaders from 16 countries Mosaic’s schools programmes have received independent accreditation through the Approved Provider Standard of the Mentoring & Befriending Foundation.   In addition, Mosaic’s programmes have been independently evaluated by Demos, the leading research organisation, which described its programmes as “very well run and both the mentors and mentees reported significant benefits in taking part”.   In 2013, Mosaic received The Prime Minister's Big Society Award    Mosaic is an initiative of Business in the Community (BITC).   As such, Mosaic is part of The Prince's Charities. Mosaic is overseen by a national Advisory Board.   Mosaic's Founder Chairman was HRH Princess Badiya bint El Hassan of Jordan.    The Apax-Mosaic Enterprise challenge is a national competition for secondary school students across the UK, designed to develop and encourage their entrepreneurial skills. Indian Chef Vivek Singh of The Cinnamon Club in London supported the launch of Enterprise Challenge & hosted  World of Work by giving students a real insight into the restaurant industry. In January 2015, Mosaic was nominated for the Spirit of Britain award at the British Muslim Awards.  