 Microinsurance is the protection of low-income people (those living on between approximately $1 and $4 per day( below $4) ) against specific perils in exchange for regular premium payment proportionate to the likelihood and cost of the risks involved. This definition is exactly the same as one might use for regular insurance except for the clearly prescribed target market: low-income people. The target population typically consists of persons ignored by mainstream commercial and social insurance schemes, as well as persons who have not previously had access to appropriate insurance products. The institutions or set of institutions implementing microinsurance are commonly referred to as a microinsurance scheme. Insurance functions on the concept of risk pooling, and likewise, regardless of its small unit size and its activities at the level of single communities, so does microinsurance.  Microinsurance links multiple small units into larger structures, creating networks that enhance both insurance functions (through broader risk pools) and support structures for improved governance (i.e. training, data banks, research facilities, access to reinsurance etc.).  This mechanism is conceived as an autonomous enterprise, independent of permanent external financial lifelines, and its main objective is to pool both risks and resources of whole groups for the purpose of providing financial protection to all members against the financial consequences of mutually determined risks. The last definition therefore, includes the critical features of the previous three: Microinsurance, like regular insurance, may be offered for a wide variety of risks.  These include both health risks (illness, injury, or death) and property risks (damage or loss).  A wide variety of microinsurance products exist to address these risks, including crop insurance, livestock/cattle insurance, insurance for theft or fire, health insurance, term life insurance, death insurance, disability insurance, insurance for natural disasters, etc. Microinsurance has made a significant difference in countries like Mali, as Maxime Prud'Homme and Bakary Traoré describe in Innovations in Sikasso. Still, many countries face continuing challenges. Specifically in Bangladesh, micro health insurance schemes are having trouble with financial and institutional sustainability, Syed Abdul Hamid and Jinnat Ara describe, but things are improving. Progress in Bangladesh One of the greatest challenge for microinsurance is the actual delivery to clients.  Methods and models for doing so vary depending on the organization, institution, and provider involved. As Dubby Mahalanobis states, one must be thorough and careful when making policies, otherwise microinsurance could do more harm than good. Tricky challenges In general, there are four main methods for offering microinsurance  the partner-agent model, the provider-driven model, the full-service model, and the community-based model.  Each of these models has their own advantages and disadvantages. A microinsurance scheme is a scheme that uses, among others, an insurance mechanism whose beneficiaries are (at least in part) people excluded from formal social protection schemes, particularly, informal economy workers and their families. The scheme differs from others created to provide legal social protection to formal economy workers. Membership is not compulsory (but can be automatic), and members pay, at least in part, the necessary contributions in order to cover benefits. The expression "microinsurance scheme" designates either the institution that provides insurance (e.g., a health mutual benefit association) or the set of institutions (in the case of linkages) that provide insurance or the insurance service itself provided by an institution that also handles other activities (e.g., a micro-finance institution). The use of the mechanism of insurance implies: Microinsurance schemes may cover various risks (health, life, etc.); the most frequent microinsurance products are:  Dirk Reinhard provides a good list summarising reading pertinent to microinsurance. Small means, massive impact Microinsurance is recognized as a useful tool in economic development. As many low-income people do not have access to adequate risk-management tools, they are vulnerable to fall back into poverty in times of hardship, for example when the breadwinner of the family dies, or when high hospital bills force families to take out loans with high interest rates. Furthermore, microinsurance makes it possible for people to take more risks. When farmers are insured against a bad harvest (resulting from drought), they are in a better position to grow crops which give high yields in good years, and bad yields in year of drought. Without the insurance, however, they will be inclined to do the opposite; since they have to safeguard a minimal level of income for themselves and their families,  crops will be grown which are more drought resistant, but which have a much lower yield in good weather conditions.  