Banana Pi is a line of low-cost credit card-sized single-board computers produced by the Chinese company Shenzhen SINOVOIP Co. Ltd.  The hardware design of the Banana Pi computers was influenced by the Raspberry Pi. Banana Pi is compatible with Raspberry Pi boards. Banana Pi also can run NetBSD, Android, Ubuntu, Debian, Arch Linux, Raspbian operating systems, though the CPU complies with the requirements of the Debian armhf port.   It uses the Allwinner SoC (system on chip) and as such is mostly covered by the linux-sunxi port. Banana Pi is the open source hardware  and software platform which is designed to assist banana-pi.org. The Banana Pi BPI-M1 is a business card-sized and low-power single-board computer featuring a high performance AllWinner dual-core SoC at 1 GHz, 1GB of DDR3 SDRAM, Gigabit Ethernet, SATA, USB, and HDMI connections. It can run a variety of operating systems including Android, Lubuntu, Ubuntu, Debian, and Raspbian. Key Features: BPI official WIKI Banana Pi BPI-M1 wiki page  Neither Banana Pi nor Shenzhen SINOVOIP Co.,Ltd. have a direct relationship to the Raspberry Pi Foundation, though its similarities are clear.  "Linux User & Developer" does not consider it a "direct clone, but a considerable evolution," whilst linux.com similarly sees it as a clone with improved performance.    The board layout is very similar to the Raspberry Pi board, though it's about 10% larger and the relative spacing of some connectors varies. Not all Raspberry Pi accessories will fit as a result. The Banana BPI-M1+ is a credit-card-sized and low-power single-board computer.  Note: The Banana PI BPI-M2+ was released in April 2016. It sports an Allwinner H3 SoC with a quad-core CPU and an on-board WiFi module. It runs Android, Debian, Ubuntu, and Raspbian images for the Raspberry Pi. Banana Pi PBI-M2 hardware: 1Ghz ARM7 quad-core processor, 1GB DDR3 SDRAM, 8GB eMMC flash on board, and SDIO wifi module on board. Note: The Banana Pi BPI-M2 Zero is a low-power single-board computer featuring a high performance AllWinner quad-core SoC at 1.2 GHz, 512M of DDR3 SDRAM, USB, WiFi, Bluetooth and mini HDMI. BPI-M2 Zero is same size as Raspberry pi Zero W, so can use Raspberry pi Zero W case . Key Features The Banana Pi has the same GPIO headers as the Raspberry Pi 1 Model A & B, as seen below. The Banana Pi BPI-P2 Zero is a low-power single-board computer featuring a high performance AllWinner quad-core SoC at 1.2 GHz, 512M of DDR3 SDRAM, USB, WiFi, Bluetooth and mini HDMI. Key Features BPI-P2 Zero, just 3 change on BPI-M2 Zero . other hadware design same as BPI-M2 Zero.so all software is same . Banana PI BPI-M2 Ultra (BPI-M2U) is an open source hardware platform, it uses Allwinner R40 system-on-chip, it supports WIFI+BT on board, and supports SATA interface on board. Banana PI PBI-M2 Ultra hardware: Quad Core ARM Cortex A7, ARMv7 CPU, 2GB DDR3 SDRAM, 8G eMMC flash on board, Gigabit Ethernet port, built-in 3.7V Li-ion battery charging circuit. It can run Android smoothly, it supports 1080P video, and the 40 pin GPIO header is pin-compatible with the Raspberry Pi. Note: Banana PI BPI-M2 Berry (BPI-M2B) is an open source hardware platform, it uses Allwinner V40 system-on-chip and it supports Wi-Fi and Bluetooth on board.  Banana PI M2 Berry hardware: 64 Bit Quad Core ARM Cortex A7 1.2 GHz CPU, 1GB DDR3 SDRAM, No eMMC, Gigabit Ethernet port. Banana PI M2 Berry series can run Android, Debian, Ubuntu, Raspbian and other OS. It can run Android smoothly when resolution is under HD or GPU is not needed. Since R40 and V40 chips are pin-to-pin compatible, they can be swapped in BPI-M2 Ultra and BPI-M2 Berry versions resulting in two hybrid products. Note: Banana PI BPI-M2 Magic (BPI-M2M) is an efficient quad core solution designed for internet-of-things applications,Use allwinner R16 chip design, also can use Allwinner A33 chip on board, which outperforms competitors in terms of its system performance, scalability, and energy-efficiency; it can be used for home entertainment, home automation, and high wireless performance, etc.  Note: Banana Pi M3 is an open source hardware platform, it is an octa-core version of Banana Pi, it supports onboard Wi-Fi and SATA Port. Banana Pi M3 is able to run Android 5.1.1, Debian, Ubuntu, Raspberry Pi and other OS. Banana PI M3 hardware: 2Ghz ARM7 octa-core processor, 2GB LPDDR3 SDRAM, Gigabit ethernet port and the GPIO is compatible with Raspberry Pi B+. Note: Note: Banana Pi BPI-F2 use freescale IMX6 Industrial chip design. IMX6 with ARM Cortex-A9 MPCore 4xCPU processor(with TrustZone),this is ths first banana pi board design with freescale chip. Note: Banana Pi BPI-S64 core use Actions SOC S700 design. S700 chip with ARM Cortex-A53 Quad-Core CPU,Mali450 MP4 GPU. BPI-S64 core with 2G LPDDR3 and 8G eMMC flash on board. BPI-S64 core modules are small enough to fit all kinds of hardware.In addition,S64 core also provides I/O boards with GPIO ports, as well as USB, MicroUSB, CSI, DSI, HDMI, and MicroSD and other many interfaces. Note: The Banana Pi R1 is a 300Mbit/s Wireless N Router with both wired and wireless network connections is designed specifically for smart home networking use. With 2T2R MIMO technology and two detachable antennas, the R1 is a dual core system that runs smoothly with Android 4.2.2 and has a Gigabit ethernet port, SATA socket, supports games and 1080P high definition video output. Note: BPI-R1 BPI-R1 Banana PI BPI-R2 is a highly integrated multimedia network router; it can be used for high wireless performance, home entertainment, home automation, etc. BPI-R2 integrates a Quad-code ARM Cortex-A7 MPcore operating up to 1.3 GHz, The Router also includes a variety of peripherals, including HDMI TX, MIPI DSI, PCIe2.0, USB2.0 OTG, USB3.0 Port, SATA port，5 Gbit/s Port Gigabit Ethernet port, 802.11a/b/g/n wifi & BT4.1 on board, also support 802.11ac/n WLAN connection through mini PCI-e port BPI-R2can run with Android 5.1 smoothly, while as of the time of this entry this board does not work properly with any known linux distribution. The size of Banana PIBPI-R2 same as BPI-R1, it can easily run with games as it supports 1080P high definition video output, Note: Banana PI BPI-R64 is a highly integrated multimedia network router; it can be used for high wireless performance, home entertainment, home automation, etc. The Banana Pi R64 is a router based development board, which can run on a variety of open source operating systems including OpenWrt,Linux. It has 4 Gigabit LAN ports, 1 Gigabit WAN, and AC wifi AP function. use 64 bit chip design Key Features Note: Banana PI BPI-W2 is a highly integrated multimedia network router;it can be used for high wireless performance, home entertainment, home automation, etc. BPI-W2 integrate a Quad-core ARM Cortex-A53 MPcore operating up to 1.5 GHz, The Router also includes a variety of peripherals, including HDMI RX/TX, Mini DP, PCIe2.0,PCIe1.1&SDIO,M.2 interface, USB2.0, USB3.0 Port, SATA port，2 Gbit/s Port Gigabit Ethernet port, also support 802.11ac/n WLAN connection thru PCI-e port. BPI-W2 can run with Android6.0 smoothly, it also can run OpenWRT, Debian, Raspbian and other OS. The size of Banana Pi BPI-W2 same as BPI-R2, it can easily run with 1080P high definition video output, the GPIO is compatible with Raspberry Pi 3. Note: The BPI-D1 is one of the smallest open-source development boards currently on the market, with a built-in HD mini camera. At 36mm (w) x36mm (l) and weighing in at 10g, it is claimed to be much smaller than other boards with comparable features. The board is specially suited to mini-cam applications, providing high-resolution image quality: both video and still capture at 1280x720p with a video capture rate of 30 fps.  The Banana Pi-D1 is designed to provide a set of multimedia tools in one small package, that can be run from an external battery source. The major features of the D1 include: HD mini-cam, audio sensor, microphone, CPU, GPIO, and Wi-Fi, Note: Banana Pi-G1 is an integrated IEEE 802.11 b/g/n (Wi-Fi wireless network), IEEE 802.15.4 (Zigbee), IEEE 802.11-2007 Standard (Bluetooth Low Energy 4.0) development board. All three wireless protocols can be used together, you can exchange any different transport protocols, and each wireless protocol is supported by its own single-chip SOC, which can facilitate Internet of Things (IoT) projects. The Wi-Fi uses TI CC3200, which is a high-performance ARM Cortex-M4 wireless SOC, internally integrated TCP/IP protocol stack. This allows simple connection to the Internet using the BSD Socket. The Zigbee uses TI CC2530, which integrates wireless capabilities and enhanced 8051 core SOC. After years of improvement, it is quite mature and stable. TI's Z-stack has achieved Zigbee 2007/Pro, you can use the 16's short address, you can use the 64-bit long address communication, face large local interconnect systems, providing advanced security encryption and mesh network structure support. The Bluetooth 4.0 (BLE) uses TI CC2540/1, an integrated BLE stack and enhanced 8051 core, low-power wireless SOC. At present, most mobile phones have support for Bluetooth 4.0, both as a wearable device, or mobile interactive accessories, CC2540 can be easily completed. Meanwhile, BPI G1 also incorporates a high-performance STM32 ARM Cortex-M3 microcontroller, which help in dealing with time-consuming data or transit, the three wireless SOC coordinated. Therefore, the Banana Pi G1 support a wide range of Internet of Things DIY wireless projects. Note: Powered by AXP209 power management unit, Banana Pi is able to output up to 1.6A, which means users can drive an external HDD without an extra power supply. The Banana Pi board is similar to Cubieboard2.  The Banana Pi M2 (BPI-M2) is a credit card-sized and low-power single-board computer. It is a quad core version of Banana Pi, and supports on board Wi-Fi. The Banana Pi M2 series runs Android, Debian, Ubuntu, Raspberry Pi images and other images. Banana PI M2 hardware: 1Ghz ARM7 quad-core processor, 1GB DDR3 SDRAM, Gigabit ethernet port. The Banana PI M2 is the same size as the Banana Pi M1. It supports 1080P high definition video output, and the GPIO is compatible with Raspberry Pi B+. Note: The Banana Pi Pro is a credit card-sized and low-power single-board computer developed in China by the LeMaker Team, with the goal of promoting STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) education in schools. Like its smaller sibling the Banana Pi, the Pro concept is heavily influenced by the Raspberry Pi, however the Banana Pro provides various enhancements over prior designs. The Banana Pro has an Allwinner A20 system on a chip (SoC), which includes an ARM Cortex-A7 Dual-core (ARMv7-A) 1 GHz, Mali-400 MP2 GPU and 1GB DDR3 SDRAM. The Banana Pro uses a microSD card for booting an OS, but also includes a SATA 2.0 interface to allow connection of a hard disk for additional storage, however you cannot boot from the hard disk. Other differences from the Banana Pi include on-board Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n AP6181, integrated composite video and audio output into a 3.5 mm TRRS jack. This makes space for a 40-pin extension header. 28 GPIO, some of which can be used for specific functions including UART, I2C, SPI, PWM, CAN, I2S, SPDIF SATA 2.0 (with a separate power connector) 65 Mbit/s Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n AP6212 HDMI 1.4 (Type A - full), composite video (PAL and NTSC) (via 3.5 mm TRRS jack shared with audio out), LVDS/RGB/CPU display interface (DSI) for raw LCD panels. 11 HDMI resolutions from 640×480 to 1920×1080 plus various PAL and NTSC standards 