GoWarrior is an open-source and community-supported computing platform.  GoWarrior is designed for the world of makers, hackers, educators, hobbyists, and newbies to build electronics projects.  It offers a complete package of hardware, software and cloud service.   TIGER Board is a single-board computer performs as hardware for GoWarrior platform. It contains ARM Cortex A9  based M3733-AFAAA  (SoC), ARM Mali-400 MP2, as well as integrated 1GB DDR3 RAM. The picture points the MicroSD card slot on TIGER Board  GoWarrior specifications  are:Supports Real-time Clock One Switch for selecting to boot to from NAND Flash or MicroSD card. PWM: 2 pins SPI I2C UART GoDroid is an Android KitKat 4.4.4.  based optimized operating system for GoWarrior platform. In addition to original Android functionalities, GoDroid pre-integrates some useful middleware components and libraries, as well as some self-developed function blocks, which makes it also a software development kit for Android applications.  GoDroid supports booting from NAND Flash or from MicroSD card that contains the boot code and image files.  By replacing Android native media engine StageFright with GStreamer and utilizing hardware acceleration facilities, GoDroid supports various audio/video/container hardware decoding and multiple network protocols including Microsoft Smooth Streaming, HTTP Live Streaming and KODI 14.2 has variety of supported video/audio plug-ins.  Besides the screen mirroring function of Android Miracast, GoDroid also implements DLNA system service for sharing digital media among multimedia devices. DMR, DMS and DMP are supported.  In addition to C/C++/JAVA, GoDroid also integrates QPython2engine for Python2 programming on Android.  TIGER Board provides 2 sets of 40-pin expansion headers, one of which is compatible to Raspberry Pi connector. Raspberry Pi Python applications can be ported and run on GoDroid.  GoDroid supports Android Studio as application IDE. With API level 19 configuration to match GoDroid provides the availability of not only original Android API, but also proprietary extended API, such as GPIO/IC2/SPI/PWM.  GoDroid supports standard ADB debugging via Ethernet, Wi-Fi and USB.  GoBian is a Linux-embedded operating system running on TIGER Board for the GoWarrior platform. GoBian is developed based on Raspbian which is from Debian 7 wheezy armhf, and differs from Raspbian for the extra features, for example, GoBian encapsulates the RPi.gpio and other I/O libraries to facilitate transplanting projects which use the related libraries from Raspberry Pi to TIGER Board. Furthermore, GoBian provides support for multimedia by integrating GOF, KODI and other middle-ware modules and applications out-of-the-box. GoBian enables the Internet connection through Ethernet or Wi-Fi through the Ethernet port and Wi-Fi module on TIGER Board, and thus supports various methods to access the projects and transfer data, such as FTP, SSH. GoBian automatically synchronizes the system time with Internet time servers using the NTP protocol. GoBian integrates a built-in file system for data management. C, C++, Python, Perl, and shell script. GoBian lets you call the GPIO/I2C/UART/SPI interfaces directly in your projects with the built-in RPi.gpio and other libraries. GoBian makes it easy for the secondary development of multimedia applications with the customized GOF middle-ware for TIGER Board. The on-board M3733-AFAAA processor makes GoBian a multitasking system with good performance. The software programs that are available for Debian are basically compatible with GoBian. GoBian supports the ultra-power-saving sleep mode (PMU Standby), with the entire board power consumption as low as 0.35W. GoBian integrates with DLNA to fully support the multimedia sharing and multi-screen interaction. The GoWarrior community is already launched to support your projects with GoBian. CloudQ is a comprehensive back-end community support to help users easily build up their projects.  