Lucy Lippard (born April 14, 1937) is an American writer, art critic, activist and curator. Lippard was among the first writers to recognize the "dematerialization" at work in conceptual art and was an early champion of feminist art.  She is the author of 21 books on contemporary art and has received numerous awards and accolades from literary critics and art associations. Lucy Lippard was born in New York City and lived in New Orleans and Charlottesville, Virginia, before enrolling at Abbot Academy in 1952. She attended Smith College and earned a B.A. in 1958. In 1962, she earned an M.A. degree in art history from the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University.  Just out of college, Lippard began working in the library at the Museum of Modern Art in 1958 where, in addition to reshelving the library after a fire, she was "farmed out" to do research for curators.  She credits these years of working at MoMA paging, filing and researching as preparing her "well for the archival, informational aspect of conceptual art."  At MoMA she worked with curators such as Bill Lieberman, Bill Seitz and Peter Selz.  By 1966, she had curated two traveling exhibitions for MoMA, one on "soft sculpture" and one on Max Ernst, as well as worked with Kynaston McShine on Primary Structures before he was hired by the Jewish Museum, taking the show with him.  It was at MoMA that Lippard met Sol LeWitt who was working the night desk; John Button, Dan Flavin, Al Held, and Robert Ryman all held positions at the museum during this time as well.  Since 1966, Lippard has published 20 books—including one novel—on feminism, art, politics and place.  She has received numerous awards and accolades from literary critics and art associations.  A 2012 exhibition on her seminal book, Six Years: The Dematerialization of the Art Object at the Brooklyn Museum, titled "Six Years": Lucy R. Lippard and the Emergence of Conceptual Art", cites Lippard's scholarship as its point of entry into a discussion about conceptual art during its era of emergence, demonstrating her crucial role in the contemporary understanding of this period of art production and criticism.  Her research on the move toward Dematerialization in art making has formed a cornerstone of contemporary art scholarship and discourse.  Lucy Lippard was a member of the populist political artist group known as the Art Workers Coalition, or AWC. Her involvement in the AWC as well as a trip she took to Argentina—such trips bolstered the political motivations of many feminists of the time—influenced a change in the focus of her criticism, from formalist subjects to more feministic ones.  Co-founder of Printed Matter, Inc (an art bookstore in New York City centered on artist's books), the Heresies Collective, Political Art Documentation/Distribution (PAD/D), Artists Call Against U.S. Intervention in Central America, and other artists' organizations, she has also curated over 50 exhibitions, done performances, comics, guerrilla theater, and edited several independent publications the latest of which is the decidedly local La Puente de Galisteo in her home community in Galisteo, New Mexico.  She has infused aesthetics with politics, and disdained disinterestedness for ethical activism.  Lippard holds nine honorary doctorates of fine arts,  of which some are listed below.     