This list of academic ranks identifies the hierarchical ranking structure found amongst scholars in academia. The lists below refer specifically to colleges and universities throughout the world, although other institutions of higher learning may follow a similar schema. According to Article 34 of Afghanistan's Civil Higher Education Law,  academic ranks for the lecturers of higher learning institutions are as follows: A: Assistants 1. Junior teaching Assistant پوهيالی 2. Teaching Assistant - پوهنیار 3. Senior Teaching Assistant - پوهنمل B: Lecturers 1. Assistant Professor - پوهندوی 2. Associate Professor - پوهنوال 3. Professor - پوهاند In Algeria, university teachers are initially recruited – on the basis of a competition – at the rank of Maître Assistant (Assistant Professor), only if they are holding a Doctoral degree from either local public universities or UNESCO officially accredited and internationally recognized foreign institutions of higher education. Not all foreign PhD's or academic titles are accepted or automatically given local equivalencies. Degree granting Universities and their doctoral programs (i.e.;courses & dissertation) are first evaluated by the National Ministry of higher education equivalency committee before an official equivalency decision to the Algerian Doctorate is granted. After a minimum of three years and – on the basis of a competition based on teaching and scholarly work – assistant professors are allowed to apply to compete for promotion to the rank of Maître de Conférences (Associate Professor). After a minimum of five years, they can similarly – on the basis of a competition based on teaching and scholarly work – apply for promotion to the rank of Professeur de l'Enseignement Superieur (Full Professor). All applications for the competition to promotion competitions are first evaluated and ranked by the university scientific committees at faculty and university levels, then by the Ministry of higher education promotion committee before an official promotion decision is to be granted. The whole process (French system legacy) is quite long and extremely competitive, and does not allow for automatic rank equivalency for professors transferring from overseas universities, the lengthy process repeat from assistant professor upwards to professor is inevitable, exceptions made to officially invited visiting professors who are well-known experts in their fields of expertise. Source: Ministry of Higher Education & Scientific Research – Algiers Teachers are categorized in four main classes in Bangladesh at University level. The ascending rank of teacher is Lecturer, Assistant Professor, Associate Professor and Professor. The initial position Lecturer is generally enrolled as the top student of the class. Master's degree is required for normal university level Lecturer. After PhD, the appointment starts with Assistant Professor, then gradually Associate Professor and Professor depending on research/teaching experience. Beside these, professor of Emeritus is given to extraordinary professor after their retirement. Academic ranks Administrative ranks Administrative ranks: Administrative ranks: Administrative ranks Honorary ranks There is no official academic ranking in Brazilian private universities. However, most of the public Federal Universities apply the following (from the highest position to the lowest one): Faculty (teaching staff) Assistant professor is the entry-level rank for non-tenured members of faculty. Non-faculty teaching and research personnel Administrative ranks Honorary academic rank Administrative ranks Tenured: Tenure-track faculty positions Non-tenure track positions Teachers are categorized in five main classes in Egypt at University level. The ascending rank of teacher is Demonstrator, Assistant Lecturer, Lecturer, Associate Professor and Professor. The initial position Demonstrator is generally enrolled as the top student of the class. Master's degree is required for university level Assistant Lecturer. After PhD, the appointment starts with Lecturer, then gradually Associate Professor and Professor depending on research/teaching experience. Beside these, professor of Emeritus is given to extraordinary professor after their retirement. Academic positions Administrative positions In Finland, there's no "graduate" or "undergraduate" system; university students may be employed as a research assistant (tutkimusapulainen) before they graduate with a master's degree. A doctoral student must already hold a master's degree, and are typically employed by the university, or enjoy a similar grant, and will be called tohtorikoulutettava (doctoral candidate), tutkija (researcher) or assistentti (teaching assistant). Besides post-doctoral researchers (tutkijatohtori) and senior teaching assistants (yliassistentti), there are several mid-level non-professorial positions such as teaching researcher (opettava tutkija). Senior teachers and researchers may be employed as e.g. erikoistutkija ("special researcher") or yliopistotutkija (university researcher). Docent (dosentti) is a non-professiorial rank and title (for life) awarded to academics qualified as a principal investigator and for supervision of doctoral students; however, they do not belong to the professor corps and may be employed elsewhere. Professors (professori) are understood as research group leaders and managers, and traditionally there's no direct equivalent of an assistant / associate / full professor career path, although Aalto University is introducing these. Qualifications for a professor's position are earned as a docent or in other mid-career positions. In management, professors serve as department heads (laitosjohtaja or osastonjohtaja) and deans (head of faculty, dekaani). The leader of a university is called a rector (rehtori), assisted by multiple vice-rectors (vararehtori). Vice-rectors may retain their professor's positions or work full-time as a vice-rector. Some universities have an even more senior officer called Chancellor (kansleri), which works more with outreach and public relations than daily management. Administrative ranks (Universities and Technical Universities) The holders of administrative ranks must be Professors or Associate Professors. The only exception is Secretary General, who is not a faculty member. Administrative ranks (Technological Educational Institutes) The holders of administrative ranks must be Professors or Associate Professors. Administrative ranks In the past, Hong Kong followed the British system (4 levels). In recent years it is moving towards the North American counterpart, with the titles renamed to their corresponding equivalence (professor, associate professor, and assistant professor). Institutions established in the 1980s and 1990s almost entirely follows the North American system, while older ones, notably the University of Hong Kong is in the process of transition.  Depending on institutions, the title of "professor" is assumed by chair professors and professors, or assistant professors and above. Academic ranks Administrative ranks In Icelandic universities, especially The University of Iceland, prófessor is the most senior ranking teaching position. Below prófessor is dósent, then lektor. This three step hierarchy is akin to the US-scale, of full-, associate- and assistant-professors. Until the early 1990s no upward mobility was available in the Icelandic system. Most university teachers were hired as "prófessor." A "dósent" or a "lektor" wishing to ascend to a higher rank had to apply for a new position when it became available. Currently (since the 1990s) much more university teachers are hired as junior rank "lektor" and are promoted to "dósent" and "prófessor" if their work proves worthy of it. Regular Academic ranks (Hierarchy from top): Academic institutions in India have the mandate of teaching, training and research. This also includes research universities. Research ranks (Hierarchy from top): Research institutions such as national labs have a different kind of hierarchy and are primarily concerned with basic and applied research. They guide Ph.D. students in their research thesis but do not grant degrees. In most cases the Ph.D. candidates are registered with another University which grants the degree. Awarding of degree is subjected to meeting the same criteria as Ph.D. guided by university professors. Non-faculty ranks Administrative ranks in Universities Administrative ranks in Research Institutions Academic ranks Science and Technology Index of Indonesia (SINTA), developed by the Ministry of Research, Technology, and Higher Education (Kemristekdikti) has assigned academic rank (Jabatan Fungsional) for lecturer (university-based) and researcher (non-university).  Academic ranks for lecturers  Academic ranks for researchers  Administrative ranks  (university) Holders of Bachelor's degree when granted to teach in a college: Holders of master's degrees when granted to teach in a college: Holders of Ph.D. degrees: Terms of address in general: ostād Emeritus ranks Administrative ranks Holders of master's degrees can be (in ascending order): Holders of PhD degrees can be (in ascending order): Note: Holders of PhD degrees are automatically promoted to lecturer if they were assistant lecturers before they received their PhD. Academic: Administrative Ranks: Tenured positions (confermato): Non-tenured positions (non confermato): A honorary title as Professore Emerito also exists and is typically appointed to illustrious academics after retirement. Tenured or non-tenured faculty[note 1] The ranking is as follows: [better source needed] The Japanese system includes non-tenure, term-limited, tokunin (特任) positions at all ranks, including professor. These are referred to as ninki tsuki (任期付き) positions and officially include tokunin in the title. Limited tenure track positions (similar to the United States) have recently been introduced ("tenure". 国立研究開発法人 科学技術振興機構. Retrieved 15 June 2015. ). In this system Jokyō (助教) corresponds to assistant professor. A major difference between the United States system and Japan is that granting of tenure and promotion to associate professor are not linked; one may be tenured yet remain an assistant professor. Advancing upward typically requires a higher-level post to be vacated, even in the new tenure-track system . Administrative positions: Academic positions: Academic positions at the Lebanese American University:   At the University of Macau there are nine levels of faculty rank, namely At the Macau Polytechnic Institute there are three levels Administrative positions: The ranking system in most Mexican public universities is as follows Usually Mexican academics are also fellows of the Sistema Nacional de Investigadores (SNI) that has four levels (candidate, I, II and III) that more or less correlate (but are not equivalent) to the Asociado and Titular A, B, and C professorships. The rank as professor is determined by the individual's institution while the SNI level is determined by an independent committee that evaluates the researchers nationwide. Many universities and research institutions make a distinction between "Profesores" -Professors- and "Investigadores" -Researchers- (Asociado A, B, C, Titular A, B, C), the main difference is that "Profesores" have a higher load of teaching, while "Investigadores" have a higher load of research, but normally all of them take part in both activities and are considered equivalent. Research rankings are awarded by the Sistema Nacional de Investigadores which depends on the national research council (Conacyt): All titles, both professors and researchers, can be given in a: Administrative academic positions: Academic Positions Administrative Positions Academic Positions 1. Professor Emeritus 2. Professor 3. Associate professor/Reader 4. Assistant Professor 5. Lecturer 6. Teaching Assistant 7. Instructor 8. Technical support staff Administrative Positions The hiring of academic positions in public universities throughout Pakistan is managed by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan, the requirement for all positions vary with respect to the field of studies e.g. Engineering, IT, Medical, Law, and Arts and Design. There are four faculty ranks lecturer, assistant professor, associate professor, and professor. In engineering public universities, a lecturer requires a M.Sc. or B.Sc. degree and high academic standing in the field (e.g. gold medallist, among top 15 students of graduating class). An assistance professor position requires a Ph.D. in relevant field and at least two years of teaching/research/professional experience. An associate professorship can be conducted in the fourth year of employment, although, it is becoming more common for promotion and tenure to be awarded in the sixth year of employment. The review requires a certain number 5/8/10 research publications (with at least 1/2/4[jargon] publications in the last 5 years) by the calendar years 2007/2008/2012 respectively, in HEC/PEC recognized journals. A professor requires ten years post-PhD teaching/research experience in an HEC recognized university or a post-graduate institution or professional experience in the relevant field in a national or international organization. It requires a minimum of 8/12/15 research publications (with at least 2/3/5 publications in the last 5 years) by the calendar years 2007/2008/2012 respectively,  in HEC/PEC recognized journals The Peruvian public universities consider these ranks: After some recent reforms in the University Law  , the following full time positions require the following degrees:  For these positions any other paid work is not allowed. However, due to the low income (which in 2014 was $400 per month for the initial position), some professors need to seek for part-time jobs at private universities. As a consequence, it is difficult for a professor to do research in a public university. Administrative ranks (UP System;National) Other professors Tenure Due to Philippine labor laws regarding permanency, a faculty member who has not received tenure within three years of initial hire cannot continue as a full-time hire at the same university. Research-and-teaching staff (higher rank) and also for a special purpose: Teaching staff: (lower rank) Elected or nominated posts Extinct ranks: Administrative ranks Research-and-teaching staff (higher rank) Special Special Administrative Honorary ranks Administrative ranks Honorary ranks Protected job titles (a.k.a. tenure positions): Other positions: The appointment of professors follows the British system and is governed by the University Grants Commission regulations. A points-based system considers contributions to the research field, national development and institutional development. Several types of professorships exist: Professor positions are clearly separated from other junior faculty positions such as, in seniority order: senior lecturer (grade I) (usually PhD and 6+ years service), senior lecturer (grade II) (usually a PhD and 2+ years service), lecturer (usually with PhD), lecturer (probationary), assistant lecturer. Administrative ranks The academic rankings in the Syrian Arab Republic are very similar to the Egyptian ones; see Academic ranks in Egypt for details. Researcher level Higher titles Honorary titles [note 2] Professor (ศาสตราจารย์)  Associate professor (รองศาสตราจารย์) Assistant professor (ผู้ช่วยศาสตราจารย์) Lecturer (อาจารย์) Administrative ranks Academic ranks Administrative ranks Academic ranks Administrative ranks Research and teaching career pathway Research career pathway Teaching career pathway Most common hierarchy Dedication rank Administrative ranks (public national) Other professors Auxiliary and Lab assistants The appointment and ranking of academics is governed by the Minister of Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development. A points-based system considers an academic's contributions to research, teaching, and university and community service. The following structure of grades and notches for Academic Staff exist at universities in Zimbabwe:  University Administrative ranks  Description of each Academic Rank Grade 7	- Teaching Assistant/Assistant Lecturer/Assistant Research Fellow Conditions: First Degree. Annual appointment for a maximum period of three years during which one must acquire a recognized Master’s Degree. Grade 6	- Lecturer/Research Fellow (Master’s Degree/PhD Degree) Conditions: Lecturers may be tenured after three years subject to a minimum of 5 publications in refereed Journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks). Research Fellows may be tenured after three years subject to  a minimum of 7 publications in refereed Journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks). Grade 5	- Senior Lecturer/Senior Research Fellow  Conditions: Senior Lecturer (may be equivalent to Assistant Professor rank in other countries - PhD/earned Doctorate with 6 - 10 publications in refereed journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks). May be tenured on appointment. Senior Research Fellow - PhD/earned Doctorate with 8 - 12 publications in refereed journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks). May be tenured on appointment.  Grade 4	- Associate Professor/Associate Research Professor  Conditions: Associate Professor - PhD/earned Doctorate with 21 but less than 35 publications in refereed journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks). Tenured on appointment. Associate Research Professor - PhD Degree/earned Doctorate with 24 or more publications in refereed journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks)	Associate Professor. Tenured on appointment.  Grade 3b - Professor/Research Professor Conditions:  Professor - PhD/earned Doctorate with 35 or more Publications in refereed journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks). Research Professor - PhD/earned Doctorate with 40 or more Publications in refereed journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks). 