Teen Challenge (now named "Adult & Teen Challenge")  is a worldwide network of Christian faith-based corporations intended to help teenagers, adults, and families with problems such as substance abuse or self-destructive behavior. It was founded by David Wilkerson in 1960. U.S. headquarters are located in Ozark, Missouri.  It has over 1,000 centers worldwide. The ministry that would later become Teen Challenge (and in 2017 changed to "Adult & Teen Challenge")  was founded in 1960 by David Wilkerson, an Assemblies of God pastor who left a rural Pennsylvania church to work on the street among teenage gang members and socially marginalized people in New York City and who, perhaps, is best known for later authoring The Cross and the Switchblade and founding Times Square Church.   Teen Challenge started its first residential program in December 1960, in a house of Brooklyn.  In 1973, 15 years after the ministry began, Teen Challenge established a national headquarters.  In 1995, Global Teen Challenge was founded to assist the growing number of Teen Challenges starting up outside the US, but struggling to acquire the necessary resources and training.  In 2017, the organization officially changed its name to Adult & Teen Challenge, to eliminate confusion in regard to the fact that the organization not only works with teenagers but also works with adults in its addiction treatment centers.  The official Statement of Purpose of Adult and Teen Challenge is, "To provide youth, adults and families with an effective and comprehensive Christian faith-based solution to life-controlling problems, such as substance abuse, in order to become productive members of society. By applying biblical principles, Teen Challenge endeavors to help people become mentally-sound, emotionally-balanced, socially-adjusted, physically-well, and spiritually-alive."  While the residential model continue to be the primary service of Teen Challenges around the world, an increasing number of community small groups and other non-residential models are also used. Adult and Teen Challenge USA is an independent 501(c)3 nonprofit headquartered in Ozark, Missouri. Its current President is Joe Batluck. Though self-governing, it also exists as a department of the U.S. Missions division of the Assemblies of God USA.  The US network consisting of ~85 501(c)3 corporations representing ~200 residential programs.  Adult and Teen Challenge USA maintains accreditation standards, curriculum, training and resources to all Teen Challenge organizations within the United States and Puerto Rico. Each individual US corporation is self-governing, though TC USA does require a minimum set of accreditation standards be met to be able to function as an "Adult and Teen Challenge" affilliate. Global Teen Challenge is an independent 501(c)3 nonprofit headquartered in Columbus, Georgia.  The mission of Global Teen Challenge is to assist with the development of new centers outside the US,  but they also provide resources and training to the existing programs. In 2017, Global Teen Challenge is in 110 countries representing 1100 programs.  Global Teen Challenge is divided into regions with a director or representative for each region.  Regional directors are listed at https://globaltc.org/meet-our-team/ Programs have a general duration of 12 months.  The ATC-USA Board of Directors approved a "Phase" system to explain core structures of Teen Challenge.  All centers of any Phase are expected to be involved in Phase 1.  The phase ministry is as follows: Another major component of the Adult and Teen Challenge structure is the curriculum created by Dave Batty.  This is known as the Group Studies for New Christians and the Personal Studies for New Christians. In 1973, Archie Johnston compared results of Teen Challenge with that of a transactional analysis approach at a Terminal Island Federal Correctional Institution therapeutic community, and with a third group who received no treatment. While the numbers of subjects was small (17 in each group), he found evidence to support his recommendation that, while Teen Challenge was an "effective" treatment (with a drug recidivism rate after 29 months of 32%), Transactional Analysis was a "very effective" treatment (with a comparable 16% rate), suggesting that perhaps the lower recidivism rates were a result of TA changing the addiction concept of the self-image more thoroughly and at a slower pace. He hoped that Teen Challenge would incorporate some psychotherapy into their treatment model.  A Wilder Research study of 154 former residents who graduated between 2007 and 2009 reported that:  Aaron Bicknese tracked down 59 former Teen Challenge students in 1995, in order to compare them with a similar group of addicts who had spent one or two months in a hospital rehabilitation program. His results, part of his PhD dissertation, were published in "The Teen Challenge Drug Treatment Program in Comparative Perspective"   Bicknese found that Teen Challenge graduates reported returning to drug use less often than the hospital program graduates.  His results also showed that Teen Challenge graduates were far more likely to be employed, with 18 of the 59 working at Teen Challenge itself, which relies in part on former clients to run the program. Much of these results were to Teen Challenge's benefit, and the high success rates (up to 86%) he found have been quoted in numerous Teen Challenge and Christian Counseling websites.  According to a 2001 New York Times item,  some social scientists complain that the 86 percent success rate of Teen Challenge disregards the people who dropped out during the program, even though most other such programs also count only those who complete their program. Since Teen Challenge is a longer term program, often lasting up to a year, more people do pull out than do in programs that are a few days to a few weeks long. So, counting dropouts could also fail to show the true effectiveness of the program, since those individuals didn't complete the program and gain the full effectiveness of it.  Teen Challenge reports that in the program's first four-month phase, 25 to 30 percent typically drop out, and in the next eight months, 10 percent more leave. In their testimony before the United States House Committee on Ways and Means, Texas Freedom Network Education Fund, have claimed that the much-quoted success rates "dramatically distort the truth", due to the lack of reference to the drop-out rate.   Doug Wever, author of, "The Teen Challenge Therapeutic Model" has stated, "I would respectfully suggest that the Texas Freedom Network's position here is overstated in that it's not unusual at all for the research design of effectiveness studies to look only at graduates; therefore the outcomes of these independent studies do provide a legitimate and dramatic basis for comparison given the results.  At the same time, Teen Challenge must be careful to communicate what has actually been measured."  In 1995, auditors from the Texas Commission for Alcohol and Drug Abuse (TCADA) demanded that Teen Challenge obtain state licensing and employ state-licensed counselors. As a result, (then) Governor George W. Bush publicly defended Teen Challenge and pursued alternative licensing procedures for faith-based organizations. “Teen Challenge should view itself as a pioneer in how Texas approaches faith-based programs. I’ll call together people, ask them to make recommendations... licensing standards have to be different from what they are today,” then-Governor Bush said.  Bush then created a state Task Force on Faith-Based Programs, to identify and lift regulatory barriers for faith-based social service providers.  The task force included J. Herbert Meppelink, the Executive Director of South Texas Teen Challenge.  The resultant 1997 and 1999 Texas legislation exempted Faith-Based Programs, such as Teen Challenge, from state licensing and the health, safety and quality of care standards that accompany that licensing. Later, when Bush became US president, Teen Challenge was cited in public policy debates as an example of why such programs merit the federal funding of faith-based organizations. Its documented success rates played a role in the establishment of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives in 2001. Conversely, such funding has come under attack through comments by John Castellani, the former President of Teen Challenge USA, during a House Government Reform subcommittee, examining the efficacy of religious social service providers. During the hearing, Castellani said Teen Challenge does not hire non-Christians as employees and, when asked if the group takes non-Christians as clients, he said yes, and boasted that some Jews who finish his Teen Challenge program become "completed Jews."    Critics of faith-based funding cite this as an example of how  religious intolerance could be publicly funded.  (The "completed Jews" phrase has been used by some Christians and Messianic Jews to refer to people who previously followed Judaism and have become believers in Yeshua (Jesus). 