                  The term euromyth is used to refer to exaggerated or invented stories about the European Union and the activities of its institutions, such as purportedly nonsensical EU legislation.    Conversely, the same term has been applied by Eurosceptics to purportedly misleading or exaggerated claims by the European Commission, and some assert that the term (in the former sense) is falsely applied to true stories.   Sometimes debate as to whether a particular claim is true or not continues long after the original story appeared.  On occasions, Euromyths may arise when the actions of a different European organisation, such as the Council of Europe, are erroneously attributed to the EU.  In 2000, the British government announced a policy of publicly rebutting such myths, accusing journalists of failing in their mission to inform.  Accusations of distorted or untruthful reporting are most commonly directed at conservative and Eurosceptic sections of the British media.  Stories can present the European civil service  as drafting rules that "defy common sense". Examples cited as Euromyths include stories about rules banning mince-pies, curved bananas and mushy peas.  Others include a story that English fish and chips shops would be forced to use Latin names for their fish (Sun, 5 September 2001),  quoted in   that double-decker buses would be banned (The Times, 9 April 1998),  that British rhubarb must be straight,  and that barmaids would have to cover up their cleavage.  In some cases Euromyth stories have been traced to deliberate attempts by lobbyists to influence actions by the European bureaucracy, for instance the level of customs duties for particular products.   EU officials have also claimed that many such stories result from unclear or misunderstood information on complicated policies,  and are claimed to have seized on minor errors in stories as evidence that they are entirely fictional.  The  alleged ban on curved bananas is a long-standing, famous, and stereotypical claim     that is used in headlines to typify the Euromyth.   Amongst other issues of acceptable quality and standards, the regulation does actually specify minimum dimensions.  It also states that bananas shall be free from deformation or abnormal curvature.  However, the provisions relating to shape apply fully only to bananas sold as Extra class; slight defects of shape (but not size) are permitted in Class I and Class II bananas.  However, a proposal banning straight bananas and other misshapen fruits was brought before the European Parliament in 2008 and defeated.   On 29 July 2008, the European Commission held a preliminary vote towards repealing certain regulations relating to other fruit and vegetables (but not bananas).  According to the Commission's press release, "In this era of high prices and growing demand, it makes no sense to throw these products away or destroy them [...] It shouldn't be the EU's job to regulate these things. It is far better to leave it to market operators."   Some Eurosceptic sources have claimed this to be an admission that the original regulations did indeed ban undersized or misshapen fruit and vegetables.   On 25 March 2010, a BBC article stated that there were EU shape standardisation regulations in force on: "apples, citrus fruit, kiwi fruit, lettuces, peaches and nectarines, pears, strawberries, sweet peppers, table grapes and tomatoes," and "Marketing standards for 26 types of produce had been scrapped in November 2008, following information that a fifth of produce had been rejected by shops across the EU for failing to meet the requirements."  "The Sun" has claimed that "Cucumbers have to be straight and must not arch more than 10mm for every 10mm of their length"  , an accusation which is false. The EU writes: "Cucumbers do not have to be straight. There are grading rules, which were called for by representatives from the industry to enable buyers in one country to know what quality and quantity they would get when purchasing a box, unseen, from another country. Nothing is banned under these rules: they simply help to inform traders of particular specifications. The EU Single Market rules are identical to pre-existing standards set down both by the UN/OECD and the UK."  The story of the "eurosausage" and the Commission wanting to rename the British banger an "emulsified high fat offal tube", has entered folk consciousness, despite being part of the satirical television programme Yes Prime Minister.  