Don't Trust the B---- in Apartment 23 is an American television sitcom created by Nahnatchka Khan and starring Krysten Ritter that aired on ABC for two seasons from April 11, 2012 to January 15, 2013.   Originally airing as a midseason replacement, ABC renewed the series for a second season with some episodes from its first season aired as part of its second, without regard for continuity. The series starred Ritter as Chloe, an irresponsible party girl who searches for roommates by asking for rent up front and then behaving outrageously until they leave. Her latest roommate, June Colburn (Dreama Walker), however, proves to be harder to drive away, and the women end up forming an unlikely friendship. James Van Der Beek co-starred as a fictionalized version of himself, one of Chloe's friends who is desperate to revive his withering acting career. Liza Lapira, Michael Blaiklock, Eric Andre, and Ray Ford led the supporting cast. The series was originally in development to air on Fox in 2009, but was ultimately green-lit and picked up by ABC in 2011. Although it was the subject of positive reviews from television critics, Don't Trust the B---- in Apartment 23 struggled significantly in ratings and was cancelled by ABC in January 2013. The network subsequently removed the series from its programming immediately, leaving eight episodes of its second season unaired. While the series was rumored to return the following summer to burn off the remaining episodes, ABC chose instead to make the last eight episodes available for streaming on their official website as well as on iTunes and Hulu. While the remaining episodes did not air on ABC, they were broadcast on Arena in Australia from March 25 to May 13, 2013. Logo TV later acquired the rights to Don't Trust the B---- in Apartment 23 in the United States, and broadcast the remaining episodes from July 19 to September 6, 2014. The series follows June Colburn as she moves from Indiana to New York City to pursue her dream job – until she finds out that it no longer exists. She ends up moving in with a bon vivant party girl named Chloe. Chloe keeps her apartment by inviting roommates to move in, asking for rent up front, and then behaving outrageously until they leave. June proves more difficult to dislodge than expected, and when June reverses Chloe's latest attempt to eject her in an unexpected fashion, they end up forming an unlikely friendship. These guest stars made special cameo appearances as themselves in the series: The series was originally titled Don't Trust the Bitch in Apartment 23 and was developed at Fox as a 2009 fall contender, but was eventually passed on.   In January 2011, ABC green-lit the production of a pilot episode.  In February and March 2011, Dreama Walker, Krysten Ritter, and James Van Der Beek were cast as the three leads. On May 13, 2011, ABC picked up the project to series under the shortened title Apartment 23.  A few days later, ABC announced that the show would most likely debut in the 2011–12 mid-season.  On October 11, 2011, ABC again renamed the show, this time to a bowdlerized version of its original name, censoring the word "Bitch" and replaced with "B----".  The first two episodes were made available on iTunes, Hulu,  ABC.com,  and on Xfinity in the United States before the premiere on April 11, 2012.   In Canada, the first episodes were made available on Rogers on Demand and on Citytv.com,   also before the April 11, 2012 premiere. On May 11, 2012, Don't Trust the B---- in Apartment 23 was renewed for a second season, with the remaining six episodes of season one airing as a part of it.  The second season premiered on October 23, 2012. On May 11, 2012, ABC renewed Don't Trust the B---- in Apartment 23 for a second season.  The remaining six episodes of season one (with production codes beginning 1A in the table) aired as part of season two bringing the total to 19 episodes for the season.  ABC elected to air these episodes out of order, interspersing first and second-season episodes without regard to continuity. As a result, some multi-episode plot arcs (particularly James' appearance on Dancing with the Stars and June's travails at a new job outside the coffee shop) are almost incomprehensibly jumbled in the original broadcast order. Ray Ford, who plays Luther, was promoted to a series regular for season two.  Liza Lapira was originally announced as having been demoted to a recurring role; ultimately she appeared in only one episode ("Dating Games...") that was produced for the second season. Although series star Krysten Ritter originally stated in February 2013 that ABC was committed to airing the eight unaired episodes in the summer of 2013,  she later confirmed that the show would not return to ABC's schedule, but that all eight episodes would be made available on ABC.com, iTunes and Hulu starting May 17, 2013.  The additional episodes have since been removed from Hulu, without announcement. It was later announced that the episodes would air on Logo TV Network in July 2014.  ABC announced on January 22, 2013, that it was removing Don't Trust the B---- in Apartment 23 from its schedule immediately.  The next day, the cast of the show confirmed its cancellation.  On April 18, 2013, ABC announced that the remaining eight unaired episodes would be streamed online beginning May 17  and ending June 2.  In July 2014, it was announced that Logo TV had acquired the full run of the series—including the eight episodes that were previously unaired in the United States—and would air it in the correct order beginning July 19.  Each episode is styled as "...in Apartment 23". In addition to premiering on ABC, the show has since been sold to various international markets. In June 2011, Apartment 23, as it was called at the time, was one of eight honorees in the Most Exciting New Series category at the Critics' Choice Television Awards, voted by journalists who had seen the pilots.  The series received positive reviews from critics, with many critics praising Ritter for her performance in what could be called her first "leading role".   The first season getting a score of 71 on Metacritic based on 29 critics.  On Rotten Tomatoes, the first season holds a 91% and the second season has a score of 75%. The site's consensus states: "An odd couple sitcom with a modern twist, Don't Trust the B---- in Apartment 23 is sleeker and smarter than expected, thanks to strong acting and snappy dialogue."  