Dr. Ken is an American multi-camera sitcom that aired on ABC from October 2, 2015 to March 31, 2017.   The series was created, written, and co-executive produced by its lead actor, Ken Jeong, who based the concept on his experience as a doctor prior to becoming a stand-up comedian. This television show was an ABC Studios/Sony Pictures Television co-production.   On October 20, 2015, ABC ordered a full season of 22 episodes for the first season.  On May 12, 2016, the series was renewed for a second season, which premiered on September 23, 2016.  On May 11, 2017, ABC cancelled the series after two seasons.  The series chronicles the life of a wisecracking Korean-American physician who works at a badly-run HMO. He has a therapist wife, a brilliant but socially clueless son, and a popular and self-centered daughter. Jeong previously starred alongside guests stars Joel McHale, Danny Pudi, Alison Brie, Gillian Jacobs, Yvette Nicole Brown, Jim Rash and Jonathan Banks on the television comedy series Community. In the episode "Ken's Big Audition", Ken auditions for a fictional version of the show, in which Brie, series creator Dan Harmon, and other Community cast members Erik Charles Nielsen, Danielle Kaplowitz, Richard Erdman and Luke Youngblood also appear.  Dr. Ken has received very negative reviews from television critics. The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reports a 7% approval rating, based on 42 reviews, with an average rating of 2.5/10. The website's consensus reads, "Somebody please get Dr. Ken a doctor; seeking any signs of life. Or humor."  On Metacritic, the series has a score of 26 out of 100, based on 20 critics, indicating "generally unfavorable reviews."  Indiewire TV Critic Ben Travers and TV Editor Liz Shannon Miller, both negatively ranked the trailer released for Dr. Ken.  Marc Berman of TV Media Insights gave the new series very low odds of survival.  During the 2015 Television Critics Association press tour, Ken Jeong defended against a comparison drawn between his series and the ill-fated All American Girl starring Margaret Cho, claiming that he would have more creative control as both a writer and producer of Dr. Ken.  