Emeril is an American sitcom starring Emeril Lagasse as himself. It aired on Tuesday nights on NBC from September 25, 2001 to November 11, 2001. A total of 10 half-hour episodes were produced over one season, but only 7 aired. Having lost her development deal at CBS, Linda Bloodworth-Thomason sought to build a show around TV chef Emeril Lagasse. ABC passed on the show, even though Lagasse was appearing at that time on Good Morning America as a food correspondent. NBC had high hopes for the show, as it was created by Bloodworth-Thomason, however the show was savaged by many critics, one calling it a train wreck. Lagasse was said to be hesitant to participate in the project.  The show was in the middle of filming when the September 11 terrorist attacks occurred;  the show was scheduled to premiere on September 18, a week after the attacks, but was delayed by a week. The show was never able to find much of an audience as a result and the sitcom quietly went off the air by November 2001. Bloodworth-Thomason had planned for the show to be "a very sophisticated, grown up comedy, "and would "do for men what the women did for Designing Women."  However, a regime change at NBC left the show without any defenders at executive levels.  After the poorly received first pilot,  the show was revamped turning the focus from Emeril's fictionalized home life to life on the set of a fictional version of Lagasse's Food Network show. A food stylist was added to the cast, as well as the additional casting of Robert Urich as Emeril's agent.  The show was produced by Mozark Studios in association with NBC Studios.  The kitchen on the show was fully functional, and Lagasse would cook for the cast and staff.  The E! show 101 Biggest Celebrity Oops ranked the sitcom at #51.  The LA Times called the show "pretty dreadful."  USA Today was kinder to the show, giving it 2 1/2 out of 4 stars. The review cited the show's improvement, stating that it may yet be a great sitcom and "but it's moving in the right direction, notch by notch. Like many series of late, this sitcom for star cable chef Emeril Lagasse has gone through a near-total overhaul since its barely-a-work-in-progress pilot was previewed to general dismay". . The show received an Emmy nomination for Art Direction For A Multi-Camera Series.   The retooling of the show was parodied on the October 13, 2001 episode of Saturday Night Live.  