Ozzie's Girls is an American sitcom spin-off of The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet, which was broadcast in first-run syndication. The pilot episode, written by Ozzie Nelson and directed by David Nelson, aired as a "special presentation" on NBC on September 10, 1972.   After NBC passed on the series, it was sold into first-run syndication where it aired as a weekly series during the 1973-74 season.   Like The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet, the premise of Ozzie’s Girls mirrored some aspects the Nelsons’ real lives. Ozzie’s Girls picks up seven years after the cancellation of Ozzie and Harriet. Ozzie and Harriet’s sons, David and Ricky, have grown up, moved out and have families of their own. In the pilot episode, Ozzie and Harriet discuss how empty and quiet their home is with their boys gone. They then decide to rent their sons' old bedroom to a college student and place an ad in the campus news. The ad is answered by Jennifer McKenzie (Brenda Sykes), a sophisticated, neat and studious college student, who speaks to Harriet over the phone. After Harriet tells Jennifer (whose was renamed “Brenda” in the series) that the room is available, Jennifer sets up a time to come to the Nelsons house. While Jennifer is enroute to the Nelsons’ home, another student, a free spirited hippy “slob” named Susan “Susie” Hamilton  (Susan Sennett), answers the ad in person. After a minor misunderstanding over who answered the ad first, the girls decide to share the room. Despite their differences, the girls become fast friends and are soon considered to be part of the Nelson family by Ozzie and Harriet. Much like Ozzie and Harriet, episodes of Ozzie’s Girls center around the Nelsons being involved in lives and problems of “the kids”. Much of the humor stems from Ozzie and Harriet having to contend with girls' trials and dilemmas in more liberated era, after having raised two boys in a more conservative era. A total of 24 half-hour episodes were produced and aired in select markets from January 1973 to September 1974. The series was canceled in after one season. 