Sound of the Desert (Chinese: 风中奇缘) is a 2014 Chinese television series based on the historical romance novel Ballad of the Desert by Tong Hua. It stars Cecilia Liu, Eddie Peng and Hu Ge. The series aired on Hunan TV from 1 October to 27 November 2014.  Jin Yu (Cecilia Liu), an orphan girl of Xiongnu ethnicity, was raised by wolves in the desert, until a Han Chinese decided to adopt her. Two years later, following the death of her adoptive father due to political changes, she decides to follow the man's wish and flees to Jian'an, the capital of Western Han Dynasty, changing her name to Xin Yue. Along her journey, she meets Mo Xun (Hu Ge), a calm and kind disabled man, and later the handsome, cold general Wei Wu Ji (Eddie Peng). In Jian'an, thanks to her determination, Xin Yue becomes the head of a dance house and helps a quiet girl named Qin Xiang (Fala Chen) to meet the Emperor. Qin Xiang then turns into the Emperor's most powerful concubine and schemes against Xin Yue. In the meantime, Xin Yue's past with the Xiongnu catches up with her when she meets her childhood friend, Hu Wei Li (Qin Hao), who is now the Ruler of the Damo plains. While battling against the onslaught of her painful childhood memories and the political intrigue of the royal family, Xin Yue must also choose between Mo Xun and Wei Wu Ji. Filming for the series started on 8 March 2012  and ended on 2 July 2012. Subsequent review by SARFT however, claimed the series of falsifying historical accounts. Extensive changes were thus required, resetting the entire premise to take place in a fictional era in a fictional country. Character names from the novel which were based on Chinese historical figures were changed, and dialogues and subtitling were revised.  Early titles of the series were Ballad of the Desert (大漠谣, Dàmò yáo, also known as A Story of the Wolf Girl),  Romance of the Desert (大漠奇缘, Dàmò qí yuán) and The Legend of Moon and Star (星月传奇, Xīng yuè chuánqí).  Monday to Friday from 22:00 to 23:00.) Monday to Friday from 21:00 to 22:00.) 