  Viva S Club was the fourth and final series in the BBC television series starring British pop group S Club. This was the only series that was not filmed in America, instead, it was filmed in Barcelona, Spain. The programme was shown every week on CBBC from 20 September 2002 to 27 December 2002 and starred all members of S Club. The show also featured Alícia González, as housekeeper Maria, and Jeremy Xido, as Lyall, from the record company of which the group were signed. The series aired in the United States, once again changing its name. However, in a break from the previous "S Club 7 in ..." pattern, the show was simply called "S Club" on the title screen, however referred to as "S Club 7 in Barcelona" in promos and commercials. It aired on ABC Family from 21 September 2002 to 14 December 2002.  The series saw Paul Cattermole leave the group. This mirrored real life events, when in March 2002, Paul announced that he was to leave S Club.  There is one post series event, a movie entitled Seeing Double. As with past series, Viva S Club takes place following the events in Hollywood 7, in which the band has become popular Stateside, but not so much internationally. The series sees band member Paul Cattermole leave the group, featuring in only five episodes. The remainder of the series featured the events of the remaining S Club members who had renamed, S Club. The series sees the group gaining new manager Mr Wendelbaum, who employs Lyall and Maria as their mentor and housekeeper. The final episode entitled Let's Get Out of Here, somewhat made fun of the way their series ended, the plot of the finale centred on Tina and a recent break up with a boyfriend whose dad happens to be a Mafioso leader. In the midst of the episode the group reminisce over the past few years and in the end they jump on a boat that was heading to Egypt before Jo pilots the boat back to the United Kingdom. Unlike the previous three series, Viva S Club was never released on VHS or DVD worldwide. It has, however, been repeated several times on the CBBC Channel. On 3 March 2008, 19 Management re-released the band's movie, Seeing Double, and online rumours suggested that Viva S Club was to be released on DVD. However nothing has been confirmed, and these have remained rumours. Since S Club broke up in 2003, the fans have tried several ways and have created many online petitions to make 19 Entertainment release the series, no one succeeded. 