Criteria air Pollutants (CAP), or criteria pollutants, are a set of air pollutants that cause smog, acid rain, and other health hazards . CAPs are typically emitted from many sources in industry, mining, transportation, electricity generation and agriculture. In many cases they are the products of the combustion of fossil fuels or industrial processes.   The six criteria air pollutants were the first set of pollutants recognized by the United States Environmental Protection Agency as needing standards on a national level.  The Clean Air Act requires the EPA to set US National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for the six CAPs.  The NAAQS are health based and the EPA sets two types of standards: primary and secondary. The primary standards are designed to protect the health of 'sensitive' populations such as asthmatics, children, and the elderly.  The secondary standards are concerned with protecting the environment.  They are designed to address visibility, damage to crops, vegetation, buildings, and animals.  The EPA established the NAAQS according to Sections 108 and 109 of the U.S. Clean Air Act, which was last amended in 1990.  These sections require the EPA "(1) to list widespread air pollutants that reasonably may be expected to endanger public health or welfare; (2) to issue air quality criteria for them that assess the latest available scientific information on nature and effects of ambient exposure to them; (3) to set primary NAAQS to protect human health with adequate margin of safety and to set secondary NAAQS to protect against welfare effects (e.g., effects on vegetation, ecosystems, visibility, climate, manmade materials, etc); and (5) to periodically review and revise, as appropriate, the criteria and NAAQS for a given listed pollutant or class of pollutants."  In 2009, the EPA Administrator found that under section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act greenhouse gases threaten both the public health and the public welfare, and that greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles contribute to that threat. This final action has two distinct 'findings,' which are: 1) The 'Endangerment Finding' in which the Administrator found that the mix of atmospheric concentrations of six key, well-mixed greenhouse gases threatens both the public health and the public welfare of current and future generations. These six greenhouse gases are: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6). These greenhouse gases in the atmosphere constitute the "air pollution" that threatens both public health and welfare. 2) The 'Cause or Contribute Finding,' in which the Administrator found that the combined greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines contribute to the atmospheric concentrations of these key greenhouse gases and hence to the threat of climate change. The EPA issued these endangerment findings in response to the 2007 supreme court case Massachusetts v. EPA, when the court determined that greenhouse gases are air pollutants according to the Clean Air Act. The court made the decision that the EPA must determine whether greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles "cause or contribute to air pollution which may be reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare, or whether the science is too uncertain to make a reasoned decision" (EPA's Endangerment Finding). The EPA determined that, according to this decision, there are six greenhouse gases that need to be regulated. These include:  This action allowed the EPA to set the greenhouse gas emission standards to light-duty vehicles proposed jointly with the Department of Transportation's Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards in 2009.  On December 2, 2009, the Center for Biological Diversity and 350.org requested that the EPA recognize that carbon dioxide and other GHGs are reasonably anticipated to endanger public health and welfare.  Petitioners proposed that EPA list carbon dioxide as a criteria air pollutant, as outlined in the Clean Air Act.  They also requested that the EPA set NAAQS for carbon dioxide at no greater than 350 ppm- a "level that accurately reflects the most recent scientific knowledge."  Petitioners further requested that EPA designate the five other greenhouse gases, highlighted in Mass v. EPA, as criteria pollutants as well and establish pollution caps for them.  Furthermore, the petitioners proposed that nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) be regulated as a criteria air pollutant in addition to the other six.  