Ecological forecasting uses knowledge of physics, ecology and physiology to predict how ecosystems will change in the future in response to environmental factors such as climate change. The ultimate goal of the approach is to provide people such as resource managers and designers of marine reserves with information that they can then use to respond, in advance, to future changes,  a form of adaptation to global warming. One of the most important environmental factors for organisms today is global warming.  Most physiological processes are affected by temperature, and so even small changes in weather and climate can lead to large changes in the growth, reproduction and survival of animals and plants.  The scientific consensus    is that the increase in atmospheric greenhouse gases due to human activity caused most of the warming observed since the start of the industrial era. These changes are in turn affecting human and natural ecosystems.  One major challenge is to predict where, when and with what magnitude changes are likely to occur so that we can mitigate or at least prepare for them.  Ecological forecasting applies existing knowledge of how animals and plants interact with their physical environment  to ask how changes in  environmental factors might result in changes to the ecosystems as a whole.   Using fossil evidence, studies have shown that vertebrate biodiversity has grown exponentially through Earth's history and that biodiversity is entwined with the diversity of Earth's habitats.  "Animals have not yet invaded 2/3 of Earth's habitats, and it could be that without human influence biodiversity will continue to increase in an exponential fashion."Forecasts of temperature, shown in the diagram at the right as colored dots, along the North Island of New Zealand in the austral summer of 2007. As per the temperature scale shown at the bottom, intertidal temperatures were forecast to exceed 30ʡC at some locations on February 19; surveys later showed that these sites corresponded to large die-offs in burrowing sea urchins. 