An emissions budget, carbon budget, emissions quota, or allowable emissions, is an upper limit of total carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions associated with remaining below a specific global average temperature.    An emissions budget may also be associated with objectives for other related climate variables, such as radiative forcing.       Global emissions budgets are calculated according to historical cumulative emissions from fossil fuel combustion, industrial processes, and land-use change, but vary according to the global temperature target that is chosen, the probability of staying below that target, and the emission of other non-CO2 greenhouse gases (GHGs).  Global emissions budgets can be further divided into national emissions budgets, so that countries can set specific climate mitigation goals. Emissions budgets are relevant to climate change mitigation because they indicate a finite amount of carbon dioxide that can be emitted over time, before resulting in dangerous levels of global warming. Change in global temperature is independent from the geographic location of these emissions, and is largely independent of the timing of these emissions.       An "emissions target" may be distinguished from an emissions budget, as an emissions target may be internationally or nationally set in accordance with objectives other than a specific global temperature. This includes targets created for their political palatability, rather than ones focused on climate science warnings.  The finding of an almost linear relationship between global temperature rise and cumulative carbon dioxide emissions  has encouraged the estimation of global emissions budgets in order to remain below dangerous levels of warming. Since the pre-industrial period to 2011, approximately 1890 Gigatonnes of CO2 (GtCO2) has already been emitted globally, and 2050 GtCO2 up to 2015.   Scientific estimations of the remaining global emissions budgets/quotas differ widely due to varied methodological approaches, and considerations of thresholds.    Some common budget estimations are those associated with a 1.5°C    and 2°C global warming.    These estimates depend highly on the likelihood or probability of reaching a temperature target.   Alternative to budgets set explicitly using temperature objectives, emissions budgets have also been estimated using the Representative Concentration Pathways, which are based on radiative forcing values at the end of the century.   (Although temperatures may be inferred from radiative forcing). These were presented in the International Panel on Climate Change Fifth Assessment report.  In light of the many differences between nations, including but not limited to population, level of industrialization, national emissions histories, and mitigation capabilities, scientists have made attempts to allocate global carbon budgets among countries using methods that follow various principles of equity.  Allocating national emissions budgets is comparable to sharing the burdens of climate change , underlined by some assumptions of state-level responsibility of climate change. Many authors have conducted quantitative analyses which allocate emissions budgets    , often simultaneously addressing disparities in historical GHG emissions between nations.  One common principle that has been used to allocate global emissions budgets to nations is the "responsibility" or "polluter-pays" principle.  This principle recognizes nations' cumulative historical contributions to global emissions. So those countries with greater emissions levels over a set time period (for example, since the pre-industrial era to the present) would be responsible for reducing a greater portion of global emissions. Thus, their national emissions budgets would be smaller than those that have polluted less in the past. The concept of national historical responsibility for climate change has prevailed in the literature since the early 1990s.   Consequently, some have quantified cumulative historical emissions of states, while highlighting the ethical challenges of allocating climate responsibilities according to this principle.  This principle is often favoured by developing countries, as it gives them larger emissions budgets.   Another common equity principle for calculating national emissions budgets is the "egalitarian" principle. This principle stipulates individuals should have equal rights to pollute, and therefore emissions budgets should be distributed proportionally according to state populations.  Some scientists have thus reasoned the use of national per-capita emissions in national emissions budget calculations.    This principle may be favoured by nations with larger or rapidly growing populations.    A third equity principle that has been employed in national budget calculations considers national sovereignty.  The "sovereignty" principle highlights the equal right of nations to pollute.  The grandfathering method for calculating national emissions budgets uses this principle. Grandfathering allocates these budgets proportionally according to emissions at a particular base year,  and has been used under international regimes such as the Kyoto Protocol  and the early phase of the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS)  This principle is often favoured by developed countries, as it allocates larger emissions budgets to them.  