  The Indian Institute of Ecology and Environment (IIEE) is a Government of India sponsored, autonomous, non-profit making institution formed with a view to impart teaching and provide a sustained platform for research and consultancy in the areas of ecology and environment. The Institute is located at New Delhi, India.  IIEE (ecology) as well as ASI (archaeology), BSI (botany), FSI (forests), FiSI (fisheries), GSI (geology), NIO (oceanography), RGCCI (Census of India), SI (cartography) and ZSI (zoology) are key national survey organisations of India. The Indian Institute of Ecology and Environment, Paryavaran Complex, South of Saket, New Delhi owes its origin to the deliberations at Founes (1971), Stockholm (1972) and Belgrade (1975) and subsequent resolutions and recommendations of the Intergovernmental Conference on Environment at Tbilisi in 1977 organised by UNEP and UNESCO. The Institute  was established as a public charitable trust on 5 June 1980 for organising programs and providing learning platform in the areas of ecology, environment, pollution control, disaster management, sustainable development, ecological tourism and environmental education. The Institute also collaborates with the Government of Delhi in conducting ecological education in more than 1000 schools in New Delhi. The Institute arranges for technology transfer on environmental engineering, impact assessment, pollution monitoring and control, systems analysis, wildlife conservation, environmental communication, ecological education and environmental laws.  IIEE is mandated to provide learning based assistance to the students and researchers to: IIEE has published over 150 books and monographs of which the most notable is a 30 volume International Encyclopaedia of Ecology and Environment  which is considered as the only encyclopedia with a 10 volume section on Environment Laws.  The Institute has conducted over 180 national and international congresses and conventions on environment during the period 1981- 2013. It also assists Universities to design their curriculum on environment for graduate and postgraduate courses. It also conducts workshops worldwide in countries such as Sri Lanka, Italy, Spain, South Korea, Mongolia, Mauritius, USA, Tunisia, Russia, Poland, Uganda, Zambia, Ethiopia, England, Nepal and The Netherlands. Researches and consultancy assignments are another area IIEE engages in and has undertaken over 3500 such assignments.  IIEE has the following facilities at the New Delhi campus.   IIEE offers various master's degree courses, in affiliation with The Global Open University, Nagaland.  The Institute also offers MPhil programs on the subjects. 