The tables below summarize and compare the letter inventory of some of the Latin-script alphabets. In this article, the scope of the word "alphabet" is broadened to include letters with tone marks, and other diacritics used to represent a wide range of orthographic traditions, without regard to whether or how they are sequenced in their alphabet or the table. The International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) includes all 26 letters in their lowercase forms, although g is always single-storey (ɡ) in the IPA and never double-storey (). Among alphabets for natural languages the Afrikaans,  Aromanian, Aymara, Basque,  Breton, British, Catalan,  Cornish, Czech,  Danish,  Dutch,  Emilian-Romagnol, English,  Estonian, Extremaduran, Fala, Filipino,  Finnish, French, , Fula,  Galician,  German,  Greenlandic, Hungarian,   Indonesian, Italian, Karakalpak,  Kazakh,  Kurdish, Modern Latin, Luxembourgish, Malay, Mirandese, Norwegian, , Portuguese, Quechua, Rhaeto-Romance, Romanian, Slovak, , Spanish,  Swedish, Tswana,  Tunisian Arabic, , Uyghur , Venda,  Võro, Walloon,  West Frisian, Xhosa, Zazaki, and Zulu alphabets include all 26 letters, at least in their largest version. Among alphabets for constructed languages the Ido, Interglossa, Interlingua, Occidental alphabets include all 26 letters. This list is based on official definitions of each alphabet. Still, missing letters might occur in non-integrated loan words and place names. Note: The I is used in two distinct versions in Turkic languages, dotless (I ı) and dotted (İ i). They are considered different letters, and case conversion must take care to preserve the distinction. Note that Irish traditionally does not write the dot, or tittle, over the small letter i, but the language makes no distinction here if a dot is displayed, so no specific encoding and special case conversion rule is needed like for Turkic alphabets. The chart above lists a variety of alphabets that do not officially contain all 26 letters of the ISO basic Latin alphabet. In this list, two letters are used by all of them: A and I. For each of the 26 basic ISO Latin alphabet letters, the number of alphabets in the list above using it is as follows: Some languages have extended the Latin alphabet with ligatures, modified letters, or digraphs. These symbols are listed below. The characters in the following tables may not all render, depending on which operating system and browser version are used, and the presence or absence of Unicode fonts. Note: The tables below are a work in progress. Eventually, table cells with light blue shading will indicate letter forms which do not constitute distinct letters in their associated alphabets. Please help with this task if you have the required linguistic knowledge and technical editing skill. For the order in which the characters are sorted in each alphabet, see Collating sequence. However, where a double vowel has the tonal sequence high-low or low-high, it may optionally be replaced by a single vowel with a circumflex (high-low) or caron (low-high), eg. á + à = â; à + á = ǎ. 