The International Association of Sound and Audiovisual Archives (IASA) was established in 1969 to serve as a forum for international co-operation between archives, libraries, and individuals interested in the preservation of recorded sound and audiovisual documents.    The IASA constitution    states the following purposes:  IASA has members from more than 70 countries representing a broad palette of audiovisual archives and personal interests which are distinguished by their focus on particular subjects and areas, for example: archives for all sorts of musical recordings, historic, literary, folkloric and ethnological sound documents, theatre productions and oral history interviews, bio-acoustics, environmental and medical sounds, linguistic and dialect recordings, as well as recordings for forensic purposes. IASA promotes the open and ongoing exchange of ideas and information on current issues in the audiovisual field via annual conferences, an IASA Journal, list-serve and the IASA web site. IASA has held a conference each year since its inception, sometimes in partnership with related organisations.   In 2010, IASA and the Association of Moving Image Archivists (AMIA) came together for the first time in a joint IASA-AMIA conference held in Philadelphia, USA. With more than 750 participants and more than 100 presentations and lectures this was one of the biggest conferences in the audiovisual archiving field ever. The 2013 conference in Vilnius, Lithuania, was held in association with the Baltic Audiovisual Archival Council. The 2017 conference was held in Berlin, Germany. The 2018 conference will be in Accra, Ghana. IASA follows closely the progress of technology and members can call upon a pool of expertise for help and advice on various aspects, ranging from digitisation to metadata to technical issues. In this regard, IASA has published a number of special publications: A new set of video digitisation and preservation standards, Guidelines on the Production and Preservation of Digital Video Objects (IASA-TC 06), is in preparation. The organisation issues awards for outstanding contributions to the profession of sound and audiovisual archiving, as well as financial support for research and for participating in annual conferences: IASA has long standing relationships with international organisations such as UNESCO and Europeana and is a respected partner in various international audiovisual archive projects. IASA is a founding member of the CCAAA (Co-ordinating Council of Audiovisual Archive Associations). In 2012 and 2013, IASA hosted the official website of the UNESCO World Day for Audiovisual Heritage, an event held annually on 27 October to raise awareness of the significance of and threats to sound and moving image heritage worldwide. IASA Committees focus on topics that are of common interest to all archives and collections: IASA Sections provide a platform for the exchange of information between specific types of archives and collections: National and regional branches of IASA, with their own membership and activities, exist for Austria, Britain and Ireland, German-Swissgerman regions, Nordic countries, and Italy. 