Multilingual Education typically refers to "first-language-first" education, that is, schooling which begins in the mother tongue and transitions to additional languages.  Typically MLE programs are situated in developing countries where speakers of minority languages, i.e. non-dominant languages, tend to be disadvantaged in the mainstream education system. There are increasing calls to provide first-language-first education to immigrant children from immigrant parents who have moved to the developed  world. Related to the emphasis on a child's mother tongue is the implicit validation of her cultural or ethnic identity by taking languages which were previously considered "non-standard" and making active use of them in the classroom.  Multilingual Education in that sense underscores the importance of the child's worldview in shaping his or her learning. A widespread understanding of MLE programs (UNESCO, 2003, 2005) suggests that instruction take place in the following stages: MLE proponents stress that the second language acquisition component is seen as a "two-way" bridge, such that learners gain the ability to move back and forth between their mother tongue and the other tongue(s), rather than simply a transitional literacy program where reading through the mother tongue is abandoned at some stage in the education. Based  on the  theories of  Multilingual Education  that are spelled out  here, Andhra Pradesh  and Orissa have adopted a thematic approach  to multilingual education. Using a seasonal calendar within a relevant cultural context has  provided a space to the tribal children of  Orissa  and Andhra Pradesh to   rediscover their culture through their language.The Multilingual  Education  in this approach  emphasizes  first  language first  in the  child  taking  the    socio- cultural curriculum  in to classroom  culture  and   then  bridge  to  second  language. In addition to the  basic theory of Paulo Freire on critical pedagogy, Gramscian  theory on education,  Lev  Vigostky's scaffolding  and Piaget's  theory  of cognition is applied in the  Multilingual Education. The unique  thing in  this  approach is to  involve the community   in creating their  own  curriculum  and  minimise the  theoretical hegemony, thereby  creating  a new set of people who believe in the ethics of creating  and  sharing knowledge for the society than to  limit  it to the  theoreticians. Multilingual Education in India, The CAse For English  Edited by  Dr MAhendra Kumar Mishra and Prof Anand Mahanand publisihed by Viva Books,New Delhi  2016. id21 insights.  Available online at   Multilingual Education in India, The Csse For English Edited by Dr MAhendra Kumar Mishra and Prof Anand Mahanand publisihed by Viva Books,New Delhi 2016. www.folklorefoundation.org.in 