 Since the introduction of Crayola drawing crayons by Binney & Smith in 1903, more than two hundred distinctive colors have been produced in a wide variety of assortments.  The table below represents all of the colors found in regular Crayola assortments from 1903 to the present.[a]  Since the introduction of fluorescent crayons in the 1970s, the standard colors have been complemented by a number of specialty crayon assortments, represented in subsequent tables. Along with the regular packs of crayons, there have been many specialty sets, including Silver Swirls,  Gem Tones,  Pearl Brite,  Metallic FX,  Magic Scent,  Silly Scents,  and more. In 1972, Binney & Smith introduced eight Crayola fluorescent crayons, designed to fluoresce under black light.  The following year, they were added to the 72-count box, which had previously contained two of the eight most-used colors, in place of the duplicate crayons.  These crayons remained steady until 1990, when all eight were renamed, and eight more were added, for a total of sixteen fluorescent crayons.  One of the new colors, Hot Magenta, shared a name with one of the original colors, now Razzle Dazzle Rose.  For some reason, two of the original eight fluorescent crayons have the same color as two of the newer crayons.  In 1992, the fluorescent colors were added to the new No. 96 box, becoming part of the standard lineup.  When four new crayons were added to the No. 96 assortment in 2003, four existing colors were discontinued, including two of the fluorescents.  Also beginning in 1993, packs of fluorescent crayons were regularly labeled "neon" or "neons".  In 1976, Crayola released a pack of 8 Fabric crayons.  Each crayon was named after a standard color. In 1980, "Light Blue" was discontinued and replaced with Black. The colors' hexadecimal values are currently unknown. The names of the colors are listed below: In 1987, Crayola released a pack of 16 metallic crayons in Canada.  4 of the colors are named after 4 of the standard colors. Also, one of the colors is named before a Metallic FX color. The colors' hexadecimal values are currently unknown. The names of the colors are listed below: In 1990, Crayola released the Silver Swirls, a pack of 24 silvery colors. The colors' hexadecimal values are approximated below.  In 1992, Crayola released a set of eight multicultural crayons which "come in an assortment of skin hues that give a child a realistic palette for coloring their world."  The eight colors used came from their standard list of colors (none of these colors are exclusive to this set), and the set was, for the most part, well received, though there has also been some criticism.  In 1994, Crayola produced a 16-pack of crayons that released fragrances when used. In 1995, Crayola changed some of the scents because of complaints received from parents that some of the crayons smelled good enough to eat, like the Cherry, Chocolate, & Blueberry scented crayons.  Crayons with food scents were retired in favor of non-food scents. The thirty crayons all consisted of regular Crayola colors.  In 1994, Crayola released the Gem Tones, a pack of 16 crayons modeled after precious stones. The colors' hexadecimal values are approximated below: In 1994, Crayola released the Glow in the Dark crayons, a pack of eight crayons. However, it did not contain any color names in North America. Only four of the colors were available in the UK. The Crayola Changeables crayons were introduced in 1995. The chart  includes the color changer, an off-white crayon that goes on clear and initiates the color changes in the other crayons from the "From color" to the "To color". Following previous issues with scented crayons in 1994 and 1995, Binney & Smith released a new line, known as "Magic Scent" crayons in 1997.  None of the crayons were named after or given the scent of foods. The sixteen crayons all consisted of regular Crayola colors.  In 1997, Crayola released a 16-pack of Star Brite crayons. However, it did not contain any color names. The hex triplets below are representative of the colors produced by the named crayons. In 1997, Crayola released a 16-pack of crayons, each of which contains a solid color with flecks of two other colors in it. Colors in chart below are approximated.  The hex RGB values are in the order of the predominant color and then the flecks. Colors for crayons other than Mixed Veggies and Star Spangled Banner come from information on the crayon wrapper. In 1997, Crayola released a 16-pack of Pearl Brite crayons:  These were designed to give soft pearlescent colors. These had a new wrapper design, black with a white oval Crayola logo and white text. In 1997, Crayola released Crayons with Glitter as part of a Special Effects crayons package. Starting as late as 1999, their crayon names don't appear on the crayon wrappers. In the below list, the background represents crayon color, and the highlighted "square of glitter" around text represents glitter color.  In 1998, Crayola Introduced Construction Paper Crayons, The specialty line remained one of the longest running specialty lines they ever put out.  The hex triplets below are representative of the colors produced by the named crayons. In 2001, Crayola produced the Metallic FX crayons, a set of 16 metallic crayons whose names were chosen through a contest open to residents of the U.S. and Canada.  The hex triplets below are representative of the colors produced by the named crayons.   All colors are included in the special 152-count Ultimate Crayon Collection pack alongside 120 standard and 16 glitter crayons. Four of the colors are included in the regular 96-count crayon box. In 2001, Crayola produced the Gel FX crayons. However, it didn't contain any color names. Four of the colors are randomly included in the 96-count crayon box alongside four Metallic FX colors and is not included in the 152-count Ultimate Crayon Collection set. The hex triplets below are representative of the colors produced by the named crayons. The Silly Scents are produced by Crayola in a 16-pack.  The sixteen crayons all consisted of regular Crayola colors.  The eight Heads 'n Tails crayons are double-sided and encased in plastic tubes that function much like the ones on Crayola Twistables. Each crayon has two shades of color, for a total of 16 colors, which are approximated by the background colors and hex RGB values below.  In 2004, Crayola released a set of 24 mini twistable crayons. They are nearly half the size of large twistable crayons. The colors' hexadecimal values are shown below. The colors are from the standard list of crayon colors. In 2004, Crayola released a 24 pack of Fun Effects mini twistable crayons. It contains 8 eXtreme colors, 8 metallic colors, and 8 rainbow colors. In 2007, Crayola released the set of eight True to Life crayons. Each crayon is extra-long and contained within a plastic casing similar to that of Crayola Twistables crayons. In the table, the background approximates the primary color and the text is in the two supporting colors. The approximate RGB hex values for each are given as well. In 2009, Crayola released eight crayons in long twistable barrels.  Although the names of these crayons were new, all but one of the colors were borrowed from Crayola's fluorescent crayons.  Atomic Tangerine became "Sizzling Sunset", Blizzard Blue became "Absolute Zero", Hot Magenta became "Winter Sky", Laser Lemon became "Lemon Glacier", Razzle Dazzle Rose became "Fiery Rose", Screamin' Green became "Spring Frost", Vivid Violet became "Frostbite", and Wild Watermelon became "Heat Wave".  Frostbite was the only color not originally part of the fluorescent line.  