The Bavarian School of Public Policy (German: Hochschule für Politik München) - is an independent institution within the Technical University of Munich. The Bavarian School of Public Policy is a unique institution, focusing on future-oriented, transdisciplinary, and applied research and teaching. In cooperation with the Technical University of Munich (TUM), the Bavarian School of Public Policy is dedicated to educating the next generation of political scientists. Technological progress in areas like energy, the environment, climate change, big data, data security, and mobility is having an increasingly important impact on the society. To keep up with tomorrow’s key technologies, the course program at HfP provides an opportunity for students to combine the traditional content of a political science degree with technology modules run by diverse TUM departments. The Bavarian School of Public Policy was founded during the period of upheaval that followed the end of World War II. Prompted by the US military government, and with the participation of constitutional law lecturer Prof. Hans Nawiasky, a decision was made in fall 1948 to set up an institution with the primary goal of teaching the principles of democracy. The discipline of “political science”, already well-established in the US, would serve as the school’s model. On July 14, 1950 the “Hochschule für Politische Wissenschaften” was founded – as a corporation under private law. On October 27, 1970, the Bavarian Parliament enacted the “Law governing the Bavarian School of Public Policy”. This gave the school the status of an “institutionally autonomous institution at the University of Munich”. This made HfP the only institution of higher education in the Federal Republic of Germany whose legal basis is a higher education act unique to that institution. Moreover, the law was also the first higher education act in the Federal Republic of Germany. In a law dated February 16, 1981, the Bavarian School of Public Policy was given the legal status of a public body. The main advantage for students was the opportunity to earn a full academic qualification and potentially carry on to complete a PhD. The Bavarian Parliament instigated the reform process that is currently underway in October 2013. In July 2014, it decided to make the Technical University of Munich (TUM) the new host university for the Bavarian School of Public Policy. This landmark decision opens up new opportunities to develop the discipline of political science by incorporating insights from TUM’s excellent work in the social sciences, the natural sciences and engineering. The law governing the Bavarian School of Public Policy was enacted in early December 2014, and the Constitution in January 2015. On December 18, 2014 the appointment procedure for the new HfP professorships began. Out of 350 applications from Germany and abroad, seven professors were appointed, who took up their duties at the Bavarian School of Public Policy on 1 March / 1 July 2016.  In July 2016, the Bavarian School of Public Policy moved to its new premises in the Briennerforum at Königsplatz.  Bringing Politics and Technology together The Bachelor’s degree in Political Science (B.Sc.) started in the 2016/17 Winter Semester. In the 2017/18 Winter Semester the Bavarian School of Public Policy established the new Master's program in Politics & Technology (M.Sc.). Both study programs based on a unique concept worldwide. This provides a "full-scale political science education with possible emphasis in policy areas at the interface between politics and technology".   Appointed professors at the Bavarian School of Public Policy : Coordinates: 48°8′49″N 11°33′48″E﻿ / ﻿48.14694°N 11.56333°E﻿ / 48.14694; 11.56333 