China University of Political Science and Law (CUPL; simplified Chinese: 中国政法大学; traditional Chinese: 中國政法大學; pinyin: Zhōngguó Zhèngfǎ Dàxué abbr. 法大, Fǎ Dà) is a national public research university specialized in law, arts, history, philosophy, economics, management and foreign languages established in 1952 in Beijing, China. China University of Political Science and Law is a first tier institution within the national key university Project 211 and the Project 985 Innovative Platforms for Key Disciplines as part of the national endeavor to build world-class universities.  CUPL is a Chinese Ministry of Education Double First Class Discipline University with the highest status "A+" in legal studies.  It is widely considered to be one of the best Chinese universities in legal studies.  It is also one of the most competitive and selective universities to enter in China.  CUPL has two campuses, one in Haidian, Beijing which is the original campus of the university, and the other locates in Changping, Beijing. The university's Haidian campus now hosts postgraduate students only while undergraduates study at a much larger campus in Changping, Beijing. In 2015, CUPL comprises 13 schools, with 15,833 students and 951 faculty members, of whom 290 are professors.  CUPL maintains a broad international exchange program, with approximately 1000 foreign students from many countries. CUPL was initially established in 1952, with its official name Peking College of Political Science and Law and combined departments of law, political science, sociology and other subjects of Peking University, Yenching University, Fu Jen Catholic University and Tsinghua University. The prestigious scholar Ch'ien Tuan-Sheng (钱端升), who was educated at Harvard University and regarded as the founder of modern political science in China, was appointed as the first president. But after the outbreak of Cultural Revolution CUPL was greatly affected. CUPL had been stopped during Cultural Revolution. Ch'ien died of illness in 1990. In 1983, under the policy of Central People's Government to develop the college quickly and make it the center of politics and law education in China, BCPSL was renamed as the China University of Political Science and Law. The Changping campus was a part of the State's Seventh Five-Year-Plan in 1985. Under the motto of "Cherish the Moral, Understand the Law, Know the World, Serve the Public"; CUPL made its contribution to the development of legal education and training in China. It was the first university to establish specialties such as Legal History, Civil and Commercial Law, Economic Law, Procedure Law and Comparative Law in the PRC. It also contributed to the education and promotion of Roman law in China. With over 100,000 graduates in the past 50 years who have become the elites of law enforcement and practitioners in China, CUPL has developed a niche for the enactment and enforcement of law in China. Furthermore, it became prominent in other public affairs in China, among which members of the faculty and student body played an active role in the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 demanding democracy and rule of law. To face the challenge of globalization, CUPL developed joint programs with international partners. CUPL provided the first opportunity to study Chinese law in Beijing with an American Bar Association-approved program inaugurated in 1995 by the Duquesne University School of Law. In 2008, an exchange program was formed with Fordham University School of Law. CUPL also maintains relationship with the University of Exeter and the University of Oxford in England, Deakin University in Australia, the University of Pennsylvania, Georgetown University, Washington University in St. Louis, the UIUC, the University of California, Berkeley, the University of California, Davis in the United States, the University of Montreal in Canada, and National University of Singapore Faculty of Law in Singapore. CUPL also offers two LLM programs and a PhD program for international students in English. One of them is based in Changping and is with the China-EU University. This is an EU funded course, and its main focus is on educating Chinese students on EU law. There is another LLM program at Haidian campus, in downtown Beijing, which is aimed at International students to learn about Chinese law. There is also a PhD programs in English at Haidian campus. These are flexible and taught entirely in English. They include the option to study Mandarin, and gain law work experience in Beijing and other cities in China. These postgraduate programs are also open as a semester program to international students from any institution around the world who would like to study at CUPL for one semester. There are Chinese language programs for international students. These are 8,000 RMB per semester, or 16,000 RMB per year. Students can also stay in accommodation on campus which is 1,000 RMB per year.  Coordinates: 39°57′50″N 116°20′41″E﻿ / ﻿39.9638°N 116.3447°E﻿ / 39.9638; 116.3447 