Coordinates: 48°43′58″N 19°08′43″E﻿ / ﻿48.7327°N 19.1452°E﻿ / 48.7327; 19.1452 The Faculty of Political Science and International Relations at Matej Bel University (FPVaMV-UMB), (Slovakian: Fakulta politických vied a medzinárodných vzťahov Univerzity Mateja Bela v Banskej Bystrici) is a public policy and international relations teaching and research institution. It offers bachelor's degrees in political science and international relations, master's degrees in European studies, international relations and political science and also grants several doctoral degrees and conducts research in subjects relating to politics, government and international affairs. Along with its Slovak taught programs the faculty also offers French dual degree programs in co-operation with the Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines University, and English taught Master's and PhD. programs.  The faculty is widely recognized as one of the leading international relations institutes. The Academic Ranking and Rating Agency ranked the faculty's international affairs and diplomacy program first in nation, and among top in Central Europe.  Since 2009 the faculty headquarters the National Center of Excellence for International Security Studies  funded through the RD Program of the EU. The faculty campus is located in the historical city downtown of Banská Bystrica, bordering the branch office of the National Bank of Slovakia and the Matej Bel University Rector´s department. The campus consists of two buildings, which are set in a 4-acre urban park overlooking the river Hron. The main building is an early 17th-century chateau, which was completely reconstructed in 1995 and 2010. The second building is an early 17th-century servant's house, which served for many years as a headquarters for the faculty's various student organizations. Partially reconstructed by the Euro-Atlantic Center, it had been the headquarters for the Slovak Atlantic Commission and the Centre of Nations, until 2011 when the newly established Slovak-French university institute moved into this object. The faculty has had a distinctive international reputation since it was founded in 1995. The faculty's graduates have, on average, one of the largest salaries in the country.  The Faculty of Political Science and International Relations maintains a highly selective admission standard for its undergraduate programs. Applicants must have a completed secondary school education, reached the age of 17 or more and possess excellent knowledge in History, Geography, Economics, Current Global Issues and two foreign languages. Applications for undergraduate programs must be sent before the end of February of the year the applicant would like to enroll. The application has to include a PVSS form, CV, and a certificated Report card from grade 9-12. In order to qualify for the applicant status, the school requires to pass the Maturita  which is held nationwide in May. After the Maturita, students have to take an admission test at the faculty. The questions are postulated in Slovak, English and a second foreign language (German, Spanish, French, Russian. The content of the questions for programs offered by the department of "International Relations" is from the areas of: Politics, World and Slovak History, International Relations and Diplomacy, Geography, Culture, Economic theory and current Slovak and World News. The content of the questions for programs offered by the department of "Political Science" is from the areas : Politics, World and Slovak History, Sociology, Culture, Economic theory, Slovak and International Law and current Slovak and World News. The main factor for admission is the average percentage from the admission test, assistant factors are not including.  The school's undergraduate admission rate in 2011 was 34,9% The faculty consists of the following departments: The Department of International Relations and Diplomacy deals with teaching activities related to the following subjects: Diplomacy, Diplomatic and Consular Law, European Studies, Geopolitics of the Slovak Republic, Humanitarian Law, Integration Processes and Basic Principles of European Law, Canadian Studies, etc. The department also offers a doctoral degree program in international relations and diplomacy. The Department of Politics provides full-time bachelor's and master’s programs in "International Relations" and "Political Science" as well as a full-time doctoral program in "Theory of politics". The Department of Security Studies focuses on applied political issues for example, globalization and regional problems, socioeconomic geography of regions in the world, geography of the Slovak republic and political geography. The Faculty of Political Science and International Relations headquarters the National Center of Excellence for International Security Studies.  The Center is funded by the Operational Program for Science and Research of the European Regional Development Fund. Its main goals are to The faculty publishes the Politické vedy journal which was run from 1998-2000 in cooperation with the Institute of Political Sciences at the Slovak Academy of Sciences, but since 2000 it has been exclusively administrated by the Faculty of Political Science and International Relations.  As a part of its internationally focused education, it encourages students to add an international component to their studies by living in a foreign country. The school believes that the experience is a key part of an education in international affairs because it increases understanding of the world by providing students with a variety of new and unexpected perspectives. The program functions as bilateral partnerships with a number of schools. Some of these include The London School of Economics in UK, Indiana University in US, University of Bologna in Italy, University of Cologne in Germany, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven in Belgium, Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Serbia) - Diplomatic Academy, Complutense University of Madrid in Spain etc. The faculty constantly looks for new partners and schools are added on a yearly basis. In 2011, the faculty established the Slovak-French University Institute, in partnership with the French Embassy in Slovakia and two French Universities. The institute is headquartered on the school's campus and its main goal is to support scientific cooperation and academic mobility between French and Slovakian universities.  There are about 600 full-time students and 100 part-time students at the faculty. Student organizations at FPVaMV-UMB provide students with opportunities to get involved in a wide variety of interest areas including academic, social, religious, artistic, service-based, diversity and many more. The Faculty of Political Science and International Relations of Matej Bel University is home to the Sigma Phi Kappa  fraternity. However, there is no "Greek row" on campus, nor is the fraternity formally acknowledged by the faculty. Activities of SPK are wide-ranging and include the organization of sporting events, organizing student parties, participating in fund raising events and more. The Sigma Phi Kappa also publishes a newsletter called PARTA HREJ. SPK's symbol is a platypus, representative colors are yellow and light blue. The school is administrated by the Dean's department. The school's scientific and research tasks are however determined by the Scientific Board. The main governing body of the school is the Academic Senate. The faculty's current dean is Associate Professor Branislav Kováčik. The first dean of the faculty was Peter Kulašik, formerly a senior scientist at the Political Science Institute of the Slovak Academy of Sciences. University networks extending beyond Europe:  