Tha Phrachan Campus  2 Phrachan Rd. Phra Nakhon, Bangkok  Thailand, 10200 The Faculty of Political Science, Thammasat University (Thai: คณะรัฐศาสตร์ มหาวิทยาลัยธรรมศาสตร์) is an academic faculty of Thammasat University, Ministry of Education of Thailand. The Faculty of Political Science is one of the four founding faculties of the university. It was founded in 1949 after the Faculty of Law and the Thammasat Business School, respectively, and is thereby given the code "03". It is also the second oldest school of political science in Thailand after the Faculty of Political Science, Chulalongkorn University. The teaching in political science in Thailand, basically before 1932 was focused on training the people to enter the government system of Thailand. According to the course of political science is against the political system in Thailand, the field of the study in that era was limited. After the Siamese Revolution of 1932 and the continuous incidents cause the establishment of University of Moral and Political Science (former name of Thammasat University) in 1934 is the beginning of the study in field of political science in Thailand. The study of political science in the past of bachelor's degree was in the curriculum of Thammasat Bundit or 'The Science of Moral' (Thai: ธรรมศาสตร์บัณฑิต) and the master's degree was separated in 3 departments; Laws, Political Science and Economics. For doctoral degree was separated in 4 departments; Laws, Political Science, Economics and Diplomatic.   In 1948-1949, the affection of the conflict of politic from the coup on 8 November 1947 and the atmosphere of international politics that changed during that time, United States and Soviet Union had become the major powers and suspicious on each other, caused Cold War and these 2 factors cause the effects. By that effect, the committees of University of Moral and Political Science during that era such as Professor Direk Jayanama, Professor Duen Bunnag by the leading of General Mangkorn Phromyothi as director and Professor Vijitr Lutitanon as the secretariat had agreed to establish the "Additional Regulation of the separation of studying into 4 faculties and the specification of the academic session and exam 1949" and that affected to the establishment of Faculty of Law, Accounting and Commerce (former name of Thammasat Business School), Political Science and Economics on 14 June 1949. In the first period of the establishment of Faculty of Political Science, the first dean of faculty is Professor Direk Jayanama and another curriculum drafting committees; Professor Serm Vinijchaijul, Professor Thawee Reangkam, H.H. Princess Prem Burachat, H.S.H Luksanalert Chayangkul, Professor Dr. Puey Ungpakorn and Dr. Yuad Lertrit had comparative study over the various foreign universities curriculum such as London School of Economics or Harvard University, etc. By the academic supporting of the expert of Fulbright Foundation that coming to Thailand in that period. After that the studying of political science have been change time by time. 1953, established the boarding department. Student will live in the university and will be trained about the academic and disciplines. 1955, Thammasat University had the academic supporting from United States directly and establish the department of Public Administration in master's degree, as bilingual program (Thai and English). 1959, faculty agree to establish the department of Diplomatic in the bachelor program after opened in master's degree for a while. 1967 (B.E. 2510); founded the department of Public Administration and Political Science study in bachelor's degree. In the beginning of 1977 era (B.E. 2520), faculty had opened the courses in bachelor's and master's degrees for 4 departments; governance, public administration, international relations (former 'diplomatic') and political philosophy (former 'political science study') and terminated political philosophy departments, so it have 3 departments until nowadays. Since the beginning of 1987 era (B.E. 2530), after the end of Cold War and the beginning of globalization affect the political atmosphere as well as socio-economics in domestic and international cause the rapidly development of faculty. Led to the establishment of special program offered in master's degree. In 1999 on the occasion of celebrating the 50 years anniversary of faculty of political science, faculty had recreated the curriculum in doctoral degree and open at Tha Prachan Campus in 2002. In 2009 on the occasion of celebrating the 60 years anniversary of faculty of political science, faculty had established the new program in international program as the first combined bachelor's and master's degrees in Thailand. 'The Combined Bachelor and master's degree in Politics and International Relations (English Program)' or briefly called BMIR at Tha Prachan Campus. Faculty of Political Science of Thammasat University offers two departments in Thai and English program study at Tha Prachan Campus, center of Bangkok. This campus have been focus to be the international campus that offer to Thai student who wish to study in international standard as English program and the international student who wish to study at Thammasat University. Faculty offer 3 programs in this campus. Faculty of Political Science of Thammasat University offers three departments in Thai program study at Rangsit Campus, Pathum Thani suburban of Bangkok metropolitan area. International AffairsFaculty of Political Science have various partners universities around the world in faculty level and also the students in the faculty can apply for the international exchange program in university level. Thammasat University offer various exchange program to students for outgoing and for incoming students. For outgoing, Thammasat have various partner universities in different parts of the world. Responsible by Office of International Affairs (OIA) 