Department of Political Science and International Relations has been offering undergraduate and graduate programs since 1995. The undergraduate program offers a broad range of courses in political theory, and area studies leading to the Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science and in Area Studies.Graduate programs leading to the Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy degrees are offered at the Department and focus in several areas: Conflict Studies, Political Theory, and Area Studies, including European Public Affairs, Middle Eastern Studies, East Asian Studies, and Caucasus Studies.The faculty is composed of primarily representatives of the youngergeneration of Western-educated specialists in Political Science with research and professional experience in Western Europe, North America,and other advanced industrialized countries. Jointly with the Institute of Politics the Department conducts a number of scholarly events annually, including annual moot courts on political philosophy, crisis simulation exercises, executive education workshops, and conferences. Institute of Politics The Institute of Politics at Khazar University is an independent, nonpartisan institution committed to public policy research, analysis andeducation.The Institute (formerly the Center for International and Strategic Studies) has a primary objective of contributing to improving the performance of public institutions in Azerbaijan and the quality of public policy through cultivating regular interaction between policymakers and scholars to analyze current issues, and offering practical approaches for dealing with those issues. The Institute holds regular conferences, seminars, workshops and panel discussions with various public officials, diplomats and scholars as well as various student-oriented workshops, such as annual crisis simulation exercises and annual moot courts. It has offered a wide range of programs and resources including speakers, visiting and resident fellows, study groups, conferences, and internships. Below are some examples of the Institute’s activities: 2005 and was a convention of around 60 scholars, practitioners and students of public policy, government executives and civil society leaders, devoted to expert discussion of trends and opportunities pertaining to major public issues in Azerbaijan. The core outcomes of the conference were concrete policy recommendations to various institutions and agencies in Azerbaijan, involved in public policy making. The program consisted of several panels and roundtables on political development, economic development, foreign policy and public diplomacy, identity and nationalism. During specialized workshops concrete policy recommendations were developed by specialists and shared with the larger audience.272 Policy Analysis: How to Tackle Policy Problems in Azerbaijan. This unique workshop was conducted under the auspices of the Eurasia Foundation/ Azerbaijan and the Embassy of the United States of America in Azerbaijan to equip government and public sector executives and analysts as well as faculty and students of public policy with essential tools to handle problem identification, policy formulation and decision-making issues confidently and effectively. 25 government executives and policy analysts, NGO managers, junior faculty and advanced students from Azerbaijan and Georgia participated in this workshop led by Dr. Beryl Radin, Professor of Government and Public Administration at the American University in Washington, DC. Participants applied various methods in policy analysis through analyzing case studies and developing their own policy analysis project. Hamlet Isakhanli. In Search of "Khazar". Khazar University Press, Baku, 2006. 