Microlearning deals with relatively small learning units and short-term learning activities. The term is used in e-learning and related fields in the sense of learning processes in mediated environments. Microlearning is a holistic approach for skill based learning and education which deals with relatively small learning units. It involves short-term-focused strategies especially designed for skill based understanding/learning/education. Microlearning refers to micro-perspectives of learning, education, training and skill development. The approaches followed for assessment of microlearning are multidimensional & holistic in nature and need based in particular cases [Patil U.K., 1999] [Patil U.K., 2000]. An ideal instructional approach for many situations especially in higher education for skill development, trainability and employability of learners/students [Patil U.K., 2002]. The technique is capable enough to address challenges associated with slow learners [Patil U.K., 2005]. This learning technique is versatile not only for skill based education but also for sustainable socioeconomic development. Without taking care of micro-perspectives in the context of learning, education, training and skill development, a skill based education cannot be imparted effectively [Patil U.K., 2009]. In a wide sense, microlearning can be understood as a metaphor which refers to micro aspects of a variety of learning models, concepts and processes. "No matter if learning refers to the process of building up and organizing knowledge, to the change of behaviour, of attitudes, of values, of mental abilities, of cognitive structures, of emotional reactions, of action patterns or of societal dimensions, in all cases we have the possibility to consider micro, meso and macro aspects of the various views on more or less persisting changes and sustainable alterations of performances." (Hug 2005, p. 4). Depending on frames and domains of reference, micro, meso and macro aspects vary. They are relational concepts. For example, in the context of language learning, one might think of micro aspects in terms of vocabularies, phrases, sentences, and distinguish them from situations and episodes (meso aspects) and socio-cultural specifics or complex semantics (macro aspects). In a more general discourse on learning, one might differentiate between the learning of individuals, group learning or learning of organizations and the learning of generations or societies. Furthermore, microlearning marks a transition from common models of learning towards micro perspectives on and the significance of micro dimensions in the process of learning. The microlearning approach is an emergent paradigm, so there are no hard definitions or coherent uses of the term yet. However, the growing focus on microlearning activities can be seen by web users' activities on the subject, who tag their corresponding weblog postings and social bookmarks with the term "microlearning". As an instructional technology, microlearning focuses on the design of microlearning activities through micro steps in digital media environments, which already is a daily reality for today's knowledge workers. These activities can be incorporated into learner's daily routines and tasks. Unlike "traditional" e-learning approaches, microlearning often tends towards push technology through push media, which reduces the cognitive load on the learners. Therefore, the selection of micro learning objects and also pace and timing of microlearning activities are of importance for didactical designs. Microlearning, in a nutshell, is a digital learning experience designed to be effective, engaging and enjoyable. Microlearning provides bite-sized learning content in stark contrast to the traditional model of learning and thus engagement follows.  Microlearning can be characterized as follows: The following dimensions can be used to describe or design microlearning activities: (Hug 2005, used with permission) "Subscription learning, as its name implies, provides an intermittent stream of learning-related interactions to those who are subscribed. These learning-related interactions—called "nuggets"—can involve a great variety of learning-related events, including content presentation, diagnostics, scenario-based questions, job aids, reflection questions, assignments, discussions, etc. Nuggets are short, usually presented in less than five to ten minutes. Nuggets are intentionally scheduled over time to support learning, often utilizing research-based findings related to the spacing effect. Learners subscribe (or are subscribed) to one or more series of learning nuggets, called "threads". Learning threads can be predesigned, selecting nuggets based on anticipated learner needs or they can be dynamically created based on learner performance." (Thalheimer, 2013). Subscription learning characteristics: 