Redirect to:Find sources: Google (books · news · newspapers · scholar · free images · WP refs) · FENS · HighBeam · JSTOR · NYT · TWL Easy tools: Citation bot (help) | Advanced: Fix ambiguous links · Fix bare URLs · Fix broken links · Public logs. Anjuman Taraqqī-i-Urdū (Urdu: انجُمن ترقئ اُردو‬‎) is an organization working for the promotion and dissemination of Urdu language, literature and  culture in India. Anjuman-i Taraqqi-i Urdu Hind (henceforth called, the Anjuman) is the largest Urdu scholarly promotional association in South Asia. The organization owes its origin to the All India Muslim Educational Conference, set up by the great social reformer and educationist Sir Syed Ahmad Khan in 1886, with the assistance of Nawab Mohsin-ul-Mulk. The basic objective of the above-mentioned Conference was to encourage Indian Muslims to adopt modern education, and for this purpose, establish schools and colleges along the lines of the Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College (later known as Aligarh Muslim University).   The Conference had three sections: Women’s Education, Educational Census and Schools. In a later Conference held in 1903, three more branches were added: Social Reform, Shoba-yi-Taraqqī-yi-Urdū and Miscellaneous.  It is to the Shoba-yi-Taraqqī-yi-Urdū that the current Anjuman traces its origins. Incidentally, Thomas Walker Arnold was the first elected President of the Shoba-yi-Taraqqī-yi-Urdū and the noted writer Allama Shibli Nomani was the first Secretary. These were some of the renowned personalities that worked so hard to create the Anjuman and people continue to draw inspiration from them even today.  Baba-e-Urdu (Father of Urdu) Maulavi Abdul Haq became the Secretary of the organization in 1912, and the base was shifted to the modern day Aurangabad district, Maharashtra in 1913, where he was employed by the then Nizam of Hyderabad. Then the Anjuman shifted its base to Delhi in 1938 where it functioned until 1949 with Maulavi Abdul Haq as its head.  Anjuman in India is known as "Anjuman Taraqui Urdu (Hind)" (انجمن ترقی اردو ہند)  After independence of India, Zakir Hussain become the Vice Chancellor of Aligarh Muslim University in 1949. Anjuman Taraqui Urdu was shifted to Aligarh Muslim University Aligarh. In the year 1977 Anjuman was moved to New Delhi with its office at Urdu Ghar. It started to work for the promotion of Urdu as a common language in India. As per the references of Eighth Scheduleof the Indian Constitution, it started to play a vital and positive role regarding the function Urdu. Anjuman Taraqui Urdu Hind has echoed the nationalistic character and prominent Indian leaders like Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, C. Rajagopalachari, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad and Zakir Husain had good relations with Anjuman. Premchand was one among the prominent person of the Anjuman. It has been maintaining the "Ganga-Jamni Tehzib" (Ganga Yamuna Civilization) among the masses and working both for the Urdu language and national integrity.  Currently Anjuman Taraqui Urdu has its branches in many states of India. Particularly most of the cities of India where considerable Urdu speaking population is, Anjuman has its branches and functioning to celebrate the secular fabric of the nation. 