Angry white male is a pejorative term   used to describe white males holding what is viewed as a typically conservative to reactionary viewpoint in the context of U.S. politics, typically characterized by "opposition to liberal anti-discriminatory policies" and beliefs.  In particular, angry white males stereotypically oppose affirmative action policies and feminism.   The term was popularized in reference to a political voting bloc which emerged in the early 1990s as a reaction to perceived injustices faced by white men in the face of affirmative action quotas in the workplace. Angry white men are characterised as having animosity toward young people, women and/or minorities, especially Jewish people. [not specific enough to verify] Donald Trump supporters have been described by some political commentators[who?] as angry white males or angry white men.     The rhetoric of the angry white man is not limited to the United States. It appeared during Australia's 1998 federal elections.  New political parties appeared in that election due to the preexisting fathers' rights movement in Australia. These included the Abolish Family Support/Family Court Party and the Family Law Reform Party.  Similar to the usage of the term in the United States, the Australian men categorized as angry white males opposed what they perceived as the feminist agenda. These political parties were created as a reaction to the historic number of women elected to the House of Representatives.  Members of these groups claimed that "feminists have entrenched themselves in positions of power and influence in government and are using their power to victimise men".  The Liberal Party (major centre-right) senator Eric Abetz, arguing against Section 18C of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975, says it's "passing strange" that the Australian Human Rights Commission does not seem to care about what he perceives as "racist terminology" such as angry white man but it does care if another colour is used to describe someone: "One cannot help but think that the term 'white' can only refer to skin colour and therefore [you] are making reference to a skin colour [and] one assumes it must have been on the basis of race that the comment was made".  The term is applied to those opposed to the Civil Rights Movement and second-wave feminism.  The movies Joe,  Death Wish, Falling Down, Taxi Driver, God Bless America, and Clint Eastwood's performances in both the Dirty Harry series and Gran Torino have been described as definitive explorations of the angry white male.[dubious  – discuss]    In particular, the protagonist of Falling Down (a divorced, laid-off defense worker who descends via chance and choice into a spiral of increasing rage and violence) was widely reported upon as a representative of the stereotype.  He is puzzled by where he ended up and asks, "I'm the Bad Guy? (Police Sergeant 'Yeah') How'd that happen? I did everything they told me to. Did you know I build missiles? I helped to protect America. You should be rewarded for that."  The character Archie Bunker from the TV sitcoms All in the Family and Archie Bunker's Place "turned the angry white male into a cultural icon", according to CBS News.  The actor Carroll O'Connor who played Archie Bunker said paraphrasing James Baldwin, "The American white man is trapped by his own cultural history. He doesn't know what to do about it."  O'Connor goes on to say: Archie's dilemma is coping with a world that is changing in front of him. He doesn't know what to do, except to lose his temper, mouth his poisons, look elsewhere to fix the blame for his own discomfort. He isn't a totally evil man. He's shrewd. But he won't get to the root of his problem, because the root of his problem is himself, and he doesn't know it. That is the dilemma of Archie Bunker. Notes Further reading 