  Stranded Pakistanis in Bangladesh (Urdu: پھنسے ہوئے پاکستانی‬‎, Bengali: উদ্বাস্তু পাকিস্তানী) are Urdu-speaking Muslim migrants with homelands in present-day India and Pakistan who settled in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) following the partition of India in 1947.       This identification can encompass several groups of people. First among them is "Bihari Muslims". Although most of this population belonged to State of Bihar in India there are many from other Indian states such as U.P. (United Provinces or later Uttar Pradesh). There are still others who had settled in what is now known as Bangladesh in the late 19th century.  The second term of reference for this group coined by themselves after creation of Bangladesh is "Stranded Pakistanis". In Urdu media in Pakistan and elsewhere this was translated as "Mehsooreen" or the "Besieged". Another common term is "Non-Bengalis", which includes not only the Urdu-speaking but also Punjabis, Pathans and Baloch living in Bangladesh.  Henceforth any of the above terms may be used to identify this group depending on the context and history. Biharis were stateless until 2008 when a judgement by the Dhaka High Court gave them right of citizenship. The judgement does not cover refugees who were adults at the time of Bangladesh Liberation War.   In March 2015, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan said that more than 170,000 Biharis had been repatriated to Pakistan and the remaining 'stranded Pakistanis' are not its responsibility but rather the responsibility of Bangladesh.  In pre-independence British India, there was an Urdu-speaking Muslim minority in the Hindu majority state of Bihar.  In 1947, at the time of partition of India, the Bihari Muslims, many of whom were fleeing the violence that took place during partition, fled to the newly independent East Pakistan. They held a disproportionate number of positions in the new country due to the fact that Urdu was made the national language of the new state and as such was, for many Biharis, their mother tongue.  This led to much resentment from the native Bengalis, who had to acquire a new language and were at a disadvantage on their own soil. In 1971, when the Bangladesh Liberation War broke out between East and West Pakistan, the Biharis sided with West Pakistan, opposed the Bengali demand of making Bengali an official language, and chose to maintain Urdu as the state language as for many Bihari, it was their mother tongue. With covert and later overt Indian support, East Pakistan became the independent state of Bangladesh. During the war there were "many attacks on the Bihari community as they were seen as symbols of Pakistani domination."   The Biharis were now left behind as the Pakistani army and Pakistani civilians evacuated, and they found themselves unwelcome in both countries. Pakistan feared a mass influx of Biharis could destabilize a fragile and culturally mixed population which shared no similarity with the Bihari; furthermore, the Pakistani government believed that since Bangladesh was still the successor state of East Pakistan, it had to fulfil its duty in absorbing these refugees just as Pakistan (West) did with the many millions of refugees (incidentally, including Bangali) who fled to West Pakistan. Some groups in Pakistan have urged the Pakistan government to accept the Biharis.   In an agreement in 1974 Pakistan accepted 170,000 Bihari refugees; however, the repatriation process subsequently stalled.   Post-independence Bangladesh scorned the Biharis for having supporting the Pakistan army. With neither country offering citizenship, the Biharis were stateless. Organisations like Refugees International urged the governments of Pakistan and Bangladesh to "grant citizenship to the hundreds of thousands of people who remain without effective nationality".   In 2006 a report estimated between 240,000 and 300,000 Biharis lived in 66 crowded camps in Dhaka and 13 other regions across Bangladesh.  In 2003, a case came before a high court in which ten Biharis were awarded citizenship according to the court's interpretation of the constitution. Subsequently, however, little progress was made in expanding that ruling to others.  Many Pakistanis and international observers believe the plight of the Biharis has been politicized with political parties giving the refugees false hopes and impracticable expectations.  In recent years, several court rulings in Bangladesh have awarded citizenship to Biharis living in Bengali refugee camps, as the majority of these refugees were born there.  International observers believe that Bangladesh, as the successor state needs to fulfil its international obligations and grant citizenship to this officially stateless ethnic group or arrange for the peaceful repatriation to their native state of Bihar, over the border in India from where they originally hail from. ref>.  In a visit to Bangladesh in 2002 Pakistani president Pervez Musharraf said while he had every sympathy for the plight of thousands of people in Bangladesh known as 'stranded Pakistanis', he could not allow them to emigrate to Pakistan as Pakistan was in no position to absorb such a large number of refugees which shared no linguistic, cultural or history with that of Pakistan.  He encouraged his Bengali counterpart not to politicize the issue and accept the refugees as citizens being the successor state of East Pakistan.  Pakistani government officials have threatened to deport the more than 1.5 million illegal Bengali refugees living in its country if the issue is not resolved acceptably.  In May 2003 a high court ruling in Bangladesh allowed 10 Biharis to obtain citizenship and voting rights;  the ruling also exposed a generation gap amongst Biharis, with younger Biharis tending to being "elated" with the ruling but with many older people "despair[ing] at the enthusiasm" of the younger generation.  Many Biharis now seek greater civil rights and citizenship in Bangladesh.  Of Martyrs and Marigolds, a novel by Aquila Ismail, highlights the atrocities committed by Bengali nationalists against Biharis during the Bangladesh Liberation War.  