 "Nasty woman" was a phrase used by 2016 American presidential candidate Donald Trump referring to opponent Hillary Clinton during the third presidential debate.    The phrase made worldwide news and became a viral call for some women voters and has also launched a feminist movement by the same name.  The phrase influenced memes,    popular culture,   books and magazines,   art exhibits,    theater and concert productions,   and came to be known as a women's rights rallying cry by some in the media.    On October 19, 2016, during the final presidential debate, Hillary Clinton explained her hopes to improve the Social Security program by increasing taxes on the wealthy, commenting that her own Social Security contributions would accordingly go up along with those of her opponent, Donald Trump's, "assuming he can't figure out how to get out of it". Trump immediately retorted "Such a nasty woman". His comment sparked an immediate reaction on various social media platforms, having the biggest response from Twitter. Women, and some men, embraced Trump's insult and turned it into a hashtag. Some users even referenced Janet Jackson's 1986 single "Nasty". Considered the female equivalent of Trump's "bad hombres", "nasty woman" became an international rallying cry for feminist women in defiance of Trump.  The Nasty Women Movement spawned from women coming together to battle injustice and inequality personally, professionally and socially. The movement champions intersectionality, the LGBTQ+ community and religious freedoms.  The Nasty Woman Movement is a movement that launched in 2016 as a result of a comment made by then-Presidential nominee Donald Trump. The phrase has been used by many feminists that describe themselves as being "just as nasty-maybe even more nasty- than the woman [Hillary Clinton] Trump had attempted to denigrate, via a weaponized mutter."  The term is associated with the goals of the Women's Movement through a poem, 'nasty woman,' which was recited at the Women's March on Washington.  Its intent is to reclaim the pejorative term, nasty.  "The phrase [nasty woman] became a rallying cry for women everywhere,"  and it has generated merchandise that bears the term 'nasty woman.'  Also, projects and exhibitions have used the term for their efforts to fundraise for Planned Parenthood,  echoing the Women's March's support for the healthcare provider.  Some celebrities favor the phrase, wearing 'nasty woman' T-shirts and expressing their support.  The support was most notable on Twitter, where the phrase was, approvingly, tweeted about.  Various offshoot independent projects from the Nasty Women Movement have raised funds for the organization Planned Parenthood. The fundraising is in direct response to President Donald Trump's conservative pro-life agenda to cut federal funding to Planned Parenthood due to their abortion services.  Nasty Women Project: Voices from the Resistance is a book compiling a collection of empowering stories from "Nasty Women" around the nation that were effected emotionally or in other ways by the 2016 election that resulted in Donald Trump getting the nomination.  The book was published "to fight the threat of misogyny and oppression overtaking our nation" with 100% of the proceeds going directly to funding Planned Parenthood.  The book is "not a project to shed the limelight or give the glory to any one person. It is to chronicle and be a reminder of where we have been, where we will go, what we are capable of doing and what we will do, as women, mothers, daughters, sisters, friends."  Writers Margaret Atwood, Louise O'Neill, and Nikesh Shukla have voiced their appreciation for The Nasty Women Project.  Sales from the viral "Nasty Woman" T-shirt created by Google Ghost and worn by various celebrities and many others involved in the movement have thus far raised over $130,000 for Planned Parenthood.  Google Ghost has since then created other products revolving around the Nasty Women Movement and continues to donate 50% of all their merchandise sales to Planned Parenthood. Some of their new merchandise includes a "Year of the Nasty Woman" planner, also known as the "Fuck Trump Action Planner," that features inspiring quotes from other female leaders along with ideas of various ways to take action during Trump's presidency.  Other independent designers have also created merchandise with portions of the proceeds going to Planned Parenthood.  Another large contributor is the global art and activism movement Nasty Women, which has held various art exhibits internationally featuring artists from around the world with 100% of the proceeds going directly to Planned Parenthood.  One of the projects creators, Roxanne Jackson, explained that the exhibits have an open submission process that accepts "all submitted artwork for this show, regardless of content, as we are focusing on the solidarity of women coming together to object the Trump regime, rather than curating a more typical exhibition."  The other co-director of the movement Jessamyn Fiore sees the art exhibit as a demonstration of "the power of our collective strength and determination and creativity and compassion. We will not tolerate any move backwards in time in terms of the policies that affect my body, my health, my quality of life, my freedom."    The creators asked artists to price their pieces at $100 or less so anyone can afford them. Fiore explained, "I want audience members who have never bought a work of art before to come to the exhibition and be moved by the experience and fall in love with a piece and think "$30, yeah I can afford that, and I'm helping Planned Parenthood!"   Thus far, the Nasty Women exhibitions have raised over $180,000 for Planned Parenthood.  The concept of Nasty Women was almost instantly materialized and put onto apparel to be sold, the money used to fund Planned Parenthood.  The t-shirts gained a lot of popularity seemingly overnight, with celebrities such as Will Ferrell, Katy Perry, and Julia Louis-Dreyfus all wearing them publicly and posting their support on social media outlets, and the t-shirt quickly became a face and symbol for the movement.  In July 2017, Samantha Bee's "Nasty Woman Shirt" campaign raised over $1 million for Planned Parenthood.  The media has supplied support to the nasty women project with the types of articles written about the subject. Buzzfeed has written several articles about the Nasty Women Project, giving the topic more air in the social media sense.   Various media outlets such as NPR, Huffington Post, The Guardian, and many more, all covered aspects of Nasty Women.  Saturday Night Live also performed a skit featuring Nasty Woman and Bad Hombres.  The reclaiming of the title "nasty woman" has been viewed in a mostly favorable way by the political left, with Senator Elizabeth Warren using the "nasty woman" quote as a call for women to vote against Trump on election day.  However, some right wing sources and groups take issue with the Women's March and "nasty women," viewing the movement as crude, aggressive, and/or misinformed.    Nina Mariah Donovan, a teenage poetry slam artist, created a poem in response entitled "Nasty Woman" that actress Ashley Judd performed at the 2017 Women's March following Donald Trump's inauguration as President of the United States.     Rodes Rollins, singer-song writer, also released "Nasty Woman" in April 2018 "a song centered on the themes of female empowerment and pride."  The Nasty Woman hashtag became popular on social media outlets almost immediately after Donald Trump made the offhanded comment of Hillary Clinton being "such a nasty woman."  The hashtag is largely responsible for the immense amount of support and coverage that the movement has gotten. Elizabeth Banks, Jessica Chastain, Chloë Grace Moretz, Denis Leary, Aidy Bryant, Seth Meyers, Yvette Nicole Brown, Patton Oswalt, W. Kamau Bell, and Chelsea Handler have all taken to Twitter to criticize Donald Trump's comments and behavior during the presidential debates, particularly in regard to his "nasty woman" comment.  