The Central Database of Shoah Victims' Names (short: CDB-SVN) is the world’s largest Holocaust archive. It is run by the Jewish Holocaust Memorial Center Yad Vashem in Israel and comprises about 4.5 of the six million victims of the Holocaust. Everyone has the opportunity to fill out a memorial sheet with the biographical data of a victim and submit it to Yad Vashem. In addition, scientific sources, such as the Books of the Dead in Auschwitz or the research of the Italian Centro di Documentazione Ebraica Contemporanea (CDEC) are integrated into the database. The web version was opened to the public on 22 November 2004. Yad Vashem's goal is to capture as many of the victims of the Shoah as possible, commemorate each victim and restore his identity and personality. Four and a half of the six million Jews murdered by the Nazis and their accomplices are already seized. The names of nearly one and a half million victims are still unknown. Yad Vashem writes: Time is running out. It is our collective moral imperative to persevere in our efforts to find their names and give them back their identity. The Central Database has developed easy-to-fill forms that have been distributed over decades in paper form and are now also available online. Apart from the commemorative pages, which were filled mainly by surviving relatives or friends, many names and biographical details stem from various archival sources, especially the partner organizations. Many commemorative sheets are accompanied by a photographic portrait of the victim. The commemorative sheets (with names, biographical details and photos) represent the virtual grave stones of many victims. For many of them, the database entry is the only evidence that these people once lived.     The project is supported by the following persons and institutions: The CDB-SVN works closely with a number of well-known institutions, including the Beate Klarsfeld Foundation, Documentation Center Bergen-Belsen Concentration Camp, the Bjarte Bruland database for Norwegian Shoah victims, the German Federal Archives, the Documentation Centre of Austrian Resistance, JewishGen, a project of the Museum of Jewish Heritage, and the  Names Projects  Latvia, Lithuania and Slovakia, the Ravensbrück Memorial, the Dutch Oorlogsgravenstichting, the Organization of Former Residents of Łódź in Israel, the Croatian Documentation Center for Holocaust Victims and Survivors', the Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial and Museum, the Terezín Initiative Institute, the Jewish Community of Thessaloniki and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. Yad Vashem operates the Victims' Names database as well as seven other digital collections: In 2013, the Yad Vashem memorial scroll collection was added to the UNESCO Memory of the World Programme. 