  The Cape Performing Arts Board (CAPAB) was a South African theatre organisation based in Cape Town, serving the former Cape Province. It was one of the four state funded performing arts councils in the four former provinces of South Africa instituted in 1963. In 1961 the National Theatre Organisation was disbanded and replaced by four provincial performing arts councils. In Cape Town the Cape Performing Arts Board (CAPAB) was instituted in 1962 with the aim to promote the performing arts in the Cape Province and South Arica. The arts councils received sufficient government subsidies to fund various art forms as well as the operational requirements of the theatre facilities. Staff could be taken into permanent employment. Since 1994 government policy changed dramatically. All performing arts boards were transformed to managers of playhouses and the various arts companies had to become independent. The CAPAB Drama Department staged its last production in May 1997 with a final performance of David Mowat's The Guise, a play which has as its theme the survival of the theatre. The new organisation, Artscape, was launched on 27 March 1999 to replace CAPAB and the Nico Malan Theatre Complex was renamed the Artscape Theatre Centre. The Nico Malan Theatre Centre was opened on 19 May 1971, to be programmed and managed by Cape Performing Arts Board as a production house with four arts companies – orchestra, opera, ballet and drama. These companies had full-time artistes, technical and administrative staff. In line with the new South African the political dispensation and the concurrent changes, the complex was renamed the Artscape Theatre Centre in March 2001. CAPE PERFORMING ARTS BOARD (CAPAB) (Afrikaans: Kaaplandse Raad vir die Uitvoerende Kunste – KRUIK). Founded in 1963, after the dissolving of the National Theatre Organisation, with Danie van Eeden*?? as its first director. (He was followed consecutively by Gé Korsten, George Loopuyt and Michael  Maas.)  Registered as a society not for gain, it was headed by a policy-making council chaired by the provincial administrator and representative of all interested parties, including the province, the city municipality of Cape Town, the department of national education,  the business sector as well as representatives of the various performing art forms. Their function was to provide artists and artisans with a secure career option, to develop and promote drama, ballet, music and opera by offering audiences in the province with regular professional productions. Its first productions were Becket (Anouilh) and Hedda Gabler (Ibsen, in Afrikaans) in the Hofmeyr Theatre in November 1963. Their first opera (The Bartered Bride by Smetana) was done on 8 February 1965 in the Alhambra Theatre.  Their first indigenous in play Afrikaans was *** in 196*, while the first indigenous English play was The Year of the Locust by James Ambrose Brown (1966).  Initially renting theatres in the various cities, CAPAB purchased the Opera House in Port Elizabeth in 1967, and refurbished it for use as a base for their work in the Eastern Cape. In 1971 they opened the Nico Malan Theatre Complex in Cape Town, The Opera House with a performance of the ballet Sylvia, and the Theatre with a controversial [Presidential] opening production, "KONING LEAR" [Uys Krige] - directed by Dieter Reible, ["Christine" - Barto Smit was also scheduled, but banned before rehearsals commenced due to subject matter].    Feydeau's "Hond Se Gedagte" [A Flea in her Ear'] also directed by Dieter Reible followed 'Lear'. 