The National Commission for Culture and the Arts of the Philippines (Filipino: Pambansang Komisyon para sa Kultura at mga Sining, Cebuano: Nasodnong Komisyon alang sa Budaya ug mga Arte), is the official government agency for culture in the Philippines. It is the overall policy making body, coordinating, and grants giving agency for the preservation, development and promotion of Philippine arts and culture; an executing agency for the policies it formulates; and task to administering the National Endowment Fund for Culture and the Arts (NEFCA) -- fund exclusively for the implementation of culture and arts programs and projects. The successful overthrow of the Marcos administration in 1986 inspired the different sectors of society to rally behind the new government towards the restoration of democracy. In March 12, 1986, the Alliance of Artists for the Creation of a Ministry of Culture (AACMC) drafted and adopted a proposal for the establishment of a Ministry of Culture. The group cited the inability of the Ministry of Education, Culture, and Sports to devote time and attention to cultural planning due to the gargantuan task of addressing the problems of the educational system.  	President Corazon Aquino responded by issuing Executive Order 118 on January 30, 1987 which established the Presidential Commission on Culture and the Arts (PCCA). It was a diminutive agency compared to the proposal of AACMC but the said order was cognizant of the existence of specialized cultural agencies and that these should only be placed under the umbrella of one agency to coordinate their efforts.  	In 1992, under the new constitution, Congress enacted Republic Act No. 7356 which institutionalized the establishment of the National Commission for Culture and the Arts (NCCA) replacing PCCA. This said law mandated the formulation of national cultural policies and programs according to the following principles: The establishment of the NCCA prompted the cultural agencies that were attached to it, by virtue of the same law, to review its existing mandates and programs to harmonize the delivery of cultural services. CCP, for its part, transformed itself to become the national coordinating center for the performing arts. It also sought to remove its “elitist” image by strengthening its outreach programs and developing partnerships with local arts councils.  As governed by RA 7356, The National Commission for Culture and the Arts is governed by a Board of Commissioners composed of 15 members, namely: It is also responsible for the annual celebration of the National Arts Month (February), UNESCO-ITI World Theatre Week (March 21-27), National Heritage Month (May), National Dance Week (Fourth Week of April), National Literature Month (April), Linggo ng Musikang Pilipino (Last Week of July), Indigenous Peoples Month (October), Museums and Galleries Month (October), and Library and Information Services Month (November). The NCCA logo is the Alab ng Haraya (The Flame of Imagination), which symbolizes the spring of Filipino art and culture. It is composed of two basic elements – the fire and the censer. The fire is a stylized character "ka" of the Philippine indigenous script Baybayin, that stands for kadakilaan or greatness. The fire represents the highest level of imagination and emanates from a three-tiered censer. The three tiers stand for organization, economic support, and an orientation rooted on a thorough grasp of tradition and history, which the NCCA provides. It is done in gold to symbolize the immense wealth of Philippine culture. The agung is a knobbed metal gong of the Philippines used in various communal rituals. Suspended in the air by rope or metal chains, the musical instrument is also employed by some indigenous groups as a means to announce community events, and as an indicator of the passage of time. Agung, the official newsletter of the NCCA is published on a bimonthly basis.  In celebration of the 150th birth anniversary of Jose Rizal, The National Commission for Culture and the Arts formally established the Philippine’s very first Sentro Rizal at the NCCA Building in Intramuros, Manila on June 28, 2011. Sentro Rizal was recognized by virtue of Section 42 of Republic Act 10066 known as the National Cultural Heritage Act of 2009 which specifies a center “ whose main purpose is the promotion of Philippine arts, culture and language throughout the world.” Moreover, Section 43 of the same law, states that the SR “shall be a repository, inter alia, of materials on Philippine arts, culture and language: books, digital video discs, compact discs, films, magazines, artworks, tourism promotion materials, information materials, etc. that shall be made available to the public, both Filipino and foreign”. SR shall also organize cultural programs and activities for Filipinos, especially for children overseas, to promote appreciation and understanding of Philippine culture and the arts. The purpose of Sentrol Rizal is to educate overseas Filipinos about the culture and arts of the Philippines. Since May 2016, 18 Sentro Rizal offices around the world have been established.  The Commission is responsible for bestowing significant awards reflecting Filipino culture and the arts. These awards are the Orden ng Pambansang Alagad ng Sining (Order of National Artists), Gawad sa Manlilikha ng Bayan (National Living Treasures Award), Gawad Alab ng Haraya (Alab ng Haraya Awards), Dangal ng Haraya (Achievement Award), Ani ng Dangal (Harvest of Honors), and the Philippine Heritage Awards. In 2016, the National Commission for Culture and the Arts and its partners in Congress have announced that they will seek to establish a Department of Culture. However, political factors hindered its initial pace. In January 2017, the filing of a bill which seeks to formally establish a holistic Department of Culture was completed. The bill is a priority legislation, which is expected to pass into law in late 2018 or early 2019. The Secretary of the proposed Department of Culture should be an expert in the field of culture and the arts, according to the bill.If the bill passes into law, the Department of Culture will be the only department in government where the head should possess the expertise of the field as a qualification for the job.  Some conservationists are also proposing for the enactment of a bill where each city and town shall have a singular architectural and landscaping style, like the ordinance in the Heritage City of Vigan, other international UNESCO-recognized cities, and some countries in Europe. Through this, a new renaissance of Filipino architecture and landscaping arts 'shall be inevitable'.  