"O tempora o mores" is an observation by Cicero in the fourth book of his second oration against Verres (chapter 55) and First Oration against Catiline.  It translates literally as Oh the times! Oh the customs!  but more accurately as Oh what times! Oh what customs! or alternatively, Alas the times, and the manners.   It is sometimes printed as O tempora! O mores!, with the interposition of exclamation marks, which were not used in Classical Latin. In his opening speech against Catiline, Cicero deplores the viciousness and corruption of his age. Cicero is frustrated that, despite all of the evidence that has been compiled against Catiline, who has been conspiring to overthrow the Roman government and assassinate Cicero himself, and in spite of the fact that the senate has given senatus consultum ultimum, Catiline has not yet been executed. Cicero goes on to describe various times throughout Roman history where consuls have killed conspirators with even less evidence, sometimes – in the case of former consul Lucius Opimius' slaughter of Gaius Gracchus (one of the Gracchi brothers) – based only on quasdam seditionum suspiciones, "certain suspicions of insurrection" (Section 2, Line 3). This sentence is an exclamation critical of present-day attitudes and trends, sometimes used jokingly or wryly. For example, Edgar Allan Poe used the phrase as the title and subject of his poem, "O, Tempora! O, Mores!", in which he criticized the manners of the men of his time.   The musical comedians Flanders and Swann, used the term where Flanders proclaimed "O tempora, O mores - Oh Times, Oh Daily Mirror!"  It is pronounced by a drunken poet in the 1936 movie Mr. Deeds Goes to Town. The expression is used in the play and movie Inherit the Wind, a fictional account of the Scopes Trial, when it is uttered by the cynical reporter, Hornbeck, referring to the town's backward attitude towards enlightened thinking (here Darwin's theory of evolution). In November 2014, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas used a version of this speech on the U.S. Senate floor, with only a few words changed, to criticize President Barack Obama's use of executive orders.   