The European Association of History Educators (EUROCLIO) was established in 1992 with the support of the Council of Europe. The NGO works as a European wide facilitator for innovation and progress in history Education. The organisation contributes not only to the development, but also on the actual implementation of regional, national and European long-term projects, which focus on establishing knowledge, experience and expertise in the countries by training and consulting teachers. EUROCLIO develops teaching materials, builds and maintains professional Networks and acts as advisor to governments, international organisations, NGOs, History Teacher Associations and other Organisations. EUROCLIO is supported by the Europe for Citizens Programme of the European Union and has, for many years, Official Participatory Status and is part of the EU Stake Holder’s Network in Education and Training. EUROCLIO was officially founded in 1993, but already in 1992, delegates from Denmark, Switzerland, Belgium, Portugal, Hungary, Estonia, the Netherlands, France, the United Kingdom, Finland, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Sweden and Norway (14 countries), representing 18 history Teachers Associations decided that a European organization was needed to support the learning and teaching of history by sharing and exchanging knowledge and professional experience. EUROCLIO was founded by Joke van der Leeuw-Roord. The immediate cause for the foundation of such an institute was the collapse of the Iron Curtain in 1989 and the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1992. These events changed the scope and perspective of history and history education in Europe completely and for many countries, a European dimension in history education suddenly became possible and important for the future. History education is frequently used as a vehicle for political propaganda, hatred and aggression, but now the decision was made to renew contacts between East and West and reinforce a history education that could act as a tool to foster integration, peace and stability in Europe. From 1993 on, EUROCLIO grew rapidly and today it represents 64 member organizations from 46 (mostly) European countries, connecting 40,000 historians and history educators in primary, secondary and higher educational institutes. EUROCLIO received the following international recognition: The organization supports the development of responsible and innovative history, heritage and citizenship education by promoting critical thinking, mutual respect, peace, stability and democracy. EUROCLIO focuses on three target areas: EUROCLIO has member organizations from Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Austria, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, England, Finland, France, Germany, Georgia, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Kyrgyzstan, Kosovo, Lebanon Lithuania, Latvia, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, Northern Ireland, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, Russia[permanent dead link], Scotland, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey and Ukraine. A full overview of member organisations is available on the EUROCLIO website The EUROCLIO secretariat is located in The Hague, Netherlands. The secretariat is managed by Acting Executive Director Steven Stegers. EUROCLIO is governed by an international volunteer board that is elected annually by the general assembly. Since its foundation in 1992, EUROCLIO has had board members from Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, the Netherlands, Norway, Switzerland, Turkey, Macedonia, Portugal, Slovenia, Ukraine, and the United Kingdom. The EUROCLIO Honorary Board consists of notable scholars and individuals who are prominent in public life and academic circles, including several former heads of state. They allow themselves to be listed as EUROCLIO Honorary Board Members as a token of their recognition of EUROCLIO's work and mission. Honorary board members include: EUROCLIO is an affiliate of the following networks: EUROCLIO is official partner of UNESCO. Each year, EUROCLIO organises an International Training and Development Course where, on average, History Educators from more than 35 countries meet, learn and discuss a variety of topics and good practice to broaden their perspectives. These Annual Conferences take place in different countries and in close co-operation with local History Teachers’ Associations. In 2009, the Conference was in Nicosia, Cyprus, on the theme “Taking the Perspective of the Others: Intercultural Dialogue and History Teaching”. This Conference is co-organised by nine Teacher Unions and History Educators’ Associations from across the divide. All EUROCLIO Teacher Training activities are in close co-operation with both local academics and institutes for history teacher education, and international experts to train history teachers how to use the most modern teaching methods in their classes. For example: history educators everywhere recognise the importance of ICT as a learning and communications tool, and want further training in how to develop these areas and how to extend their skills in using ICT to promote historical understanding and learning. EUROCLIO operates through the medium of English for international work, and in home languages with translations for the experts supporting projects and in developmental work. Since its foundation, EUROCLIO has organised more than 30 International Conferences and more than 70 National and Regional Training and Development Courses. EUROCLIO implements several long term programmes: Albanian , Bosnian, Croatian, English, Macedonian, Montegrin, Serbian and Slovenian. 