BACSAP (Bahrains' Association of Computer Students and Professionals) came into existence in April 1998, which was one of the first student chapters of Pakistan to be affiliated with ACM. BACSAP was the brainchild of one of the students’ Shahnawaz Malik. Upon asking him how he came up with the idea he said that the basic motivation behind this concept was that there was no society, which could provide students with the chance to do something related to his or her field of study, because at university level education should not be just books and classrooms, but rather it requires something much more than that. The students really needed a platform that would prepare them for their practical and professional life. They also needed an opportunity to improve their management and leadership skills, because that is how they learned how to take initiative and then give a practical shape to their ideas. Now BACSAP has around 150 members, and membership is opened twice a year with the start of each semester. Bits Bytes & Colors is an annual Software/Hardware Exhibition & Competition held at Bahria University, Islamabad. It was started in 1998 and now has expanded to include various other categories of competitions including Film-making, Gaming, Programming, Artificial Intelligence & Quizzes.   Bits, Bytes & Colors 2007 included traditional quiz competition, Film-making, gaming competition, software and hardware exhibition. This time Bits, Bytes & Colors also included a Fun Fair and a Job Fair to bridge the Gap between the Students and the professional industry.  The participants range from students of other universities or young professionals looking for major employment opportunities. Each year cash prizes worth millions are handed to the winners. "Gammerz Tournament" started as a computer gaming competition at the Bahria University Islamabad but now it has become one of the biggest computer gaming events in Islamabad and Rawalpindi. In "Gammerz Tournament 08" more than 300 gammers from different universities participated.  