The Botswana International University of Science & Technology', or BIUST, is an international university located in the town of Palapye, Botswana. It is the southern African nation's second university, after the University of Botswana in the country's capital, Gaborone. The location is a 2,500 hectare site of gently sloping land on the outskirts of Palapye. The university was established by the Botswana International University of Science and Technology Act of 2005. Construction began in December 2009,  the contractors being China Civil Engineering Construction. Phase one of the project, worth US$61.5 million (R495.6 million), was funded by the Botswana Government. Spanning two years, the phase included the construction of the administration block, halls of residence for nearly 300 students and houses for 70 staff, laboratories, auditoriums,indoor sports arena, a student centre and book shop, a clinic, and classrooms.  Enrollment at the university began in March 2011  and the first semester  commenced in August of the same year. The project will accommodate 6,000 students. The university has three colleges: College of Engineering & Technology College of Information & Communication Technology College of Sciences BIUST is a highly focused student institution which gives to its customers a conducive learning platform for its students. Guidance and counselling are the major services provided to student and the HIV awareness programs as well as recognizing the students with disabilities and learning difficulties among others. The World telecommunications and informations society day is an annual event celebrated in the month of May, and brings together different stake holders to discuss issues related to raising awareness about the possibilities that utilizes the internet and other information communication technologies can bring to societies and economies as well as the ways to bridge the digital divide. The 17th May marks the celebration of the anniversary of the international telecommunications union (ITU) and signing of the first international convention center.  