Point Foundation  is a scholarship fund that provides financial aid for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) college aspiring individuals in the United States. Founded in 2001, the overall mission of this organization to give these individuals the opportunity to receive the resources that they need to become pillars in society. It is one of the only scholarship organizations that is solely for LGBTQ students. The program itself provides a foundation that includes professional development, funding, and many additional forms of personal training.  The fund's mission statement is: "Point Foundation empowers promising lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer students to achieve their full academic and leadership potential – despite the obstacles often put before them – to make a significant impact on society."  The Point Foundation provides many specified scholarships that are assigned to an applicant by their academics, interests, fields of study, and their amount of financial need.  The complete list is provided below:  The program explicitly stresses the influence of mentors in society and personal growth. Individuals must work with others to develop their ideals and their overall plans for the advancement of the outside world. Mentors are selected by an application process, similar to the one used to select Point Scholars. Those who are chosen go through training and development to become a viable mentor, and even a desirable partner to scholars in the program. Although mentors serve the students, they inadvertently gain skills in enrichment and community service through the mentor process.  Leadership Development Programs are required programs that Point Scholars must complete throughout the year. They include national and regional meetings, as well as workshops and trainings. This gives students the opportunity to build their leadership skills and their cooperation with others. They use these skills to perform their other requirements. For example, in association with the leadership portion of the scholarship, the Point Scholars must create a Community Service Project annually. They work with their mentors to get involved in society and promote the advancement of the LGBTQ community.  Internships are suggested and listed for the Point Scholars, prompting them to apply and take advantage. There are many programs partnered with the foundation, such as the NBCUniversal, The Palette Fund, and Viacom. There is also an open line of communication for more companies tor each out and partner with the foundation. These internships are used to give the students hands-on experience in the advancement of society in regards to the LGBTQ community. There is even the opportunity to get paid for taking internships into consideration. The Point Scholarship funds their time, while the company they work for has to pay nothing to the scholar.  In 2016, Point initiated a new Community College Scholarship Program, a one-year transformative experience offering academic and personal development for community college students as they plan to transfer to a four-year institution. Wells Fargo funded the inaugural year of the program which assisted 11 students. Point has since expanded the Community College Scholarship Program, accepting approximately 25 students each year.  Students accepted into the program will receive up to a $3,700 tuition scholarship, admissions counseling, coaching, and financial education at the Point Community College Transfer Symposium in Los Angeles.   