  Shri M.D. Shah Mahila College of Arts and Commerce is a college in Malad, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India. Education today has been recognized as the way of life and is indispensable for its benefits are reaching. The global world at large. There can be no societal growth and development without its continuity. With this view in mind, Janseva Samiti was formed and is known for its educational and medical services. Janseva Samiti started Shri M.D. Shah Mahila College of Arts and Commerce in 1968 with a very small number of students. Today, this college has grown both in number, size and streams of education. Being dedicated to the cause of education, Janseva Samiti is in a special way catering to the women education. It has groomed young women into responsible citizen all over these years. Thousands of women students have not merely graduated but have come to be placed in importance, the organisation has established itself under SNDT Women's University, Mumbai as one of the leading education organisations. Shri M. D. Shah Mahila College of Arts & Commerce, the largest tributary of  Janseva Samiti offers the following  educational programs and services  - Degree Courses - in BA, BCOM, BMS, BCA, BMM, BAFI Post Graduation Courses – in Economics, Hindi & Commerce Diplomas and Post-Graduate Degree courses in partnership with IGNOU – MCA, MBA, DIM, MA in ENGLISH, Diploma in ECE, Certificate in FE & IT Career Oriented Programs approved by UGC – in Fashion Designing, Interior Designing, Entrepreneurship & Travel and Tourism M I PATEL Diploma courses – in Fashion Designing, Interior Designing, Journalism, Home science, Computer, Textile Designing, Beauty Culture, Hair Designing Art & Craft. Short Term Courses – Personality Development, Beauty Culture, Soft Toy Making, Painting, Candle Making, English Speaking, Cooking, Flower making, Calligraphy & Yoga  Computer Course for all – 100 hrs in three years Value Added Course offered by the departments – Brahmi and Kharoshti Script, Training In Swaras, Practical Training In Nursery School  Enrichment courses - Communication skills, Yoga and meditation, and Course in Life skills Bridge courses -– Vedic Maths and Statistics Interdisciplinary courses under UGC Merged Scheme - Coaching for Competitive exams and Enhancing Language Skills (English) Other courses - MS-CIT, Certificate courses in Retail management and Tally, Journalism, Home science, Art & Craft and Beauty Culture & Hair Designing. The College was re-accredited by NAAC in 2014 at the highest level with an "A" in the new scheme of NAAC - CGPA 3.11 The College won the IMC RBNQA PERFORMANCE EXCELLENCE TROPHY 2012 under Education category The College won the Maharshi Karve Utkrushta Mahavidyalay Puraskar-2014-15 on the Occasion of SNDT Women's University Centennial Year 