Anthony Pollok (1829 – July 4, 1898) was an American patent attorney who, with Marcellus Bailey, helped prepare Alexander Graham Bell's patents for the telephone and related inventions. Anthony Pollock was born in Hungary about 1828-1829   He graduated from the Ecole Centrale of Paris and was Chevalier of the Legion of Honor of France.   Pollok immigrated to the United States about 1884  where he built a successful law practice and enjoyed the opulent lifestyle of a prosperous Washington, D.C. lawyer.   Pollok's office was a half block from the Patent Office.  He was vice-president of the International Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property and testified twice before the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the U.S. Senate. When Alexander Graham Bell began work on the telephone, Pollok was a partner with patent lawyer Marcellus Bailey in the law firm of Pollok & Bailey. Bell's patron and future father-in-law Gardiner Hubbard paid Pollok and Bailey to work on Bell's patent applications and patents.  The well-connected Anthony Pollok was also one of Hubbard's associates in promoting the "U.S. Postal Telegraph Bill" that would have bought all the telegraph lines from Western Union to make the telegraph industry a government monopoly, similar to the telegraph monopolies employed by several European countries.   The proposed bill (law) did not pass its vote. After Bell's patent application for the telephone was approved on February 29, 1876, Pollok invited Bell to his home to celebrate.  Bell wrote to his father:  The Alexander Graham Bell Papers collection at the Library of Congress contains letters from Bell to Pollok and Bailey regarding Bell's patents for the telephone. Pollok and his wife Marie (born about 1840) were passengers on the steamship SS La Bourgogne when it sank after collision with the ship Cromartyshire on July 4, 1898.,  After their death, his heirs established the "Anthony Pollok Memorial Prize" that was offered for the best device for saving lives in case of disaster at sea.  