The first session of Canada's 37th Parliament unanimously passed a Canadian Parliamentary Motion on Alexander Graham Bell on June 21, 2002, to affirm that Alexander Graham Bell was the inventor of the telephone.    The symbolic motion was a response to the 107th United States Congress' earlier resolution (HRes 269) of June 11, 2002, which recognized the contributions of Antonio Meucci. Due to a misleading press release issued by U.S. Congressman Vito Fossella, this was interpreted by some as establishing priority for the invention of the telephone to Meucci.     The House of Representatives' Resolution and the Parliamentary Motion which followed were both opinions and did not carry any legal weight. The resolution also did not annul or modify any of Bell's patents for the telephone. During the 108th Congress another almost identical resolution, SRes 223 was introduced in the United States Senate, but which was then sent to a committee where it died, unenacted.    The Canadian Parliamentary Motion and Resolution HRes 269 were both widely reported by various news media at the time of their proclamations. The Canadian legislative motion was a quick "tit-for-tat" response to the U.S. House of Representatives' HRes 269,  passed 10 days earlier by only a single Congressional body to recognize the "...work in the invention of the telephone" made by Antonio Meucci", but also impugning the character of Alexander Graham Bell.  The perceived attack on Bell's primacy and character did not sit well with many Canadians and their parliamentarians, in a country where the inventor-scientist is often viewed as a native son.  Only days after the U.S. resolution was announced, Major Chris Friel of Brantford, Ontario near the site where Bell invented the telephone's theoretical concept, dismissed the U.S. resolution out of hand, stating ""Absolutely, the credit [for the phone] remains with [Bell]…".  Responding to the House of Representative's assault on Bell, Deputy Prime Minister Sheila Copps issued a comment to the Canadian news media: "I'm sure we can come in with our own legislation".  After a number of in camera consultations over the next several days with members of the Conservatives, the New Democratic Party, and the Bloc Québécois in Canada's federal parliament, Liberal M.P. Bob Speller (Haldimand—Norfolk—Brant) rose in the House on June 21, requesting that the Deputy Prime Minister advise the U.S. House of Representatives it had erred, by asking: "I am wondering if the Minister will take the time to inform the U.S. Congress that indeed, yes, Virginia, Alexander Graham Bell did invent the telephone?"   After the House's formal Question Period, the Deputy Prime Minister tabled the motion in the Commons affirming Alexander Graham Bell as the inventor of the telephone. The Canadian motion made no derogatory comments of Antonio Meucci, unlike the U.S. resolution's treatment of Bell. Copps' motion asserting Bell's primacy of invention was met with the unanimous approval of all four political parties, and a copy of the legislative motion was directed to the U.S. Congress.  Later, addressing the media, Deputy Prime Minister Copps commented on the House motion by stating that Bell was a "visionary" and "...an inspiring example of a Canadian inventor who, by his ingenuity and his perseverance contributed to the advancement of knowledge and the progress of humanity."   As directly quoted in Hansard, the official Canadian parliamentary record:  Hon. Sheila Copps (Minister of Canadian Heritage, Lib.): Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the House for unanimous consent on the following motion, which has been discussed with all parties, regarding Alexander Graham Bell. I move [that]: The Speaker: Does the hon. Minister of Canadian Heritage have the unanimous consent of the House to propose this motion? Some hon. members:   Agreed. The Speaker: Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion? Some hon. members:   Agreed. [continuing....] Hon. Sheila Copps:   Mr. Speaker, might I suggest that we forward a copy of this to the congress in the United States so they get their facts straight? As directly quoted in HRes 269 (Ver. EH), and recorded by the US GPO  (table and paragraph numbering added for referencing purposes):  In the House of Representatives, U.S., In 2003, the distinguished Italian telecommunications inventor and Meucci book author Professor Basilio Catania (former CEO at CSELT), interviewed on the parliamentary Bell motion and the congressional Meucci resolution, first commented on Bell's record as an inventor and scientist: Professor Catania later went on to note the straightforwardness of the follow-up parliamentary motion compared to the seaminess of the initial congressional resolution: However, intellectual property law author R.B. Rockman was more critical in his view of HRes 269.  After first reviewing the essential details of American Bell Telephone Company v. Globe Telephone Company, Antonio Meucci, et al. (31 Fed 728 (SDNY, 1887)), where he noted major inconsistencies in Meucci's various testimonies, the paucity of direct evidence that both the Globe and Meucci brought forward in support of their defenses and the court's definitive rejection of those defenses in favour of Bell, Rockman then compares the 'Bell v. Globe and Meucci' court decision (of July 19, 1887) with HRes 269: However it should be noted that Rockman writes based on the explicit assumption that Meucci's design was not electrical; similarly Grosvenor, a grandson of Bell, has always staunchly advocated the same.  They follow in this the court ruling of 1887 in Bell vs. Globe; however Mike Green, although not blind to the fact that Meucci had for many years failed completely to sell his invention, finds this "quite unbelievably", and "it is hard to see that justice was correctly apportioned". An appeal was abandoned after Meucci's death in 1889.  Rockman also dissects the U.S. Government's 1887 legal challenge to Bell's telephone patent, which had been brought by United States Attorney General Augustus H. Garland and which is referred to in paragraph No. 9 of the resolution - although Meucci himself, or Globe, did not have anything to do with that. The Attorney General had earlier been given 500,000 shares of stock and was thus a major shareholder of the Pan-Electric Company, which was the instigator of the suit.  Pan-Electric sought to overturn Bell's patent in order to compete against the American Bell Telephone Co.     It was this very court challenge that is referenced in HRes 269's preamble, in paragraph No. 9, which inferred an immoral and possibly criminal intent by Bell ("...the Government of the United States moved to annul the patent issued to Bell on the grounds of fraud and misrepresentation"), to which Rockland wrote: Other contested facts were also found within the preamble to the HRes 269 resolution, among them were: However these arguments of Grosvenor may all be irrelevant because they happened after the invention had taken off; while the chance for Bell to see Meucci's work was obviously before that, in 1975, during Bell's visit to a New York American District Telegraph laboratory, which was affiliated with Western Union.  In total Grosvenor, a grandson of Bell, listed 10 errors in detail found within the congressional Meucci resolution, and was highly critical of both its intent and accuracy.   He also asked two salient questions in Section "C" of the same report:  "1)  Should Congress overrule the US courts and its own committee, which looked at evidence extensively, and without reviewing any evidence in the matter?",  and "2)  Should [the U.S.] Congress pass resolutions on historical facts without checking with legitimate historians or their own library?" The same document also noted that HRes 269 contradicted the findings of its own Congressional committee's investigation, which had, in 1886, produced a report of 1,278 printed pages.  Grosvenor concluded that: "The historical "facts" stated in HR 269 were obtained from highly biased sources, and [were] based on shoddy, cursory research."  The motion was widely reported across Canada over the next three weeks. Canadian news sources detailed the motion's birth and its underlying historical dispute.  One notable review was in an Edmonton Journal opinion piece which admonished politicians for legislating 'truth by decree'.   A  Vancouver Sun editorial also asked: "But since when  are the minutiae of history a matter for the attention of our legislators?"  Several reports wrote that the motion, like the U.S. "historical jingoism" which preceded it,  was only an expression of opinion by a legislative body which did not carry any legal weight. However "…many saw the [American] declaration as an… attempt to rewrite history".   The motion was prominent on all major Canadian television news, with lede stories typically stating "Ottawa rose to the defense of Bell after the US Congress passed a resolution..... "  The Canadian Motion was also reported by media in several other countries, where the response was described as providing "heavy condemnation" of the U.S. resolution.  Asked his opinion on the Canadian 'tit-for-tat' legislative motion,  Italian telecommunications researcher and Meucci author Professor Basilio Catania stated on several occasions that the Canadian response was provoked by "unfortunate passages" directed at Bell, and as such was "quite understandable".   Professor Catania, who had worked with U.S. House Representative Vito Fossella to bring about HRes 269, was declined a meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Sheila Copps to discuss the motion.  Many Italian Canadians were upset by the motion due to long held beliefs that Meucci was the telephone's inventor, according to the Italian-language weekly L'Ora Di Ottawa.  The motion was still referred to years after its passage, in reference to Bell's primacy in the invention of the telephone.   In an article on author Charlotte Gray's new book Reluctant Genius, the Ottawa Citizen noted "…Bell invented the telephone company… [and] thanks to a 2002 motion, the Parliament of Canada continues to recognize Bell as the [telephone's] inventor".  