 Aman Yatan Verma (born 11 October 1971) is an Indian television anchor and actor. As an anchor, Verma is best known for hosting the famous game show Khullja Sim Sim on Star Plus from 2001 to 2004. His other hosting duties were with Mini Mathur in the first season of Indian Idol on Sony Entertainment Television and Zee TV's Zee Cinestars. He has also acted in Bollywood movies. Verma was also seen in Life OK's show Hum Ne Li Hai- Shapath as ACP Diler Kumar. He also participated in the ninth season of Indian reality series Bigg Boss. He emerged as a strong contestant in big boss but was voted out. Aman Verma made his acting debut in the TV serial Pachpan Khambe laal Diwar with Meeta Vashishta in 1987. He also played the character of Vrishaketu, son of Karna, in Mahabharat Katha. Then he started his film career with, Sangharsh (1999), portraying a supporting role. He portrayed the role of Anupam Kapadia for four years in Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi.  In 2002, Verma portrayed the lead role of Aditya Pratap Singh in Kehta Hai Dil, for which he won the Indian Telly Award for Best Actor in a Lead Role - Male in 2003. In 2003, Verma starred in the film Pran Jaye Par Shaan Na Jaye as the solo lead opposite Rinke Khanna and in the film Koi Hai. In both films, he portrayed solo leads. Later that year, he portrayed a supporting role in Baghban (2003), which starred Amitabh Bachchan and Hema Malini in lead roles. Verma anchored the game show, Khullja Sim Sim on Star Plus from 2001 to 2004, until he was replaced by TV actor, Hussain Kuwajerwala, who was his co-star in Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi. The two also starred together in another serial Kumkum, which aired on Star Plus. Famous for his great anchoring skills, Verma has made special appearances in many hit films through his career as an anchor. He also portrayed a comedy role of Zubin in Jaan-E-Mann (2006). In that same year, Verma portrayed his first lead role in a TV serial on Viraasat, portraying a negative role. He was in a TV serial Teen Bahuraniyaan playing the role of a man called Sumeet who was in a coma for the past few years whose children died but did not know it. He was also part of the first season of a reality show on Sony TV Iss Jungle Se Mujhe Bachao, which is inspired from the British reality show I'm a Celebrity...Get Me out of Here!. He played a lead role as Kunal Mehra in Sony TV's Bayttaab Dil Kee Tamanna Hai. He is playing the character of an advocate in Director Shailendra Pandey's upcoming film JD. Verma was the target of a casting couch sting operation which was aired on India TV in March 2005. He was seen begging Suhaib Ilyasi to remove his footage from the sting operation.   His career took a turn for the worst after the sting operation and he has recently resurfaced after 5 years by playing small character roles in television. Verma sued India TV CEO Rajat Sharma, programme manager Suhaib Ilyasi and journalist Ruchi, who was involved in the operation, alleging that the channel wanted to "blackmail and extort money" from him.   