A slavic dragon is any dragon in Slavic mythology, including the Russian zmei (or zmey; змей), known in Ukraine as zmiy (змій), and its counterparts in other Slavic cultures: the Bulgarian zmei (змей), the Polish żmij, the Serbian and Croatian zmaj (змај, zmaj). The Romanian zmeu is also a Slavic dragon, but a non-cognate etymology has been proposed.  A zmei may be beast-like or human-like, sometimes wooing women, but often plays the role of chief antagonist in Russian literature. In the Balkans, the zmei type is overall regarded as benevolent, as opposed to malevolent dragons known variously as lamia (bg), ala or hala, or aždaja. The Polish smok (e.g. Wawel Dragon of Kraków) or the Ukrainian or Belarusian smok (смок), tsmok (цмок), can also be included. In some Slavic traditions smok is an ordinary snake which may turn into a dragon with age. Some of the common motifs concerning Slavic dragons include their identification as masters of weather or water source; that they start life as snakes; and that both the male and female can be romantically involved with humans. The derivation that Serbo-Croatian zmaj "dragon" and zemlja "earth" descended from proto-Slavic root zbm, and Indo-European *ḡhdem, was proposed by Croatian linguist Petar Skok.  The forms and spellings are Russian: zmei or zmey змей (pl. zmei зме́и); Ukrainian: zmiy змій (pl. zmiyi змії); Bulgarian: zmei змей (pl. zmeiove змейове); Polish zmiy żmij (pl. żmije); Serbian zmaj змај (pl. зма̀јеви), Croatian zmȁj (pl. zmàjevi); Slovene zmaj zmáj or zmàj (pl. zmáji or zmáji).  In the legends of Russia and Ukraine, a particular dragon-like creature, Zmey Gorynych (Russian: Змей Горыныч or Ukrainian: Змій Горинич), has three to twelve heads,  and spits fire. According to one bylina, Zmei Gorynych was the dragon killed by Dobrynya Nikitich.  Tugarin Zmeyevich, known as  zmei-bogatyr or "serpent hero", is a man-like dragon who appears in Russian (or Kievan Rus) heroic literature.  Tugarin may symbolize the Turkic or Mongol steppe peoples.  Chudo-Yudo (or Chudo-Iudo, чудо-юдо; pl. Chuda-Yuda) is a multi-headed dragon, appearing in some wondertale variants.  The Chudo-Iudo is considered to be water-dwelling.  In some legends he is discribed as the brother of Koschey the Deathless, and thus the off-spring of Baba Yaga, and in others as personification of the witch in her foulest form.  Chudo Yudo is one of the guardians of the Water of Life and Death, and his name traditionally was invoked in times of drought.  He can apparently assume human-like forms, this being is able to ride a horse. He has the ability to grow up the missing heads.   The term may not be a name for a specific type of dragon at all, but rather a fanciful term for a generic "monster". According to this explanation, the term is to be understood as a poetic form of chudovishe (чудовище) meaning "monster", with a -iudo ending appended simply for the rhyme.   A three and six-headed zmei slain by the titular hero in "Ivan Popyalov" (Иван Попялов. "Ivan Cinders". Afanasyev's tale #135)  are substituted with six-, nine-, and twelve-headed Chuda-Iuda in the cognate tale #137 "Ivan Bykovich" (Иван Быкович). The inference is that Chudo-Yudo must also be a dragon, despite the lack of the word serpent (zmei) explicitly appearing in the latter tale.   The six-, nine-, and twelve-headed Chuda-Yuda that appear out of the Black Sea are explicitly described as zmei in yet another cognate tale, #136 "Storm-Bogatyr, Ivan the Cow's Son" (Буря-богатырь Иван коровий сын). The Storm-Bogatyr is in possession of a magic sword (Sword Kladenets) but uses his battle club (or mace) to attack it.    Chudo-Yudo's heads have remarkable healing property and even if severed, they can be picked up and reattached with a stroke of its fiery finger, according to one of these tales;  this has been compared to the regenerative power of the Lernaean hydra that grows its head back.  The terms smok ("serpent") and tsmok ("sucker") can signify a dragon, but also just an ordinary snake. There are Slavic folklore in which a snake (which is called smok) when it reaches a certain age grows into a dragon (zmaj, etc.). Similar lore is widespread across Slavic countries, as described below. The folklore that an ancient snake grows into a dragon is fairly widespread in Slavic regions. This is also paralleled by similar lore in China.[a] In Bulgaria is a similar folk belief that the smok, which starts out as a non-venomous snake, grows to become a zmei dragon after living 40 years.    Or, if the body of a decapitated snake (zmiya) was joined to a ox or buffalo horn, it grew into a lamia after just 40 days, according to Bulgarian folk tradition published by Racho Slaveykov (bg) in the 19th century.  There are also among the East Slavic folk the tradition that a viper transforms into a dragon.  In Ukrainian folklore the viper needs 7 years to metamorphosize into a dragon, while in Belorussian folklore the requisite time is 100 years, according to one comparison.  The weather-making dragon, ismeju (or zmeu ), of Romanian Scholomance folklore is also locally believed to grow out of a snake which has lived for 9 years (belief found at "Hatzeger Thal" or Hațeg).  Locally in Ukraine, around Lutsk, the rainbow is called tsmok ("sucker") which is said to be a tube that guzzles water from the sea and rivers and carries the moisture up into the clouds.   There is the notion (thought to be inspired by the tornado) of a slavic dragon that dips its tail into a river or lake and siphons up the water, ready to cause floods.  In Rumanian folklore, dragons are ridden by weather-controlling wizards called the Solomonari. The type of dragon they ride may be the zmeu[b]  or the balaur, depending on the source.   The lamia and the hala (explained further below) are also generally perceived as weather dragons or demons. In Bulgarian lore, the zmei is sometimes described as a scale-covered serpent-like creature with four legs and bat's wings,  at other times as half-man, half-snake, with wings and a fish-like tail.  In Bulgaria, this zmei tends to be regarded as a benevolent guardian creature, while the lamya and hala were seen as detrimental towards humans.  [c] A favorite topic of folk songs was the male zmey-lover who may marry a woman and carry her to the underworld, or a female zmeitsa (zmeitza) who falls in love with a shepherd.   When a zmei falls in love with a woman, she may "pine, languish, become pale, neglect herself.. and generally act strangely", and the victim stricken with the condition could only be cured by bathing in infusions of certain herbs, according to superstition.  In Serbia, there is the example of the epic song Tsaritsa Militsa i zmay od Yastreptsa (Serbian: Царица Милица и змај од Јастрепца) and its folktale version translated as "The Tsarina Militza and the Zmay of Yastrebatz".   There is a pan-Balkan notion that the zmei (known by various cognates) is a sort of "guardian-spirit dragon" against the "evil" types of dragon, given below.   One explanation is that the Balkan zmej symbolized the patriotic dragon fighting the Turkish dragon, a way to vent the local population's frustration at not being able to overthrow the long-time Turkish rule.  The zmaj dragon in Serbian fairy tales are nevertheless have sinister roles in a number of instances. In the well-known tale  "A Pavilion Neither in the Sky nor on the Earth" the youngest prince succeeds in killing the dragon (zmaj) that guards the three princesses held captive.[d]  Vuk Karadžić's collection of folktales have other examples. In "The Golden Apple-tree and the Nine Peahens", the dragon carries away the peahen maiden who is the hero's lover.   In "Baš Čelik" the hero must contend with a dragon-king.   The lamia (bg) or lamya (Bulgarian: ламя), derived from the Greek lamia,  is also seen as a dragon-like creature in Bulgarian ethnic population, currently inhabiting Bulgaria, with equivalents in Macedonia (lamja, lamna; ламја), and South-East Serbian areas (lamnia ламња).  The Bulgarian lamia is described as reptile- or lizard-like and covered with scales, with 3–9 heads which are like dog's heads with sharp teeth.   It may also have sharp claws, webbed wings, and the scales may be yellow color.  The Bulgarian lamia dwells in the bottoms of the seas and lakes, or sometimes mountainous caverns,  or tree holes[e]  and can stop the supply of water to the human population, demanding sacrificial offerings to undo its deed.   The lamia, bringer of drought, was considered the adversary of St. Ilya (Elijah) or a benevolent zmei.   In the Bulgarian version of Saint George and the Dragon, the dragon was a lamia.  Bulgarian legends tell of how a hero (actually a double of St. George, denoted as "George of the Flowers", Cveten Gǝorgi, Bulgarian: цветен Гьорги ) cuts off the heads of the three- or multi-headed Lamia, and when the hero accomplishes its destruction and sever all its heads, "rivers of fertility" are said to flow.    This song about St. George's fight with the lamia occurs in ritual spiritual verse supposed to be sung around St. George's day,[f]  One of the versions collected by ethnologist Dimitar Marinov (bg) begins: "Тръгнал ми е цветен Гьорги/Да обиди нивен сънор/На път среща сура ламя.. (George of the Flowers fared out / Going around his congregation /On the road he met the tawny/fallow lamia..)". [g] Another version collected by Marinov substitutes "Yuda-Samodiva" in the place of the lamia.  Three rivers gush out of the dragons head-stumps: typically one of corn, one of red wine, and one of milk and honey. These benefitted the crop-growers, vineyard growers (winemakers), and the beekeepers and shepherds, respectively.    There is some overlap or conflation of the lamia and the hala (or halla), although the latter is usually conceieved of as a "whirlwind".   Or it might be described as regional differences. The lamia in Eastern Bulgaria is the adversary of the benevolent zmei,  and the hala or ala takes its place in Western Bulgaria.   This motif of hero against the evil dragon (lamia, ala/hala, or aždaja) is found more generally throughout the Balkan Slavic region.  Sometimes this hero is a saint (usually St. George).  And after the hero severs all its (three) heads, "three rivers of wheat, milk, and wine" flow out of the stumps. [h] The demon or creature known as hala (or ala), whose name derived from the Greek word for "hail" took the appearance of a dense mist or fog, or a black cloud.   Hala was believed to be the cause of strong winds and whirlwind in Eastern Bulgaria,  while the lamya was blamed as the perpetrator in Southwestern Bulgarian lore.  In Western Bulgarian tradition, the halla itself was regarded as the whirlwind, which guarded clouds and contained the rain,  but was also regarded as a type of dragon,   alongside the folklore that the "grass snake" (smok) was a crag-dwelling whirlwind.  These (h)ala were also known in East and Central Serbia.  Similar lore occur in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro.  The demon (h)ala was also called by other names regionally, in some parts of Bulgaria they were known as aždarha (Bulgarian: аждарха) or ažder (аждер), in Macedonian as aždaja or ažder (аждаја, аждер), in Serbian as aždaja (аждаја).[i]   The word aždaja or aždaha is borrowed from Persian azdahā (اژدها),  and has its origins in the Indo-Iranian mythology surrounding the dragon azidahā.  As an example, in some local Croatian icons, St. George is represented as slaying the aždaja and not a zmaj.  The hala or aždaja correspond to the dragon known in South Serbia (Kosovo) and Albania as kulshedra (Serbo-Croatian: kulšedra, кулшедра; Albanian: kulçedra, kuçedra).   A pozoj is a dragon of legends in Croatia.[j] In Međimurje County, the Čakovec pozoj was said to dwell beneath the city, with its head under the church and tail under the town square, or vice versa, and it could only be gotten rid of by a grabancijaš (a "wandering scholar", glossed as a "black [magic] student").   The pozoj is also known in Slovenia, and according to legend there is one living underneath Zagreb, causing an earthquake whenever it shrugs.  Poet Matija Valjavec (sl) (1866) has published some tales concerning the pozoj in the Slovenski glasnik magazine, which also connected the creature to the črne škole dijak ("black school student"),  which other Slovene sources call črnošolec ("sorcerer's apprentice"),  and which some equate with a grabancijaš dijak   Dragons in Slovenia are generally negative in nature, and usually appear in relation with St. George.  The Slovene god-hero Kresnik is known as a dragonslayer.  There are natural and man-made structures that have dragon lore attached to them. There are also representations in sculpture and painting. In iconography, Saint George and the Dragon is prominent in Slavic areas. The dragon is a common motif in heraldry, and the coat of arms of a number of cities or families depict dragons. The Dragon Bridge (Slovene: Zmajski most) in Ljubljana, Slovenia depicts dragons associated with the city or said to be the city's guardians,  and the city's coat of arms features a dragon (representing the one slain by Kresnik).  The coat of arms of Moscow also depicts a St George (symbolizing Christianity) killing the Dragon (symbolizing the Golden Horde).  [need quotation to verify] Some prehistoric structures, notably the Serpent's Wall near Kiev, have been associated with dragons as symbols of foreign peoples.  Cite error: A list-defined reference named "FOOTNOTEPetrovitch1914247–267" is not used in the content (see the help page). 