Corporate Accountability (formerly INFACT, Corporate Accountability International) is a non-profit organization, founded in 1977. Their campaign headquarters are in Boston, Massachusetts and they have offices in Oakland, California, Seattle, Washington, and Bogotá, Colombia. Currently, their most prominent campaign is their climate campaign to kick Big Polluters out of climate policy. Since 1977 Corporate Accountability has waged a number of high-profile campaigns to protect public health, the environment and democracy from abuse by transnational corporations. From 1977 to 1986 the Infant Formula Campaign and Nestlé Boycott brought about significant reforms in the life-threatening marketing of infant formula in developing countries. The work of Corporate Accountability International and allies contributed to the passage of the World Health Organization's International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes in 1981. From 1984 to 1993 the Nuclear Weaponmakers Campaign and General Electric (GE) Boycott helped push industry leader GE out of the nuclear weapons business and exposed the human and environmental costs of the corporation's nuclear weapons production and promotion.   The international boycott of GE products cost the company over $19 million in lost medical equipment sales and $100 million in overall sales.  Major retail stores including Safeway and Target began stocking light bulbs made by other companies.  In 1991, Corporate Accountability International commissioned the Academy Award winning documentary, "Deadly Deception: General Electric, Nuclear Weapons, and Our Environment"  that juxtaposed "GE's rosy 'We Bring Good Things To Life' commercials with the true stories of workers and neighbors whose lives have been devastated by the company's involvement in building and testing nuclear bombs."  In 1993, GE caved under enormous public pressure and moved out of the nuclear weapons business.  In 1994 Corporate Accountability launched the Challenging Big Tobacco Campaign.   In 2003, years of campaigning culminated in the adoption of the world's first public health and corporate accountability treaty —the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control.   They spent the fall of 2005 working alongside other organizations to get a number of African countries to ratify the treaty and also gained notice for their attempts to get the US to ratify the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control.  In 2009 they gained notice for instigating the removal of tobacco company representatives from a UN-backed meeting on tobacco smuggling.  The Challenging Big Tobacco Campaign is currently focused on expanding implementation and enforcement of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. In 2004 Corporate Accountability launched the Think Outside the Bottle Campaign  to promote, protect and ensure public funding for public water systems and challenge corporations who undermine public confidence in tap water.  Recently, Corporate Accountability’s Think Outside The Bottle Campaign has garnered international notice.  The campaign has been supported by Salt Lake City mayor Rocky Anderson, who has also begun his own “Knock Out Bottled Water” website,  San Francisco mayor Gavin Newsom, and more.  The campaign also played a major role in the July 2007 decision by PepsiCo to change the label on their Aquafina bottled water to more plainly state it is sourced from public water.  The campaign was also featured on NBC Nightly News in October 2007.  On World Water Day March 22, 2010 Corporate Accountability released the film Story of Bottled Water with the Story of Stuff project.  In 2009 Corporate Accountability launched the Value [The] Meal Campaign   challenging corporate abuse of food by the fast food industry.  The campaign demands to the fast food industry include: stop fast food marketing, promotion and sponsorship that appeals to children and teenagers; stop manipulating public health policy and nutrition science; and provide complete, accurate and non-promotional information about the health risks of fast food.   On a similar tack, in April 2010 the nonprofit began calling for the 'retirement' of Ronald McDonald, saying the venerable mascot fuels childhood obesity.  In 2014, Corporate Accountability launched its climate campaign . It began to organize with people around the world to hold fossil fuel corporations accountable and remove them from the policymaking process. Corporate Accountability's climate campaign has turned what was once an untouchable subject — the fossil fuel industry’s conflicts of interest in climate policy — into a hotly debated issue at the U.N. climate treaty negotiations and in national policymaking   . Corporate Accountability has also supported policymakers from former President Obama to Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey to take decisive action on climate change and hold the fossil fuel industry accountable.  Members of the campaign advisory board include Frances Moore Lappé author of Diet for a Small Planet, Susan Linn, EdD co-founder and director of The Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, Marion Nestle Ph.D., M.P.H., the Paulette Goddard Professor of Nutrition, Food Studies, and Public Health at New York University,  Ronnie Cummins National Director of the Organic Consumers Association,  David L. Katz MD, MPH, FACPM, FACP Director and founder of Yale University’s Prevention Research Center,  Raj Patel, PHD author of Stuffed and Starved: The Hidden Battle for the World Food System, Scot Quaranda the Campaign Director for Dogwood Alliance, Michele Simon, JD, MPH author of Appetite for Profit: How the Food Industry Undermines Our Health and How to Fight Back, and Judy Wicks founder of Philadelphia’s White Dog Cafe.  