  The Indian Heart Association (IHA), along with the Indian Stroke Association (ISA), is an NGO and non-profit dedicated to raising cardiovascular and stroke health awareness among the South Asian population.  The organisation was founded by Baylor College of Medicine medical student Sevith Rao and Dr. Sishir Rao, Clinical Fellow at Harvard University. The NGO has sponsored and conducted cardiac health camps in India to raise awareness about cardiovascular disease and is headquartered in Jubilee Hills, Hyderabad, India. The organisation was appointed to the Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery Instruments Sectional Committee for the Bureau of Indian Standards, Ministry of Health in 2013. The NGO was featured in articles in prominent newspapers such as The Hindu and Eenadu as well as the front page of the Rice University webpage.  The Indian Heart Association has an active online presence at the IHA Facebook Page and on the IHA official website. The IHA also operates an affiliated organisation, the Indian Stroke Association, focused on raising awareness about stroke. Public health estimates indicate that India accounts will account for approximately 60% of the world's heart disease burden, despite having less than 20% of the world's population. Heart disease is the number one cause of mortality and a silent epidemic among South Asians. In addition, South Asians are at high risk for stroke, accounting for 40% of global stroke deaths. [full citation needed] The Indian Heart Association was founded to focus on the goals of primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease and stroke. The Indian Heart Association has an active presence at the Indian Heart Association Facebook Page and on the IHA official website. The IHA also has a monthly newsletter with a reach of tens of thousands of people and interested individuals can sign up on the official website. The Facebook group offers daily healthy heart tips and facts. The website features healthy heart content, upcoming events, and news. The Indian Heart Association was invited as an Indian representative to the World Heart Federation annual meeting in Delhi, India in Summer 2014. The IHA has also been recognised as a full member of the Cardiac subcommittee for the Bureau of Indian Standards in the Ministry of Health in India. The organisation has prominent supporters and advisers including National Medal of Science Laureate Dr. C.R. Rao and former Science Advisor to the President of the United States Dr. Neal Francis Lane. To date the organisation has partnered with prominent physicians including Cardiologists and Surgeons from Apollo Hospitals, KIMS, and Vishnu Hospital. The IHA has conducted or sponsored cardiac screening camps in Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana, and Tamil Nadu and has sponsored or advised other events throughout India. The organisation has also joined hands with the Indian Medical Student Association (IMSA), the largest medical student representative body in the country. In 2015, the IHA has partnered with the Child Heart Foundation, a non-profit in Delhi, India to raise funds for treatment of congenital heart disease for families with financial hardship. 