The National Farm Medicine Center (NFMC), established in 1981,  is a non-profit program  in Marshfield, Wisconsin dedicated to agricultural health and safety research, and service.  The center is a component of the Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation, which is part of Marshfield Clinic.     In the 1960s research was conducted by the Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation  on respiratory diseases common in dairy farmers.  Dean Emanuel identified maple bark disease among paper mill workers.    In 1964, a culture technique developed by Emanuel and Fritz Wenzel to identify the causative agent for "farmer's lung",    a chronic, progressive, inflammation in the lungs of farmers. By 1971 intervention and education programs targeting farmers were developed in cooperation with the University of Wisconsin Agricultural Research Station, located in Marshfield.    Discussions were held in 1980 and came to fruition in 1981 with the formation of an agricultural medicine center in Marshfield.  The center is directed by Barbara C. Lee, PhD.   Its staff of 10+ includes five PhD level scientists, along with support staff.  Past directors include Matthew C. Keifer.    Since 1997, the center has been home to the National Children's Center for Rural and Agricultural Health and Safety (NCCRAHS),     It is one of 11 Centers for Agricultural Disease and Injury Research, Education and Prevention  funded by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health,  and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  The majority of the center's funding comes from competitive government grants and contracts. Other sources of funding are private foundations, corporations, partnerships and donations. The National Farm Medicine Center hosts summer interns who are involved in research projects, farm visits, and field work.    The research areas this center participates in includes In collaboration with the Upper Midwest Agricultural Safety and Health Center, the following projects are conducted: In collaboration with the Central States Center for Agriculture Safety and Health (CS-CASH), the following projects are conducted: 