No sources cited which are about the subject.If you can address this concern by improving, copyediting, sourcing, renaming, or merging the page, please edit this page and do so. You may remove this message if you improve the article or otherwise object to deletion for any reason. Although not required, you are encouraged to explain why you object to the deletion, either in your edit summary or on the talk page. If this template is removed, do not replace it.This message has remained in place for seven days, so the article may be deleted without further notice. If you created the article, please don't be offended. Instead, consider improving the article so that it is acceptable according to the deletion policy.PRODExpired+%5B%5BWP%3APROD%7CPROD%5D%5D%2C+concern+was%3A+No+sources+cited+which+are+about+the+subject.Expired [[WP:PROD|prod]], concern was: No sources cited which are about the subject. The TuBerculosis Vaccine Initiative (TBVI) is a non-profit foundation with the goal of delveloping safe and effective tuberculosis vaccines. Tuberculosis is a urgent global health problem. About one third of the world population is infected with the bacterium that causes it and the disease has an annual incidence of 8.8 million new cases and a death toll of approximately 1.5 million people per year. The global economic cost of TB is estimated to be hundreds of billions of dollars,  and some 10 million children have been orphaned due to TB. Modelling studies  predict that vaccines that prevent TB in adults and adolescents and that prevent TB in latently infected individuals will have the strongest impact on the TB epidemic. Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG), currently the only available vaccine is not effective in these populations. This vaccine, used since 1921, can protect children from severe forms of tuberculosis. However, BCG has little to no efficacy in preventing pulmonary TB in (young) adults, the most common and most infectious form of tuberculosis. Moreover, there are serious safety concerns  regarding the use of BCG in HIV infected newborns. Current global tuberculosis control programs, based on Direct Observed Treatment Short course (DOTS), using a combination of four drugs, are hampered by the increasing emergence of (multi)drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) strains. Patients with (multi)drug-resistant Mtb require long treatment regimens with more toxic expensive drugs that are not globally accessible. The number of suspected multidrug resistant TB cases is rapidly increasing (650,000 cases identified in 2010), and forms a threat to both the developing and the developed world. TBVI's activities are funded by: 