The Swedish healthcare system is highly decentralized, and is universal for all citizens.  The Swedish healthcare system is mainly financed through the public sector, and city councils run public healthcare. A total of 21 councils are in charge with primary and hospital care within the country. Private healthcare is rarity in Sweden, and even those private institutions work under the mandated city councils. The city councils regulates the rules and the establishment of potential private practices. Although in most countries care for the elderly or those who need psychiatric help is conducted privately, in Sweden local, publicly funded authorities are in charge of this type of care.   The Swedish government makes an effort to limit private firms in healthcare. The government takes the precautions to eliminate profit seeking in the welfare/public health sector. The Swedish health system is mainly effective but there are some problems within the system.   Increased access to primary care is one issue that arises. Most citizens in Sweden go to the hospital for routine check ups. Primary care needs to be made more readily accessible to Swedes instead of them going to hospitals for minor health needs. Another issue is Swedish emergency units are below the minimum safe size. The decentralized healthcare system in Sweden leads to this inefficiency, because of decentralization the counties are granted extreme amount of flexibility. The coordination between counties and municipalities is affected because of this constant shifting and flexibility.   The primary care issues stems from councils. The government has tried to make primary private care more accessible to citizens but the city councils halt this in most counties.  The lack of privatized health services leads to a number of the inefficiencies in the system. According to OECD the Swedish health system is one of the best in the world.  The Funding and cost of keeps healthcare affordable and accessible to all Swedish citizens.  The funding for Swedish health care comes from central and local taxes. The mandated councils and municipalities have the ability to  levy taxes on citizens. Local taxes equate for about 70% of the budgets for councils and municipalities, while overall 85% of the total health budget come from public funding.   The Swedish government takes about half of the workers' paychecks but single payer healthcare and higher pensions than most countries make this cost viable for each citizen. Costs of Swedish health services are affordable and councils are required by the law to set budgets. Doctors and staff members are placed on salary instead of fluctuating financial incentives that doctors and staff in other countries are allowed. The budgeting manages cost control for health needs and eliminates welfare for private firms or employess who provide service within the public sector. 