Leslie Brubaker is an expert in Byzantine illustrated manuscripts and was appointed the Professor of Byzantine Art at the University of Birmingham in 2005.     Her research interests includes female patronage, icons and the cult of the Virgin Mary.  She was formerly the head of Postgraduate Studies in the College of Arts and Law, University of Birmingham. Professor Brubaker is also on the Executive Committee of the Society for the Promotion of Byzantine Studies.  Her work is widely stocked in libraries around the world.  Brubaker was educated at Pennsylvania State University, USA, where she obtained her BA in 1972 and then an MA in 1976.  Brubaker continued on to complete her PhD at Johns Hopkins University. Her PhD thesis was entitled 'The Illustrated Copy of the Homilies of Gregory of Nazianzus in Paris (Bibliothèque Nationale, cod. gr. 510)' (in two volumes).  Brubaker was simultaneously employed as an instructor in the Department of Art, Wheaton College, Massachusetts between 1981 and 1983.  She became an Assistant (1983-1990) and then Associate Professor (1990–93) in the Department of Art, Wheaton College, while also serving as Chair at the college in 1993-94.  In 1994, Brubaker moved to the University of Birmingham in England, where she has continued her research and teaching career up until the present day; in 2005, she was appointed as Professor of Byzantine Art History.  She arranged to share the position with Dr Ruth Macrides, so enabling both women to do research and "have a life".   From 2003, she has served as the Director of the Centre Byzantine, Ottoman and Modern Greek Studies (founded by Anthony Bryer) at the University of Birmingham, and from 2005 to 2009 as the Assistant Director (Research) of the Institute of Archaeology and Antiquity. A festschrift in her honour was published in 2011.  Her husband is the Oxford medievalist, Professor Christopher Wickham. Brubaker began as an expert in Byzantine illuminated manuscripts, writing a pathbreaking book on one manuscript, Paris Grec. 510, in her Vision and Meaning.  Her interests have extended since to the cultural history of Iconoclasm and the development of the cult of icons, on which she wrote two now-basic books on the subject with John Haldon.  She has written substantially on the relationship between material culture and its visual expressions, and other aspects of cultural history, including visual and textual representations of gender, and female patronage.  She has been fellowships at Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection, first in 1980-81 as a Junior Fellow, a Summer Fellow in 1984 and a Spring Fellow in 2001 and 2016.  Her research into icons, relics and the proliferation of the cult of the Virgin Mary (known as the Theotokos) in Byzantium developed into a major research project subsidized by an Arts and Humanities Research Council grant and the International Iconoclasms network, led by Brubaker with Dr Richard Clay (University of Birmingham),  in collaboration with the Tate Britain.   