Horticultural therapy (also known as social and therapeutic horticulture or STH) is defined by the American Horticultural Therapy Association (AHTA) as the engagement of a person in gardening and plant-based activities, facilitated by a trained therapist, to achieve specific therapeutic treatment goals. The visual aesthetics of plants are known to elicit feelings of inner peace, which generates positive emotions toward a meaningful appreciation of life. Direct contact with plants guides the individual's focus away from stress enhancing their overall quality of life.  The AHTA believes that horticultural therapy is an active process which occurs in the context of an established treatment plan.  Horticultural therapists are specially educated and trained members of rehabilitation teams (with doctors, psychiatrists, psychologists, occupational therapists and other) who involve the client in all phases of gardening,  from propagation to selling products, as a means of bringing about improvement in their life. The usage of horticulture to calm the senses dates as far back as 2000 BC in ancient Mesopotamia, and around 500 BC, ancient Persians created gardens to soothe the senses by involving beauty, fragrance, flowing water, and cool temperatures.   According to the American Horticultural Therapy Association, Ancient Egyptian physicians prescribed walks around a garden for patients with mental illness; which makes the first sign of the therapeutic process in Alexandria and Ancient Egypt through Renaissance Europe.  During the Middle Ages, on the grounds of a monastery hospital, plants were used to express purpose of cheering up melancholy patients. Also, the gardens were used to treat both physical and mental ailments of sickness who visited them.  The first modern documentation of horticulture being used as a treatment for mental health purposes was in the 1800s.  Dr. Benjamin Rush discovered that field labor in a farm setting helped attain positive outcomes for clients with mental illness (Simson & Straus, 2003). This discovery lead many hospitals in the western world to begin using horticulture as a means to start therapeutically treating patients with mental health and developmental disabilities. In 1817, the Asylum for Persons Deprived of Their Reason, now known as Friends Hospital, constructed an environment with landscaping, paths and a park atmosphere in effort to assist patients in their recovery. In 1879 Friends Hospital built the first greenhouse that was used for therapy (Simson & Straus, 2003).  “During World War I and II, servicemen worked in gardens to improve functioning of injured limbs and increase mental function, but also to learn new skills and to provide food” (http://tiadjones.tripod.com/horttherapy.htm#d). Plants and gardening also came to be used as a diversion for those who were hospitalized long-term. The 1950s and 1960s brought the first degree in horticultural therapy at Michigan State University. In 1972, Kansas State University created the first curriculum that provided students with dual training in both psychology and horticulture (Simson & Straus, 2003). The first graduate degree program was offered by Clemson University in 1973 (Simson & Straus, 2003).  In 1973 the Council for Therapy and Rehabilitation though Horticulture (NCTRH) was established by a group of horticulture therapy professionals. In 1988, they changed their name to the American Horticulture Therapy Association (AHTA) which they are still called today. AHTA is a non-profit organization with about 25% off their members being professionally registered  The overall aim of horticultural therapy is to improve the physical and mental health including intellectual, social, emotional and physical development .  Intellectual benefits include; attainment of new skills (i.e. plant propagation and flower arranging), improved communication and vocabulary, increased sense of curiosity, increased observation, improved planning and decision making and stimulation of sensory perceptions.  By interacting within the group and outside the group, the individual can greatly increase their communication skills.  Interacting within the group will allow the individuals to relate to one another and work toward a common goal while interacting outside the group may meet up with others at flowers shows or garden clubs which gives the opportunity of sharing ideas and experiences.  The participation in horticultural activities can provide opportunity for emotional growth such as increased confidence due to a successful completed project, provide an outlet for aggressive tendencies, promote enthusiasm for the future and encourage self expression such as flower arranging. Carrying out specific activities can be used to improve muscle coordination and can train unused muscle to aid those with low mobility. Horticultural therapy also provides the connection to living things; by nature, humans are instinctively drawn to connect with living, growing organisms .  By setting reasonable goals, one can create a sense of self-efficacy and pride in one’s accomplishments, which can benefit those with a mental illness such as depression or disability such as autism. 1)      Elderly 2)      Mentally ill individuals  (depression, anxiety) 3)      Mentally disabled individuals (Down syndrome, autism) 4)      Physically disabled individual (low mobility) These are some groups of individuals that horticultural therapy puts a specific emphasis on, however anybody can benefit from horticultural therapy including children, teenagers and adults . 1)      Arts and Crafts (artificial flowers, collages, planters) 2)      Outdoor Crafts (wind chimes,sculpture, bird feeders) 3)      Group Activities (story-telling, movies) 4)      Field Trips (orchid shows, garden stores) 5)      Outdoor planting (flower, vegetable or herb gardens, propagation) 6)      Indoor planting (terrariums, flower arranging) 7)      Lectures (presentations on insects, types of plants) American Horticulture Therapy Association (AHTA) offers the opportunity for professionals interested in practicing horticultural therapy to register as Horticultural Therapists (Horticulture Therapy Registered, HTR).  Some colleges and universities have academic programs in horticulture therapy that are accredited through AHTA.  AHTA has a set core curriculum for accredited programs to follow. Along with specific classes to take, internships are a very critical component.  AHTA requires that to be Horticultural Therapist Registered, 480 hours of field experience are to be completed under supervision of a professionally registered horticultural therapist. A systematic review examined the effectiveness of horticultural therapy for people with schizophrenia: 