El-Araby Group for Trade & Industry is a family-owned Egyptian joint stock company founded in 1964 and engaged in the manufacture and marketing of home and electronic appliances in Egypt or neighboring countries. It started its activities with a small shop in El-Mawski neighborhood, and is now one of the well-known institutions in the field of trade and industry with a capital of one and a half billion pounds.  El-Araby Group Company was founded in 1964 by three brothers, Mohammed El Araby, Mahmoud El Araby and Abdel-Jaid El Araby, who began their activities with a small shop in El-Mawski neighborhood, the old commercial district in Cairo at the time. Each of them contributed their abilities and expertise in the development of the company's business, and worked together in a unique integration that helped the success of that small company. Mohammed Ibrahim El-Araby instilled the spirit of loyalty and belonging to the workers and carried the task of daily follow-up and monitoring the efficiency of the work while Mahmoud Ibrahim El Araby took responsibility for planning and setting goals for the development of work and completed this remarkable performance of the efforts of Abdul Jaid El Araby, who took responsibility for the development of work systems and administrative and regulatory regulations The company's business has been growing and expanding thanks to the efforts of its founders and dedication to work, which has become one of the largest Egyptian companies. This success was praised not only at the local level but also internationally, A senior State from Japan represented in the tradition of the Emperor of Japan and the Order of "Rising Sun" in 2009, Mahmoud El Araby recognition the prominent role that contributed to it through chaired by El Araby Group in the development of trade relations between Egypt and Japan over four decades. Elaraby Group Due to the technological superiority of Elaraby Group products and strict adherence to international quality standards, Elaraby products are being used in more than 22 countries through the Arab Trade Agreements and the COMESA Agreement. These agreements are important for granting Egyptian commercial advantages and facilities for export to Arab and African markets. Export is about 28 million USD. In order to develop its exports and to continue its flow of products to foreign markets, the Group has adopted a number of companies that have expertise in marketing household appliances to work as authorized distributors. There is a plan to increase the network of distributors accredited abroad by expanding in most Arab and African countries. Iraq, Syria, Libya, Lebanon, Armenia, Oman, Jordan, Qatar, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Yemen, Sudan, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Mauritania, Guinea, Kenya, Uganda, Algeria, Ethiopia and Djibouti. For more than 47 years, El Araby Group has been able to establish fruitful and sustainable business relationships with a number of the world's largest companies, and has succeeded in investing this mutual trust in developing its business, expanding technical and industrial cooperation and providing new products to the world . The Japanese Toshiba company, which began cooperation in 1974, is the main trading partner of El Araby Group. In 2003, the partnership extended to include another Japanese giant, the Sharp Company of Japan. As well as a large number of other companies such as Sicko hand Watches, Alba hand Watches, Tiger and NEC and finally Hitachi. The cooperation was not limited to Japanese companies only, but also extended to European companies, such as Italian company La Germania, one of the oldest companies in the field of the potash industry and Promethean, which works in the field of smart education products such as Philips, Sony, TCL, etc…… El Araby Group has two industrial complexes in the cities of Banha and Qweisna on an area of more than 386 thousand square meters. It includes the Banha plant complex, which started production in 1982. There are three factories operating and a factory for nutrition industries.         