Elegant variation is the unnecessary and sometimes misleading use of synonyms to denote a single thing. It often comes from the belief that simple parallel structure is monotonous or harms euphony or compositional tone. Elegant variation can produce problems including loss of clarity, muddled metaphor, and inadvertent humor. Henry Watson Fowler (1858–1933) coined the name elegant variation for this phenomenon. The term may be seen in journalism if word variation, such as the replacement of the word "fire" with "blaze" or "conflagration", draws attention to itself. It is considered particularly problematic in legal writing, scientific writing, and other technical writing, where the avoidance of ambiguity is essential.  Alternatives to synonymy include repetition and the use of pro-forms.  Bryan A. Garner in Garner's Modern American Usage proposes inelegant variation as a more appropriate name for the phenomenon, and asserts that, in coining the term elegant variation, Fowler was using elegant in a then-current pejorative sense of "excessively or pretentiously styled".  Richard W. Bailey denies Garner's contention, suggesting that Fowler's use of elegant was a deliberate irony.  Nevertheless, inelegant variation has been used by others, including Gerald Lebovits  and Wayne Schiess.  Elegant variation in poetry may occur because of a poet’s need to use a word which fits the scansion and rhyme pattern of the poem. Whereas in  English elegant variation is often considered a stylistic error, in other languages it might be considered good writing style. In French,  purists consider the rule of elegant variation (that is, using synonyms wherever possible)  to be essential for good style.  A humorist imagined writing a news article about Gaston Defferre: "It's OK to say Defferre once, but not twice. So next you say the Mayor of Marseille. Then, the Minister of Planning. Then, the husband of Edmonde. Then, Gaston. Then, Gastounet and then ... · Well, then you stop talking about him because you don't know what to call him next."  The Emperor received yesterday and to-day General Baron von Beck ... It may therefore be assumed with some confidence that the terms of a feasible solution are maturing themselves in His Majesty's mind and may form the basis of further negotiations with Hungarian party leaders when the Monarch goes again to Budapest.  