The Institute of Aesthetic Research (Instituto de Investigaciones Estéticas) of the National Autonomous University of Mexico, since its foundation in 1936, research has been carried out in its installations into the different forms of artistic expression in Mexico; the diversity of studies undertaken by the body of researchers in the fields of criticism, theory and history of art across a horizon that reaches other latitudes. It has thus become a space in which the plastic arts converge with dance, literature, photography, cinema and music. Every year, through its International Colloquium on Art History, the Institute opens its doors to academic reflection on the history of art. Since 1975, this space has been a meeting point for the voices of both Mexican and foreign researchers. To perform its tasks of study and dissemination, both of Mexican art and that of other countries, the Institute harbors a number of different areas, each of which has its particular sphere of interest: The distribution of the Institute’s publications is not limited to the UNAM’s system of libraries, but extends to other sales outlets. The electronic shop, still under construction, is also oriented towards the same /will also make a contribution to this effort, bringing the Institute’s work to a broader public. The journal Imágenes is an electronic publication which offers various articles publicizing the Institute’s academic activities and other news items to do with the history of art. Its contents and characteristics have made it the most visited section of the Institute’s electronic portal. In August, 2007, work started at the new branch headquarters of the Instituto de Investigaciones Estéticas in the City of Oaxaca, which are lodged in an old domestic building in the Alameda de León, which dates from the eighteenth century and was received by the UNAM in commodatum in 2005. This branch is home to a library—comprising over six thousand volumes—which belonged to Dr. Beatriz de la Fuente, among which are some facsimiles of pre-Hispanic codices. The library is endowed with the necessary features for operating as a videoconference room. The equipment installed is similar to that in the Francisco de la Maza room in the Institute’s headquarters on the University campus in Mexico City, thus facilitating constant communication between both. It is to be hoped that this study center will become a point of reference for the south of the country and for the whole of Central America. Coordinates: 19°19′01″N 99°10′57″W﻿ / ﻿19.3170°N 99.1826°W﻿ / 19.3170; -99.1826 