 American Well is a privately held telehealth company based in Boston, Massachusetts that connects patients instantly with doctors over secure video.  The company provides immediate urgent care web visits for patients in 46 states.  The service operates on computers,   and in 2013 American Well released mobile applications for both Android and iOS operating systems.  The apps enables a mobile-optimized version of the same video visits.  American Well was founded by brothers Drs. Ido and Roy Schoenberg in 2006.    Initially, American Well served health insurance companies as their primary customers.  In 2008, the company announced its first major health plan customer: Hawaii Medical Service Association, Hawaii's Blue Cross Blue Shield provider.  Since then, the company has added 23 additional Blue Cross Blue Shield plans including Wellpoint   and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Minnesota.   In 2013, the company announced that they would market their service directly to consumers.  After the company launched to the general public, the service has surged in usage and popularity.  In 2009 American Well raised $10 million in a Series A round from unnamed investors.  In 2012 this financing was expanded to a total of $37 million.  In 2014 American Well raised a further $81 million in a Series C round, initially planned for $25 million and oversubscribed.  Following this funding American Well made it onto PitchBook's list of the top 10 HealthTech companies that raised the most capital that year.  In June 2015, former Massachusetts governor Deval Patrick joined the board of directors of American Well.  With 24-hour access to licensed and credentialed physicians, patients can use the service even when their primary care physician is not available.  The cost of a visit is typically $49,  but a patient's insurance may cover part or all the fee.   During the visit, the doctor can diagnose, treat, and depending on the state the patient is in, even prescribe medication.  After the visit, the patient receives a secure message with the physician's notes and instructions for follow up care. If the doctor prescribed medication, the prescription would be sent electronically to a pharmacy of the patient's choice.   American Well is staffed by physicians in the Online Care Group, a national physician-owned primary care group.  Many of the physicians in the group have an average of 10–15 years of clinical experience.  They must be licensed and credentialed in multiple states in order to practice effectively online.  Amwell is the direct-to-consumer telehealth platform of American Well. The app connects people with doctors  over secure video, without the need for an appointment.  In 2013 American Well announced that it would make their telehealth service available to the general public, and released Amwell mobile applications for both Android and iOS operating systems.   In 2014, Amwell passed the 1 million downloads mark and was voted the most popular telehealth app of 2014 by App Annie.  In September 2014, American Well announced its integration with Apple’s Healthkit and has been featured in the Apps for Health section of the App Store.  In March 2015, Amwell earned the American Telemedicine Association’s first Accreditation for online patient consults.  