Bundoo is a parenting website that publishes articles on pregnancy, pediatrics, and parenting and provides an ask-the-doctor service through Ask Bundoo.   Bundoo’s target audience is expecting parents and parents. The site’s beta version went live in summer 2013, followed by the full site roll-out in January 2014. Bundoo was created by Lewis Warshauer, MD, a retired radiologist. The company is privately held and headquartered in Boca Raton, Florida. In 2015, Bundoo named Stephanie Winans CEO. Winans was previously COO and comes from a background in radio and media. In November 2016, Bundoo was acquired by The Wellness Network. Bundoo developed its Mission Statement in July 2015: "Bundoo is an online resource that educates and engages expecting and new parents in a conversation about the issues that matter to them most. Bundoo provides evidence-based information and makes it easy for parents to personally interact with doctors and parenting experts." Bundoo publishes original articles, interviews, and videos on pregnancy and parenting issues. All of the company’s core content is reviewed or written by a doctor or qualified parenting professional.  Bundoo also answers parenting and pregnancy questions directly through a telehealth component.  In 2015, Bundoo was named a honoree in the Webby Awards in the Parenting category.  Bundoo was also named a Silver award winner in the 2014 W3 Awards for excellence in web design, sponsored by the Academy of Interactive and Visual Arts.  The company has been featured in various publications, including Marketing Sherpa, for its successful use of third-party platforms to improve site metrics.   The website has been featured in a variety of media, including newspapers, magazines, web sites, and television programs. Articles featuring Bundoo experts or profiles of the site were published by the Huffington Post,  Fox News,  the New York Times,  the South-Florida Sun Sentinel,  Scholastic Parent & Child,  and local television and radio stations in Canada and the United States.    