The Coriell Institute for Medical Research is an independent, non-profit research center dedicated to the study of the human genome. Coriell features programs in the fields of personalized medicine, cell biology, cytogenetics, genotyping, induced pluripotent stem cell science and biobanking.   Located in downtown Camden, New Jersey, the Institute is partnered with several prominent state and national health leaders, including Cooper University Hospital, the Cooper Medical School of Rowan University, the United States Air Force, the University of Pennsylvania, Stanford University.  Coriell Institute was chartered in 1953 as the South Jersey Medical Research Foundation Laboratory and constructed facilities in 1956. The laboratory was later named for director Lewis L. Coriell, who had worked at the Camden Municipal Hospital and developed aseptic tissue culture techniques that ultimately allowed poliovirus to be grown in culture.   Regarded as one of the most diverse sources of cell lines and DNA available to the international research community, the Coriell Biorepositories maintain longstanding contracts with the National Institutes of Health and houses several significant collections, including the National Institute of General Medical Sciences Human Genetic Cell Repository, the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke Human Genetics DNA and Cell Line Repository, and the National Institute on Aging Cell Repository. The Institute houses cells for biotechnology companies and research foundations such as the Wistar Institute.   Coriell also contributes to the precision medicine space with its innovative research study, the Coriell Personalized Medicine Collaborative (CPMC). Launched in 2007, the CPMC is a longitudinal initiative involving a network of physicians, scientists, genetic counselors, and hospital and academic partners. The study aims to explore the clinical utility of genetic information and returns individualized reports to 8,500 volunteer participants detailing genetic and non-genetic risks for complex disease.  A spin-off company called Coriell Life Sciences was formed in January 2013 from a partnership between the Coriell Institute for Medical Research and IBM. The company facilitates the ordering of genome testing through existing sequencing companies Illumina and Life Technologies, formerly Ion Torrent, Inc and the storing of genome sequence data in its servers.  In 2014 the Coriell institute formed a repository for pluripotent stem cells in Novato, California. The project is funded by a grant from the California Institute for Regenerative Medicine. The creation of the repository will expand Coriell's collection of these stem cell lines from more than 100 to 3,000 lines.  Coordinates: 39°56′26″N 75°06′53″W﻿ / ﻿39.94059°N 75.11486°W﻿ / 39.94059; -75.11486 